 Annual Report & Accounts 201 2
Direct Line Insurance Group plc  Direct Line for Business (“DL4B”) 
DL4B, an extension of the Direct Line brand,  
is our direct commercial insurance brand for 
small and medium-sized enterprises (“SMEs”)  
in the UK that have straightforward commercial 
insurance requirements.
 
www.directlineforbusiness.co.uk
Direct Line We have maintained the 
heritage of Direct Line in the UK by only 
selling its products directly to our customers 
through the phone and internet. We target 
customers who have a high brand afﬁnity,  
with a focus on a quick and straightforward  
customer experience.
 
www.directline.com
 
Direct Line in Italy and Germany  
In Italy and Germany, we distribute to 
customers through the phone and internet, 
including price comparison websites (“PCWs”). 
The brand is known for its excellent customer 
service and value.
 
www.directline.it / www.directline.de
Churchill, whose mascot has become a 
household name, markets its products in the  
UK through the phone and internet, including 
PCWs. We target customers who have a high 
brand afﬁnity and value the need for support.
 
www.churchill.com
Direct Line Group (the “Group”) is the largest retail general  
insurer in the UK, the number one direct motor insurer in Italy  
and the number three direct motor insurer in Germany. We 
operate a multi-brand, multi-product and multi-channel business  
that covers the majority of customer segments in the UK for 
personal lines general insurance and small and medium-sized 
enterprise commercial insurance. Our brands offer the following 
products: motor, home, rescue, pet, travel and commercial.
Privilege targets customers who predominantly 
buy through PCWs, focusing on a quick 
customer experience at the best possible price.
 
www.privilege.com
Green Flag is our roadside rescue and 
recovery product, which is sold both as  
a stand-alone service and as an optional 
add-on to motor insurance.
 
www.greenﬂag.com
NIG is our specialist commercial insurance 
brand sold to SMEs in the UK through 
brokers; including an in-house intermediary 
that brokers all of the Royal Bank of Scotland 
(“RBS Group”) and NatWest business.
 
www.nig.com
Brand Partners is the business-to-business 
arm of Direct Line Group, specialising in 
providing personal lines insurance and roadside 
rescue and recovery products to some of the 
UK’s biggest brands.
 
www.brand-partners.co.uk
For more information visit us online at
www.directlinegroup.com  2 Group highlights
 4 Group at a glance
 6 Business model
 8 Chairman’s statement
10 Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review
13 Our strategy
24 Key performance indicators
26 Risk management
30 Operating review
36 Finance review
47 Corporate social responsibility
52 Chairman’s introduction
56 Board of Directors
58 Executive Committee
60  Corporate governance report
68 Committee reports
78 Directors’ remuneration report
91 Other disclosures
95 Directors’ responsibilities statement
96 Contents
97 Independent auditor’s report
98 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements
103 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements
164  Parent company ﬁnancial statements
167  Notes to the parent company ﬁnancial statements
171 Additional information
173 Glossary
175  Cautionary statement about  
forward-looking statements
176 Contact information
Overview
This has been a year of transformation  
for Direct Line Group. Learn more about 
us, our performance, our brands, how  
we conduct our business, and the future 
direction for the Group. 
Strategic review
Read about our journey to date and 
ongoing strategy from our Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer’s point of view. Learn more about 
the details of this strategy, the speciﬁcs  
of how we measure our performance 
through our key performance indicators 
(“KPIs”), and how we assess and 
manage our risk. 
Performance review
The Group’s performance is measured  
by the results of our divisions, how we 
manage our ﬁnances and our ability  
to engage with people through our 
business and the community. 
Corporate  
governance report
Our long-term performance as a Group  
is strengthened by responsible corporate 
governance. Learn more about our  
Board and the framework of our 
corporate governance.
Financial statements
This section of our report includes 
ﬁnancial statements and notes, as well  
as other statutory ﬁnancial information.
Contents
Pages 10 to 95 of this Annual Report & Accounts 2012 constitutes the Directors’ 
report for the purposes of section 415 Companies Act 2006. The Directors’ 
report incorporates the Business review, on pages 10 to 51.
This Annual Report & Accounts 2012 contains statements which are not based 
on current or historical fact and are forward-looking in nature. Please refer to  
the ‘Cautionary statement’ on page 175.
1 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Directors’ report: Corporate governance Business review: Strategic review Business review: Performance review Overview Group highlights
Delivering our strategy
We have made good progress in our ﬁnancial performance in 2012, increasing ongoing 
operating proﬁt by 9.3% over the prior year. We continued to implement our transformation 
plan, as demonstrated by our return to underwriting proﬁt. We successfully completed an 
Initial Public Offering on the London Stock Exchange in partial fulﬁlment of RBS Group’s 
European Commission divestment obligation
Performance highlights
 Maintained our position as the  
UK’s leading personal lines insurer 
 New and extended partnership  
arrangements with Sainsbury’s Bank, 
Nationwide Building Society, RBS  
and NatWest
 Extended the presence of Churchill and 
Privilege Motor and Home products to  
the four major UK PCWs
 Signiﬁcant investment in pricing and  
claims capabilities, contributing to  
improved ﬁnancial performance
 Balance sheet efﬁciency augmented through 
the issue of £500 million of subordinated 
debt following U K Insurance Limited, the 
Group’s main underwriter, being assigned 
credit ratings of ‘A’ by Standard and Poor’s 
and ‘A2’ by Moody’s
 Successful separation from RBS Group and 
subsequent Initial Public Offering of 35%  
of Direct Line Group’s Ordinary Shares in 
October 2012
 Announced targets of 98% combined operating 
ratio in 2013, £100 million of gross annual 
cost savings in 2014, and an overall target  
of a 15% return on tangible equity
Customer focused business
Leading brands and 
signiﬁcant scale
Multi-channel 
distribution
Direct customer  
relationships
Robust balance sheet 
and ﬁnancial strength
Quality products to 
meet customer needs
We have continued to invest in 
our leading brands, refreshing 
our brand advertising campaigns 
and sharpening the alignment of 
our brand portfolio to our target 
customer segments.
Ease of purchase
Our multi-brand, multi-channel 
distribution approach continues 
to be the central focus for us. 
Customers can choose from  
a variety of channels when 
purchasing our products.
Good value and  
quality service
Our direct activity enables  
us to focus on providing high 
quality service to customers 
who value a direct relationship 
with their insurer.
Peace of mind
Our solid ﬁnancial position 
means that we are in a 
position to provide protection 
for our customers.
2 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial highlights
1.  Return on tangible equity is adjusted proﬁt after tax from ongoing operations 
divided by the Group’s average tangible shareholders’ equity. Proﬁt after tax 
is adjusted to exclude Run-off operations, and restructuring and other one-off 
costs and is stated after charging tax (using the UK standard tax rate):
  –  Pro forma return on tangible equity is based on the return on tangible 
equity but assumes that the capital actions taken by the Group (£1 billion 
dividend payment and £500 million long-term subordinated debt issue) 
occurred on 1 January 2012.
2.   Ongoing operations. The proﬁt before tax for the year to  
31 December 2012 was £249.1 million (201 1: £342.9 million).
3.  Earnings adjusted to exclude restructuring and other one-off costs  
and the result of our Run-off operation.
2010
201 1
2012
99 .2% 2.6ppts improvement
99.2
101.8
120.5
Combined operating ratio
2
 (KPI)
12 . 3p
12.3
16.6
(18.1)
Earnings per share (pence)
2010
201 1
2012
21 . 8p
21.8
20.5
(10.0)
Adjusted earnings per share
3 
(pence)  (KPI)
2010
201 1
2012
2010
201 1
2012
£46 1 .2m
461.2
421.9
(205.7)
Operating proﬁt/(loss)
2
 
2010
201 1
2012
19 .6m
19 .6
19 .4
20.0
In-force policies
2
8p
Dividend per share (pence)  (KPI)
2010
201 1
2012
11 . 5 % 1 3.4% pro forma
1
11 .5
10.0
(5.0)
Return on tangible equity
1
  (KPI)
2010
201 1
2012
£3, 99 1 m
3,991
4,125
4,095
Gross written premium
2
3 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Overview Leading the market
We use multiple brands, products and distribution channels to reach our customer 
segments for personal lines and commercial insurance in the UK, as well as multiple 
distribution channels for motor insurance in Italy and Germany
Group at a glance
Personal lines
Motor
We are the UK’s leading personal motor 
insurer with a 16% share of the market’s 
in-force policies. Mainly represented 
through our highly recognised brands, 
Direct Line and Churchill, we insure one  
in six cars on the road, representing  
4.1 million in-force policies. We also  
sell motor insurance through partners 
such as Sainsbury’s Bank.
 
Read more on p.31 
Home
We are one of the UK’s largest  
home insurers with an 18% market  
share of in-force policies. In addition  
to selling home insurance products  
through our own brands, we also 
distribute home policies through  
partners such as Sainsbury’s Bank,  
RBS, NatWest, Nationwide Building 
Society and Prudential.
 
Read more on p.32
Gross written premium £1,623.5m
In-force policies (thousands) 4,050
Combined operating ratio
10 1 .6%
Operating proﬁt
£26 1 .8m
Gross written premium £989.0m
In-force policies (thousands) 4,239
Combined operating ratio
96.6%
Operating proﬁt
£93.3m
Our business divisions
We tailor our products to target  
speciﬁc market segments effectively.
Multi-brand
We sell our products across a  
range of brands. Over 25 years,  
these brands have fundamentally 
changed Britain’s insurance industry, 
making it easier for millions of  
customers to get good value cover. 
International
Rescue and other personal lines
Contribution to Group 
ongoing operating proﬁt
Motor
Home
Commercial
4 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Commercial International
Rescue and other personal lines
We are a leading provider of rescue 
and other personal lines insurance in  
the UK with 9.4 million in-force policies. 
This includes Green Flag, the UK’s third 
largest roadside recovery provider.  
We also have an 1 1% share in both  
the pet and travel insurance markets.
 
Read more on p.33
We provide commercial insurance, 
focused on SMEs and micro businesses,  
in the UK through our own brands  
NIG and DL4B, as well as through  
RBS and NatWest.
 
Read more on p.34
We are the largest direct motor insurer  
in Italy and the third largest in Germany, 
the two largest motor insurance markets  
in Europe. Private motor insurance is sold 
through the Direct Line brand and we 
have around 1.5 million in-force policies.
 
Read more on p.35
Gross written premium £389.8m
In-force policies (thousands) 9,431
Combined operating ratio
82.7%
Operating proﬁt
£84.4m
Gross written premium £435.6m
In-force policies (thousands) 466
Combined operating ratio
108.2%
Operating proﬁt
£2.2m
Gross written premium £552.7m
In-force policies (thousands) 1,462
Combined operating ratio
103.3%
Operating proﬁt
£1 9 .5m
5 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Overview Delivering value
We use a multi-brand, multi-product and multi-distribution channel business model, positioning  
each of our brands to offer different propositions to distinct customer segments. When combined 
effectively with our signiﬁcant scale, we believe this allows us to achieve high performance  
in distribution, pricing, claims and cost, which in turn should position us to deliver value to  
customers and sustainable returns to our shareholders
Our customers
Our business model starts with our customers, who are the  
most important element in what we do. We aspire to give  
our customers the products that best suit their needs and 
encourage them to expect a high quality of service throughout 
their relationship with us. From the moment customers select  
our products, through to making a claim and resolving an 
unexpected event, we treat each phase of the journey as an 
opportunity to give our customers the best service and outcome.
Delivering value to our customers through our people
Our people
Our people are essential to delivering products and services 
for our customers. Everyone from frontline staff, who directly 
engage with our customers, to the back ofﬁce and central 
functions, who run all of the processes that sit behind our 
products and services, plays a part in ensuring we are  
meeting customers’ needs. All of this will ultimately help  
to drive value for our customers and shareholders.
 
Our shareholders
Our customers
We provide a range of  
brands, products and channels  
to our customers
Our people
–
Product distribution Pricing and underwriting
–
Settling claims
+
=
Costs
Capital
Managing 
ﬁnances
Premiums
Claims
Investment and  
other income
Reinvest in the business
Managing risk
Proﬁt
Business model
Dividends
6 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Through our focused processes Our low risk discipline
Product distribution
We give our customers what they need and make it easy  
for them to access our products in a way that suits them, 
ensuring they are appropriately covered when unexpected 
events happen.
We use a multi-brand, multi-product and multi-channel business 
model to sell our products and services to retail customers and 
businesses. Products can be purchased via the internet, phone, 
PCWs and indirectly via partners and brokers. Each brand 
represents products targeted at one or more of the insurance 
market segments: motor, home, rescue, pet, travel, commercial 
and international. By tailoring the distribution channel mix for 
each product, we can offer our customers a combination of 
brands, products and services that best suit their needs.
Pricing and underwriting
The scale of our business, which we have built over the  
last 25 years, enables deeper pricing insight, creating the 
potential for greater pricing accuracy. It also allows us to  
invest more heavily in data and achieve economies of scale, 
which means we are able to set the appropriate price for the 
risks we underwrite.
Settling claims
The point at which a customer needs to make a claim is when 
the value of their policy becomes apparent. Therefore, through 
active engagement with our customers, we aim to settle their 
claim as quickly and as easily as possible. Doing this the right 
way helps us to demonstrate the value of the products and 
services we provide.
Managing ﬁnances
We manage our ﬁnances to maximise returns within agreed 
limits. This includes only spending money on items that add  
the most value to our customers, ensuring a well governed  
and controlled business, whilst balancing the need to generate  
a suitable and sustainable return to our shareholders. We also 
hold assets in excess of our expected liabilities in the form  
of capital, which is designed to absorb any unexpected  
losses that might occur.
Managing risk
Risk manifests itself in many ways and at each point of our 
business model it needs to be managed. We ensure that  
our products meet all of the regulatory standards and that 
customers fully understand what they are purchasing from  
us. We also make sure that we price our policies prudently 
and appropriately invest our assets to minimise the risk of 
creating a potential loss to the Group. We mitigate risks by 
agreeing policies and minimum standards that are regularly 
reviewed and updated to ensure we are in line with the risk 
appetite set by the Board. This internal control framework is 
supplemented with regular reviews by external experts.
7 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Overview Setting our direction
The Board is encouraged by the good progress made by the Group during 2012
This was a very important year for Direct Line Group. We 
made signiﬁcant progress in delivering the objectives set out  
in our transformation plan, whilst also substantially separating 
operations from RBS Group. In October, we successfully listed 
on the London Stock Exchange in the UK’s largest Initial Public 
Offering (“IPO”) in 2012.
It was also an important year for the Board, which I joined as 
Chairman in April. We recruited three additional independent 
Non-Executive Directors, and I am pleased to report that the 
Board was at full strength prior to the IPO.
Strategy overview and results
The strategic plan to transform Direct Line Group into  
‘Britain’s best retail general insurer’ was launched in 2010  
by our Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Paul Geddes and is now  
well established. We have made progress in many areas  
of our business including transforming our pricing and claims 
functions and improving our capital efﬁciency.
To supplement this plan, the Group announced a new set  
of targets in September 2012. These are for the Group to 
generate an overall return on tangible equity (“RoTE”) of  
15%; improve the combined operating ratio (“COR”) to  
98% in 2013; reduce the COR in Commercial to less than 
100% in 2014; and achieve gross annual cost savings of 
£100 million in 2014.
The Board is encouraged with the progress made in 2012  
as demonstrated by a pro forma RoTE of 13.4% and a COR  
for ongoing operations of 99.2%. Both outcomes show 
substantial improvement over 2011. Operating proﬁt from  
our ongoing operations was up 9.3% at £461.2 million.
IPO
On 16 October 2012, Direct Line Group listed on  
the London Stock Exchange following the IPO by  
RBS Group of 35% of the Group’s shares. The IPO  
was met with signiﬁcant investor demand and the shares  
have subsequently performed well, rising by 24% from  
the IPO price of 175 pence per share to close the year  
at 216.4 pence per share.
Chairman’s statement
 “I believe the Company has a high  
quality Board that has the expertise  
and experience to provide excellent 
support and challenge to the business.”
Mike Biggs, Chairman
8 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 As a result of receiving state aid, RBS Group is required by  
the European Commission to cede control of Direct Line Group 
by the end of 2013 and to divest itself of any remaining shares 
in the Group by the end of 2014.
Governance and Board changes
The year saw a number of changes to our Board’s composition, 
which meant we were compliant with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code at the time of Admission to the Ofﬁcial  
List of the London Stock Exchange.
I joined the Board as Chairman in April and began by 
recruiting further Directors to build a Board suitable for  
the Group’s ambitions and to join the existing independent 
Non-Executive Directors, Andrew Palmer and Jane Hanson.  
I am delighted that during the course of the year a further  
three independent Non-Executive Directors joined the Board  
– Glyn Jones, Clare Thompson and Priscilla Vacassin. Glyn 
also holds the position of Senior Independent Director. Glyn, 
Clare and Priscilla bring a variety of strengths and skills from 
their previous experience and these are discussed in the 
corporate governance section.
Furthermore, RBS Group currently has two nominated directors 
on the Company’s Board, Bruce Van Saun and Mark Catton. 
RBS Group has the right to nominate up to two members of the 
Board as long as it remains a controlling shareholder of Direct 
Line Group and up to one member provided it owns between 
20% and 50% of the shares.
Dividend
The Directors have proposed a ﬁnal dividend of 8 pence  
per share. This proposal is in line with the policy set out at the 
time of the IPO. On the basis that the ﬁnal dividend represents 
two-thirds of the total annual distribution, the full-year pro forma 
dividend of 12 pence per share would represent a payout ratio 
of 55% of earnings from ongoing operations.
The Group has adopted a progressive dividend policy which 
from 2013 will aim to raise the dividend annually in real terms 
to reﬂect the cash ﬂow generation and the long-term earnings 
potential of the Group.
Relationship with RBS Group
Our ongoing relationship with RBS Group is set out in a number  
of agreements of which the Relationship Agreement and the 
Transitional Services Agreement (“TSA”) are the most important.
The Relationship Agreement sets out that, notwithstanding  
the signiﬁcant shareholding held by RBS Group, Direct Line 
Group is to carry on its business independently of RBS Group.  
The agreement ceases once RBS Group holds less than 20%  
of the shares of Direct Line Insurance Group plc (the “Company”).
Under the TSA, RBS Group continues to provide IT and certain 
other services for a transitional period of up to 36 months. 
Summary
2012 has been a year of very signiﬁcant progress for  
Direct Line Group and the Board would like to acknowledge  
the effort and commitment of every member of staff in what  
has been an extremely busy and demanding year.
Michael N Biggs, Chairman
  
For information on our corporate governance see p.52
9 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Overview Unlocking value
It has been a momentous year for Direct Line Group and our people have 
worked diligently to deliver good progress towards our strategic targets
Overview of ﬁnancial performance
Welcome to our ﬁrst Annual Report & Accounts as a listed 
company in our own right. I am pleased to report that we  
have made good progress against our business transformation 
plan and delivered an operating proﬁt from ongoing operations  
of £461.2 million for 2012, an increase of 9.3% compared  
to 201 1 (£421.9 million). All divisions were proﬁtable in 2012. 
This was driven by a return to underwriting proﬁt, demonstrating 
the effective use of our pricing and data, improved claims 
processes, as well as the strength of our distribution platform  
in serving our customers.
Helping our customers
As one of the leading motor and home insurers in the UK,  
our responsibility to motorists and homeowners is more than  
just processing a claim when an accident or loss has occurred. 
We consider road safety to be an important element of our  
work within the community. As such, we have developed 
partnerships with key road safety stakeholders, such as  
the charity, Brake, working with them to raise motorists’  
awareness of road safety issues.
Moving from the roads and into the home, some of our home 
insurance customers have had to endure another unprecedented 
year of rainfall and ﬂooding. Our advisers were immediately  
on the ground in heavily affected areas to help customers  
through the claims process and provide them with alternative 
accommodation where needed.
Separation from RBS Group
Following the implementation of a comprehensive programme  
of initiatives, we are now operating on a substantially stand-alone 
basis from RBS Group. These initiatives included appointing the 
Direct Line Group Board of Directors, harmonising employee 
service contracts, developing a stand-alone risk and compliance 
department, and agreeing an arm’s length TSA with RBS Group 
for residual services. We have also recently appointed Capgemini 
to support the migration of our IT as well as to design, deliver and 
run a new IT infrastructure to support the business. 
Paul Geddes, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review
10 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Listing on the London Stock Exchange
In October, we successfully completed our IPO on the  
London Stock Exchange. RBS Group sold 520.8 million 
Ordinary Shares in Direct Line Group, representing 35%  
of our issued share capital, generating gross proceeds of  
£91 1 million for RBS Group. In December, Direct Line Group 
became a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index.
The journey so far
In the midst of tough economic and competitive conditions,  
we have delivered a clear turnaround in performance, most 
visibly a £667 million improvement in operating proﬁt from 
ongoing operations since 2010. We have maintained a focus 
on underwriting for proﬁt by methodically reducing our level  
of risk, taking stringent steps to improve our pricing capability, 
and exiting lines of business that have proven unproﬁtable.
Since the beginning of our transformation plan in 2010, we have 
taken action to improve our capital efﬁciency and to beneﬁt  
from our scale by consolidating four underwriting entities into 
one, U K Insurance Limited. We received an ‘A’ credit rating  
from Standard & Poor’s and an ‘A2’ credit rating from Moody’s, 
issued £500 million of long-term subordinated debt and prior  
to the IPO returned £1 billion in dividends to RBS Group.
As a result of these actions, we have strengthened and 
improved our business, making good progress towards 
achieving our strategic targets.
The strategic plan
With the ﬁrst part of our transformation plan – to return to  
proﬁt – complete, we have redeﬁned our strategic plan  
through ﬁve key pillars: distribution, pricing, claims, costs,  
and Commercial and International.
Distribution
We renewed existing strategic partnerships, including Nationwide 
Building Society and RBS Group, and secured new ones, notably 
Sainsbury’s Bank. We also launched our Churchill and Privilege 
motor and home products on comparethemarket.com, which 
means we have a presence on the four major UK PCWs.
Pricing
Since 2010, we have de-risked the motor portfolio and repriced 
to reﬂect the risk and cost of bodily injury claims, particularly  
with younger drivers and certain postcodes. We built capability 
through implementing a new pricing model and rating engine 
across the Motor and Home divisions, contributing to signiﬁcant 
improvements in our loss ratio performance.
 “ The ﬂotation of Direct Line Group on  
the London Stock Exchange marked  
an important milestone in our history.  
Our strong business model and 
transformation plan proved attractive  
to the market despite considerable 
economic and market headwinds.”
Paul Geddes, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
The right team to deliver the evolving customer agenda
We now have the right structure in place to help us speciﬁcally 
address our customers’ needs and to protect their interests.  
In light of the new structure of the Financial Services Authority 
(“FSA”) and the creation of the Financial Conduct Authority  
we are well placed to respond to the changing landscape  
of how businesses interact with their customers.
  
For more information see p.58
11 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Strategic review Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review continued
Claims
We have undergone a signiﬁcant transformation in our claims 
function, including a strategic investment in a new claims system, 
ClaimCenter, which is now operational for the majority of Motor 
and Home claims. The beneﬁts are being realised through 
improved claims processes, including shorter settlement times  
for customers and improved legal case management.
Costs
The ﬁrst phase of our cost reduction programme focused on  
our operational cost base. We reduced the number of our  
sites from 32 locations to 16 and delivered 15% efﬁciency 
savings across our UK sales operations. In August 2012,  
we announced the target of gross annual cost savings of  
£100 million in 2014.
Commercial and International
We are working towards reducing our costs and improving 
operational efﬁciency in Commercial, targeting a COR  
below 100% in 2014. In International, we are leveraging  
our UK expertise in pricing and claims as well as driving 
through operational efﬁciencies to produce returns consistent  
with our strong market position as a leading direct insurer  
in both Italy and Germany.
Priorities for 2013
During 2013 we aim to make progress towards delivering  
the strategic ﬁnancial targets we set out at the time of the IPO.  
In particular we aim to deliver a 98% COR in 2013 and to 
make progress towards our £100 million gross annual cost 
savings target. 
We aim to achieve this by, for example, deploying the 
capability built in our pricing and claims functions over the  
last couple of years and, in 2013, we aim to supplement  
this by prioritising our distribution and cost initiatives. 
To enhance our distribution, we are already ﬁne-tuning our 
propositions with the implementation of new offers and pricing 
structures adapted to the evolving needs of our customers.  
We will continually monitor the business to ensure we are 
addressing the needs of our customers, the competitiveness  
of the markets in which we operate, the engagement of our 
staff and the returns expected by our shareholders.
Regulatory environment
We are operating in an industry that is preparing for  
substantial regulatory change. With the ongoing debates  
in the motor market surrounding referral and legal fees, the 
increase in whiplash claims and the implementation of the 
gender directive, we aim to be leaders through this period  
of change and lobby for reform to provide the best outcome  
for our customers and shareholders.
Outlook
The UK personal lines market remains competitive, particularly  
in the Motor division. In this environment, the Group will continue  
its strategy of disciplined underwriting that prioritises maintaining 
margin over volume. We expect to see improvements to the loss 
ratio in 2013 as investments in pricing and claims capabilities, 
together with the improved risk proﬁle of the underwriting portfolio, 
especially in Motor and Commercial, are recognised. In 2014 
we expect to have delivered the £100 million gross annual 
cost savings and we will continue to look at our expense  
base as market conditions evolve. Overall we continue to 
target a 98% COR for ongoing operations in 2013. 
Investment markets remain tough with continued low reinvestment 
yields and therefore, within our risk appetite, we are planning 
various actions intended to mitigate pressures on investment 
returns. We will continue to invest in the business with the 
objective of both sustaining our leadership position and 
meeting our 15% RoTE. 
We have made great strides since the beginning of our 
transformation journey in 2010. I am extremely grateful for  
the hard work, dedication and expertise demonstrated by  
our people, and I am excited about developing the business 
even further for the next phase of our journey.
Paul Geddes, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
12 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Financial targets
Our strategy
Tra nsformi ng
Direct Line Group
Our ambition is to be Britain’s best retail general insurer.  
We focus on making it easy, while providing great value,  
for customers to fulﬁl more of their insurance needs with us
Enhance 
effectiveness  
to improve 
customer value
  
See p.14
15% 98% <100% £100m 125% – 15 0 %
Return on  
tangible equity
COR for ongoing 
operations in 2013
COR for Commercial 
division in 2014
Gross annual cost 
savings in 2014
Maintain risk-based 
capital coverage 
consistent with credit 
rating in the ‘A’ range
Build superior 
pricing capabilities 
to utilise scale 
advantage  
in data
  
See p.16
Attain market 
leading position 
in claims 
management
  
See p.18
Enhance cost 
efﬁciency
  
See p.20
Leverage core 
skills to improve 
performance
  
See p.22
Distribution
1
Pricing
2
Claims
3
Costs
4
Commercial  
and International
5
  
For more information on our key performance indicators see p.24
13 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Strategic review Our strategy continued
Distri bu
14 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Our strategy in action
Our launch on comparethemarket.com is  
one way that we reinforced our multi-brand, 
multi-channel model. We have given 
customers even more choice about how they 
access our Churchill and Privilege brands, 
as well as our partners, such as Sainsbury’s 
Bank. Giving customers a variety of access 
points means they can buy in the way that 
best suits the level of interaction they need. 
We aim to improve our distribution efﬁciency 
and effectiveness through a focus on digital 
capability and customer value
We employ a multi-channel distribution model and look to 
optimise the mix of these channels for each of our products  
and brands. This includes selling our products directly via  
the phone and internet, through the UK’s four largest PCWs, 
and via partners and brokers.
This is a good foundation for us to build on. Our priorities  
for 2013 and beyond are to improve quote efﬁciency by 
developing our digital capability further and using our data 
and segmentation insight to target our customers better. We 
aim to increase customer lifetime value through a focus on 
improving retention and enhanced cross-product propositions  
that deepen customer relationships. We intend to continue to 
differentiate our brands to improve how we meet customer 
needs. For example, Direct Line “Together” rewards customer 
loyalty in a way that is unique to the sector, with a 10% 
discount offered on each and every additional Direct Line 
policy in the customer’s household.
1
tion
2010
201 1
2012
4,239
4,239
4,308
4,327
Home in-force policies (thousands)
2010
201 1
2012
4,050
4,050
4,107
4,807
Motor in-force policies (thousands)
15 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Strategic review Our strategy continued
Prici ng
We aim to leverage our substantial data 
scale and the investments we have made to 
deliver leading technical and market pricing
We have been a leading retail general insurer for a long 
time. This gives us a signiﬁcant scale advantage in data, with 
detailed customer level information from 49 million consumer 
records and eight million claims data points. Using this data 
more effectively has enabled us to improve proﬁtability 
through pricing risks more accurately. By continuing to 
invest in our pricing capabilities we aim to offer our target 
customers competitive prices, while also continuing to 
manage value for our shareholders.
We have already enhanced the use of internal and external 
data, with twice as many risk factors tested as in 2009. We 
are building a new rating engine with faster links to external 
data and the real-time deployment of pricing changes. We 
aim to deliver industry leading technical pricing capabilities 
that will enable us to calculate the price implied by claims 
costs more accurately; and superior market pricing that will 
enable us to offer the right price to our target customers at 
any given point in time.
2010
201 1
2012
85.4% 4. 1ppts improvement
85.4
89.5
99.4
Motor current year loss ratio
16 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Geospatial tool
Our strategy in action
We understand the importance of price  
in consumer buying decisions. We therefore 
use our extensive data resources, such as  
the Geospatial tool, so that we can offer 
customers products at prices which accurately 
reﬂect their individual circumstances and 
risks, match their speciﬁc needs and offer 
good value for money.
2
17 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Strategic review Our strategy continued
Our strategy in action
For customers, the moment of truth comes when they 
make a claim. When many parts of the UK experienced 
severe ﬂooding in 2012, our people were quickly  
at hand to provide assistance to the homes and 
businesses affected. Our Property Insurance Advisers 
assessed property damage, guided customers 
through the claims process and arranged temporary 
accommodation and cash advances to help with 
essential purchases where needed.
18 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Claims
We aim to capitalise on our hard work and 
the strategic transformation to maintain top 
quartile claims performance
We have fundamentally redesigned our operating model, 
systems and processes in Claims, following extensive 
benchmarking against global best practice. We have  
launched our new claims system, ClaimCenter, across the 
majority of Motor and Home, enabling us to increase our 
claims handling efﬁciency. We have simpler processes in  
fewer sites, giving our people more control and giving our 
customers a better experience. 
In Motor, we have put in place new processes to manage 
bodily injury claims proactively, bringing together legal, 
medical and insurance experts who are supported with 
specialist case management software. With the launch  
of our home estimating tool in April 2012, our Property 
Insurance Advisers can now use tablet computers to scope  
jobs accurately, apply our schedule of rates and deploy  
our revised builder network where required. This both  
improves customer service and controls claims spend.
In the next few years, we will aim to maintain momentum in  
our claims transformation programme. This will be extended  
to other business divisions in the UK, as well as applying 
lessons learnt to our International division. We expect to 
see further regulatory change in the coming years; we’ve 
been lobbying for it and we believe we are well placed  
to adapt to the changes when they come into effect. 
201 1
2012
41 8 , 100
418, 100
11 3,500
Number of claims registered on new system
3
19 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Strategic review Our strategy continued
We aim to deliver on our cost saving target and 
continue to manage our expense base closely
We recognise the ongoing imperative to improve  
our expense position in this competitive market. In  
August 2012, we announced a target of £100 million  
gross annual cost savings in 2014. We have already taken  
steps to deliver the majority of the programme, including 
announcing the closure of our Teesside ofﬁce as well as  
a reorganisation of the Executive team and the reduction  
of 70 senior leadership roles across the organisation.
The priority for 2013 and beyond is to deliver our cost  
saving programme while continuing to review the way we  
do business. We believe that making changes to our systems 
represents an important way of enhancing efﬁciency, while 
helping our people control the way services are provided  
to customers. We have signed a ﬁve-year contract with 
Capgemini to design, deliver and run our new IT infrastructure.
Costs
Our strategy in action
Having reviewed our cost base, we have 
made some fundamental changes to our 
organisation. We aim to continually operate  
at the most efﬁcient levels, while maintaining 
excellent customer service. This means not just 
looking at the number of people and ofﬁces 
we need, but also challenging ourselves to 
reduce complexity and deliver better value  
to our customers and shareholders.
2010
201 1
2012
16
16
19
32
Number of sites
20 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 4
21 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Strategic review Our strategy continued
Commercial
We have refocused our Commercial  
business to target the growing SME and 
micro segments, and are increasingly set  
to beneﬁt as these customers move towards 
direct and e-trading distribution channels
We have successfully grown DL4B in these segments;  
it now represents 13% of our Commercial gross written  
premium having launched in 2007 .
We have recently made a major investment in technology in  
our Commercial division, when we launched ‘TheHub’. This is 
NIG’s new, easy-to-use, full-cycle eTrading platform which is 
designed to capture the shift in broker distribution towards a 
high-volume low-cost model suitable for small business customers. 
Having returned the business to operating proﬁt in 2012, we  
are targeting a COR below 100% for the Commercial division  
in 2014. We aim to improve our loss ratio by managing our 
top-line growth and by enhancing our pricing sophistication 
through leveraging the Group’s proprietary data. We have  
put in place robust plans to cut costs and deliver a better  
model for brokers, customers and shareholders.
2010
201 1
2012
108.2% 4. 1ppts improvement
108.2
11 2.3
121.6
Commercial combined operating ratio
Commerci al 
22 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 International
We have 10 years of experience in Europe’s  
two biggest motor insurance markets and  
are now getting to scale and proﬁtability
In Italy, we are the leading direct motor insurer with one million 
policies, and are focusing on disciplined proﬁt growth through 
targeted segmentation and cost initiatives. Our German 
business is number three in the direct motor market with 
around half a million policies and is targeting accelerated 
growth through PCWs and brand partnerships.
We are well positioned in these two markets that are 
gradually moving towards direct channels, and we have 
experienced local management teams in place to adapt to 
changes in the trading environment. Across both countries, 
we plan to improve operational efﬁciency and to leverage 
our UK expertise in pricing and claims systems.
International
and
2010
201 1
2012
1 ,462
1,462
1,387
1,082
International in-force policies (thousands)
United Kingdom
Germany
Italy
Where we operate
5
23 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Strategic review Measuring our 
performance
We have deﬁned seven key performance indicators that allow us to monitor 
our performance against our strategic priorities. These KPIs are supported by 
further more detailed performance indicators
Key performance indicators
2010
201 1
2012
99 .2% 2.6ppts improvement 
99.2
101.8
120.5
Combined operating ratio
1
Deﬁnition
A measure of ﬁnancial year underwriting proﬁtability calculated 
by the sum of claims, commissions and expenses divided by net 
earned premium. This excludes instalment and other operating 
income and investment return. 
Aim
We aim to make an underwriting proﬁt and are targeting  
a COR of 98% in 2013.
2010
201 1
2012
2.0%
2.0
2.3
2.6
Investment income yield
Deﬁnition
The return generated by investing the assets we hold. These 
investments are held to pay out future claims and to support  
our capital base. It is calculated by dividing investment income 
(excluding net realised gains) by average investment assets 
under management.
Aim
We aim to maximise investment income subject to the risk 
appetite set by the Board. Our investment policy is conservative 
with assets currently invested in bonds, cash and property.
2010
201 1
2012
£1 ,1 4 5 .1 m
1, 145. 1
1,134.0
1,089 .7
Ongoing expenses (including claims handling)
1
Deﬁnition
The cost of doing business including paying our people, 
marketing, infrastructure and IT. This includes the costs we  
incur in handling claims but excludes any commissions  
we pay to brokers or partners.
Aim
We aim to operate an efﬁcient and effective organisation  
and are targeting £100 million gross annual cost savings  
in 2014 from the 201 1 cost base.
1.  Ongoing operations. 
2.  Earnings adjusted to exclude restructuring and other one-off costs and  
the result of our Run-off operation.
3.  RoTE is adjusted to exclude Run-off operations and restructuring and other 
one-off costs; based on average tangible equity, using UK standard tax rate.
4.  Pro forma RoTE assumes that the capital actions taken by Direct Line Group 
(£1 billion dividend payment and £500 million long-term subordinated 
debt issue) occurred on 1 January 2012.
24 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 8p
Dividend per share (pence)
Deﬁnition
The amount of cash paid to shareholders out of the proﬁts  
of Direct Line Group. The amount shown relates solely to 
dividends proposed post the IPO in October 2012.
Aim
We have adopted a progressive dividend policy and  
aim to grow the dividend in real terms each year.
2010
201 1
2012
21 . 8p
21.8
20.5
(10.0) 
Adjusted earnings per share
2 
(pence)
Deﬁnition
We adjust earnings to exclude restructuring and other one-off 
costs and the result of our Run-off operation. These adjusted 
earnings, which reﬂect the ongoing operations, are divided  
by the average number of shares in issue.
Aim
We have not set a target for adjusted earnings per share given 
the cyclical nature of the insurance industry. Growing earnings 
per share is considered one indicator of a healthy business.
2010
201 1
2012
15 1 .4 %
151.4
169 .5
122.4
Risk-based capital coverage
Deﬁnition
A measure to show the level of capital held compared  
to the level that is required, taking into account the risks  
faced by the business.
Aim
We target risk-based capital coverage of 1 25% – 150% which  
we believe is equivalent to the level of capital required for  
a rating in the ‘A’ range from our credit rating agencies.
2010
201 1
2012
1 1. 5 % 1 3.4% pro forma
4
11 .5
10.0
(5.0)
Return on tangible equity
3
Deﬁnition
The return generated on the capital shareholders have in  
the business. This is calculated by dividing adjusted earnings  
by average tangible equity. Pro forma RoTE assumes that  
the capital actions taken by the Group (£1 billion dividend 
payment and £500 million long-term subordinated debt  
issue) occurred on 1 January 2012.
Aim
We have set a target to achieve a 15% RoTE.
  
Direct Line Group is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which could impact our KPIs and performance.  
Please refer to the following section.
25 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Strategic review The Board has responsibility for setting and monitoring 
adherence to the risk strategy, risk appetite and risk framework. 
The Board has established a risk management model that 
separates the business’s risk management responsibilities into 
three lines of defence as set out in the diagram below.
Risk strategy and risk appetite
The Board has set clear strategic risk objectives:
 To maintain capital adequacy
 To stabilise earnings volatility
 To ensure stable and efﬁcient access to funding and liquidity
 To maintain stakeholder conﬁdence
Managing risk
We have a robust and integrated risk management framework. This framework sets  
out the responsibilities and accountabilities for risk management for the whole business
Risk management
These objectives have been developed to recognise that, for 
long-term sustainability, we need to have sufﬁcient economic 
capital and we need to protect our reputation and integrity  
in our relationships with customers and stakeholders.
Within the Group, a well-articulated risk appetite lies at the heart 
of effective enterprise risk management (“ERM”) to support: 
 Our strategic risk objectives, as outlined above
 Risk management
 Setting of boundaries for risk taking
 Stakeholder value optimisation
Our risk management structure
3rd Line defence Internal Audit function 
 Independent assurance on adequacy 
and effectiveness of risk framework
2nd Line defence Risk function
 Advise Board on risk strategy  
and risk appetite
 Advise Board on appropriate  
risk framework and risk tools
 Oversight, challenge and support  
of 1st line
1st Line defence business and  
support functions
 Adhere to risk strategy and  
risk appetite
 Own and manage risks
 Compliance with risk framework
 Assurance on adherence to policies
Board of Directors 
Audit Committee
Risk Management Committee
Business units and  
support functions
Financial  
risk
Regulatory, 
compliance and 
conduct risk 
Enterprise and 
strategic risk
International
“The risk and compliance strategy is focused 
on fully supporting the Group’s goal to 
become Britain’s best retail general insurer, 
delivering sustainable returns.”
José Vazquez, Chief Risk Ofﬁcer
Board Risk Committee
1
26 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Risk and  
control 
reporting
 SOX 404
 UK Corporate 
Governance 
Code
 Annual Report 
& Accounts
 Reports to the 
regulators
 Rating agency 
submissions
The risk appetite statements are expressions of the level of risk 
we are prepared to accept to achieve our business objectives. 
In order for these statements to be deﬁned quantitatively as well 
as qualitatively, they are aligned to key metrics. These metrics 
are monitored regularly.
Risk appetite should not be static and the Group is committed to 
performing an annual review of the risk appetite framework to 
ensure its continued suitability to support a well-managed company.
The strategic risk objectives link to a set of risk appetite 
statements and key metrics.
The table below sets out these objectives and shows, at a  
high level, examples of corresponding appetite statements.
Strategic risk objective Risk appetite statement
Maintain capital adequacy Maintain sufﬁcient economic 
capital to a deﬁned target
Deliver stable earnings Proﬁtability over  
a deﬁned period
Stable and efﬁcient access  
to funding and liquidity
Cash outﬂows met  
under stress
Maintain stakeholder 
conﬁdence
No appetite for material 
reputational, legal or  
regulatory risks
The aim of the risk framework is to provide a robust, 
proportionate, proactive and forward-looking process for risk 
management across the Group. A central component of this 
framework is the Group’s policies and minimum standards, 
which inform the business as to how it is required to conduct  
its activities and risk management processes to remain  
within risk appetite. We employ a number of risk tools  
to manage and monitor risk. The output of our risk  
management activities is thoroughly tested and reported  
upon both internally and externally.
The policies and minimum standards cover all key risks to  
which the Group is exposed. Each policy is supported by 
minimum standards which set out the minimum level of risk 
management and other corporate and personal behaviours.  
The minimum standards are in turn supported by detailed 
guidance documents.
We incorporate the identiﬁcation, assessment, management, 
control, reporting and mitigation of risk as part of our  
daily operations.
We believe the strengths of our risk framework are:
 Strong culture and risk leadership underpinned by  
training of our people
 Engagement with the business
 Embedded risk management processes, linking risk  
and capital
 Quantitative approach to risk analysis, for example, 
development of a robust economic capital model.  
Leveraging off our market leading position in home and  
motor provides access to a signiﬁcant volume of data
 Risk assessment and management information through 
integrated risk systems
 Inﬂuencing decision-making and shaping behaviours,  
via the provision of accurate, timely and relevant risk  
advice and challenge
Risk framework
Risk assessment and registers
Risk appetite
Policy framework and minimum standards
Stress and scenarios testing
Key risk indicators
Data collection and analysis
Incident management
IRISS
2
 system 
IRISS
2
 system
Own risk & solvency assessment (from 2013)
Business continuity planning
Material risk register
Internal control environment 
certiﬁcation testing process
Whistle-blowing
SOX 404 testing
High level controls document
Business change risk process
Risk and  
control assessments
External  
reporting Monitoring and testing
Risk tools
Notes:
1.  The Chief Risk Ofﬁcer is a member of the Executive Committee and reports to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, with a right of access to the Board Risk  
Committee and the Audit Committee, assuring independence of the function. The Chief Risk Ofﬁcer chairs the executive Risk Management Committee,  
which reviews material policies for the effective management of risk across the Group.
2.  IRISS – Internal Risk Intelligence Software System is designed to facilitate a robust and consistent approach in the way we identify and capture risk  
information thereby signiﬁcantly enhancing our ability to measure, report and manage our risks.
Executive management reporting, for example Risk 
Management Committee, Board Risk Committee
Internal  
reporting
Internal Audit
27 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Strategic review Risk management continued
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Group writes products that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks. It is a key role of the Risk function to ensure  
that these risks have been identiﬁed, measured and considered throughout the business.
Principal risks Impact Management and mitigation
Strategic risk
The economic climate could put at risk  
our ability to meet our strategic objectives  
in the areas of distribution, pricing, claims, 
costs, Commercial and International.
We may fail to execute our ongoing strategic 
transformation plan, and the expected beneﬁts 
of that plan may not be achieved at the time 
or to the extent expected, or at all.
The value of the 
Group decreases, 
resulting in a lack  
of shareholder 
conﬁdence.
 Constant monitoring and management of agreed strategic targets
 Monitoring of cost savings to ensure they remain on track
 Investment in brand awareness, and improved pricing and claims models
 Upgrading and enhancement of numerous operational processes  
and systems 
Underwriting and pricing risk
We are subject to the risk that inappropriate 
business could be written (or not speciﬁcally 
excluded) and inappropriate prices charged.
This includes catastrophe risk arising from 
losses due to unpredictable natural and 
man-made events affecting multiple covered 
risks particularly given the concentration of 
our home business in the UK.
Adverse loss 
experience 
impacting current 
year and future  
year business 
performance.
 Underwriting guidelines for all business transacted, restricting the 
types and classes of business that may be accepted
 Exception reports and underwriting monitoring tools
 Internal quality assurance programmes
 Pricing policies by product line and by brand
 Analysis of comprehensive data to reﬁne pricing
 Insurance governance forums whose remit include examination of data 
 Central control of policy wordings
 Purchase of catastrophe reinsurance to limit the exposure 
 Quarterly analysis of all property portfolios to determine expected 
maximum losses
 Investment in enhanced external data to mitigate exposures (for example, 
ﬂood and individual underwriting risk through Geospatial)
Reserving risk
Due to the uncertain nature and timing of the 
risks to which we are exposed, we cannot 
precisely determine the amounts that we will 
ultimately pay to meet the liabilities covered 
by the insurance policies written.
Adverse 
development in  
prior year reserves 
resulting in a 
ﬁnancial loss.
 Technical reserves are estimated by:
 – A range of actuarial and statistical techniques, with projections  
of ultimate claims cost involving assumptions across a range of 
variables, including estimates of trends in claims frequency and 
average claim amounts based on facts and circumstances at a 
given point in time
 – Making assumptions on other variable factors including; the legal, 
social, economic and regulatory environments; Ogden discount rate  
and the process by which it is set; results of litigation; and the extent  
and terms on which periodical payment orders (“PPOs”) are made 
by the Courts. Other factors considered include rehabilitation and 
mortality trends, business mix, consumer behaviour, market trends, 
underwriting assumptions, risk pricing models, inﬂation in medical 
care costs, future earnings inﬂation and other relevant forms of 
inﬂation, the performance and operation of reinsurance assets  
and future investment returns
 – Stress and scenario testing
 – Management’s best estimate of reserves being equal to or in 
excess of the actuarial best estimate
Operational risk
The risks of direct or indirect losses resulting 
from inadequate or failed internal processes, 
fraudulent claims or from systems and people, 
or from external events including changes  
in the competitor, regulatory or legislative 
environments. In particular we have IT systems 
risk, as the Group is highly dependent on  
the use of third-party information technology, 
software, data and service providers.
Adverse events  
with potential 
ﬁnancial, 
reputational,  
legal and  
customer impacts.
 We have upgraded and enhanced many of our operational processes 
and systems, including the claims system and fraud detection system. 
This includes enhancing our ERM framework to integrate risk, business 
and capital strategies
 We maintain a robust internal control environment
 We have developed a bespoke risk capture, management  
and reporting system
 Migration of IT onto a new enhanced platform 
28 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Principal risks Impact Management and mitigation
Investment risk
Market risk – the risk of adverse ﬁnancial 
impact due to changes in fair values of  
future cash ﬂows of instruments held in the 
investment portfolio as a result of changes  
in interest rates, credit spread, foreign 
exchange rates and property values.
Credit risk – the risk of exposure if another party 
fails to perform its ﬁnancial obligations, including 
failing to perform them in a timely manner.
Liquidity risk – the risk of maintaining insufﬁcient 
ﬁnancial resources to meet business obligations 
as and when they fall due.
Adverse movements 
due to asset value 
reduction, mismatch 
in assets and 
liabilities, and default 
of third parties.
Inability to meet cash 
ﬂows under stress.
 Our investment portfolio is managed and controlled through:
 – Investment strategy and guidelines proposed to the Board  
by the Investment Committee and monitored by the Asset  
and Liability Committee
 – Diverse holding of types of assets including geographies,  
sectors and credit ratings
 – Utilisation of risk reduction techniques, for example hedging
 – Stress testing and scenario analysis
Counterparty risk
We partner with many suppliers and the  
failure of any of these to perform their 
ﬁnancial obligations or perform them in a 
timely manner could result in a ﬁnancial loss. 
The principal area of counterparty risk is our 
use of reinsurance against catastrophe risk.
Loss due to default  
of banks, reinsurers, 
brokers or other  
third parties.
 Credit limits are set for counterparties, particularly banks
 Requirement for minimum credit ratings for reinsurers
 Broker credit exposures are monitored by the business
Regulatory risk
Changes in law and regulations are not 
identiﬁed, understood, or are inappropriately 
and incorrectly interpreted, or adopted, or 
business practices are not efﬁciently modiﬁed. 
Further, there is a risk that current legal or 
regulatory requirements are not complied with. 
For example, in the beginning of 2012, the 
FSA imposed a £2.17 million ﬁne on the 
Group in relation to complaint ﬁle alterations.
Customer impact, 
ﬁnancial loss and 
regulatory censure.
Regulatory sanction, 
legal action or 
revenue loss.
 We have a constructive and open relationship with our regulators  
and other ofﬁcial bodies (for example the Ministry of Justice and the 
Ofﬁce of Fair Trading), in addition to speciﬁc risk management tools  
and resources to minimise our exposure to regulatory risk
Conduct risk
The risk of failing to deliver the appropriate 
treatment for our customers throughout all 
stages of the customer journey and that our 
people fail to behave with integrity.
Potential customer 
detriment, ﬁnancial 
loss and regulatory 
censure and 
sanction.
 Our organisational culture prioritises a consistent approach towards 
customers and the interests of customers are at the heart of how  
we operate 
 We have developed a robust customer conduct risk management 
framework, to minimise our exposure to conduct risk
Brand and reputational risk
We are dependent on the strength of our 
brands, our reputation with customers and 
distributors in the sale of products and 
services. We have entered into various 
strategic partnerships that are important  
to the marketing, sale and distribution of  
our products.
Loss of brand value 
negatively impacts 
our ability to retain 
and write new 
business.
 Our brand and reputation risk is regularly reviewed by various 
governance committees
 A key focus for us is to build our brands business through marketing, 
whilst regularly monitoring performance using a range of brand metrics
 We seek to offer a superior service to customers and to treat 
customers fairly in line with FSA principles
As long as RBS Group remains a signiﬁcant shareholder, there are certain risks that apply to the RBS Group and, should they 
arise, may have an adverse impact on our business. For example, RBS Group will continue to exert substantial inﬂuence over  
us while it has a substantial shareholding; RBS Group could face the risk of full nationalisation or other resolution procedures;  
our contractual arrangements may be impacted by events that occur within RBS Group; and RBS Group is subject to a variety  
of risks as a result of implementing the state aid restructuring plan which could adversely affect us. RBS Group has a legal 
obligation to divest its controlling interest in the Group by the end of 2013 and completely divest by the end of 2014. The  
manner and exact timing of any divestment is uncertain.
29 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Strategic review Operating review
Group performance
We continue to improve our ﬁnancial performance, despite the backdrop  
of a competitive market and subdued investment returns
Operating proﬁt for ongoing business improved by 9.3% to £461.2 million (201 1: £421.9 million). This followed substantial 
management action to improve risk selection and claims management. Combined with the successful implementation of our  
2012 capital plan, including returning £1 billion in dividends (201 1: nil) to RBS Group and raising £500 million (201 1: nil)  
of long-term subordinated debt, the Group has achieved, on a pro forma basis, a RoTE for ongoing business of 13.4%.
The Group’s COR for ongoing business was 99.2% (201 1: 101.8%), leading to a proﬁtable underwriting result despite  
above average claims arising from major weather events and the impact of parallel running costs prior to the separation  
from RBS Group.
Summary income statement – ongoing operations
For the year ended 31 December
2012  
£m
201 1  
£m
Gross written premium 3,990.6 4,124.9 
Net earned premium 3,708.7 3,890.9 
Underwriting proﬁt / (loss) 28.2 (72.3)
Instalment and other operating income 198.3 255.5 
Investment return 234.7 238.7 
Operating proﬁt 461.2 421.9 
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 21.8 20.5
Return on tangible equity (%) 11.5 10.0
Pro forma return on tangible equity (%) 13.4 n/a
The following table analyses ongoing operating proﬁt / (loss) by division:
Divisional ongoing operating proﬁt
For the year ended 31 December
2012  
£m
201 1  
£m
Motor 261.8 254.8
Home 93.3 111 . 9
Rescue and other personal lines 84.4 63.3
Commercial 2.2 (12.4)
International 19.5 4.3
Total 461.2 421.9
On the following pages 31 to 35, the contribution of each division to the Group’s operating performance is discussed in more detail.
30 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Our brands
Partners
Market
Following the signiﬁcant increases in premium rates experienced in 
2010 and 201 1, the UK private motor insurance market has been 
broadly ﬂat during 2012. Small bodily injury claims in particular 
have received considerable political and regulatory attention,  
with the prospect of a balanced package of reforms including:
 Banning solicitors’ referral fees
 Reducing ﬁxed legal costs for bodily injury claims to 
below £10,000
 Removing recoverability of conditional fee agreements  
offset by a 10% uplift to general damages
In addition, consultations regarding increasing the bodily injury 
small claims limit from £1,000 to £5,000 and reforming 
medical evidence for whiplash claims have begun.
Performance
We have continued to invest in our customer offerings,  
and have focused in particular on sharpening our multi-car 
proposition and pricing. We completed the roll-out of our  
new claims system to all brands, and are delivering improved 
claims performance, particularly in bodily injury cases. In July, 
we launched on comparethemarket.com, with the Churchill, 
Privilege and Sainsbury’s Bank brands.
Gross written premium of £1,623.5 million fell 6.4% compared 
with 201 1, due to the full-year effect of de-risking the portfolio  
in 201 1 and a continued focus on disciplined underwriting.  
The in-force policy count stabilised at 4.1 million.
The underwriting loss in 2012 of £26.3 million improved  
by £72.3 million compared with 201 1, and the COR fell  
from 105.6% to 101.6%. This was the result of continued 
improvements to claims performance arising from improved 
pricing, the ongoing effect of de-risking and the beneﬁts arising 
from the transformation of the claims operation. These trends 
were reﬂected in both an improved current-year loss ratio  
and increased releases from prior years. Operating proﬁt of 
£261.8 million in 2012 increased from £254.8 million in 201 1.
Outlook
The UK motor market is expected to remain particularly 
competitive during 2013. The full effects of the move to  
gender neutral pricing, the package of upcoming legal  
reforms and the referral of the UK motor insurance market  
to the Competition Commission are still to be felt. We support  
the direction of the overall package of the legal reforms and 
continue to engage proactively with key stakeholders. Overall,  
we believe that, taken together, the effect of the package  
of civil justice reforms should be at least ‘net neutral’ for  
the Group in the medium term. However, there remains 
considerable uncertainty about the details and timing of the 
reforms. We will continue to prepare for a range of outcomes.
Personal lines
Highlights
 Retained position as the UK’s leading motor insurer  
by in-force policies, stabilising the policy count after 
substantial de-risking in 2010 and 201 1
 Operating proﬁt up 2.7% despite signiﬁcant reduction  
in other operating income
 Signiﬁcant improvement in the COR, from 105.6%  
to 101.6%
 Continued to enhance our pricing and claims capability, 
contributing to a reduction of 7 .1 percentage points  
in the loss ratio
 Extended our distribution reach through launching  
on comparethemarket.com with the Churchill,  
Privilege and Sainsbury’s Bank brands
Performance highlights
2012 2011
In-force policies (thousands) 4,050 4,107
Gross written premium £1,623.5m £1 ,734.8m
Loss ratio 74.6% 81 .7%
Commission ratio 2.0% 1.5%
Expense ratio 25.0% 22.4%
Combined operating ratio 101.6% 105.6%
Operating proﬁt £261.8m £254.8m
Motor
 “ The UK Personal Lines business has maintained its focus on value within an 
increasingly competitive market. We are continuing to invest in pricing and 
claims excellence and are focused on delivering value for our customers.”
Tom Woolgrove, Managing Director of Personal Lines
31 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Performance review Our brands
Partners
Operating review continued
Highlights
 Operating proﬁt of £93.3 million, 16.6% lower than  
201 1 primarily due to adverse weather in 2012
 In-force policies broadly stable, reﬂecting competitive 
market conditions for new business
 Partnership extended with Sainsbury’s Bank, signing an arm’s 
length distribution agreement with RBS Group and renewal 
and extension of Nationwide Building Society partnership
Performance highlights
2012 2011
In-force policies (thousands) 4,239 4,308
Gross written premium £989.0m £1 ,031 .3m
Loss ratio 58.4% 57 .4%
Commission ratio 16.2% 17 .5%
Expense ratio 22.0% 20.2%
Combined operating ratio 96.6% 95.1%
Operating proﬁt £93.3m £ 111 . 9m
Market
The size of the UK home insurance market has been relatively 
stable in recent years with limited growth in the housing stock  
and competitive pressure through the growth of the PCW 
distribution channel. These constraints have remained in  
2012, with little observed new business premium inﬂation  
from major market players. This competitive environment is 
expected to continue.
Performance
We continue to focus on improving our product options to  
meet customer needs and increase customer value. New 
product ranges were launched in 2012 for our Sainsbury’s 
Bank and Nationwide Building Society partnerships.
During 2012, we implemented a new rating capability for 
Home. This allowed us to make a step change in our ability  
to set renewal prices more accurately and, at the end of  
2012, resulted in a material improvement to our peril level  
risk pricing.
In addition, our new claims system and operating model, 
launched for Churchill in 201 1, has been extended to our 
remaining own brands, with the roll-out plan for our partner 
brands continuing into 2013. In December 2012, we  
launched home insurance on comparethemarket.com,  
with our Churchill, Privilege and selected partner brands.
Total gross written premium was £989.0 million, 4.1% lower  
than 201 1, with a COR of 96.6% and an operating proﬁt  
of £93.3 million. Rainfall ﬁgures for 2012 were among the highest 
on record, with claims from weather events totalling £105 million, 
£25 million above the expected level for a normal year.
In-force polices reduced by 1.6% from 201 1, due mainly to 
pressure on new business sales. This was partly offset by  
our ongoing retention initiatives as we continued to focus on  
a balanced approach of ensuring existing customers were 
retained, whilst investing in rating capability and insight to 
maintain our competitiveness in the market.
Outlook
The Home division continues to enhance its pricing and  
claims capabilities with a focus on deploying these in key 
customer segments. With a balanced distribution footprint,  
we believe the Home division is well positioned to maintain  
its position in a competitive market.
Home
32 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Our brands
Partners
Highlights
 Operating proﬁt up 33.3% to £84.4 million
 Increase in in-force policies relating to growth  
in packaged bank accounts
 Increased Green Flag branded presence at roadside  
and new marketing campaign
Performance highlights
2012 2011
In-force policies (thousands) 9,431 9, 151
Gross written premium £389.8m £350.2m
Loss ratio 50.9% 44.4%
Commission ratio 6.0% 22.5%
Expense ratio 25.8% 19.4%
Combined operating ratio 82.7% 86.3%
Operating proﬁt £84.4m £63.3m
Market
The UK breakdown market is well established with three  
major providers; AA, RAC and Green Flag. The market has 
historically displayed strong returns, although the total market 
premium has been impacted in recent years by lower car 
ownership, due to the economic climate.
The pet and travel markets continue to be competitive, with  
the growth in PCWs acting to diversify distribution. Customer 
numbers are expected to remain broadly stable.
Performance
The division has delivered gross written premium of £389.8 million 
which is 1 1.3% higher than 201 1. This was driven by the 
growth in travel partnership accounts and premium inﬂation  
in the pet market. In-force policies increased by 3.1% during 
2012. Gross written premium for the rescue business reduced  
by 3.6% compared with 201 1, with growth in the Green Flag 
direct business offset by lower linked sales as the Motor 
business de-risked.
Underwriting proﬁt of £66.2 million was 23.1% higher  
than 201 1, the increase being largely attributable to one-off 
releases and adjustments relating to the run-off of our creditor 
business. Overall operating proﬁt increased by 33.3% 
compared with 201 1.
A distribution agreement has been signed with RBS Group  
for the provision of rescue and travel insurance through 
packaged bank accounts, strengthening our partnership 
relationship as we separate from RBS Group. A new strategic 
service partner agreement with external recovery agents, 
embedded in 2012, has created an increased Green Flag 
branded presence at the roadside and we have launched  
a new marketing campaign for the brand.
Outlook
In 2013 we expect to enhance our customer propositions 
through refreshed marketing initiatives and improved distribution 
capabilities. The positive results in 2012 from the run-off of our 
creditor business are not expected to be repeated in 2013.
Rescue and other personal lines
33 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Performance review Our brands
Partners
Operating review continued
Market
This year was another challenging year for the UK commercial 
market as overall premium rates remained under pressure. 
Motor experienced increasing rates in response to bodily  
injury claims, whereas liability rates struggled to keep up  
with underlying claims inﬂation. This, together with depressed 
investment returns, has been countered by a number of cost 
reduction initiatives across the market.
Performance
Gross written premium of £435.6 million was broadly unchanged 
as growth in DL4B was offset by the exit of unproﬁtable business. 
The loss ratio improved by 2.3 percentage points reﬂecting 
improvements in underlying business, particularly from the motor 
account, and continued releases from prior year reserves. This was 
despite a number of larger than normal ﬁre claims in the ﬁrst half 
of 2012, as well as weather events. The expense ratio improved 
by 2.4 percentage points reﬂecting improved cost management.
Outlook
We have set a target to deliver a COR below 100% in 2014 
and expect to make progress towards this target in 2013. 
Through 2013 we aim to rationalise our regional and head 
ofﬁce operating model, to complete the roll-out of the new 
Commercial eTrading platform in the broker channel and to 
continue the development of our brands.
Highlights
 Return to operating proﬁt in 2012
 Signiﬁcant improvement in COR to 108.2%
 Action taken to improve expense ratio
 Roll-out of eTrading platform commenced
Performance highlights
2012 2011
In-force policies (thousands) 466 422
Gross written premium £435.6m £438.6m
Loss ratio 63.1% 65.4%
Commission ratio 21.6% 21 .0%
Expense ratio 23.5% 25.9%
Combined operating ratio 108.2% 11 2.3%
Operating proﬁt / (loss) £2.2m (£12.4m)
Commercial
 “ Thanks to a strong focus on pricing and disciplined underwriting we are  
back in proﬁt. We have established a momentum over the last two years  
which gives us conﬁdence in delivering our targets.”
Jonathan Greenwood, Managing Director of Commercial
34 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Our brands
Market
In Italy the economic environment deteriorated further in 2012  
with depressed GDP growth. The downturn put pressure on the 
insurance market which contracted by 1%. The pricing cycle 
remained positive with market rates increasing by 2.5%. 
However, there was a decrease in the number of insured 
vehicles of 1.5% year on year. Despite adverse conditions  
the direct market increased by 10% in comparison with 201 1.
In Germany, economic growth slowed in the second half of  
the year but remains largely positive compared with the rest  
of Europe. The motor insurance industry reached €22 billion 
gross written premium with growth of 5.1% above 201 1  
levels mainly driven by a positive pricing cycle.
Performance
Despite a challenging year within the Eurozone, our International 
business performed strongly in 2012.
Both the Italian and German businesses have generated strong 
proﬁts in 2012, making operating proﬁts of £ 14.0 million and 
£5.5 million respectively.
In-force policies increased by 5.4% to around 1.5 million and 
gross written premium increased 3.9% in local currency terms. 
Due to adverse exchange rates, reported gross written premium 
reduced by 3.0% to £552.7 million compared with 201 1.
The COR improved from 107 .6% to 103.3% as the business 
focused on operating efﬁciencies following strong growth  
in 201 1.
Outlook
The outlook for Direct Line Italy is mixed. The Italian economy 
continues to experience lower new car sales and the volume  
of cars in Italy is expected to shrink in 2013. Offsetting this, 
fewer miles driven is resulting in lower claims frequency.  
The Italian government has announced a number of initiatives  
to liberalise the market and although these have yet to be 
ﬁnalised we consider this may provide an opportunity for  
Direct Line Italy.
The German environment has remained positive for direct 
market growth and has seen premium rates increase in 2012  
and a benign economic backdrop. Direct Line Germany 
experienced strong growth in year end business which  
we expect will help it build further scale in 2013.
Highlights
 Signiﬁcant improvement in operating proﬁt to £19.5 million
 3.9% increase in gross written premium in local currency terms
 5.4% increase of in-force policies to around 1.5 million
Performance highlights
2012 2011
In-force policies (thousands) 1,462 1,387
Gross written premium £552.7m £570.0m
Loss ratio 78.1% 81 .4%
Commission ratio 12.1% 7. 9%
Expense ratio 13.1% 18.3%
Combined operating ratio 103.3% 107 .6%
Operating proﬁt £19.5m £4.3m
International
 “The International business has continued to strengthen its position in  
the two markets in which we operate. We have delivered a substantial  
increase in proﬁts, contributing to the improvement in the Group result. ”
Jamie Brown, Managing Director of International
35 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Performance review Improving efﬁciencies
We continue to experience improvements in our ﬁnancial performance, despite a backdrop  
of a competitive market and subdued investment returns. Our balance sheet remains strong 
and we have taken actions to improve its efﬁciency
Finance review
For the year ended  
31 December
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
In-force policies (thousands) 19,648 19,375 
Gross written premium  
– ongoing operations 3,990.6 4,124.9 
Net earned premium  
– ongoing operations 3,708.7 3,890.9 
Underwriting proﬁt / (loss) 28.2 (72.3)
Instalment and other operating income 198.3 255.5 
Investment return 234.7 238.7 
Operating proﬁt  
– ongoing operations 461.2 421.9 
Run-off 6.1 (23.9)
Restructuring and  
other one-off costs (189.5) (54.0)
Operating proﬁt 277.8 344.0 
Finance costs and other (28.7) (1. 1)
Proﬁt before tax 249.1 342.9 
Tax (64.8) (93.9)
Proﬁt after tax 184.3 249.0 
Of which ongoing operations 326.5 308.1
Key metrics
Loss ratio 67.1% 70.2%
Commission ratio 9.1% 10. 1%
Expense ratio 23.0% 21 .5%
Combined operating ratio 99.2% 101.8%
Investment income yield 2.0% 2.3%
Investment return 2.8% 2.6%
Basic earnings per share (pence) 12.3 16.6
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 21.8 20.5
RoTE 11.5% 10.0%
Pro forma RoTE 13.4% n/a
Net asset value per share (pence) 189.1 240.9
Tangible net asset value  
per share (pence) 161.0 216.5
John Reizenstein, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Highlights
 Operating proﬁt from ongoing operations  
of £461.2 million up 9.3%
 COR for ongoing operations of 99.2%
 RoTE of 1 1.5% and pro forma RoTE of 13.4%
 Final dividend proposed of 8 pence per share
36 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  “ In 2012 we demonstrated good earnings 
momentum coupled with active capital 
management. We aim to continue to 
focus on producing strong, sustainable 
returns for shareholders.”
John Reizenstein, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Gross written premium
For the year ended  
31 December
2012  
£m
2011 
£m
Motor 1,623.5 1,734.8 
Home 989.0 1,03 1.3 
Rescue and other personal lines 389.8 350.2 
Commercial 435.6 438.6 
International 552.7 570.0 
Total 3,990.6 4,124.9 
Gross written premiums of £3,990.6 million fell 3.3% 
compared with the prior year (201 1: £4,124.9 million). This 
was predominantly driven by Motor, due to the full-year effect 
of de-risking the portfolio in 201 1 and a continued focus on 
disciplined underwriting. Home gross written premium fell 4.1% 
compared with 201 1, due primarily to increased competition 
for new business volumes.
Gross written premium for Commercial was broadly ﬂat, 
reﬂecting the growth of lower average premium business 
through DL4B, partially offset by the exit of a number of 
unproﬁtable schemes.
International gross written premium of £552.7 million was  
3.0% lower than the previous year (201 1: £570.0 million)  
as a result of adverse exchange rate movements during 2012. 
Gross written premium in local currency terms increased by 
3.9%, broadly in line with the increase in in-force policies.
Underwriting proﬁt
The Group’s COR improved by 2.6 percentage points to  
99.2% (201 1: 101.8%), resulting in an increase in underwriting 
proﬁt to £28.2 million (201 1: loss of £72.3 million). This was 
primarily the result of a 3.1 percentage points improvement  
in the loss ratio, reﬂecting actions taken to improve risk selection 
and the implementation of the claims transformation programme. 
In addition, a lower commission ratio reﬂected the non-repeat of 
a payment made to RBS Group in 201 1 under a historic proﬁt 
share arrangement. Offsetting these improvements was a modest 
increase in the expense ratio as a result of lower net earned 
premium and a number of one-off items. These included an 
increase in the ﬁnal recharge from RBS Group in the ﬁrst half of the 
year and parallel running costs reﬂecting the build out of corporate 
functions prior to separation from RBS Group on 1 July 2012.
Income statement
Operating proﬁt – ongoing operations
For the year ended  
31 December
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Underwriting proﬁt / (loss) 28.2 (72.3)
Instalment and other operating income 198.3 255.5 
Investment return 234.7 238.7 
Operating proﬁt 461.2 421.9 
Overall operating proﬁt from ongoing operations of £46 1.2 million 
was a 9.3% increase on 201 1 (201 1: £421.9 million). A signiﬁcant 
improvement in the underwriting result, primarily relating to 
pricing actions, improvements to risk mix and the Group’s claims 
transformation plan more than offset lower instalment and other 
operating income. Investment return was broadly in line with 
201 1 and was supported by higher realised investment gains.
In-force policies and gross written premium
In-force policies (thousands)
As at 31 December 2012 2011
Motor 4,050 4,107 
Home 4,239 4,308 
Rescue and other personal lines 9,431 9, 151 
Commercial 466 422 
International 1,462 1,387 
Total 19,648 19,375 
In-force policies for ongoing operations increased by 1.4% 
during 2012 to 19.6 million. The increase related primarily  
to Rescue and other personal lines and arose mainly from  
travel policies from packaged bank accounts. Motor and 
Home in-force policies were broadly stable during the period.
Commercial continued to grow in-force policies through  
DL4B which focuses on SME and micro businesses. After  
a period of strong growth in 201 1, International’s growth  
rate slowed to 5.4% with growth coming from both the  
Italian and German operations.
37 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Performance review Finance review continued
The improvement in the loss ratio was despite the wettest year in 
England and the second wettest in the UK since records began 
and a number of larger than normal ﬁre claims in Commercial  
in the ﬁrst half of 2012. Claims relating to weather events in 
Home totalled to £105 million (201 1: £20 million) and were 
£25 million more than would be expected in a normal year.
Current-year attritional loss ratio
For the year ended  
31 December 2012 2011
Reported loss ratio 67.1% 70.2% 
Prior year reserve releases 8.7% 4.9% 
Weather events – Home (2.8%) (0.5%)
Current-year attritional  
loss ratio 73.0% 74.6%
The Group views the current-year attritional loss ratio as  
a good indicator of underlying performance as it excludes 
prior-year reserve movements and claims from weather  
events in the Home division.
Overall, the current-year attritional loss ratio improved by  
1.6 percentage points in 2012 reﬂecting progress made  
in improving the underlying performance of the Group.
Combined operating ratio
Reported basis Current year basis
For the year ended  
31 December 2012 2011 2012 2011
Motor 101.6% 105.6% 112.3% 11 3.4% 
Home 96.6% 95.1% 100.5% 90.1% 
Rescue  
and other 
personal lines 82.7% 86.3% 88.9% 99.8% 
Commercial 108.2% 11 2.3% 122.2% 122. 1% 
International 103.3% 107 .6% 112.1% 109.8% 
Total 99.2% 101.8% 107.9% 106.7% 
On a segmental basis, the COR improved in all divisions 
compared with 201 1, with the exception of Home, which was 
impacted by worse than average claims from weather events.
In Motor, the 4.0 percentage points improvement in COR reﬂects 
management actions to improve the risk proﬁle of the book  
as well as higher releases of reserves from prior years. These 
releases were driven by favourable bodily injury experience  
for recent accident years partly attributable to improved pricing, 
better risk selection and beneﬁts arising from the Group’s claims 
transformation programme. Following these actions, inﬂation 
rates for small bodily injury claims continue to be favourable 
relative to actuarial expectations.
The Home COR of 96.6% was 1.5 percentage points higher 
than full year 201 1 as a result of a number of offsetting items. 
Overall, the Home loss ratio was stable with higher weather 
related claims being offset by reserve releases from prior years. 
The attritional current-year loss ratio was broadly in line with 
201 1. The expense ratio was higher reﬂecting the trends seen 
at the Group level.
The Rescue and other personal lines COR improved by  
3.6 percentage points compared to 201 1 , driven by a reduction  
in the commission ratio following the non-repeat of a proﬁt 
commission payment in 201 1. The 2012 result continued to 
beneﬁt from prior-year reserve releases related to the run-off  
of the legacy creditor book. Future results of the division are  
not expected to beneﬁt from similar reserve releases.
The Commercial COR improved by 4.1 percentage points  
to 108.2% for 2012. This was driven by a reduction in  
the expense ratio together with loss ratio improvements.  
The improvements in loss ratio reﬂect underwriting actions  
taken to improve attritional performance as well as the 
continued release of prior-year reserves. This was partially 
offset by a number of larger than normal ﬁre claims in the  
ﬁrst half of 2012.
International’s COR improved by 4.3 percentage points compared 
with 201 1 as a result of an improved loss ratio reﬂecting reserve 
releases from prior years, particularly in respect of large bodily 
injury claims in Italy. An improved expense ratio, partly reﬂecting 
higher reinsurance commissions received in 2012, was offset  
by a higher commission ratio attributable to a change in mix 
towards PCW and partnership business.
Prior-year reserve releases / (additions)
For the year ended  
31 December
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Motor 174.3 138.2 
Home 37.4 (48.5)
Rescue and other personal lines 23.9 52.8 
Commercial 56.2 38.4 
International 30.2 7. 9 
Total 322.0 188.8 
Prior-year reserve releases increased to £322.0 million  
(201 1: £188.8 million) equivalent to 8.7% of net earned 
premium (201 1: 4.9% of net earned premium).
38 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Operating expenses including claims handling costs  
increased by 1.0% to £1,145.1 million. The Group is  
targeting gross annual savings of £100 million in costs  
and claims handling expenses in 2014 relative to the level  
in 201 1 (201 1: £1,134.0 million). Plans relating to 70% of  
the target have been announced, with advanced plans in 
place for the remainder of the savings. Savings associated  
with this plan are expected to begin to be recognised in 2013.
Instalment and other operating income
Ongoing operations
For the year ended  
31 December
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Instalment income 125.4 138.5 
Other operating income 72.9 11 7 .0 
Instalment and other operating 
income – ongoing 198.3 255.5 
TPF tariff income (non-repeatable) – (21.9) 
Underlying instalment and other 
operating income 198.3 233.6 
Instalment and other operating income from ongoing operations 
reduced by 22.4% primarily as a result of the cessation of fee 
income in Motor relating to managing certain elements of the 
run-off of Tesco Personal Finance (“TPF”) business. All policies 
relating to TPF have now expired and this income will not be 
repeated. On an underlying basis instalment and other 
operating income fell 15.1%.
Instalment income of £125.4 million reduced by £13.1 million 
compared to the prior year (201 1: £138.5 million) as a result  
of lower average in-force policies during 2012 and changes  
to risk mix from previous years. Penetration rates for instalment 
income remain good.
Breakdown of underlying other operating income – ongoing
For the year ended  
31 December
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Solicitors’ referral fee income 21.1 27 .9
Vehicle replacement referral income 17 .2 21 . 9
Revenue from vehicle recovery  
and repair services 25.9 39.3
Fee income from insurance 
intermediary services 1.9 3.4
Other income 6.8 2.6
Underlying other income 72.9 95.1
TPF tariff income (non-repeatable) – 21 . 9
Other operating income 72.9 11 7 .0
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
H1 H2 2011 2012
Ongoing operating expenses (£m)
Staff costs
Amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets
Depreciation
RBS Group management fees
Marketing
Other operating expenses
2012
The expense ratio increased by 1.5 percentage points to 
23.0% due to lower net earned premium and a modest 
increase in operating expenses.
Ongoing operating expenses rose by £17 .2 million from the 
prior year (201 1: £837 .6 million), with the increase principally 
driven by a number of one-off items including an increase in 
the ﬁnal recharge from RBS Group in the ﬁrst half of 2012 and 
parallel running costs reﬂecting the establishment of corporate 
functions prior to separation from RBS Group on 1 July 2012.
From 1 July 2012 the Group no longer paid a recharge to  
RBS Group and this was replaced by directly paying third-party 
suppliers for the majority of services previously provided by  
RBS Group. Consequently, expenses previously reported under 
management fees are now reﬂected within their relevant line 
items. The Group continues to pay RBS Group for transitional  
IT infrastructure, the costs of which are included within other 
operating expenses.
Staff costs and other operating expenses increased in 2012  
as a direct result of separation from RBS Group, whereas  
RBS Group management fees fell by 46.2%, all of which  
were incurred in the ﬁrst half of 2012.
39 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Performance review Finance review continued
Reductions in solicitors’ referral fee income and vehicle 
replacement referral income primarily reﬂect a reduction  
in non-fault claims volumes. This is due to reduced accident 
frequency, which has also beneﬁted claims costs over the 
period. The reduction in revenue from vehicle recovery  
and repair services has resulted from fewer repairs relating  
to third-party claims and lower revenues at the tracker  
recovery business.
Investment return
Total investment return was £281.8 million, in line with 201 1  
as an increase in realised gains and reduction in impairments 
offset lower investment income. For ongoing operations, 
investment return was £234.7 million, 1.7% lower than 201 1.
During 2012, total funds under management decreased by 
13.8% to £9.4 billion. Key reasons for the reduction include  
the payment of dividends and repayment of intra-group loans 
totalling £1,235.2 million to RBS Group and the acquisition of 
Direct Line Germany from RBS Deutschland for £120 million.  
This was partially offset by the issuance of £500 million of 
long-term subordinated debt.
Investment return 
For the  
year ended  
31 December
Total Group Ongoing operations
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Investment 
income 199.3 243.6 179.9 210. 9
Net realised 
and 
unrealised 
gains 82.5 38.3 54.8 27 .8
Total 
investment 
return 281.8 281.9 234.7 238.7
Investment income was £199.3 million, an 18.2% decrease  
on 201 1, mainly as a result of the decrease in assets under 
management, low reinvestment yields in the UK and higher cash 
holdings during the year. Elevated cash holdings during the year 
arose from extensive portfolio restructuring and the need to hold 
cash in advance of the capital management activities.
Net realised and unrealised gains recognised in 2012  
were £82.5 million compared with £38.3 million in 201 1.
Investment yields – total Group
For the year ended 31 December 2012 2011
Investment income 2.0% 2.3%
Investment return 2.8% 2.6%
The investment income yield on the total portfolio for 2012  
was 2.0%, a decrease from the 2.3% earned in 201 1. The 
investment return was 2.8% compared with 2.6% in 201 1.
Income on invested assets 
For the  
year ended  
31 December 
2012 2011
Asset 
allocation Income
Asset 
allocation Income
Corporate 
bonds 48.4% 2.8% 41 .5% 3.2%
Government 
bonds 28.2% 1.6% 32.1% 2.0%
Cash and cash 
equivalents 22.0% 0.8% 25.8% 0.7%
Investment 
property 1.4% 4.4% 0.6% 8.6%
Total 100.0% 2.0% 100.0% 2.3%
Reinvestment rates on corporate bonds remain low with  
current reinvestment yields of 1.6%. Taken with current yields  
on cash and government bonds and expected yields on 
property, the blended reinvestment rate at the target asset  
mix is 1.6%. This does not take into account the effect of 
forward yields or a number of management actions which  
are expected to augment returns.
Run-off
The Run-off segment, which includes the exited personal  
lines broker and TPF businesses, made a proﬁt of £6.1 million  
in 2012 compared with a loss of £23.9 million in 201 1.  
Reserve releases for 2012 were £67 .5 million, the majority  
of which were due to TPF.
The Group agreed with TPF the level of ﬁnal reserves to be 
retained by the Group in respect of the run-off of remaining 
claims under TPF policies and ﬁnalised certain other matters 
arising out of the expiry of the distribution arrangements. 
Following determination of the reserves, the risks and rewards  
of the run-off for this line of business were transferred to  
the Group and subsequently, the £258.5 million loan  
was repaid to TPF on 8 January 2013.
40 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Restructuring and other one-off costs
Restructuring and other one-off costs rose to £189.5 million  
in 2012, up from £54.0 million in 201 1. Costs associated  
with the Group’s separation and divestment from RBS Group 
were £148.9 million, with the remainder relating mainly to  
the Group’s cost savings programme. 
Restructuring and other one-off costs for 2013 are estimated  
to be approximately £140 million. Approximately £70 million 
relates to one-off costs associated with the cost savings 
programme and a further £70 million relates to IT migration.  
The total one-off cost of IT migration continues to be estimated  
at around £100 million, with the remaining £30 million expected 
to be incurred in 2014.
Finance costs
Finance costs increased to £28.7 million (201 1: £2.7 million), 
primarily reﬂecting interest on the £500 million of long-term 
subordinated debt issued in April 2012.
Taxation
The effective tax rate for 2012 was 26.0% (201 1: 27 .4%) and 
beneﬁted from lower UK corporate tax rates. The effective tax 
rate was 1.5 percentage points higher than the UK standard  
tax rate due to higher earnings from the International operations, 
which have a higher corporation tax rate, and higher levels  
of disallowable expense, in part relating to separation and 
divestment. This was partially offset by a credit in International  
for prior periods.
The Group’s direct and indirect contribution to the Exchequer  
is signiﬁcantly higher than the UK corporation tax that the 
Group pays on its proﬁts. During 2012, the sum of taxes  
either paid or collected was in excess of £650 million. This 
included insurance premium tax, income tax and national 
insurance but excluded irrecoverable VAT.
Proﬁt for the year and return on tangible equity
Proﬁt for the year amounted to £184.3 million  
(201 1: £249.0 million).
RoTE increased to 1 1.5% (201 1: 10.0%) as a result of both  
the improved operating result from ongoing operations and  
the capital actions taken to improve the efﬁciency of the 
Group’s capital position. Had the £1 billion dividend to  
RBS Group and issue of £500 million long-term subordinated 
debt taken place prior to the start of the year, the RoTE,  
on a pro forma basis, would increase to 13.4%.
Earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings per share of 12.3 pence fell 25.9% 
compared with 201 1, reﬂecting the increase in restructuring and 
other one-off costs which more than offset the increase in 
operating proﬁt from ongoing operations.
Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share, which excludes 
Run-off and restructuring and other one-off costs, increased by 
6.3% to 21.8 pence.
Dividends
Prior to the IPO in October 2012, £1 billion of dividends  
were paid to RBS Group. These dividends formed part of the 
actions taken to improve the capital efﬁciency of the Group.
A ﬁnal dividend of 8 pence per share (201 1: nil) has been 
proposed. On the basis that the ﬁnal dividend represents  
two thirds of the total annual distribution, the full-year pro forma 
dividend of 12 pence per share would represent a payout ratio 
of 55% of earnings from ongoing operations, in line with the 
policy set out at the time of the IPO. From 2013, the Group 
aims to raise the dividend annually in real terms.
Cash ﬂow
Net cash from operating activities before investment of insurance 
assets was an outﬂow of £966.0 million in 2012 principally  
due to cash used by operations of £731.4 million, reﬂecting 
higher payments of current and prior-year claims relative to 
declining premium income, and signiﬁcant payments relating  
to restructuring and separation in the ﬁrst half of the year.  
Tax of £232.4 million was also paid. Net cash from operating 
activities before investment of insurance assets was an outﬂow  
of £359.8 million in 201 1, principally due to cash used by 
operations of £378.0 million, reﬂecting higher payments of 
current and prior-year claims relative to declining premium 
income. Net cash released from investment of insurance assets 
was £2,004.8 million in 2012 and £38.8 million in 201 1.  
The increase in 2012 reﬂects a net liquidation of investments  
in available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets and a net decrease in 
investment balances held with credit institutions in 2012  
relative to a net increase in 201 1.
Cash ﬂows from investing activities were an outﬂow of  
£154.2 million in 2012, comprising £63.7 million for the 
purchase of property, plant and equipment, £96.6 million  
of investment in software development costs and £6.1 million 
cash inﬂow relating to net investment hedges of foreign 
subsidiaries. Cash ﬂows from investing activities were a cash 
outﬂow of £126.2 million in 201 1 due largely to investment 
in software development costs of £1 19.8 million.
During 2012, the Group paid dividends totalling £1 billion  
to RBS Group, repaid loans to RBS Group of £246.4 million 
and received net proceeds of £493.0 million from the issue  
of long-term subordinated debt. Finance costs in relation to  
this debt resulted in cash outﬂows of £16.1 million. Altogether, 
the net outﬂows from ﬁnancing activities during the period 
amounted to £774.5 million.
41 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Performance review Balance sheet and ﬁnancial management
Net asset value
The net asset value at 31 December 2012 was £2,831.6 million 
(31 December 201 1: £3,612.8 million) with tangible net asset 
value of £2,410.1 million (31 December 201 1: £3,247 .0 million). 
This equates to 189.1 pence and 161.0 pence per share 
respectively as at 31 December 2012 (31 December 201 1: 
240.9 pence and 216.5 pence, respectively).
The reduction in net asset value and tangible net asset  
value primarily relates to the £1 billion of dividends paid  
to RBS Group during 2012. Adding back these dividends,  
net asset value per share rose by 6.3% in 2012 and tangible 
net asset value per share rose by 5.2% in 2012. 
Reserving
Estimation of claims reserves is a central aspect of ﬁnancial 
management. Insurance is inherently uncertain requiring the use 
of judgement in estimating the ultimate claims liability. The factors 
that must be considered when assessing the level of outstanding 
liabilities include class of business, timeliness of notiﬁcation of 
claims, validity of claims made against a policy and validity of 
the amount of the claim. At any time there is a range of possible 
outcomes at which the claims reserves could ultimately settle and 
as time passes the uncertainty surrounding likely claims settlement 
reduces. The uncertainty is greater for bodily injury claims due  
to time it takes for these claims to settle. This is particularly true 
for PPOs awarded to settle some bodily injury claims, in which 
annually indexed payments could be awarded over the lifetime 
of the injured party.
Given this uncertainty, the Group adopts a prudent approach to 
the assessment of liabilities. This prudent approach is supported 
by historical claims reserve releases. These can be observed  
in the gross and net ultimate claims cost development triangles 
shown on pages 147 and 148. The triangles demonstrate that, 
for all accident years, the estimated ultimate claims cost has 
reduced over time. Reductions in ultimate claims cost have 
ﬂuctuated over the period with the years from 2003 to 2006 
and 2010 showing the largest decreases. The 2009 accident 
year has shown the lowest reduction following a signiﬁcant 
increase in claims relating to motor over the 2009 and  
2010 ﬁnancial years in response to the market-wide adverse 
development in bodily injury claims. This resulted in part from 
the rise of claims management companies, an increase in 
no-win no-fee litigation, and an increase in PPOs.
Actuarial reviews are carried out quarterly with over 95% of  
all claims reserves being reviewed at least annually. Actuarial 
best estimates are produced internally, and are subject to 
independent external review at least annually. Reserves are 
based on management’s best estimate set by the Group, which 
will be at least equal to the actuarial best estimate at a legal 
entity level. The Group will set reserves informed by a range  
of actuarial outputs including percentiles and scenarios. It will 
consider the level of historic variability inherent in the claims 
data and other short- and long-term risks not reﬂected in the 
actuarial data.
Finance review continued
The Group’s reserves are particularly susceptible to potential 
retrospective changes in legislation and new court decisions, 
for example, a change in the Ogden discount rate. This is the 
discount rate set by the relevant government bodies and used 
by courts to calculate lump sum awards in bodily injury cases. 
The rate is currently 2.5% per annum but is currently under 
review by the Ministry of Justice. From 2010, the Group has 
calculated its estimated reserve based on an assumed Ogden 
discount rate of 1.5% in recognition of the uncertainty regarding 
the future rate. Applying an Ogden discount rate of 2.5% 
would reduce the estimated reserves by £184.7 million as  
at 31 December 2012. Applying an Ogden discount rate of 
0.5% would increase the estimated reserves by £259.3 million.
Most of the Group’s technical reserves are held on an 
undiscounted basis and, therefore, do not allow for the 
investment income which will be earned on the technical 
reserves after the balance sheet date until the claims are  
fully settled. The one exception is the technical reserves held  
in respect of PPOs which are held on a discounted basis,  
in line with the ABI Statement of Recommended Practice 
(“SORP”), and where the Group assumes an investment return  
of 4.0% (201 1: 4.5%). Claims for PPOs are also assumed to 
inﬂate at 4.0% (201 1: 4.5%) per annum resulting in a real 
discount rate of 0.0% (201 1: 0.0%).
As the Group has moved to operating on a stand-alone basis 
there have been substantial changes to the reserving practices 
and processes including:
 Increased focus on reporting to the Group and Audit 
Committee reﬂecting additional reserving governance
 Claims reserves are based on internal estimates, supported  
by independent external review
Claims reserves net of reinsurance
For the year ended 31 December 
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Motor 3,026.6 3,148.9
Home 403.8 375.8
Rescue and other personal lines 77.1 92.7
Commercial 588.3 605.3
International 429.7 439.9
Total – ongoing operations 4,525.5 4,662.6
Run-off 856.4 1, 148.7
Total 5,381.9 5,81 1.3
42 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Investment portfolio
Our investment strategy is conservative and primarily comprises 
investments in sovereign bonds, investment grade ﬁxed income 
securities and cash. The strategy is to ensure adequate liquidity, 
to appropriately match asset and liability durations (with speciﬁc 
focus on PPOs) and to diversify risk and maximise return relative 
to the Group’s risk appetite.
During 2012, the key achievements included:
 Establishing an in-house investment capability to enable  
the Group to manage and oversee its investment holdings.  
The in-house team’s responsibilities include managing cash, 
government bonds and ‘AAA’ credit portfolios for the UK 
business, with specialist external asset managers employed 
to manage other asset holdings
 Investing in US Dollar investment grade credit (hedged back 
to Pounds Sterling) to enable wider debt issuer diversiﬁcation
 Building a UK commercial property portfolio to diversify returns 
and provide asset returns with a correlation to inﬂation
 Realigning investment holdings to new risk appetite statement
 Transferring the management of the International operations 
credit investment portfolios to an external asset manager
Investment portfolio as at 3 1 December 201 2
Corporate 48%
Sovereign 20%
Cash, cash equivalents,
loans and receivables 22%
Investment property 1%
Supranationals 6%
Local government 3%
Investment portfolio as at 3 1 December 201 1
Corporate 41 %
Sovereign 26%
Cash, cash equivalents, 
loans and receivables 26%
Investment property 1%
Supranationals 4%
Local government 2%
Derivatives are permitted for risk management purposes  
within the investment portfolio including interest rate swaps  
to align asset and liability durations and forward currency 
contracts to manage currency risk.
During 2012, the portion of investment portfolio backing the 
Run-off operations was converted to cash prior to settlement 
with TPF. Post ﬁnal settlement, residual cash retained is being 
reinvested in line with asset benchmarks for the UK portfolio.
The total value of the investment portfolio at 31 December 2012 
was £9.4 billion, 13.8% lower than at 31 December 201 1. 
Assets under management remain liquid with 22.0% of the  
funds held in cash and cash equivalents at year end. This is  
a transitory position and it is planned that cash holdings will 
reduce signiﬁcantly during it 2013.
Corporate, sovereign, local government and supranational  
debt securities account for 76.6% of the portfolio, of which 41% 
are rated as ‘AAA’ and a further 49% are rated as ‘A’ or ‘AA’.
The average duration of total investment assets was 1.8 years, 
with the breakdown being UK 1.7 years, Italy 2.8 years and 
Germany 2.5 years (201 1: average on total assets 2.2 years, 
UK 2.1 years, Italy 2.3 years and Germany 2.6 years).
Exposure to European economies such as Spain, Italy and 
Ireland is minimal, with these countries accounting for only 
1.0% of the aggregate bond portfolio. There are no investment 
holdings in Portugal or Greece.
Investment property holdings shown as at 31 December 201 1 
comprised three properties which were sold to RBS in the ﬁrst 
half of 2012. Investment property held at the end of 2012  
has been purchased since August 2012 and relates to 
commercial premises.
43 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Performance review Finance review continued
Asset allocation and benchmarks
UK Germany Italy
Current 
benchmark 
holding
2012 
Year end
201 1  
Year end
Current 
benchmark 
holding
2012 
Year end
201 1  
Year end
Current 
benchmark 
holding
2012 
Year end
201 1  
Year end
Cash
1
10% 23% 27% 10% 8% 8% 10% 7% 15%
Credit 60% 54% 44% 85% 67% 70% 90% 93% 85%
Sovereign 25% 21% 28% 8% 6%
Investment 
property 5% 2% 1%
Pfandbrief
2
5% 17% 16%
Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Notes:
1. Awaiting investment into credit and property accounts.
2. Pfandbrief holdings in the German portfolio are overweight as a result of legacy holdings, which are in the process of being run down.
Investment holdings and yields
2012 2011
As at 31 December Asset allocation Income Asset allocation Income
Corporate bonds
3
4,528.6 125.2 4,509.5 150.6
Government bonds
4
2,635.7 50.4 3,481.2 66.0
Cash and cash equivalents 2,062.5 19.3 2,799.2 20.4
Investment property 128.9 4.4 69.5 6.6
Total 9,355.7 199.3 10,859.4 243.6
Corporate bonds 48.4% 2.8% 41 .5% 3.2%
Government bonds 28.2% 1.6% 32.1% 2.0%
Cash and cash equivalents 22.0% 0.8% 25.8% 0.7%
Investment property 1.4% 4.4% 0.6% 8.6%
Total 100.0% 2.0% 100.0% 2.3%
Notes:
3. Asset allocation at 31 December 2012 includes investment portfolio derivatives, which have been netted and have a mark-to-market value of £7 .8 million.
4.  Government bonds include sovereign, supranational and local government bonds. Sovereign bonds account for 19.7% of the total investment holdings as at  
31 December 2012 as per the following:
 – sovereign £1,843 million, supranational £521 million and local government £271 million as at 31 December 2012; and
 – sovereign £2,795 million, supranational £489 million and local government £198 million as at 31 December 201 1.
44 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Capital management
Capital management policy
The Group seeks to manage its capital efﬁciently and maintain an 
appropriate level of capitalisation and solvency in line with its risk 
appetite. The Group determines the appropriate level of capital  
on the basis of a number of criteria, including a risk-based capital 
requirement, holding a prudent capital buffer above regulatory 
requirements, and the objective of maintaining a credit rating  
in the ‘A’ range. The Group manages its subsidiaries to ensure  
that capital resources exceed regulatory minima.
Risk-based capital
The Group uses its own risk-based capital model, as part of its 
individual capital assessment (“ICA”) for the UK general insurance 
underwriter, to determine how much capital is required to operate 
within its risk appetite and strategy. The Group has an overall 
target of holding capital resources in the range of 125% to 
150% of the risk-based capital requirement.
The UK regulated entities carry out an assessment of the 
adequacy of their overall ﬁnancial resources in accordance 
with the FSA’s ICA methodology. This is based on an internal 
capital model, which is calibrated, as required by the FSA,  
to a 99.5% conﬁdence interval over a one-year time horizon.
The International entities hold capital in excess of that required 
by their local regulators.
Capital management actions
In 2012, Direct Line Group paid three dividends totalling  
£1 billion to its parent company, RBS Group, as part of  
a number of capital actions aimed at creating a more  
efﬁcient capital structure ahead of its IPO in October 2012.
On 27 April 2012 the Group issued £500 million of long-term 
Tier 2 subordinated debt. The increase in debt and ﬁnancial 
leverage was partially offset by the repayment of long-term 
borrowings of £246.4 million to RBS Group in 2012.  
Undated loan capital of £258.5 million provided by  
TPF was repaid in January 2013. 
Capital position
The Group presents its solvency information on a regulatory 
reporting basis. The Group is well capitalised with an 
estimated Insurance Group Directive (“IGD”) coverage ratio  
of 279.4% (31 December 201 1: 319.0%). The Group also  
has an estimated risk-based capital coverage ratio of 151.4%  
as at 31 December 2012 (31 December 201 1: 169.5%). 
As at 31 December 2012 2011
Consolidated statutory 
solvency capital
Shareholders’ equity 2,831.6 3,612.8
Goodwill and other 
intangible assets (421.5) (365.8)
Regulatory adjustments (73.5) (25.6)
Total Tier 1 capital 2,336.6 3,221.4
Upper Tier 2 capital
1
 — 258.5
Lower Tier 2 capital
2
495.5 —
Regulatory adjustments (23.7) (37 .2)
Total regulatory capital 2,808.4 3,442.7
Insurance Group Directive
IGD required capital
3
1,005.0 1,079. 1
IGD excess solvency 1,803.4 2,363.6
IGD coverage ratio 279.4% 319 .0%
Risk-based capital  
coverage ratio 151.4% 169.5%
Notes:
1.  Includes the undated subordinated loan from TPF of £255 million and  
£3.5 million of solvency capital provided by TPF in relation to the TPF life 
insurance business, both of which the Group repaid in January 2013. As 
such, it has been excluded from Tier 2 capital as at 31 December 2012.
2.  Includes that element of the subordinated dated notes applicable for 
regulatory capital purposes.
3.  Based on the IGD for the Group and adjusted to include the capital 
requirement for Direct Line Versicherung AG acquired on 2 April 2012.
The above regulatory numbers are estimated, based on 
preliminary regulatory returns for 31 December 2012.
45 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Performance review Finance review continued
The table below sets out the Group’s ﬁnancial leverage ratio:
As at 31 December 2012 2011
Shareholders’ equity 2,831.6 3,612.8
Undated subordinated loan
1
258.5 258.5
Subordinated dated notes 529.0 —
Long term borrowings — 246.4
Total ﬁnancial debt 787.5 504.9
Total capital employed 3,619.1 4,117.7
Financial leverage ratio
2
21.8% 12.3%
Notes:
1. Repaid in January 2013.
2.  Total ﬁnancial debt as a percentage of total capital employed. 
Following the repayment of the undated subordinated loan,  
the ﬁnancial leverage ratio on a pro forma basis, excluding  
the undated subordinated loan, as at 31 December 2012 
would have been 15.7%.
Credit ratings
Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service provide 
insurance ﬁnancial strength ratings for U K Insurance Limited, 
the Group’s UK general insurance underwriter. U K Insurance 
Limited is currently rated ‘A’ (strong) with a stable outlook by  
Standard & Poor’s and ‘A2’ (good) with a stable outlook  
by Moody’s.
Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s currently link the ﬁnancial 
strength ratings of U K Insurance Limited to the overall rating  
of RBS Group. As a consequence, Standard & Poor’s has 
indicated that, while RBS Group has a majority shareholding  
in Direct Line Group, its rating for U K Insurance Limited could  
be affected by future rating actions on RBS Group. Moody’s 
has indicated that its rating for U K Insurance Limited could be 
negatively impacted by a material weakening of RBS Group’s 
credit proﬁle as reﬂected in any further downgrade in RBS Group’s 
ratings or any delay to the completion of the divestment of 
Direct Line Group from RBS Group.
Solvency II
The FSA has extended its planning horizon to 3 1 December 2015 
in response to delays in Solvency II legislation. The Group’s 
Solvency II programme is being reshaped in the light of these 
delays and the application date for internal model approval 
revised. The Group’s internal model produces Solvency II, 
enhanced ICA and economic capital numbers for the UK 
general insurance business. The Group’s new risk management 
system has signiﬁcantly improved and automated risk management 
activity and the Solvency II data warehouse implementation  
is progressing. As an interim measure, the FSA is expected  
to regulate the Group via an enhanced ICA regime until 
Solvency II is implemented in the UK.
46 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Acting responsibly
One of the most exciting elements of building a new corporate brand  
is being able to take a fresh look at everything we do
Corporate social responsibility
Four core elements
We have worked closely with Business in The Community 
(“BITC”) and identiﬁed four core Corporate Social Responsibility 
(“CSR”) elements: Employee Experience; Business Practices; 
Community; and Energy and Environment. Each has its own 
distinct strategy, developed with the help of our employees  
– volunteers from across the business who are passionate 
about doing the right thing.
Employee experience
Strategy
People matter. They do much more than their jobs; they help  
us achieve our vision to be the best.
We must recognise how far we have come and what we  
still need to change in order to be the best. Our focus is  
on evolving our strategy to provide a better employee and 
customer experience. We are using all information channels 
available, linking the analysis and interpreting the results  
to develop our people, their talents, create the right culture  
and build sustainable engagement.
Challenges and opportunities
As we continue with our transformation programme, it is vital  
that we continuously monitor our employee engagement levels 
and behaviours through various channels. We will focus on 
measures of their experiences before, during and after their 
time with us.
We seek to understand how best to enable a company culture 
that is collaborative, empowering, and innovative, so that our 
people are able to inﬂuence the customer experience positively 
and achieve superior customer and shareholder value.
The Group’s diversity network aims to represent the multiple 
minority groups within our business and aspires to have a 
workforce reﬂective of the outside world and our customer 
base. The network has just been established and we hope to 
encourage up to 10% of our workforce to become members  
by the end of 2014.
 “I feel passionately about Direct Line Group 
playing an important role in contributing  
to UK growth, jobs and taxes. Building  
a strong, successful and sustainable 
business is integral to achieving this. 
 “As a leading retail general insurer, our 
responsibility is not only to our customers, 
shareholders and staff, but also to the 
wider society.
 “Our values are a ﬁrst step in reﬂecting  
that responsibility and embedding 
sustainability into our business.”
Jane Hanson, Chair of the Corporate Social  
Responsibility Committee
47 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Performance review This is reﬂected in the Global Transitional Companies  
Norm Group
1
, which we outperform in 13 of 15  
categories including:
 14% higher for treating each other with respect
 13% higher for innovation and empowerment
 8% higher for customer focus
 9% higher for strategic leadership
We exceed in the following key areas:
 7% higher for people leadership
 7% higher for managing change
 4% higher for the extent to which our people feel  
the values have been embedded
In areas where we do not outperform, such as personal 
development, we are taking a number of initiatives. These 
include our new Leadership Framework, People Managers 
Transformation Programme and the new people development 
and succession planning processes.
Importantly, we know that our people leaders have faith  
in the future: 82% are optimistic about developments,  
and we are rated 7% higher than other ﬁnancial services 
organisations for managing change.
Business practices
Strategy
Embedding CSR in our day-to-day business operations is 
critical if we are to build a sustainable business – one which 
our customers, shareholders and employees value and respect. 
Our strategy is to encourage and reward behaviour which 
makes the communities we impact safer places to be through 
product innovation, customer education and working with 
government and other bodies.
Note:
1.  Data Source: Towers Watson; Employee Opinion Survey 2012.
Achievements in 2012
1) Involve and consult our people
To make the Group a great place to work, we know it is 
important to involve and consult our people on the design and 
delivery of all our major transformational initiatives. We do  
this through: our business-wide employee representative body 
(“ERB”), which ensures all employees have a voice; an in-house 
social media platform called ‘Best-Quest’, used by more than 
30% of our employees to discuss improvement ideas and 
initiatives; and an intranet-based comment and feedback 
facility. This has proved to be a popular channel through  
which they are embracing our values. A key achievement  
of the programme was the distillation of the ideas received 
from employees to arrive at a set of values to govern the way 
the Group operates.
2) Invest in our leadership
We recognise it is critical to have a strong and diverse 
leadership team that recognises the technical, people and 
general business leadership skills required to achieve our  
vision. A new leadership group has been identiﬁed, which has 
collective accountability for and ownership of our strategy. We 
have introduced a new leadership programme in partnership  
with Ashridge Business School, and have worked with Henley 
Business School to identify emerging talent to become future  
senior managers. A new leadership competency framework  
has been designed to help our leaders become best in class.
3) Maintain people’s engagement
Recognising the importance of people’s engagement through 
organisational transformation, we have worked on proactively 
identifying where there are employee engagement issues across 
the organisation and put in place supporting activities to 
mitigate these, such as outplacement support, redeployment 
and career fairs. Benchmarking against the Towers Watson 
2012 surveys, our engagement index shows that we  
have maintained employee engagement throughout our 
transformation journey to date at 73%, which is in line  
with industry norms.
Corporate social responsibility continued
Ideas from employees helped to arrive at a set of values to govern the 
way the Group operates.
Our aim is to create a culture of volunteering, giving all our employees 
one paid day off a year.
48 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Challenges and opportunities
Making our communities safer, through reducing vehicle  
collisions and crime, aligns both insurance risk and our  
CSR thinking, helping us maintain operational effectiveness  
in the long term. Reducing the number of claims our customers 
experience not only provides us with commercial beneﬁt, but 
more importantly reduces the distress and inconvenience our 
customers face when they are involved in a road trafﬁc accident, 
or household incident, or when they are the victims of crime.
We are already involved in a number of important areas, for 
example: road safety through our sponsorship programmes with 
Brake; industry initiatives on uninsured drivers; and combating 
the increase in fraudulent claims. There is a clear opportunity 
for us to expand these programmes and deepen our support 
through product innovation and customer education.
Through our supplier network, we have a clear opportunity  
to develop best practice further. For example, through our 
‘Repair not Replace’ programme, we are reducing our 
environmental impact.
Achievements in 2012
 We chaired an industry seminar called ‘Steering Young 
Drivers in the Right Direction’, which brought together the 
Government, the insurance industry and researchers to 
discuss how to reduce the number of collisions involving 
young drivers who have recently passed their test.
 We launched a range of severe weather guides to help  
our customers prepare their homes for bad weather and  
to minimise any damage caused.
 Our severe weather response vehicle (mobile ofﬁce),  
helps us to reach more customers in areas that have  
been extremely badly affected. It is a local base where  
our customers and suppliers can come and speak to us.
 We established Health & Safety (“H&S”) governance 
procedures including an H&S Executive Committee and 
elected representatives from across the business.
Community
Strategy
We are committed to helping make communities safer – safer 
for our customers, safer for our people and safer for the areas 
in which we operate. To help do this, our aim is to create  
a culture of volunteering across our business, giving all our 
employees one paid day off a year to get actively involved 
with one of our new national charity partners or local 
community charities.
Our three main areas of focus are:
 Road safety education
 Helping out in a crisis
 The reduction of crime and anti-social behaviour  
in our communities
Our four national charity partners are:
 Brake
 RoadSafe
 The Prince’s Trust
 Catch22
Road safety
We see it as a duty and an important issue to campaign to 
make our roads safer for all users. The Direct Line brand has 
fostered a nine-year working relationship with road safety charity 
Brake. An ongoing sponsorship of Brake’s Parliamentarian of 
the Year Awards takes place every January to recognise MPs 
who campaign on road safety issues.
Education is key to making our roads safer. The Group has 
signed up to the European Road Safety Charter, an initiative 
that shares good practice to resolve road safety issues across 
the European Union. In Westminster, we sponsor policy 
debates by way of panel discussions on subjects such as the 
impact of uninsured drivers, how to reduce the risk to young 
drivers and combating fraud. Our new public policy focus is  
on helping young drivers through improved education and 
technology. Beep-Beep Days are sponsored in schools across 
the UK, teaching children the rules of the road in a fun way.
We have further strengthened our relationship with Brake by 
making it a national charity partner. Under this arrangement, all 
our employees now have the opportunity to become involved 
in educating young children.
RoadSafe has also been chosen as one of our national  
charity partners. Its mission is to reduce road deaths and 
injuries through a variety of road safety initiatives. In 
collaboration with local police and road safety managers,  
our employees have the opportunity to become involved in 
local Community Speedwatch campaigns, monitoring the speed 
of vehicles in areas of concern to the public. This is the ﬁrst of  
a number of RoadSafe initiatives we are planning.
Direct Line Group is proud to be involved in educating young children 
about road safety.
49 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Performance review Corporate social responsibility continued
Catch22 – this organisation is a forward-looking social 
business with many years’ experience of providing services  
that give young people an alternative to getting into trouble, 
crime and anti-social behaviour. Through the Catch22 
Community Space Challenge project, our employees volunteer 
to work alongside local young people to transform neglected 
public spaces.
Supporting our employees in charitable giving
We also support our employees in their charitable giving 
through our payroll giving scheme, matching their monthly 
contributions by up to £50 per person per month. Our 
Community Cashback scheme gives employees the opportunity  
to apply for an annual award of £250 for their charitable 
endeavours. We also recognise the great things that our 
employees do to support local communities, both within and 
outside work, through our Chief Executive Awards scheme.
Challenges and opportunities
There are many ways in which we get involved in programmes, 
sponsorships and volunteering with a number of organisations 
that work in and for the community. If we spread this activity  
too wide, we will dilute our impact. To counter this challenge  
we chose to partner with four charities whose activities are 
aligned with our commitment to make communities safer. 
Achievements in 2012
 Through our Community Cashback scheme our employees 
were able to donate an additional £48,000 to the charities 
in which they are involved or are close to their heart.
 Through our payroll giving scheme, by matching employee 
donations we were able to contribute £1 12,000 to the 
charities that matter to our people.
 Through utilising our call centre network we were able  
to support Children in Need and Comic Relief, with over 
900 employees taking pledge telephone calls.
Helping out in a crisis
We are there to help people in their time of need, whether  
that be when their home has been ﬂooded or when they  
are involved in a car crash. Our customer service teams are 
trained to deal with the worst cases and our technical teams 
and loss adjustors are deployed all over the country to help  
our customers recover. Our aim is to get people’s lives back  
on track as easily as possible. When major events affect our 
communities, we aim to deploy our people to help and advise 
in these communities, not just our insured customers. We have 
also built a specialist mobile ofﬁce that helps us base ourselves 
right in the heart of communities that are in crisis.
The reduction of crime and anti-social behaviour  
in our communities
We are building a programme to enable us to interact more 
closely with our communities and to use our knowledge, 
people and presence to draw attention to crime and anti-social 
behaviour and the impact this has on our communities. Our  
aim is to make our communities safer by raising awareness  
of the issues amongst employees and the wider community, 
and to work with relevant community partners to help prevent 
people slipping into crime and anti-social behaviour.
We have chosen to partner with:
The Prince’s Trust – this charity specialises in helping 
disadvantaged young people. In collaboration with  
The Prince’s Trust, we ran a ‘Get into car repairs’ pilot at  
our Wakeﬁeld accident repair centre. Over a four-week  
period, 15 disadvantaged young people received technical  
car repair training, work readiness skills – including CV  
writing and interview experience – and soft skills such as 
communication and team building. A number of people  
from our Leeds sites volunteered as mentors, offering ongoing 
support to the participants. Following its success, we aim to 
assess the feasibility of how we develop the programme further.
In collaboration with The Prince’s Trust, we’re helping disadvantaged 
young people get back into the workplace.
Our specialist mobile ofﬁce helps us base ourselves right in the heart 
of communities that are in crisis.
50 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Energy and environment
Strategy
We intend that our operations will be managed sustainably 
and with environmental considerations at the heart of the 
way we run the business. We will manage our operational 
impact and aim to reduce our carbon footprint.
We have deﬁned our ambitions as follows:
 Buildings – the high proﬁle of our portfolio provides a very 
visible opportunity to demonstrate our practical commitment 
to CSR. We aim to encourage recycling and biodiversity  
to consume less energy, water and to produce less waste.
 Business – we aim to reduce the impact of our travel, both  
to the ofﬁce and to business meetings; to promote ﬂexible 
working arrangements; to consume less energy and paper; 
and to use existing assets more efﬁciently.
 People – we aim to connect people in ways that beneﬁt  
the environment, from car pools to volunteer groups.
We aim to achieve all this by:
 Creating and maintaining healthy workplaces by physical 
upgrade; maintaining suitable environmental conditions; 
targeting and reducing high energy usage by improving 
plant efﬁciency; introducing new technologies; and 
encouraging change from our employees.
 Introducing a range of agile working practices and 
technological improvements to enhance ﬂexibility,  
minimise travel, and reduce printing, accommodation  
and resource impacts.
 Undertaking water and waste audits; seeking to minimise 
waste at source and disposal to landﬁll and to maximise 
re-use, recycling and energy from waste. We will look  
to minimise water use and recycle where appropriate.
 Encouraging reduction in car travel through improved travel 
planning, facilities and agile working practices, and by 
promoting car sharing and cycling to work.
We aim to monitor performance metrics across the business 
and by site, and track our progress in each of these areas.  
We also aim to submit to external regulation as required, and 
expect to operate in compliance with Energy, Environmental  
and Pollution Prevention Regulations.
Challenges and opportunities
Climate change is a very real commercial risk to our business. 
The landmark climate change risk assessment study by the 
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs in January 
2012 cited ﬂooding as one of the key risks faced by Britain 
and estimated that ﬂood risks to buildings and infrastructure 
were anticipated to rise to between £2 billion and £12 billion  
by the 2080s. As a leading home insurer, we are in discussion 
with the Government on how to address these future risks, as 
well as sharing our data and insight.
A key challenge for our environment strategy is to obtain  
all relevant information to gain a clearer view of our current 
impacts and position, and enable us to monitor our CSR KPIs,  
as a business and by site.
In 2007 , we were one of the founding members of 
ClimateWise, an industry-wide membership group, which 
works with the University of Cambridge to analyse the effects  
of climate change and how the industry can combat them.
Achievements in 2012
 100% renewable rate on contracted electricity sourced  
for our UK ofﬁces and our default ofﬁce paper has 100% 
recycled content.
 We have improved our paper sourcing and for marketing 
and customer documents we use Forest Stewardship Council 
certiﬁed, vegetable and water-based inks with the ability to 
track from source. We are also actively working on reducing 
the volume of paper mailed and archived through electronic 
and alternative delivery channels.
 We were one of the ﬁrst insurers to provide insurance for 
electric vehicles and have committed to supporting the  
move towards more sustainable vehicles.
 We recycled 76% of the waste generated by our  
Accident Repair Centres, saving 1,517 tonnes of CO
2
.
51 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Performance review Committed to high 
standards in governance
Our pursuit of strong governance is based on the conviction that it is good for our business
2012
Dear shareholders and other stakeholders
I am pleased to be writing this report at an exciting time  
for Direct Line Group. We became a listed company on  
16 October 2012, a point which represents a signiﬁcant 
milestone in the development of our business.
More than 27 years after the Group was originally  
launched in partnership with RBS Group in 1985,  
subsequently becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary  
in 1988, we achieved substantial operational  
separation last summer.
Chairman’s introduction
A year of transformation
Signiﬁcant changes and events  
affecting the Group during 2012  
and until the date of this report.
25 April: £500m Fixed/Floating Rate Guaranteed 
Subordinated Notes due 2042 issued by the Company 
with the Notes being guaranteed by U K Insurance Limited.
27 April: The Company announced that Mike Biggs had 
been appointed as Chairman and that Bruce Van Saun, 
Group Finance Director of RBS Group, had been appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director.
28 May: The Company 
declared an interim dividend  
in an aggregate amount  
of £500m to be paid on  
6 June 2012 to RBS Group. 
27 March: The 
Company declared 
and paid an interim 
dividend of £300m  
to RBS Group.
1 July: 
Operationally 
separate from 
RBS Group.
14 Feb: The new Direct Line Group 
corporate identity was launched.
3 August: The  
Group announced  
a cost reduction  
plan targeting gross  
annual cost savings  
of £100m in 2014. 
Mike Biggs, Chairman
52 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 The scale of organisational change in the business during  
2012 was also signiﬁcant. In addition to the separation from 
RBS Group, Direct Line Group continued a process of business 
transformation at the same time as executing the IPO which  
has allowed us to become a listed company.
Leadership
As a Board we are focused on strong governance. This ﬁrst 
Annual Report & Accounts as a listed company allows us to  
set out the steps we have taken to deliver against our stated 
objective of achieving good practice governance.  
 
15 January 2013: The Company 
announced the award to Capgemini 
UK plc of a ﬁve-year contract to 
design, deliver and run a new IT 
infrastructure for the Group whereby 
our corporate and business 
applications will be migrated from  
RBS Group IT infrastructure to an 
independent platform.
13 December:  
The Company won ‘IPO  
of the Year’ at the 2012  
FT and mergermarket 
European M&A Awards.
24 December: The 
Company became a 
constituent of the FTSE 250.
2 November: The Company 
announced that operating proﬁt from 
ongoing operations of £347 .9m for the 
nine months to 30 September 2012 had 
increased by 3% over the prior period.
3 September: The Company 
declared and paid a further interim 
dividend of £200m to the RBS 
Group. The Company also 
announced that Clare Thompson 
had been appointed as a 
Non-Executive Director.
14 September: The Company 
announced its intention to proceed 
with an IPO. The Company  
also announced that Priscilla  
Vacassin had been appointed  
as a Non-Executive Director.
24 September: The Company announced  
that Glyn Jones had been appointed as Senior 
Independent Director and Mark Catton, CEO  
of RBS Corporate and Institutional Banking in  
the UK, as a Non-Executive Director.
28 September: The Company published  
the IPO price range.
16 October: 1,500m shares were 
admitted to trading on the London 
Stock Exchange under the ticker ‘DLG’. 
17 October: Following the exercise 
of an over-allotment option in respect  
of a further 67 .5m Ordinary Shares  
to be sold on the market, RBS Group 
sold 520.8m Ordinary Shares in the 
Company. The sale represented 35%  
of the total share capital and generated 
gross proceeds of £91 1m received  
by RBS Group.
 “ As Chairman of Direct Line Group,  
I am responsible for the leadership  
of the Board.”
Mike Biggs, Chairman
2013
I am pleased to report that we reached compliance with  
the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to key  
Board structure and processes by the time of the IPO.
53 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance Chairman’s introduction continued
Before and after the IPO the Board was instrumental  
in initiating projects to assure an integrated approach  
to governance. Further details of our approach are set  
out on pages 60 to 68.
Our pursuit of strong governance is based on the conviction  
that it is good for our business. By adopting structures  
and systems designed to help us operate with maximum 
effectiveness and efﬁciency, we aim to optimise our  
competitive positioning and instil trust and conﬁdence  
in our stakeholders that we intend to deliver against  
our objectives and create long-term sustainable value.
Effectiveness
Following my appointment as Chairman in April last year,  
my ﬁrst priority was to establish an effective Board able to 
guide Direct Line Group as a newly-listed company. Unusually  
for a subsidiary group, Direct Line Group had already had 
independent Non-Executive Directors on its Board for over  
nine years. In the approach to the IPO, we embarked on a 
programme of reviewing the Board composition and produced 
detailed candidate proﬁles specifying the skills and qualities 
required of our Directors. The proﬁles included requirements  
for a diversity of experience to match the range of the Group’s 
businesses, as well as deep experience of the ﬁnancial 
services sector and signiﬁcant Board experience in major  
listed businesses. By September 2012, we had appointed  
ﬁve independent Non-Executive Directors, in addition to two  
RBS Group-nominated representatives.
A fuller description of how the Board was set up to respond  
to the business’s needs and the challenges it faces is provided  
on page 64.
Following appointment, the Directors commenced induction 
programmes designed to familiarise them with the operation  
of the Group and its management and to provide updates 
regarding signiﬁcant developments affecting listed companies 
and our business sector.
We intend to continue to build on these inductions by arranging  
site visits and training during 2013. We will review the 
effectiveness of the Board as a whole and of individual 
Directors by annual evaluations.
Accountability
An overriding focus in 2012 was to ensure our policies, 
processes and systems are ﬁt for Direct Line Group to operate 
as a listed company, meeting all relevant statutory, regulatory  
and compliance obligations.
One of the ﬁrst challenges we met during 2012 was to  
revisit the existing governance infrastructure and devise a 
framework appropriate for a stand-alone listed insurance  
group. It was particularly important, during a time of signiﬁcant 
organisational change, to ensure that the outputs of various 
work streams were subjected to robust systems of challenge 
and independent oversight, with material decisions being 
escalated to the Board.
What has the Board achieved?
Highlights of 2012
 Refreshed the membership of the Board to meet  
the requirements of best practice relating to a  
majority of Non-Executive Directors on the Board 
(excluding the Chairman).
 Provided oversight of the Fit for Listing project.
 Considered matters relating to Solvency II.
 Launched initiatives targeting £100 million of gross  
annual cost savings in 2014.
 Carried out a successful inaugural capital markets 
transaction with £500 million of Tier 2 subordinated  
debt issued in April 2012.
 Substantially completed separation from RBS Group  
with independent corporate functions and governance  
from 1 July 2012.
 Set ﬁnancial targets for the Group, including COR  
and RoTE.
 Continued to deliver the Group’s transformation plan  
and is making progress towards its target of a 15% RoTE.
 Achieved a successful IPO in October 2012.
 Awarded a ﬁve-year contract to Capgemini UK plc  
to design, deliver and run a new IT infrastructure  
for the Group whereby our corporate and business 
applications will be migrated from RBS Group IT 
infrastructure to an independent platform at a cost  
of approximately £100 million.
54 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 In addition, the Company refreshed its committees during 2012  
to ensure the Board has adequate support to provide assured 
oversight of the business. The composition, attendance, role  
and focus of each committee are described later in this report.
Remuneration
The subject of Directors’ remuneration continues to receive 
attention from shareholders, regulators and the public. It is  
clear to me that transparency in reporting on remuneration  
is key to obtaining the conﬁdence of investors. Although the  
result of the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills’ 
consultation on revisions to the remuneration reporting 
regulations is not expected until later in 2013, Direct Line 
Group intends to adopt the recommendations, where 
practicable, within the conﬁnes of current regulatory and 
legislative requirements.
We have designed our remuneration strategy to attract, retain 
and motivate executives of the highest quality, incentivising  
them to deliver exceptional performance aligned with the 
interests of shareholders and the delivery of our business plan.
We have determined a policy of setting pay by reference  
to median market pay in the context of FTSE 31 to FTSE 100 
listed companies and insurance peers. We determined the 
remuneration levels and structures for Executive Directors in  
line with that policy. Further information is available in the 
Directors’ remuneration report on page 78.
Relations with shareholders and other stakeholders
We value open, constructive and effective communication  
with our shareholders. We had regular dialogue with our 
major shareholder, RBS Group, throughout the year. In the 
run-up to and following listing, we held numerous meetings  
with actual and potential shareholders. I am available to meet 
our major shareholders to discuss Directors’ remuneration and 
other matters going forward.
In summary
Your Board is hardworking and committed, well placed to 
challenge robustly the proposals put before it and to provide 
independent oversight. In addition the Group has implemented  
a governance framework which provides it with a ﬁrm foundation  
for the future. This is aimed at ensuring that the outputs of our 
various work streams are subjected to robust systems of challenge 
and independent oversight, with material decisions on the items 
speciﬁcally reserved to the Board being promptly escalated to it.
Michael N Biggs, Chairman
27 February 2013
What will the Board focus on?
Our objectives for 2013
The Board’s main priorities are to embed the signiﬁcant 
changes made to the governance of the Group, with 
speciﬁc actions focused on key areas of activity:
 Supporting the vision of becoming Britain’s best  
retail general insurer.
 Overseeing the Group’s progress in pursuit of its stated 
targets, including those relating to COR and RoTE.
 Reviewing the main elements of governance  
architecture to ensure that they are ﬁt for purpose  
for the newly-listed entity.
 Conducting a full Board evaluation, since the Board  
will have been in place for sufﬁcient time to make  
such a review appropriate.
 Reviewing the Group’s policy on gender diversity  
to consider how more women can be promoted  
to senior and executive management roles.
 Setting the tone and culture of the Group focusing  
on behaviours to help achieve the strategic objectives  
and to deliver fair outcomes to our customers.
55 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance Board of Directors
1 Michael N Biggs 
(N and R) 
Chairman of the Board
Appointment
Mike joined the Board and became 
Chairman of the Group in April 2012 and  
is Chair of the Nomination Committee.
Experience and qualiﬁcations
Mike has almost 40 years’ experience of the 
UK and international ﬁnancial services sector. 
He was Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Group 
Finance Director of Resolution plc, the  
FTSE 100 UK life assurance business and  
is currently Chairman of Resolution Limited.  
He was previously Group Finance Director  
of Aviva plc. He has a Masters degree  
in History from the University of Oxford and  
is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of England and Wales. Mike is 60. 
External appointments
Chairman of Resolution Limited (but will  
step down later in the year).
Key strengths and contribution
Mike is a respected ﬁgure in the insurance 
industry and is well regarded by City investors. 
He brings the Group extensive insurance 
industry experience and a successful track 
record of ﬂotations in this sector. 
2 Paul Geddes 
(C)
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Appointment
Paul was appointed as Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer in August 2009.
Experience and qualiﬁcations
Paul was the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of RBS 
Group’s mainland UK retail banking business, 
having joined in 2004 as Managing Director 
with responsibility for products and marketing. 
Before joining RBS Group, Paul held a number 
of senior roles in multi-channel retailing in 
businesses that were then parts of the GUS 
and Kingﬁsher groups. Paul started his career 
in marketing, with UK and European roles at 
Procter & Gamble. Paul read Philosophy, 
Politics and Economics at the University of 
Oxford. He is a fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Bankers in Scotland. Paul is 43. 
External appointments
Paul is a member of the ABI Board, a member 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service’s 
insurance industry steering group, and  
a member of the FSA Practitioner Panel.
Key strengths and contribution
Paul’s experience in leading one of the UK’s 
largest retail banking businesses during  
a challenging period for the industry and 
improving its customer and ﬁnancial 
performance against peers singled him out  
in 2009 as the Chief Executive able to lead 
the turnaround of Direct Line Group and its 
divestment from RBS Group.
3 John Reizenstein
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 
Appointment
John joined as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer  
in December 2010.
Experience and qualiﬁcations
John was previously Managing Director, 
Corporate and Markets at Co-operative 
Banking Group (CBG, the group that brings 
together The Co-operative Bank, Co-operative 
Insurance Society and CIS General Insurance). 
He was Chief Financial Ofﬁcer at CBG  
from 2003 to 2007 . Prior to joining CBG, 
John spent more than 20 years in investment 
banking with UBS and Goldman Sachs.  
John is an Economics graduate of the 
University of Cambridge. He is 56. 
External appointments
None
Key strengths and contribution
John is an experienced Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 
and former banker with extensive City and 
ﬁnancial services experience. He is accordingly 
well placed to provide strong support to Paul 
Geddes in leading the Group.
4 Glyn Jones 
(A, N and )
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointment
Glyn joined the Board in September 2012. 
Experience and qualiﬁcations
Glyn was Chairman of Towry Holdings Limited 
between 2006 and 201 1. He also served  
as Chairman of Hermes Fund Managers from 
2008 to 201 1 and was Chairman of its sister 
company, BT Pension Scheme Management, 
for a part of this period. Glyn was Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer of the independent 
investment group, Thames River Capital, from 
2005 to 2006. From 2000, he served as 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Gartmore Investment 
Management in the UK for four years. Before 
this, Glyn was Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of 
Coutts NatWest Group and Coutts Group, 
having joined in 1997 . Glyn joined Standard 
Chartered in Hong Kong in 1990 where  
he became the General Manager of Global 
Private Banking. He was a consulting partner 
with Coopers & Lybrand/Deloitte Haskins  
& Sells Management Consultants from 1981  
to 1990. He is a graduate of the University  
of Cambridge and a Fellow of the Institute  
of Chartered Accountants in England and  
Wales. Glyn is 60. 
External appointments
Glyn is Chairman of Aspen Insurance  
Holding Limited, a New York listed specialty 
lines insurer, and also Chairman of Aspen 
Insurance UK Limited, a principal operating  
subsidiary of the Aspen Group.
Key strengths and contribution
Glyn has undertaken a number of senior  
roles within the ﬁnancial services industry.  
He brings knowledge of insurance from his 
time as Chairman of Aspen. As a former  
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer in the asset 
management industry he also understands  
the City and shareholders well.
5 Mark Catton
Non-Executive Director
Appointment
Mark joined the Board in September 2012.
Experience and qualiﬁcations
Mark rejoined RBS Group in August 2007 as 
a Managing Director in corporate banking, 
having previously worked for NatWest. Prior  
to joining RBS Group, Mark was a senior 
executive at Barclays from 2001 to 2007 , 
responsible for a number of its client and 
product businesses. He was latterly Managing 
Director in European investment banking and 
debt capital markets at Barclays Capital. He 
is an associate of the Chartered Institute of 
Bankers and the Association of Corporate 
Treasurers. Mark is 46. 
External appointments
Mark sits on The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Group plc’s management committee and  
is Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of UK Corporate 
and Institutional Banking at RBS Group, a 
position he has held since 2008.
Key strengths and contribution
Mark is one of two Non-Executive Directors 
nominated by The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Group plc as the majority shareholder.  
He has 20 years’ experience in corporate  
banking and ﬁnancial markets to add to the 
perspectives around the boardroom table. 
6 Jane Hanson 
(A, B, C, I and )
Non-Executive Director
Appointment
Jane joined the Board in December 201 1  
and is Chair of the Board Risk and Corporate 
Social Responsibility Committees.
Experience and qualiﬁcations
Jane spent 12 years with KPMG, where she 
worked in the ﬁnancial sector, becoming the 
director responsible for delivery of corporate 
governance, internal audit and risk management 
services in the North of England. Jane has also 
1 2 3 4 5
56 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 has insight into corporate governance 
developments and best practice in ﬁnancial 
reporting through his membership of the 
Financial Reporting Review Panel of the 
Financial Reporting Council. Accordingly,  
he is able to advise the Group on its 
governance framework and ﬁnancial 
reporting policies and can draw on his 
experience in our industry sector.
8 Clare Thompson 
(A, B, C, R and )
Non-Executive Director
Appointment
Clare joined the Board in September 2012.
Experience and qualiﬁcations
Clare was a partner at 
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) from 1988  
to 201 1. During her 23 years as a partner of 
PwC, she held several senior and high proﬁle 
roles, particularly within the insurance sector. 
She is a graduate of the University of York with 
a degree in Mathematics and is a Fellow  
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in 
England and Wales. Clare is 58.
External appointments
Clare is currently a Non-Executive member 
of the Partnership Board of Miller Insurance 
Services LLP and is Treasurer of the Disasters 
Emergency Committee.
Key strengths and contribution
Clare brings with her extensive experience 
and knowledge gained from roles across  
the professional services industry including as 
Lead Audit Partner at PwC where she guided 
companies through change and acted as an 
adviser to insurance companies. She gained 
signiﬁcant experience of both general and life 
insurance in the latter role.
9 Priscilla Vacassin 
(B, R and )
Non-Executive Director
Appointment
Priscilla joined the Board in September 2012 
and is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Experience and qualiﬁcations
Priscilla was most recently Group Human 
Resources Director at Prudential plc and a 
Non-Executive Director and member of the 
Audit Committee at the Ministry of Defence. 
Priscilla has previously held senior human 
resources positions across a number of 
ﬁnancial services and customer facing 
industries including roles at Abbey National 
plc, where she was Executive Director, Human 
Resources; BAA plc, where she was Group 
Human Resources Director and Kingﬁsher plc. 
She graduated in Law (with Honours) from the 
University of North East London. Priscilla is 55.
held executive roles as Director of Audit, and 
Risk and Governance Director at Aviva’s UK Life 
business. Jane is a graduate of the University of 
York with a degree in music and is a Fellow of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England 
and Wales. Jane is 45. 
External appointments
Jane is Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee 
and Non-Executive Director at Reclaim Fund 
Ltd. She is an Independent Member of the 
Fairness Committee at ReAssure Ltd; and Chair 
of the Audit and Risk Committee and Senior 
Independent Director at Calderdale and 
Huddersﬁeld Foundation Trust. Jane has her 
own ﬁnancial sector consulting business, 
delivering audit, enterprise risk management 
and corporate governance advisory and 
consulting services to the ﬁnancial sector.  
She is also a magistrate.
Key strengths and contribution
Jane has undertaken a number of senior roles 
in ﬁnancial services, including in the UK life 
insurance sector and has extensive experience 
of risk management, corporate governance 
and internal control. She also has extensive 
experience of developing and monitoring 
customer frameworks. This experience led  
to Jane’s appointment as Chair of the Board 
Risk and Corporate Social Responsibility 
committees. She also provides a customer 
focus on the Board.
7 Andrew Palmer 
(A, B, I, N, R and ) 
Non-Executive Director
Appointment
Andrew joined the Board in March 201 1  
and is Chair of the Audit Committee and 
Chair of the Investment Committee.
Experience and qualiﬁcations
Andrew retired from Legal & General Group plc, 
where he was the Group Finance Director, in 
2009. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accounts in England and Wales. Andrew is 59. 
External appointments
Andrew is currently the Senior Independent 
Director at Segro plc, the British and European 
Industrial Real Estate Investment Trust Company 
(he will step down in April 2013), a trustee of 
the Royal School of Needlework, a Non-
Executive Director of RSN Enterprises Limited 
and Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited and a member of the Financial Reporting 
Review Panel of the Financial Reporting Council.
Key strengths and contribution
Andrew has undertaken a number of  
senior roles within the ﬁnancial services  
and insurance industries. In addition, he  
External appointments
Priscilla has her own search and  
consultancy business.
Key strengths and contribution
Priscilla has great knowledge and experience of 
developing organisational values, and creating 
the leadership, succession, development and 
remuneration structures required to support 
corporate strategy. She has worked both as  
a practitioner and as an adviser and therefore 
understands the complexity around remuneration 
in both technical and market terms.
10 Bruce Van Saun
Non-Executive Director
Appointment
Bruce joined the Board in April 2012. 
Experience and qualiﬁcations
Bruce has over 25 years of ﬁnancial services 
experience. From 1997 to 2008 he held a 
number of senior positions with Bank of New 
York and later Bank of New York Mellon, most 
recently as Vice-Chairman and Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer, before which he was responsible for 
Asset Management and Market-Related 
businesses. He has held senior positions with 
Deutsche Bank, Wasserstein Perella Group  
and Kidder Peabody and Company. He has 
served on several corporate boards as a 
Non-Executive Director and has been active  
in numerous community organisations. He 
graduated summa cum laude (with the  
highest distinction) from Bucknell University in 
Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, with a Bachelor of 
Science in Business Administration. He also 
gained an MBA at the University of North 
Carolina. Bruce is 55.
External appointments
Bruce is currently the Group Finance Director 
for The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc.
Key strengths and contribution
Bruce is one of two Non-Executive Directors 
nominated by The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Group plc as the majority shareholder. As 
Group Finance Director at The Royal Bank  
of Scotland Group plc, Bruce has extensive 
experience of the activities and markets in 
which the Group operates.
Key
(A)  Audit Committee
(B)  Board Risk Committee
(C)  Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
(I) Investment Committee
(N)  Nomination Committee
(R)  Remuneration Committee
( ) Independent
6 7 8 9 10
57 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance Executive Committee
1 Robert Bailhache 
Director of Communications
Appointment
Rob joined as Director of Communications  
in February 2012.
Experience and qualiﬁcations
Rob has 19 years’ experience in international 
capital markets as a communications specialist 
and ﬁnancial journalist. Rob was previously a 
Managing Director and Head of Group Press 
Ofﬁce at HSBC Holdings. Prior to this he was 
Managing Director, Financial Services and  
a Partner of Financial Dynamics, a subsidiary 
of FTI Consulting Inc. Rob began his career in 
business media where he held senior journalist 
roles in the UK and Asia. Rob is a graduate  
of the University of Nottingham where he 
gained a Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Politics 
and the University of London where he gained  
a Master of Arts in South Asia Studies. He 
holds a Certiﬁcate in Investor Relations 
awarded by The Investor Relations Society.
2 Jamie Brown
Managing Director of International
Appointment
Jamie joined the Group in 1997 .
Experience and qualiﬁcations
Jamie joined as part of the Motor team, initially 
setting up Direct Line Rescue. In 1999 he was 
responsible for the acquisition and integration 
of Green Flag. In 2001 he moved to Italy  
to lead the development of the Direct Line 
business in that market, and in 2007 took 
broader responsibility across the Group’s other 
European businesses. Previously Jamie followed 
a career both inside and outside the insurance 
industry in the UK and overseas. He is a 
Chartered Accountant and has spent six years 
in the accountancy profession, 23 years in  
the insurance industry with AIG, Churchill and 
Direct Line and six years in other industries.
3 Darrell Evans
Chief Customer Ofﬁcer
Appointment
Darrell joined the Group in October 2009.
Experience and qualiﬁcations 
Before his current role, Darrell was Managing 
Director, Sales, Services and Partnerships.  
Prior to this, he was Director of Products at  
RBS Group before assuming responsibility  
for mortgage brands and the retail telephony 
centres at the retail bank at RBS Group. Darrell 
began his career with RBS Group when he 
joined NatWest in 1986 where he undertook 
a variety of strategy, ﬁnance, marketing and 
product management roles. Darrell holds an 
MBA from Aston Business School.
4 Jonathan Greenwood
Managing Director of Commercial
Appointment
Jonathan joined the Group in 2001. 
Experience and qualiﬁcations
Previously, Jonathan held various senior Group 
positions in Personal Lines and Partnership 
divisions including Managing Director Home 
and Product and pricing Director Partnerships. 
Immediately prior to joining the Group, Jonathan 
was Vice President of Insurance for MBNA 
Europe and prior to that General Manager for  
a joint venture between Commercial Union  
and BNP Paribas. Jonathan started his career  
at Halifax, later HBOS, where he held a variety 
of senior product and operational roles in the 
general insurance division.
5 Steve Maddock
Managing Director of Claims
Appointment
Steve joined as Managing Director of Claims 
in February 2010.
Experience and qualiﬁcations 
Previously, Steve held the position of Director of 
Strategic and Technical Claims at RSA, a role 
he assumed in 2004. He has over 20 years’ 
insurance industry experience, including roles 
as Director of Claims and Customer Service  
at Capita and Director of Operations at AMP. 
Steve holds an MBA from the University of 
Reading and is a Non-Executive Director of  
the Motor Insurers’ Bureau and the Insurance 
Fraud Bureau.
1 2 3 4 5
58 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 8 Humphrey Tomlinson
General Counsel and  
Company Secretary
Appointment
Humphrey joined the Group  
in November 201 1.
Experience and qualiﬁcations
Humphrey has had more than 20 years’ 
experience since qualifying as a solicitor  
in 1989, and has advised on corporate  
and commercial matters, a wide range  
of corporate transactions across many 
countries, legal risk management and 
corporate governance issues, with RSA 
Insurance Group, where he was Group Legal 
Director, and City law ﬁrm Ashurst Morris Crisp. 
He is a graduate of the University of Oxford.
9 José Vazquez
Chief Risk Ofﬁcer
Appointment
José joined as Chief Risk Ofﬁcer  
in March 2012.
Experience and qualiﬁcations 
José was previously Global Chief Risk  
Ofﬁcer at HSBC Insurance, where he had 
responsibility for the Group Chief Actuary, and 
was a Board member of its captive insurance 
company. Prior to joining HSBC, José held 
various roles over 10 years at Zurich Insurance, 
initially in London Market Operations, then as 
Chief Actuary International Business Division 
and ﬁnally as Chief Actuary of the UK. José 
started his career as a consulting actuary, 
including six years as a consultant with KPMG 
in London where he worked on a wide range  
of domestic and European engagements.  
José is a Maths graduate from Brunel University 
and a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
6 Mark Martin 
Human Resources Director
Appointment
Mark joined as Human Resources Director  
in February 2010.
Experience and qualiﬁcations
Previously he was Human Resources Director 
and a member of the Board at T-Mobile 
Limited. Before this, he held a number of 
human resources, general management and 
marketing roles in the food manufacturing,  
fast moving consumer goods, telecoms and 
public sectors. He holds a BSC (Honours) 
degree in Management and Personnel 
Practice from Aston University, and is a  
Fellow and Graduate of the Chartered  
Institute of Personnel and Development.
7 Angela Morrison
Chief Information Ofﬁcer 
Appointment
Angela became Chief Information Ofﬁcer 
(CIO) in 2010.
Experience and qualiﬁcations
Prior to her current role, Angela was CIO at  
J Sainsbury’s and a member of their Operating 
Board. She previously worked for ASDA/
Wal-Mart where she held a number of roles 
including European Strategy Director, CIO 
through the ASDA/Wal-Mart integration  
and e-Commerce Director which included 
establishing ASDA’s home grocery business. 
Angela started her career as a consultant and 
holds a degree in Electrical and Electronic 
Engineering from the University of Bristol.
10 Thomas Woolgrove
Managing Director of Personal Lines
Appointment
Tom joined as Managing Director,  
Personal Lines in April 2010.
Experience and qualiﬁcations
Tom previously held various Managing Director 
roles with HBOS and Lloyds Banking Group, 
including UK Private Banking, General Insurance 
and Motor Finance. Before that, he was a 
strategy consultant with Gemini Consulting,  
part of the Capgemini Group, and a graduate 
engineer with Rolls-Royce Aerospace. He is  
a member of the Association of British Insurers 
General Insurance Committee and the 
Chartered Insurance Institute Professionalism 
Taskforce. He was elected Deputy President  
of the Chartered Insurance Institute in July 2012. 
Tom holds a Masters Degree in Engineering 
and Management from the University of 
Oxford, and an MBA from the University  
of Chicago, Booth School of Business.
6 7 8 9 10
59 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance Contents
60 The UK Corporate Governance Code
60 Leadership
64 Board effectiveness
67 Accountability
68 Remuneration
68 Committee reports
68  Audit Committee
71  Board Risk Committee
73  Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
74  Investment Committee
75  Nomination Committee
76  Remuneration Committee
77 Relations with shareholders
78 Directors’ remuneration report
91 Other disclosures
The UK Corporate Governance Code
The following report details how the Board has applied the 
principles and provisions in the Financial Reporting Council’s UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2010 (the “Code”), as required 
by the UK Listing Rules. The report fulﬁls the requirements of the 
Corporate Governance statement for the purposes of the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Company was not listed and therefore not subject to the 
Code until 16 October 2012. However, the Board considers  
that the Company had achieved the required level of compliance 
with the Code by the time it listed. The Company is compliant  
with the Code with the exception that the Company’s Directors, 
some of whom joined the Board in the run-up to the IPO, are yet 
to be subject to an annual assessment. It is intended that such an 
assessment will take place for all Directors during 2013.
A copy of the Code is available from www.frc.org.uk.
Leadership
What is our integrated approach to corporate governance?
The Group undertook a signiﬁcant programme of work to 
establish a governance system appropriate for a stand-alone 
listed company. This included the adoption of a new set of 
high-level controls, risk management policies and minimum 
standards. The Group also observed examples of good 
governance practice and emerging legal and regulatory 
developments to anticipate and meet the expectations of  
its investors and other stakeholders.
The Group’s integrated approach to governance is demonstrated 
by the way in which the various projects undertaken during the 
year were managed, chief among which was the Fit for Listing 
project. Each project involved consultation and regular meetings 
with stakeholders, and accountability for delivery was cascaded 
throughout the business.
Corporate governance report
Corporate governance  
is at the core of  
what we do 
 “As a Board we are collectively 
responsible for leading the business  
and targeting long-term success. We  
are all fully committed to acting in the 
Company’s best interests to take the 
Company along this journey.”
Mike Biggs, Chairman
60 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 The Board and Committee governance structure
Direct Line Insurance Group plc  
Board of Directors
Audit  
Committee 
Chair:  
Andrew Palmer
Board Risk 
Committee 
Chair:  
Jane Hanson
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee 
Chair:  
Jane Hanson
Investment 
Committee 
Chair:  
Andrew Palmer 
Nomination 
Committee
Chair: 
Mike Biggs
Remuneration 
Committee
Chair: 
Priscilla Vacassin
Policies and minimum standards
The Group operates under a system of policies and supporting 
minimum standards. In addition to covering areas across the 
business such as risk, internal controls, ﬁnance and operational 
policies and minimum standards, these include Stock Exchange 
announcements; registrar processes; the control of inside 
information; share dealing; disclosure requirements and the 
requirements under the ongoing obligations of the Listing Rules 
and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Transformation plan
The Transformation plan launched in 2010 consisted of three phases:
Phase 1: Recover proﬁtability
Phase 2: Rebuild competitive advantage
Phase 3: Deliver a disciplined, proﬁtable business
Following the return to proﬁt in 201 1, the Group redeﬁned its 
strategic plan through ﬁve pillars: distribution, pricing, claims, 
costs and Commercial and International businesses. The Group 
is making good progress as it targets a 15% RoTE.
Customer conduct 
A working group was set up to assess our conduct towards our 
customers during transactions, to highlight potential failures of 
delivering appropriate customer outcomes. This includes how 
our entire business thinks about interactions with our customers.
The working group manages customer conduct across  
Direct Line Group. It assesses and reports our performance, 
while consulting on improvements and emerging conduct themes.
Culture and behaviours 
The organisational and governance changes made in 2012  
were accompanied by a corresponding programme to 
reinforce the culture and behaviours we require to enable  
Direct Line Group to achieve its strategic objectives. See  
page 47 for more information on this initiative.
Fit for Listing 
Given the scale of organisational change which was to take 
place during 2012, a Fit for Listing work stream was created  
that brought together the interests of relevant stakeholders.  
The purpose was to establish a framework for delivering the 
transition of Direct Line Group from ‘limited’ to ‘listed’ status, as 
well as to establish and conﬁrm management and operational 
focus, given the other work streams also underway.
Robust governance was established, with strong technical  
and project management input. This involved all the main 
business stakeholders and the Executive Committee with 
appropriate escalation to and oversight by the Board and  
the participation of the RBS Group and Direct Line Group 
Divestment Steering Group where appropriate.
The primary aim of the Fit for Listing work stream was to deliver  
the compliance, regulatory and governance obligations of  
the FSA, the UK Listing Authority and the Financial Reporting 
Council (“FRC”). It was also to embed this work within an 
overall philosophy of achieving good governance.
Relationship Agreement
An element of achieving independence and substantial 
operational separation from RBS Group was to enter into  
a Relationship Agreement setting out the terms of the 
relationship between Direct Line Group and RBS Group 
following the listing.
The Relationship Agreement makes explicit the independence 
of Direct Line Group from its major shareholder, RBS Group, 
whilst making express provision for RBS Group to be entitled  
to the information it needs from Direct Line Group in order to 
meet its legal, regulatory and accounting obligations. It also 
sets out RBS Group’s rights to nominate Directors depending  
on the proportion of its shareholding in the Company. This is 
an important piece of governance architecture.
High level controls
Under the provisions of the Group’s governance framework,  
the Group operated a system of high level controls, covering 
areas relating to the Board, Board Committees, strategic 
planning, risk management, internal audit, delegated 
authorities, monitoring and reporting on internal control,  
and the policy framework. This document was revised  
during the year to reﬂect the separation from RBS Group  
and the Company’s own premium listing.
61 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance Three Lines of Defence
The Board has adopted a ‘Three Lines of Defence’ operating 
model as part of our approach to risk management. The  
model addresses:
 the roll-out of our risk strategy and wider risk framework 
throughout the business; 
 a risk function to implement and develop the policy 
framework; and 
 the provision of independent assurance by our internal  
audit function over the adequacy and effectiveness of  
our governance, risk and control framework. 
We provide further information on this model in the  
Risk Management report on page 26.
How are we structured to ensure good, strong governance?
The Group started 2012 with a structure appropriate to the 
needs of a wholly-owned subsidiary of our parent, RBS Group. 
The appointment of new Directors helped enable the restructuring 
of our Board Committee architecture, leading to the creation  
of a Remuneration Committee (in April), a Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee and a Nomination Committee (when 
we listed). Under the provisions of RBS Group’s governance 
framework, Direct Line Group’s risk and audit functions were 
overseen at Board level by a combined Risk and Audit 
Committee. Following the principles set out in the Walker 
Report, this Committee was separated on listing into a Board 
Risk Committee and an Audit Committee. We also have an 
Investment Committee.
The governance structure illustrating the relationship between 
the Board and its Committees is set out on page 61.
The Board has established its Board Committees to assist  
it in delivering its responsibilities. Each Committee plays a  
vital role in ensuring that the Board operates efﬁciently and 
gives appropriate consideration to matters. The composition, 
attendance, role and focus of each Committee are set out  
on pages 68 to 76.
What is the role of the Board and what are its members’  
key responsibilities?
The speciﬁc duties of the Board are clearly set out in its terms of 
reference. These address a wide range of corporate governance 
issues and list those items that are speciﬁcally reserved for 
consideration and decision by the Board.
The role of the Board is to organise and direct the affairs of the 
Group in a manner that is most likely to promote its long-term 
success for the beneﬁt of its members as a whole.
The Board is the main decision-making forum for the Group. It 
has overall responsibility for managing the business and affairs  
of the Group, the establishment of the Group’s strategy and the 
raising and allocation of capital. The main responsibilities of the 
Board include:
 Ensuring that the necessary ﬁnancial and human resources 
are in place for the Group to meet its objectives.
 Managing risk effectively through setting, approving and 
monitoring the Group’s strategic aims with regard to risk 
appetite, stress scenarios, mitigating actions and longer-term 
strategic threats. 
 Monitoring and overseeing the Group’s operations to ensure 
competent and prudent management and sound planning.
 Scrutinising the performance of management in meeting 
agreed goals and objectives.
 Monitoring the reporting of performance.
 Satisfying itself as to the integrity of ﬁnancial information  
and that ﬁnancial controls and systems of risk management 
and internal control are robust and defensible.
 Determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the  
Executive Directors.
 Taking a prime role in succession planning and appointing 
and, where necessary, removing Executive Directors.
 Discharging its responsibilities in accordance with  
relevant legislation and guidance.
Corporate governance report continued
Board roles and responsibilities
Role Responsibilities
Chairman To provide leadership of the Board and ensure its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer To develop and deliver the Group’s strategy within the policies and values established by the Board.
Non-Executive Director To provide constructive challenge and to help to develop proposals on strategy.
Senior Independent Director To provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other 
Directors when necessary.
 To be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels 
of Chairman, Chief Executive or other Executive Directors has failed to resolve or for which such 
contact is inappropriate.
62 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 How often does the Board meet?
The Board met regularly during 2012; in addition to the 1 1 scheduled meetings a further 1 1 ad hoc meetings were held. Not  
all the Directors were available to attend the ad hoc meetings. Details at attendance of Board and Board Committee meetings  
by Directors during the year are set out below and on pages 68 to 77 .
Prior to listing on 16 October 2012 After listing on 16 October 2012
Scheduled
meetings
1
Ad hoc
 meetings
1 
Scheduled
meetings
1
Ad hoc
meeting
1,8
Chairman
Andrew Palmer
2
8 of 8 9 of 10 2 of 3 0 of 1
Mike Biggs
3
4 of 4 5 of 5 3 of 3 1 of 1
Senior Non-Executive Director
Glyn Jones
4
1 of 1 – 3 of 3 0 of 1
Non-Executive Directors
Mark Catton
4
1 of 1 – 2 of 3 0 of 1
Jane Hanson 8 of 8 9 of 10 3 of 3 1 of 1
Clare Thompson
4
1 of 1 2 of 2 3 of 3 1 of 1
Priscilla Vacassin
4
1 of 1 1 of 1 3 of 3 0 of 1
Bruce Van Saun
3
1 of 4 5 of 5 3 of 3 0 of 1
Ian Falconer
5
2 of 2 1 of 1 – –
Christopher Sullivan
6
1 of 1 0 of 1 – –
Executive Directors
Paul Geddes 8 of 8 10 of 10 3 of 3 1 of 1
John Reizenstein 8 of 8 10 of 10 3 of 3 1 of 1
Sheree Howard
7
2 of 2 3 of 3 – –
Notes:
1.  Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend. 
2.  Acting Chairman from 27 January 2012 to 27 April 2012.
3.  Mike Biggs joined the Board as Chairman and Bruce Van Saun was appointed to the Board on 27 April 2012.
4.  Clare Thompson and Priscilla Vacassin joined the Board on 3 and 13 September respectively. Mark Catton and Glyn Jones joined the Board on 24 September 2012. 
5. Resigned from the Board on 23 February 2012.
6. Resigned from the Board on 27 January 2012.
7 . Resigned from the Board on 26 March 2012. 
8.  Although half the Board attended this meeting, all Directors were provided with papers and given the opportunity to comment ahead of the meeting.
Who are the Directors?
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, who was independent on his appointment to the Board, two Executive Directors,  
ﬁve independent Non-Executive Directors and two non-independent Non-Executive Directors nominated by The Royal Bank  
of Scotland Group plc.
The names of the Directors who served as at the end of the year, together with their biographical details and other information, 
are shown on pages 56 to 57 .
Mike Biggs, Glyn Jones, Mark Catton, Clare Thompson, Priscilla Vacassin and Bruce Van Saun all joined the Board during the  
year, and Chris Sullivan, Ian Falconer and Sheree Howard left the Board. The respective dates are shown in the notes to the table.
63 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance How are the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer distinct?
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the  
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer are clearly differentiated. The division  
of responsibilities at the top of a Company is required by  
the Code to ensure that no one person may exert absolute 
control. The role statements of both the Chairman and the  
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer were reviewed during the year and 
approved by the Board on 21 September 2012. These 
statements for the Chairman and the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, 
which explain their responsibilities, are available on the 
Group’s website.
What is the governance framework below Board and  
Board Committee level?
Although the Board is ultimately responsible for the success  
of the Company, Paul Geddes, the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer,  
has received delegated authority from the Board to manage 
the Group’s day-to-day operations.
In turn, the senior executives who report to him take 
responsibility for managing the businesses and functions  
within the Group, and each member of the Executive 
Committee has the ﬁnancial and other authorities needed  
to manage their respective areas.
Paul Geddes and these senior executives are supported by  
the functional departments of the Group.
The diagram ‘Direct Line Group’s Executive Committee’  
below illustrates the management governance framework.
What is the role of the Executive Committee?
The Executive Committee is the principal management committee 
that assists the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer in the day-to-day 
management of the business as a whole. It supports him in 
setting performance targets and in implementing the Group’s 
strategy and direction as determined by the Board. The 
Committee assists him to monitor key objectives and commercial 
plans to deliver the Group’s targets. It also helps him to evaluate 
new business initiatives and opportunities, and receives and 
considers reports on operational matters, where these are 
material to the Group or have cross-company implications.
Board effectiveness
 “At Direct Line Group we have worked 
hard to ensure that the Board has the 
appropriate mix of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge to help 
deliver our long-term strategy. It is vitally 
important to us that we have the right 
combination of people to support our 
ambitions for the future and we spent 
considerable time building a Board which 
we believe has the capabilities to do this.” 
Mike Biggs, Chairman
How do you ensure the Board of Directors is balanced  
and the majority of Directors are independent?
As part of the process of creating a Code-compliant Board,  
the Company focused on obtaining the elements considered 
necessary to maximise the Board’s effectiveness (see the 
process for appointing new people to the Board overleaf). 
Consequently, the Board and its committees have been 
constructed in a way that ensures that an appropriate  
balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge  
of the sector and diversity exists to enable the Directors  
to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
In assessing the independence of each Director we considered 
whether each was independent in character and judgement  
and particularly whether there were relationships or circumstances 
which were likely to affect his or her judgement.
The individuals’ attributes were established as part of the 
selection procedure. (Please see the section “What is  
the process for appointing new people to the Board?”  
for the desired attributes of our Directors and a description  
of the selection process.)
Corporate governance report continued
Direct Line Group’s Executive Committee
Paul Geddes
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Functional departments
Rob  
Bailhache
Director  
of 
Communications
Jamie  
Brown
Managing 
Director of 
International
Darrell  
Evans
Chief  
Customer  
Ofﬁcer
Jonathan 
Greenwood
Managing 
Director of 
Commercial
Steve 
Maddock
Managing 
Director of  
Claims
Mark  
Martin
Human  
Resources 
Director
José  
Vazquez
Chief  
Risk  
Ofﬁcer
Tom 
Woolgrove
Managing 
Director of 
Personal Lines
Angela 
Morrison
Chief  
Information 
Ofﬁcer
John 
Reizenstein
Chief  
Financial  
Ofﬁcer
Humphrey 
Tomlinson
General Counsel 
and Company 
Secretary
64 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 In addition, the Company employs a continuous process  
of reviewing independence from management and invites the 
declaration of any conﬂict of interest that could interfere with 
each Director’s ability to act in the best interests of the Group. 
UK company law allows the Board to authorise a situation  
in which there is, or may be, a conﬂict between the interests  
of the Group and the direct or indirect interests of a Director  
or between the Director’s duties to the Group and to another 
person. The Board has adopted procedures for ensuring  
that its powers to authorise conﬂicts operate effectively. For  
this purpose a register of conﬂicts, and of any authorisation  
of a conﬂict granted by the Board, is maintained by the  
Company Secretary and regularly reviewed by the Board.
Mark Catton and Bruce Van Saun are non-independent 
Non-Executive Directors by virtue of being nominated for 
appointment to the Board by RBS Group, the Company’s 
majority shareholder. RBS Group has committed to the 
European Commission to sell Direct Line Group as a condition  
of its receipt of state aid in 2009. To comply with this requirement, 
RBS Group must cede control of Direct Line Group (that is, 
reduce its shareholding to below 50%) by the end of 2013  
and must have divested its entire interest by the end of 2014. 
Mark Catton and Bruce Van Saun will step down in stages  
as RBS Group’s holding in the Company diminishes. Please  
refer to page 82 for further information.
Balance of Board members
Chairman 
Independent Non-Executive Directors 
Non-independent Non-Executive Directors 
Exective Directors
Experience of Board members
Insurance
Banking 
Finance
Management consultancy
Corporate governance 
Audit
Asset management
Human resources 
Marketing
Risk management
In addition, all 10 have experience of 
working in the ﬁnancial services sector.
What is the process for appointing new people to the Board?
The Company spent considerable time on recruiting its new 
Directors during 201 2. Assisted by selection consultants JCA Group, 
and deploying skills matrices to identify desired attributes,  
the Directors pursued a formal, rigorous and transparent 
selection procedure. Separate requirements were developed 
for Non-Executive Directors, the Senior Independent Director 
and the Chairman. Our target search criteria for Board 
members included:
Experience
 Signiﬁcant Board experience in major listed businesses.
 Extensive knowledge and operational experience in 
insurance at a senior level.
 Experience and appreciation of businesses with customer 
service at their core (perceived as advantageous).
 Likely to have had executive experience.
Attributes
 Widely recognised as an individual of high repute  
and integrity who can rapidly gain Executive and  
Non-Executive colleagues’ respect and trust.
 An independent thinker who is able to engage  
constructively and add real value to Board discussions.
 Well organised and committed, an individual who  
takes their Non-Executive role seriously.
 Robust, straight talking, open and approachable with  
a non-emotional and calm demeanour.
 Supportive of the executive team while being able to 
challenge constructively.
 A team player and a good listener with the style and  
ability to be a highly constructive member of the Board.
 A sound understanding of the requirements of good public 
reporting and the ability to identify whether what is being 
presented in meetings stands up against reporting standards.
 Strong communication and presentation skills, with the ability 
to get under the skin of the business and a strong desire to 
gain a deep understanding of what is going on in and 
around the Group.
The selection procedure included a number of interviews  
with JCA Group and meetings with existing Board members.  
The Company also obtained a range of references for  
each candidate. 
The Nomination Committee will adopt an approach modelled  
on this selection procedure for future appointments. 
65 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance How long are the Directors appointed for?
The Directors may appoint additional members to the Board 
during the year. Subsequently, in accordance with a provision  
of the Code and the Company’s Articles of Association,  
Direct Line Group submits Directors for re-election on an  
annual basis, subject to the Group’s independence criteria 
(where appropriate), ongoing commitment to Group activities  
and satisfactory performance.
In line with these arrangements, all 10 Directors will be subject 
to re-election by shareholders at our Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”) on 6 June 2013.
Non-Executive Directors are normally expected to serve two 
ﬁxed terms of three years, but may be invited to serve a third 
term of three years. 
What level of commitment is expected from our Board members?
All our Directors, including the Chairman, have indicated that 
they are able to allocate sufﬁcient time to the work of Direct 
Line Group to enable them to discharge their respective duties 
and responsibilities effectively. Directors’ appointment letters 
contain a condition to this effect, and Directors were made  
fully aware, and accepted, that the time commitment would  
be greater than normal in 2012 given the need to deliver  
the IPO transaction and associated restructuring activities.
Our Directors have had a considerable work load during  
2012 and showed great commitment to meeting the 
requirements of the business in a year of transformation.  
In all, 22 Board meetings were held during the year,  
1 1 of which were scheduled and a further 1 1 ad hoc.
How do we ensure that Board members have adequate 
resources and training to undertake the role effectively?
The Company believes it is crucial to provide Directors with 
adequate resources and training and devoted considerable 
time during the year to ensure that all Directors, many of  
whom were new to the business, received induction to  
help them understand their duties and responsibilities and 
develop knowledge of the business as quickly as possible. 
These sessions were based on a comprehensive technical 
acclimatisation programme, developed speciﬁcally to meet  
the needs of Direct Line Group Directors, with individual 
Directors provided with speciﬁc training in such areas as 
reserving, including reinsurance.
Further training and updates are provided to the Board  
and its Committees as appropriate.
How do we ensure we have an effective Board?
The Board signiﬁcantly changed over 2012. It was not at  
full complement until September, prior to the listing of the 
Company in October.
For these reasons, the Board did not undertake a formal  
evaluation of its performance in 2012. We intend to  
conduct a comprehensive review in 2013, when individual 
Directors will be subject to a performance evaluation, and the 
Chairman will meet with each Director and provide feedback 
on a one-to-one basis. Committee chairmen will also receive 
feedback on the performance of their committees. Feedback  
on the Chairman’s performance will be provided directly to  
the Senior Independent Director, who will discuss this with  
the other Non-Executive Directors before their one-to-one 
meetings with the Chairman. 
The Group also intends to engage the services of an  
external consultant to facilitate the evaluation of the Board  
and its committees within three years of listing on the  
London Stock Exchange.
What is the Direct Line Group’s approach to diversity?
The Board considered carefully the diversity of its Board 
members from a variety of perspectives and sought to  
ensure that Directors had the relevant range of knowledge, 
skills, experience and, where necessary, independence  
to help the Company deliver its strategy.
With three women out of 10 Directors, the Government’s 
guidelines, the recommendations of Lord Davies’s report 
(Women on Boards) and related initiatives such as the  
work of the 30 Percent Club have been met in respect  
of gender diversity.
To further governance of our gender-diversity programme  
we have included an appropriate remit in the terms of 
reference of the Nomination Committee. In this, diversity, 
including gender diversity, features as one of the criteria for  
Corporate governance report continued
Our induction process
1
The Group provides Directors with formal induction sessions, 
including the following matters:
 Overview of business
 Reserving, including reinsurance
 Accounting, including capital and investments
 Risk – regulatory and other risks
 Solvency II – overview
 Complaints and treating customers fairly
 Claims
 Strategy and change
 International
 Categories and products 
 Marketing
 Communications
 Human Resources
 Competition law
 Anti-bribery and corruption
 Anti-money laundering
Note:
1.  Further sessions are taking place in 2013. 
66 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 the selection of Directors to the Board. Also, the Corporate 
Social Responsibility Committee intends to consider the issue  
in the context of ensuring the diversity of the Group talent 
pipeline for future requirements, with mentoring schemes for 
high-potential candidates and associated training and 
development programmes.
As an organisation we are committed to ensuring that diversity  
is promoted across our business and that everyone is treated 
fairly irrespective of their racial or ethnic origin, gender, age, 
disability, religion, belief or sexual orientation. This will apply 
during our day-to-day activities at work through to our recruitment 
process for external candidates and the selection for promotion 
of internal employees, ensuring that we employ only the best 
people for the role based on merit and evidence of their 
qualiﬁcations, skills and experience. We also consider  
‘diversity’ as including diversity of thought and approach.
Building a working environment where all our employees can 
develop to their full potential is important to us and we work  
hard to broaden the range of approaches available to our 
people, ensure our policies and processes support them and 
encourage divergent thinking.
We need a wide range of talented people to deliver great 
service to our diverse customers. Our commitment to valuing 
diversity is reﬂected in our Diversity Policy. It is the responsibility 
of everyone to demonstrate our commitment through how we 
treat others. Some of the beneﬁts of a diverse workforce include:
 Greater access to different perspectives and sources  
of information.
 Improved ability to respond and change through creativity 
and innovation; innovative approaches to products.
 Increasing employee engagement, which helps attract new 
staff and retain those already here, reduces recruitment costs 
and can increase productivity.
 Building and tapping into a deeper pool of talent.
In a competitive and challenging business environment, diversity 
is a necessity and an advantage. It helps us retain business, 
identify new markets and attract new customers. Our customers 
collectively represent a variety of backgrounds and nationalities 
and we need to understand their particular needs. When our 
workforce mirrors the diversity of our customers we are better 
placed to understand, anticipate and meet those needs through 
innovative products and services.
Gender diversity of Board members
Male
Female
Accountability
 “At Direct Line Group we are  
determined to present a fair, balanced  
and understandable insight into our 
business for our stakeholders. We 
endeavour to make this assessment  
as clear as possible.”
Mike Biggs, Chairman
What is the Board’s responsibility in relation to the ﬁnancial 
and business reporting in this Annual Report & Accounts?
The Board is responsible for providing shareholders with  
a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the 
Company’s position and prospects.
An explanation from the Directors of their responsibility for 
preparing the ﬁnancial statements is set out in the statement  
of Directors’ responsibilities on page 95. This is complemented  
by the statement by our auditors explaining their reporting 
responsibilities on page 97 .
We meet speciﬁc responsibilities placed on the Board under 
the provisions of the Code as follows:
 An explanation of how the Company generates value over 
the long term within the business model and the strategy  
for delivering Company objectives is on pages 6 to 23.
 How the Board has concluded that the business remains  
a going concern is discussed on page 94. 
 The arrangements established by the Board for the 
application of risk management and internal control 
principles are detailed on pages 67 to 68.
 The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee oversight 
of the management of the relationship with the Company’s 
auditors. A separate Audit Committee report is set out on 
pages 68 to 71 and provides details of the role and 
activities of the Committee and its relationship with the 
internal and external auditors.
What action has the Board taken to determine the nature  
and extent of the signiﬁcant risks it is willing to take in  
achieving its strategic objectives?
The Board acknowledges it has overall responsibility for the 
Group’s risk management and internal control system, and has 
complied with the Code by establishing a continuous process 
for identifying, evaluating and managing the signiﬁcant risks  
the Group faces. This process includes risks arising from social, 
environmental and ethical matters.
67 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance The Group’s risk assessment process includes output from a 
system for reporting on all the signiﬁcant risks that stand in  
the way of achieving Group objectives. The system also  
reports on the nature and effectiveness of the controls and  
other management processes that manage these risks. The 
system also sets risk appetites for key categories of quantiﬁable 
risk. It additionally encompasses self-assessment of controls  
by risk owners throughout the business, whose assertions are 
independently challenged by the Risk Management Committee.
The Board Risk Committee regularly reviews signiﬁcant  
risks, their potential impact on the Group’s ﬁnancial position, 
variations from agreed risk appetites and the actions taken  
to manage those risks.
How does the Board ensure that internal systems  
of control are effective?
The Board has put in place a management structure with deﬁned 
lines of responsibility and clear delegation of authority. This 
control framework cascades down through the business units  
and central functions, showing clear responsibilities for ensuring 
that appropriate controls are in place at an operational level, 
including those that relate to the ﬁnancial reporting process.
The internal audit function supports the Board by providing an 
independent and objective assurance of the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the Group’s operations. It brings a systematic 
and disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the 
effectiveness of its risk management, control and governance 
frameworks and processes.
The Directors are aware that any system of internal control is 
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, 
and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or 
ﬁnancial loss.
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s  
risk management and internal control systems. Its monitoring 
covers all material controls and is based principally on 
reviewing reports from management and the Internal Audit 
function so that the Board may consider whether signiﬁcant 
weaknesses are promptly remedied and if they indicate a need 
for more extensive monitoring. During the course of the reviews, 
the Board has not identiﬁed or been advised of any failings or 
weaknesses which it has determined to be signiﬁcant.
Remuneration
The Board has delegated responsibility to the Remuneration 
Committee for the remuneration arrangements of the Executive 
Directors and any applicable senior executives of the Group.
Please refer to the Directors’ remuneration report on pages  
78 to 90.
Corporate governance report continued
Andrew Palmer,  
Chair of the Audit Committee
Role and focus
The Committee is responsible for the oversight and 
challenge of the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of 
ﬁnancial control, ﬁnancial regulatory reporting and other 
internal controls. It monitors the work of internal and 
external auditors and actuaries.
The Audit Committee’s terms of reference are available on our website 
at: www.directlinegroup.com.
Membership and attendance
1
Scheduled
meetings
2
Ad hoc
meetings
2
Committee Chair
Ian Falconer
3
1 of 1 n/a
Jane Hanson
4
5 of 5 2 of 2
Andrew Palmer
5
5 of 5 2 of 2
Non-Executive Directors
Mike Biggs
6
1 of 1 1 of 2
Glyn Jones
7
2 of 2 n/a
Christopher Sullivan
8
n/a n/a
Clare Thompson
7
2 of 2 n/a
Other attendees include
 Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
 Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
 Chief Risk Ofﬁcer
 General Counsel and 
Company Secretary 
 Head of Internal Audit
 External auditors
Minimum number of meetings per annum
The Committee is to meet at least four times a year at 
appropriate times in the ﬁnancial and regulatory reporting  
and audit cycle and otherwise as required.
Notes:
1.  The attendance shown above includes attendance of the Audit and Risk 
Committee until it was split into distinct Audit and Board Risk Committees  
with effect from 16 October 2012.
2.  Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the  
number of meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend.
3.  Resigned from the Committee on 23 February 2012.
4.  A member from 16 February 2012 and Chair between 23 February  
and 16 October 2012. Continues as a member.
5.  A member throughout the year and appointed Chair on 16 October 2012.
6.  A member between 28 May 2012 and 16 October 2012.
7.  Appointed members from 16 October 2012.
8.  Resigned from the Committee on 27 January 2012.
Audit Committee report
Committee reports
68 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 The Group’s Audit Committee was established by the Board  
on 21 September 2012 to be effective from admission to 
listing. Prior to the establishment of this Committee, the Group 
had a combined Risk and Audit Committee, the last meeting  
of which took place on 31 August 2012. References to the 
activities of the Audit Committee in this report include those 
carried out by the Risk and Audit Committee during 2012.
What did the Committee do in 2012?
 Reviewed the constitution, membership and terms of 
reference of the Committee.
 Agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken  
by the external auditors and the Internal Audit function.
 Monitored Internal Audit’s independent and objective  
reports regarding the appropriateness, effectiveness and 
sustainability of the Group’s system of internal controls.
 Reviewed regular reports of the work conducted by the 
auditors and noted mitigating actions proposed by 
management where required.
 Received quarterly risk reports until the formation of the 
Board Risk Committee in September and, in the light of  
the IPO, ensured that the auditors’ focus was aligned  
with the areas of greatest risk facing the Group.
 Reviewed: the interim results for the half year ended  
30 June 2012 issued in September; the interim  
management statement issued in November; and  
the Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended  
31 December 2012, with particular focus on accounting 
policies and critical estimates and judgements.
 Considered plans and key assumptions relating to  
the Group’s actuarial reserves, received regular  
updates regarding movements and emerging trends,  
and recommended the level of reserves to the Board  
each quarter.
 Provided oversight of the Fit for Listing work stream and 
monitored progress towards the target operating model.
 Key control issues reported by Internal Audit were monitored  
on a quarterly basis until the Group’s risk exposure had  
been properly mitigated. 
 Monitored the Group’s compliance with statutory and 
regulatory requirements and recommendations within the 
scope of the Committee’s terms of reference.
 Assessed the external auditor’s performance.
What have we achieved? 
 Facilitated the Group’s separation from RBS Group by 
supervising the various work streams focusing on the  
creation of the Group’s target operating model.
 Effected the creation of separate Audit and Board Risk 
Committees, wholly constituted of independent Non-
Executive Directors and with distinct terms of reference.
 Obtained independent reviews from Towers Watson  
of the Group’s actuarial reserves at the ﬁrst and second  
quarters of 2012 to support the proposed IPO.
 Rolled out and monitored the Group’s system of internal controls 
appropriate to an independent listed insurance company.
 Reviewed documentation relating to the listing of £500 million 
of Tier 2 subordinated debt, issued in April 2012 and the 
IPO documentation.
 Established the parameters of the services provided by the 
external auditors in line with the requirements of the relevant 
minimum standard.
 Reviewed and challenged key assumptions, judgements, 
analysis of emerging trends and movements on internal  
and external actuarial best estimates and management  
best estimate reserves, and recommended the associated 
levels of reserves to the Board each quarter.
 Approved an internal controls manual as a guide to the 
businesses and to the auditors.
What will we be focusing on?
 Providing oversight of the actuarial reporting process;  
a review of the Group’s control environment and processes.
 Providing oversight of the Internal Audit strategic review,  
that is, the programme of activity being delivered to ensure  
that the Internal Audit function can continue to meet the 
expectations of the Board and satisfy emerging regulatory 
and industry standards for internal audit.
 Ensuring the provision of training and development, particularly 
in relation to new legislation and regulation.
Frequency of meetings
During 2012, the Committee (and its predecessor, the Risk  
and Audit Committee) met on seven occasions, ﬁve of which 
were scheduled and two were additional ad hoc meetings. 
The members’ attendance record is set out above.  
In addition to the formal meetings, the Committee held:
 Separate meetings to discuss relevant issues with members  
of senior management and the Head of Internal Audit.
 Meetings with the external auditors to discuss issues relating 
to the Committee and for the purpose of training.
 Private meetings with the Head of Internal Audit and the 
external audit partner to discuss the general control 
environment and culture of the Group.
Committee expertise
Committee members bring considerable ﬁnancial and accounting 
experience to the Committee’s work. All members have past 
employment experience in either ﬁnance or accounting roles, or 
comparable experience in corporate activities, and are members 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Board is satisﬁed that each of these members has recent and 
relevant ﬁnancial experience, as recommended by the Code.
69 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance Corporate governance report continued
Reports to the Board 
The Chair of the Committee submits a report to the subsequent 
meeting of the Board on the Committee’s work. 
Internal control
The Group’s Internal Audit function carries out independent 
internal audit work.
The Head of the Internal Audit function reports to the Chair of 
the Audit Committee and the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. The Chief 
Risk Ofﬁcer reports to the Chair of the Board Risk Committee 
and to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer.
The Internal Audit function provides the Committee with 
independent and objective reports on the appropriateness, 
effectiveness and sustainability of the Group’s risk management, 
systems of internal control, governance frameworks and 
processes. The Group’s statement of internal controls can be 
found on page 68.
The key control issues that Internal Audit reports to management 
and to the Committee are monitored on a quarterly basis  
until the related risk exposures have been properly mitigated.
More details of the management of risk are contained  
in the Board Risk Committee report on page 71 and the  
Risk Management report on page 26.
Reserves
The Committee approves annual plans for reviews of reserves, 
informed by internal and external emerging issues. It also 
considers an appropriate balance between internal actuarial 
review and external peer review. Consultants appointed to 
provide validation of actuarial reviews are subject to approval 
by the Committee. 
At least half-yearly, the Committee reviews and challenges the key 
assumptions and judgements, the emerging trends, movements 
and analysis of uncertainties underlying the assessment of the 
actuarial best estimate reviews where appropriate.
Simultaneously with this review, the Committee also considers  
and challenges the appropriateness of proposals made by the 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer for management best estimate reserves for 
booking, informed both by actuarial analysis, wider commercial 
insights and principles of consistency from period to period.
Following their review of actuarial best estimate and 
management best estimate reserves, the Committee  
proposes the respective reserves to the Board for booking.
Financial reporting
The review process undertaken by the Committee prior to  
the publication of the Group’s ﬁnancial statements focuses  
on our critical accounting policies and practices, and on  
any changes and decisions that require a major element  
of judgement, unusual transactions, clarity of disclosures  
and signiﬁcant audit adjustments. In addition, the Committee 
reviews the going concern assumption, compliance with 
accounting standards and obligations under applicable laws, 
regulations and governance codes and makes appropriate 
recommendations to the Board.
External audit
The Committee plays a key role in managing the relationship 
with the Group’s external auditor, Deloitte LLP. The Group’s 
Audit/Non-Audit Services Minimum Standard ensures that  
the independence and objectivity of the external auditor  
are not impaired.
Both audit and non-audit services provided by Direct Line 
Group’s external auditor are closely monitored:
 The Audit Committee formally approves a list of audit and 
non-audit services and an associated budget in advance of 
each ﬁnancial year in line with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standard 5.
 All permitted services must be approved before any work 
commences and applications for approval must be submitted 
on a prescribed form, signed by the relevant member of the 
Executive Committee.
 The Audit Committee Chair approves services costing less 
than £100,000 whilst the Audit Committee approves services 
costing in excess of £100,000.
 At each meeting, the Audit Committee reviews and, if approved, 
ratiﬁes all services approved since its previous meeting.
 On an annual basis, the Audit Committee receives a report on 
all services provided during the year and their related costs.
The Audit Committee will regularly review and where appropriate 
update the Minimum Standard to ensure alignment with the 
latest standards and practice in establishing, maintaining and 
monitoring the independence and objectivity of auditors.
Fees payable to the auditor
During the year ended 31 December 2012, Deloitte LLP’s fees  
for audit services and other services supplied were £6. 1 million. 
In accordance with the Group’s Audit/Non-Audit Services 
Minimum Standard, all services were approved prior to work 
commencing and each of the non-audit services was conﬁrmed  
to be permissible for the external auditor to undertake. The 
Audit Committee approved fees of £4.5 million payable  
to Deloitte LLP for services not related to audit work, which 
accounted for 74% of total fees paid to the external auditor  
in the year. The majority of non-audit fees relate to the  
Group’s IPO, for which Deloitte LLP provided additional  
services as Reporting Accountants.
70 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 A summary of fees payable to the auditor for the year  
ended 31 December 2012 is provided in note 10 to the 
Group ﬁnancial statements. 
The Audit Committee and Board remained satisﬁed that  
the provision of non-audit services by Deloitte LLP has not 
compromised Deloitte’s independence as the Company’s 
external auditor.
Auditor performance and independence
The performance of the external auditors is assessed every 
year, including their independence and objectivity and the 
effectiveness of the external audit process. The effectiveness 
review includes regular questioning of the external auditor 
during Audit Committee meetings. The Committee reviews the 
external audit strategy and receives reports from Deloitte LLP  
on its own policies and procedures regarding independence 
and quality control, including an annual conﬁrmation of 
independence in line with industry standards. The Committee 
concluded that the performance of the external auditor and  
the effectiveness of the audit process were satisfactory.
Re-appointment of auditor
The Committee intends to undertake a formal review on a 
regular basis to assess whether the external audit should be 
re-tendered. Deloitte LLP has been the Group’s auditor since 
2000, during which time the Group was audited as a division 
of RBS Group. Following the Company’s listing on the London 
Stock Exchange on 16 October 2012, Deloitte remained the 
Group’s external auditor.
The Committee is recommending to the Board that Deloitte LLP 
be re-appointed as auditor of the Company. A resolution for 
the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company 
will be put to a shareholder vote at the AGM on 6 June 2013.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on  
27 February 2013.
Andrew Palmer, Chair of the Audit Committee
Role and focus 
The Board Risk Committee provides oversight  
and advice to the Board in relation to current  
and potential future risk exposures of the Group 
and future risk strategy. It determines risk appetite 
and tolerance and promotes a risk awareness 
culture within the Group.
The Board Risk Committee’s terms of reference are available on  
our website at: www.directlinegroup.com.
Membership and attendance
1
Scheduled
meetings
2
Ad hoc
meetings
2
Committee Chairs 
Ian Falconer
3
1 of 1 n/a
Jane Hanson 5 of 5 2 of 2
Non-Executive Directors
Mike Biggs
4
1 of 1 1 of 2
Andrew Palmer 5 of 5 2 of 2
Clare Thompson 2 of 2 n/a 
Priscilla Vacassin 2 of 2 n/a 
Other attendees include
 Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
 Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
 Chief Risk Ofﬁcer 
 General Counsel and 
Company Secretary
 Head of Internal Audit
Minimum number of meetings per annum
The Risk Committee is to meet at least four times a year at 
appropriate times in the risk and regulatory reporting cycle.
Notes:
1.  The Board Risk Committee was constituted on 16 October 2012. 
The attendance shown above includes attendance of the Risk and  
Audit Committee until it was split into distinct Audit and Board Risk 
committees with effect from 16 October 2012.
2   Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the 
number of meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend.
3.  Resigned from the Committee on 23 February 2012.
4.  A member between 28 May 2012 and 16 October 2012.
Board Risk Committee report
Jane Hanson,  
Chair of the Board Risk Committee
71 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance Corporate governance report continued
What will we be focusing on?
 Fostering a culture which is aligned to appropriate outcomes 
for the customer.
 Delivering a mature and embedded conduct risk framework.
 Considering and recommending for approval by the Board: 
 – the design and implementation of risk management and 
measurement strategies across the Group; and
 – the Group’s risk appetite, framework and tolerance levels 
for current and future strategy.
Frequency of meetings
During 2012, the Committee (and its predecessor the Risk and 
Audit Committee) met on seven occasions; ﬁve were scheduled 
meetings and two of which were additional ad hoc meetings. 
The members’ attendance record is set out on page 71.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on  
27 February 2013.
Jane Hanson, Chair of the Board Risk Committee
The activities of the Risk and Audit Committees were combined 
and managed by a joint Risk and Audit Committee until  
16 October 2012. References to the activities of the  
Board Risk Committee below include those activities  
carried out by the Risk and Audit Committee.
What did the Committee do in 2012?
The Committee (and its predecessor, the Risk and Audit 
Committee) considered and monitored the following  
matters during 2012:
 The Group’s key risks and risk appetite, including  
regulatory and conduct risks.
 The high level risk-based policies throughout the Group, 
including the risk appetite framework, policy framework,  
and associated tools and processes. These included, but 
were not limited to, the business change risk process, 
material risk assessment and business continuity planning.
 The detailed planning for the Group’s internal Solvency II 
model. The Committee also received regular progress  
reports on the development of the models used to calculate 
economic capital requirements and the stress and  
scenario-testing techniques used to validate the results.
 Risks identiﬁed as outside appetite resulting from Internal 
Audit and other assurance reviews of the Group’s system  
of internal control and the action taken by management  
to mitigate them.
 The Group’s economic capital and liquidity positions, 
particularly in light of the evolving Eurozone uncertainty.  
The Committee also considered in detail the management 
actions being taken to address the impact of the  
economic environment.
 The arrangements by which our staff may, in conﬁdence, 
raise concerns regarding possible improprieties regarding 
ﬁnancial reporting or other matters.
 Monitored the Group’s compliance with SOX 404 and other 
statutory and regulatory requirements and recommendations 
within the scope of the Committee’s terms of reference.
What have we achieved? 
 Revised the constitution and membership of the Committee  
to meet the requirements of a listed company.
 Approved of a comprehensive ERM framework.
 Oversight of the Solvency II programme. 
 Ensured the risk governance framework was ﬁt for purpose.
72 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Role and focus 
The remit of the Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee is to ensure Direct Line Group  
conducts its business in a responsible manner 
(including in relation to health and safety, 
environmental, corporate social responsibility, 
social and ethical matters). The Committee 
also oversees the allocation of donations and 
community involvement.
Membership and attendance
Scheduled
1
meetings
Ad hoc
1
meetings
Committee Chair
Jane Hanson 1 of 1 n/a
Committee members
Paul Geddes 1 of 1 n/a
Clare Thompson 1 of 1 n/a
Tom Woolgrove
2
1 of 1 n/a
Other attendees include
 Human Resources Director
 General Counsel and 
Company Secretary
 Director of Communications
 Head of Public Affairs and 
Sustainability 
Minimum number of meetings
The Committee is to meet at least four times a year.
Notes: 
1.  Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the 
number of meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend. 
2. Appointed as a member on 13 December 2012.
Corporate Social Responsibility  
Committee report
What did the Committee do in 2012?
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee was  
constituted as part of the Fit for Listing programme and  
held its ﬁrst meeting in December 2012. At that meeting,  
the Committee considered:
 The constitution of the Committee, its membership and  
terms of reference.
 The priorities and targets on key issues.
 Health and safety policies and procedures and  
compliance with them.
What have we achieved?
 Approved the constitution and membership of the  
Committee to meet the requirements of a listed company.
 Produced the Corporate and Social Responsibility Plan  
for 2013 including priorities, policies and community  
engagement activities.
 Launched the Company’s ‘One Day’ volunteering initiative  
for employees.
What will we be focusing on?
 Reviewing the Group’s overall Corporate Social 
Responsibility strategy, measures, policies and compliance.
 Reviewing performance and priorities against both internal 
targets and relevant external benchmarking indices.
 Reviewing the extent, effectiveness and transparency of 
external reporting.
 Considering and recommending the Group’s positioning  
on relevant emerging Corporate Social Responsibility issues.
 Overseeing the Group’s compliance with its health and 
safety statutory and regulatory requirements and embedding 
a health and safety culture across the Group.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on  
27 February 2013.
Jane Hanson, Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee
Jane Hanson,  
Chair of the Corporate Social  
Responsibility Committee
73 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance Corporate governance report continued
What did the Committee do in 2012?
 Reviewed its membership, constitution and terms of reference.
 Considered plans and monitored progress in delivering  
a stand-alone Investment and Treasury function prior to 
operational separation from RBS Group.
 Monitored the delivery of in-train changes to the existing 
portfolio strategy.
 Reviewed the return on funds invested, having regard to 
existing investment policies and guidelines.
 Reviewed and monitored exposures of concern, in particular 
sovereign and bank exposure to Eurozone countries, and 
legacy positions outside the tolerance limits set in the risk 
exposure framework.
 Received updates on collateral management plans, the closure 
of legacy investment portfolios, changes to the asset manager 
for the International portfolios and recommendations to adjust 
credit durations for the Group’s investment portfolios.
 Reported as appropriate to the boards of the regulated 
companies within the Group on our investment  
management performance.
What have we achieved? 
 Monitored the successful creation of a stand-alone Investment 
and Treasury function.
 Reviewed the signiﬁcant progress made by the Investment 
and Treasury function in reshaping the investment portfolios. 
What will we be focusing on?
 Considering changes to the existing asset benchmark 
composition for the Group’s investment portfolio to improve 
the expected risk-adjusted returns, respecting the Group’s 
investment risk appetite set by the Board.
 Using the internal capital model to support asset strategy 
decisions by understanding the capital and solvency implications.
 Reviewing the liquidity requirements of the business and 
considering the adequacy of liquidity available to meet  
such needs from the investment portfolio.
 Reviewing the merits of any derivative and asset strategies 
proposed to mitigate risks associated with long-term liabilities.
 Monitoring the selection and implementation process for  
any new asset classes approved for the investment portfolio.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on  
27 February 2013.
Andrew Palmer, Chair of the Investment Committee
Role and focus 
The role of the Investment Committee is to 
propose investment policies and guidelines for 
the management of Group funds for approval 
by the Board and to oversee the management 
and performance of the investment strategy of 
the Group. The International and Life boards 
independently review and approve the  
investment guidelines of those entities.
Membership and attendance
Scheduled
meetings
1
Committee Chair
Andrew Palmer 2 of 2
Committee members
Ian Falconer
2
1 of 1
Jane Hanson 2 of 2
Christopher Sullivan
3 
0 of 1
Other attendees include
 Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
 Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 
 Director of Investment 
Management and Treasury
 General Counsel and 
Company Secretary
Minimum number of meetings per annum
The Committee is to meet at least three times a year.
Notes:
1.  Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the 
number of meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend. 
2.  Resigned from the Committee on 23 February 2012.
3. Resigned from the Committee on 27 January 2012.
Investment Committee report
Andrew Palmer,  
Chair of the Investment Committee
74 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Role and focus 
The Nomination Committee is responsible for 
considering and making recommendations to the 
Board regarding the appointment of Directors. It will 
make recommendations regarding the membership 
and chairmanship of the Board Committees. 
The Nomination Committee’s terms of reference are available on  
our website at: www.directlinegroup.com.
Membership
Committee Chair 
Mike Biggs
Non-Executive Directors
Glyn Jones
Andrew Palmer
Other attendees include
 Chief Executive Ofﬁcer General Counsel and 
Company Secretary
Minimum number of meetings per annum
As required, but not less than once a year.
Nomination Committee report
Frequency of meetings
As the Board was up to full complement prior to listing on  
16 October 2012, the Committee did not need to meet 
between listing and the year end. It has subsequently met  
to determine Directors’ independence or non-independence  
for the purpose of recommending to the Board the  
re-appointment of Directors at the AGM.
The Committee is to meet at least once a year to consider  
the Board composition and membership of the principal 
Committees and to consider the suitability of all Directors 
standing for re-election at the AGM. The Committee will also  
meet as required to consider candidates for appointment to  
the Board. The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer is closely involved  
in the work of the Committee and is invited to attend and 
contribute to meetings.
Appointments
During 2012, Mike Biggs, Mark Catton, Glyn Jones,  
Clare Thompson, Priscilla Vacassin and Bruce Van Saun  
were appointed to the Board. The appointment of  
Mike Biggs was managed by RBS Group as it wholly  
owned Direct Line Group at that time. Messrs Van Saun  
and Catton were nominated by the Company’s majority 
shareholder, RBS Group. We recruited the remaining  
Non-Executive Directors appointed in 2012 with the help  
of external search consultants JCA Group, who have no  
other connection with the Company. As part of the process,  
those newly-appointed Directors met the Chairman, the  
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and a number of other Directors  
before being appointed.
Please refer to pages 66 to 67 for the Group’s approach  
to diversity, including gender diversity.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on  
27 February 2013.
Michael N Biggs, Chair of the Nomination Committee
Mike Biggs,  
Chair of the Nomination Committee
75 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance Corporate governance report continued
What did the Committee do in 2012?
 Reviewed the constitution of the Committee, its membership 
and terms of reference.
 Set and reviewed policy guidelines.
 Proposed salaries for executives for the RBS Group 
Remuneration Committee to consider.
 Considered the terms of the Executive Directors’, executives’ 
and senior management’s contracts.
 Finalised the rules for the executive and all-employee share 
plans and Share Ownership Guidelines and approved  
their adoption and establishment.
 Granted awards to eligible employees under the  
Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”).
 Approved the issue of free shares to employees on IPO. 
 Considered post-IPO pay arrangements for the Executive 
Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
 Established an Employee Share Ownership Trust, and 
considered the proposed approach to funding it and  
its relationship with the trustees.
What have we achieved?
 Revised the constitution and membership of the Committee  
to meet the requirements of a listed company.
 Approved a remuneration policy for the Group.
 Developed the remuneration and incentive arrangements  
for Executive Directors and senior executives of the Group 
and considered the treatment of legacy entitlements under 
RBS Group share schemes.
 Revised Executive Directors’ and senior executives’ 
contractual terms.
 Introduced all-employee share schemes.
 Agreed the high level principles and key terms of the 2013 
incentive plan arrangements.
 Recommended outcomes of the 2012 bonus award and LTIP.
 Prepared the Group’s ﬁrst Directors’ remuneration report  
and recommended its inclusion in the 2012 Annual Report  
& Accounts.
What will we be focusing on?
 The 2013 remuneration and incentive plan arrangements  
in tandem with reviews of the pay review budget for 2013 
and the outcomes from the annual performance review.
 The grants of awards under the Group’s share schemes.
 The roll-out of the all-employee Buy-As-You-Earn scheme.
 The share ownership guidelines for members of the  
Executive Committee.
 The possible outcomes of the 2013 Annual Incentive Plan 
(“AIP”) and the structure of the 2014 plan in light of the 
experience in 2013.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on  
27 February 2013.
Priscilla Vacassin, Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Role and focus 
The Committee is responsible for setting and 
oversight of the Group’s remuneration policy.  
It also makes recommendations to the Board 
regarding the remuneration arrangements of  
the Company’s Executive Directors and any 
applicable senior executives. 
The Remuneration Committee’s terms of reference are available  
on our website at: www.directlinegroup.com.
Membership and attendance
Scheduled
meetings
1
Ad hoc
meetings
1
Committee Chairs 
Mike Biggs
2
4 of 4 5 of 5
Andrew Palmer
3
4 of 4 4 of 5
Priscilla Vacassin
4
1 of 1 2 of 2
Non-Executive Directors
Jane Hanson
5
3 of 3 3 of 4
Clare Thompson
6
1 of 1 1 of 1
Other attendees include
 Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
 Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
 Chief Risk Ofﬁcer
 Human Resources Director
 Director of Performance 
and Reward
 General Counsel and 
Company Secretary 
 FIT Remuneration 
Consultants LLP
7
,
 
independent adviser
Meeting frequency
The Committee is to meet at least four times a year.
Notes:
1.  Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the 
number of meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend. 
2. Chair until 21 September 2012. Continues as a member.
3.  Acted as Chair for meetings held on 18 July, 13 August,  
3 September and 21 September 2012. Continues as a member.
4.  Chair from 21 September 2012.
5. Resigned from the Committee on 21 September 2012.
6.  Appointed to the Committee on 21 September 2012.
7 . Attends by invitation as the Committee’s independent adviser.
Remuneration Committee report
Priscilla Vacassin,  
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
76 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Relations with shareholders
What does ‘relations with shareholders’ mean?
Actively engaging with our shareholders is fundamental to  
our business. We believe that ensuring an active dialogue  
and ongoing engagement is vital to keeping in touch with 
opinions, providing us with the opportunity to address  
any questions and concerns in a proactive way.
How do we communicate with shareholders?
The Executive Directors frequently meet with investors and the 
Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive 
Directors are available to attend meetings with major shareholders 
at the shareholders’ request. In such meetings, the Chairman 
has the opportunity to discuss governance and strategy with 
shareholders and ensure that any particular shareholder views 
are communicated to the Board.
The Board is also given the opportunity to understand the  
views of major shareholders through analysts’ reports, broker 
brieﬁngs and meetings with major shareholders. 
At the Company’s ﬁrst AGM the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer will 
make a presentation on the Group’s progress and shareholders 
will be encouraged to ask questions.
The Company also engages with holders of the Group’s 
subordinated debt.
What did we do in 2012?
During the year, Directors spent a considerable amount of time 
understanding the views of potential investors and other market 
participants, to ensure they were aware of market sentiment in the 
run-up to, and following, the IPO. In October, the Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer, the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and members of the executive 
between them met and presented to 292 institutions, seeing over 
700 individuals across eight cities (with calls to six more). 
What are we focusing on in 2013?
We are planning to hold a number of events to foster 
engagement, in recognition of the importance of maintaining  
an active dialogue with our shareholders, target investors  
and other important insurance sector investors. These include:
 Presentations of our ﬁnancial results.
 Investor road shows in the UK, Europe, the US and Canada.
 Attending key conferences to enable communication with a large 
number of existing and target investors in a time-efﬁcient manner.
 Brieﬁngs with investors and banks to convey key messages 
on performance and strategy.
 Dinners with UK fund managers at the end of 2013.
What arrangements are we making for the  
Annual General Meeting?
The Notice of the AGM will be sent to shareholders well  
in advance of the meeting. We will propose all items  
requiring shareholder approval under separate resolutions. 
We will provide proxy appointment forms for each resolution, 
with the option for shareholders to vote for, or against, or  
to withhold their vote. We have instructed our registrars, 
Computershare Investor Services plc, to ensure that all valid 
proxy appointments are properly recorded and counted. 
We will announce the result of the poll as soon as practical 
after the meeting and also post the result on our website after 
that date. The proxy form and announcement of the results 
explicitly state that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and  
will therefore not be counted in the calculation when deciding 
whether the resolution has been passed.
We anticipate that all Directors will attend the AGM and  
that the Chairs of the Audit, Board Risk, Corporate Social 
Responsibility, Investment and Remuneration Committees  
will be available to answer questions.
What is the procedure at the AGM?
Following presentations by members of the Board, voting  
on the resolutions at the AGM will be conducted on a poll. 
Shareholders’ proxy votes can be submitted electronically 
through the Company Registrar’s website. Further details  
can be found in the Notice of AGM. 
77 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance Directors’ remuneration report
Dear shareholder
I welcome you to this, the ﬁrst remuneration report of Direct Line 
Insurance Group plc. In such a competitive market, we believe  
that our employees are critical to the success of our business, both 
now and into the future. As a result, the Group’s remuneration 
policy seeks to provide, in the context of the Group’s business 
strategy, a reward proposition at the right cost to attract, retain, 
motivate and reward high-calibre employees, so that they are 
engaged to deliver superior long-term business performance  
within acceptable risk parameters. 
In determining Executive Directors’ remuneration levels in the 
Group, we have endeavoured to provide fair pay for the job 
whilst also taking into account the context of pay in the wider 
market and their individual performances.
Linking remuneration to overall business objectives
The Group’s strategy, building on its transformation plan, is to 
unlock the value in the UK’s leading retail general insurance 
business, together with the Commercial and International 
businesses and to deliver superior shareholder returns,  
targeting a 15% RoTE and COR of 98%.
Our remuneration policy supports this strategy. Executive 
Directors will only receive their full remuneration opportunity 
if material value is created for our shareholders. 
Similarly, we remain committed to the position disclosed  
at IPO of providing Executive Directors’ remuneration at a 
market-competitive level compared with relevant peer companies. 
 The 2013 salary pool available for pay increases is 2% of  
base pay. The pool will be distributed based on the individuals’ 
positions in the market and their personal performance. There 
will be no general increase for all employees. For the Strategic 
Leadership Team (the “SLT”) the average increase will be  
slightly less than 2%. It is not the intention of the Remuneration 
Committee (the “Committee”) to award a pay increase to either 
of the Executive Directors in 2013 due to their packages having 
been reviewed just prior to the IPO.
 The 2012 bonus overall outcome is that the Group bonus 
payout is marginally below ‘On-target’ in aggregate. We 
have made good progress on our transformation plan, and 
the Board is encouraged by the progress towards the targets 
disclosed in September 2012. However, the level of bonus set 
in aggregate by the Committee takes into account a wider  
set of criteria than just these, including general affordability 
and market practice. We believe that the planned payout  
is appropriate taking into account these wider criteria. We 
intend to continue to set stretching but achievable targets  
for future bonus awards across a range of criteria.
 The 2013 bonus opportunity remains unchanged from the 
levels disclosed at IPO and for 2013 the metrics will be 
applied on a rigorous ‘balanced scorecard’ approach  
that accords with insurance industry practice. This will  
include ﬁnancial, risk-based and customer-centric targets. 
 We intend to continue the practice of making LTIP grants at 
regular six-month intervals at the levels indicated at the IPO 
and applying stretching performance conditions over each 
award’s performance period. 
Structure of report
Over the following pages we set out:
 The governance surrounding pay decisions in 2012, members 
of the Committee and advisers to the Committee in 2012.
 The Group’s forward-looking pay policy which is effective  
for the ﬁnancial year beginning 1 January 2013.
 The implementation of the Group’s Reward Policy in 2012 
and what was paid, vested or awarded (conditional upon 
the application of performance tests) to Executive Directors  
in respect of the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2012.
As an insurance business, the Group is not subject to the 
provisions of the FSA’s Remuneration Code. However, the 
Group seeks to comply with the core requirement of this code 
that it should establish, implement and maintain remuneration 
policies, procedures and practices that are consistent with and 
promote sound and effective risk management. Accordingly, for 
all senior employees, signiﬁcant elements of incentive-related  
pay are subject to deferral and potential clawback as explained 
on pages 80 to 81.
Priscilla Vacassin, Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Priscilla Vacassin, Chair of the Remuneration Committee
78 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 The Remuneration Committee independent review
Governance 
The remuneration report has been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and 
Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies  
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008.
This report also provides a number of the requirements  
of the prospective new regulations recommended by the 
Department for Business, Innovation & Skills (“BIS”) (albeit  
these are still in draft format) which will take effect in respect  
of ﬁnancial years ending on or after October 2013.
The Group also complies with the Code in relation to 
remuneration. The Group is an active member of the 
Association of British Insurers (the “ABI”). The Committee, 
consistent with its approach of operating within the highest 
standards of corporate governance, takes signiﬁcant account  
of guidelines issued by the ABI and shareholder bodies (such  
as the National Association of Pension Funds) when setting  
the remuneration strategy for the Group. The Committee will  
also seek to build an active and productive dialogue with 
investors generally and on changes to the Group’s executive  
pay arrangements in particular.
Under its terms of reference the remit of the Committee,  
which is a committee of the Board, is to set and oversee  
the remuneration policy and contract terms of the Executive 
Directors, the Chairman of the Board and members of the 
Executive Committee. It also reviews the overall pay and  
bonus decisions in aggregate for the wider Group and 
therefore takes account of pay and conditions in the wider 
Group. The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is 
determined by the Board as a whole, without the individuals 
concerned being present.
This report has been prepared by the Committee  
and approved by the Board, for submission to  
shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
In 2012, the Committee met nine times.
Deloitte LLP has audited the following items, as stipulated  
by law:
 the table of Directors’ emoluments and associated  
footnotes on page 86 and the disclosure of the items 
comprising beneﬁts in kind;
 the tables of pensions beneﬁts on page 90; and
 the table of disclosure of Executive Directors’ share  
options and share awards on pages 88 to 90 and 
associated footnotes.
The Committee is made aware of input from employee  
groups (such as the ERB) within the Company. The Committee 
consults with the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and the Human 
Resources Director on matters relating to the appropriateness  
of all elements of remuneration for Executive Directors and  
other leadership team members. The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
and the Human Resources Director are not present when their 
own remuneration is discussed. The Director of Performance 
and Reward provides advice on compensation and beneﬁts  
to the Committee, and the Company Secretary advises the 
Committee on corporate governance guidelines and provides 
secretarial assistance to the Committee.
In addition, the Committee has appointed FIT Remuneration 
Consultants LLP (“FIT”), signatories to the Remuneration Consultants 
Group’s Code of Conduct, as their independent adviser. FIT 
provided advice during the year on market practice, governance 
and incentive plan design. FIT does not provide any other 
services to the Group. Their total fees for the provision of 
remuneration services in 2012 were £274,883. Allen & Overy 
LLP has also provided legal advice in relation to the Group’s 
executive remuneration arrangements, and has provided the 
Group with other legal services.
79 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance Future remuneration policy
Policy table
Remuneration for Executive Directors for the ﬁnancial year commencing 1 January 2013 consists of the following elements:
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation
Base salary This is the core element of pay that reﬂects the individual’s role  
and position within the Group and is payable for doing the 
expected day-to-day job.
 Ensuring we are competitive in the market allows us to attract,  
retain and motivate high-calibre employees with the skill sets  
to deliver our key aims whilst managing costs.
 Salaries are reviewed against:
 – level of skill, experience and scope of responsibilities, 
individual and business performance, economic climate 
and market conditions;
Annual 
Incentive Plan
 To motivate employees and incentivise delivery of performance  
over the one-year operating cycle, focusing on the short to 
medium-term elements of our strategic aims.
 Company and individual performance can be reﬂected through 
variable pay.
 Outstanding individual and Company performance is recognised 
and rewarded.
 Maximum and target bonus levels for Executive Directors 
are set by reference to practice at insurance and general 
market comparators.
 The maximum bonus level potential under the AIP for the 
CEO is 175% of base salary, and for the CFO is 150%  
of base salary.
 Target bonus – which is paid for on-target performance 
against the performance measures being operated for  
the AIP in the relevant ﬁnancial year – is currently set  
at 60% of the maximum opportunity.
 Performance over the ﬁnancial year is measured against 
stretching ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial and individual 
performance targets set at the start of the ﬁnancial year.
2012 
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan
 To motivate and incentivise delivery of sustained performance  
over the long term, aligning interests with those of the shareholders.
 Measures are those key to the business and driving long-term  
value to shareholders, to ensure that all major decisions are 
considered with long-term value in mind.
 Awards under the LTIP will be made twice in each ﬁnancial 
year of the Company (at approximately six-month intervals 
following the announcement of the Company’s annual and 
half-yearly results). For the Executive Directors, bi-annual 
awards will be made over shares with a face value equal 
to 100% of their then salary on each occasion.
 The plan generally allows for awards with an absolute 
maximum value of 200% of base salary per ﬁnancial year 
(although 300% is permitted in exceptional circumstances).
 Awards are made in the form of nil-cost options which vest 
to the extent performance conditions are satisﬁed, three 
years from the date of grant. An additional share payment 
in lieu of dividends is also paid at vesting.
Pension To aid retention and remain competitive within the market place.
 To encourage retirement planning by our employees and retain 
ﬂexibility for individuals.
 Pension contributions are paid only in respect  
of base salary.
Beneﬁts A comprehensive ﬂexible beneﬁts package is offered, with the 
emphasis on employees being able to choose the combination  
of cash and beneﬁts that suits them.
 This element supports many of our values, but particularly that  
in return for our employees ‘bringing all of themselves to work’,  
we will consider them as whole individuals with needs in and 
outside of the workplace.
 Executive Directors receive a beneﬁts package in line  
with market practice. This includes a company car 
allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance  
and income protection insurance.
All employee 
share plans
 To encourage share ownership by employees, thereby allowing 
them to share in the long-term success of the Group and align  
their interests with those of the shareholders.
 Executive Directors are able to participate in the  
all-employee share plans on the same terms as other  
Group employees.
Shareholding 
guidelines
 To encourage share ownership by the Executive Directors  
and ensure interests are aligned.
 The Executive Directors and Executive Committee  
members are subject to Share Ownership Guidelines  
and, until they comply with these, are required to retain  
all of the Ordinary Shares that they obtain from any of 
New hires  
and promotions
 To secure the appointment and promotion of high-calibre  
executives to strengthen the management team and secure  
the skill sets to deliver our strategic aims.
 For external appointments the Committee may offer 
additional cash and share-based elements when they 
consider it in the best interests of the Company and 
therefore of shareholders.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
80 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Changes for 2013
 – the median market pay in the context of insurance 
peers (Aviva, Hiscox, L&G, Old Mutual, Prudential, 
RSA, Resolution and Standard Life ) and FTSE 31  
to 100 listed companies; and
 – general base salary movement across the Group.
 Similar principles for base salary are applied  
to all employees in the Group.
 Base salary is paid monthly in cash.
Base salaries are  
reviewed annually and  
set in April of each year. 
No changes will be made 
to the Executive Directors’ 
salaries in 2013.
 Bonus levels and the appropriateness of measures  
and weightings are reviewed annually to ensure  
they continue to support our strategy.
 Awards will be subject to a payment gateway  
such that the Committee must be satisﬁed that  
there are no material risk failings, reputational  
concerns or regulatory issues.
 For Executive Directors and senior employees,  
40% of the award is deferred into shares vesting  
three years after grant. The percentage deferred  
will be kept under review by the Committee to ensure 
that levels are in line with regulatory requirements  
and best practice. The vesting of Deferred Share 
Awards is subject to potential clawback at the 
discretion of the Committee. An additional share 
payment in lieu of dividends is also paid at vesting  
of Deferred Share Awards.
 All variable pay awards are subject to clawback  
up to three years post vesting at the discretion  
of the Committee.
2013 AIP targets are  
set as per detail on  
pages 84 and 85.
 The Committee will determine the performance 
condition for each award made under the LTIP,  
with performance measured over a single period  
of three years with no provision to retest.
 Performance is measured against stretching targets  
set at the beginning of the performance period.  
For awards granted in 2012 vesting is determined 
based on two measures:
 – 60% will be based on RoTE performance; and
 – 40% will be based on relative total shareholder 
return (“TSR”) performance against the FTSE 350 
(excluding Investment Trusts).
 Awards will be subject to a payment gateway  
such that the Committee must be satisﬁed that there  
are no material risk failings, reputational concerns or 
regulatory issues.
 In addition, there will be an underpin relating to  
the Committee’s view of the underlying ﬁnancial 
performance of the Company.
 The use of RoTE and TSR in combination provides  
a balanced approach to the measurement of the  
Group’s performance over the longer term by  
using both a stated ﬁnancial KPI and a measure  
based on shareholder return.
 The vesting of all awards is subject to clawback  
at the discretion of the Committee.
Full details of the 
performance conditions 
and targets for 2012  
and 2013 awards are  
set out on page 85.
 Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the 
Group’s deﬁned contribution pension arrangement  
or alternatively they may choose to receive a cash 
allowance in lieu of pension.
 This is in line with the approach taken for all  
Group employees.
 Employer products are offered to all employees at  
a discount. This discount is the same that is offered  
to all employees.
 the Company’s employee share plans after any 
disposals necessary for the payment of personal  
taxes on the acquisition of such Ordinary Shares.
 The CEO and CFO are required to acquire and  
retain Ordinary Shares in the Company equivalent  
in value to no less than 200% and 150% of their 
salaries respectively.
 For an internal appointment, any variable pay  
element awarded in respect of the prior role may  
either continue on its original terms or be adjusted  
to reﬂect the new appointment as appropriate.
 For external and internal appointments, the  
Committee may agree that the Group will  
meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
81 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance There have been no changes (nor are there any planned in 2013) to remuneration for Executive or Non-Executive Directors  
since the Group listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Service agreements
The Executive Directors’ service agreements summary is as follows:
Director Effective date of contract Notice period Exit payment policy
Paul Geddes 1 September 2012 12 months Base salary only for unexpired portion of notice 
period and to be paid in a lump sum or monthly 
instalments, in which case instalments are subject  
to mitigation if an alternative role is found.
John Reizenstein 1 September 2012 12 months Base salary only for unexpired portion of notice 
period and to be paid in a lump sum or monthly 
instalments, in which case instalments are subject  
to mitigation if an alternative role is found.
Termination policy summary
It is appropriate for the Committee to retain discretion to consider the termination terms of any Executive Director, having regard  
to all the relevant facts and circumstances available to them at the time. The table below sets out the general position although it 
should be noted that the Committee, consistent with most other companies, has reserved a broad discretion to determine whether 
an Executive Director should be categorised as a ‘good leaver’ and that discretion forms part of the approved policy. Similarly, 
while the policy is generally to reduce awards on a pro-rata basis, the Committee has reserved discretion to disapply such 
reduction if, in the circumstances, it considers that to be appropriate.
Incentives
If a leaver is deemed to be  
a ‘bad leaver’, for example leaving 
through resignation or dismissal
If a leaver is deemed to be a  
‘good leaver’, for example leaving 
through redundancy, ill health or  
death or otherwise at the discretion  
of the Committee
Other events, for example  
change in control
Annual Incentive Plan No awards made Pro-rata bonus Pro-rata bonus
Deferred Annual 
Incentive Plan  
(the “DAIP”)
All awards will lapse Will receive all deferred shares at 
the end of the vesting period
Will usually receive all  
deferred shares
Long-Term Incentive Plan All awards will lapse Will receive a pro-rata award 
subject to the application of the 
performance conditions at the 
end of the vesting period
Will receive a pro-rata award 
subject to the application of the 
performance conditions
For as long as RBS Group owns more than 50% of the Ordinary Shares in the Company, Paul Geddes’s and John Reizenstein’s 
service agreements will continue to have the RBS Group policy provision regarding termination without notice or payment in  
lieu when personal underperformance is not remedied following a warning from the Board and after reasonable opportunity  
to remedy it has been given. The Direct Line Group Directors’ service agreement provides that Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein 
are not eligible to receive any enhanced redundancy terms which may be offered by Direct Line Group from time to time. Their 
rights to a statutory redundancy payment are not affected.
Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three-year term which may be renewed by mutual agreement. In common with  
the Executive Directors, all Non-Executives are subject to annual re-election by shareholders. The term of either Bruce Van Saun  
or Mark Catton as Directors will cease when RBS Group divests its controlling interest in Direct Line Group. Both will step down  
as Directors when RBS Group owns less than 20% of Direct Line Group; one will step down once the shareholding drops below 
50% and the other when the shareholding drops below 20%.
The Directors may appoint additional members to join the Board during the year. Directors appointed in this way will be subject 
to election by shareholders at the ﬁrst AGM after their appointment. In subsequent years the Directors are expected to submit 
themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
82 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Details of the terms of appointment of the serving Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below:
Non-executive director Position Effective date of contract
Andrew Palmer Non-Executive Director 23 March 201 1
Jane Hanson Non-Executive Director 20 December 201 1
Mike Biggs Chairman 27 April 2012
Bruce Van Saun Non-Executive Director 27 April 2012
Clare Thompson Non-Executive Director 3 September 2012
Priscilla Vacassin Non-Executive Director 13 September 2012
Glyn Jones Senior Independent Director 24 September 2012
Mark Catton Non-Executive Director 24 September 2012
Terms and conditions of appointment of all of the Directors are available for inspection by any person at the Company’s  
registered ofﬁce and at the AGM.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have notice periods of three months from either party.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any compensation on exit.
External directorships
The Group encourages Executive Directors to accept, subject to the approval of the Chairman, an invitation to join the board  
of another company outside the Group in a non-executive capacity, recognising the value of such wider experience. In these 
circumstances, they are permitted to retain any remuneration from the non-executive appointment. Executive Directors are limited  
to accepting one external appointment.
Currently the Executive Directors do not hold any external appointments.
Indicative total remuneration levels
The charts below aim to show how the remuneration policy set out above for Executive Directors is applied by way of hypothetical 
performance scenarios.
 Superior – maximum bonus and maximum vesting under the LTIP.
 On-target – on-target bonus of 60% of maximum and LTIP vesting of 55% of maximum (10% of maximum bonus and 20%  
of maximum LTIP vest at threshold levels of performance).
 Below target – no bonus and no vesting under the LTIP.
Note: Share price growth and the value of dividend roll-up are ignored in this analysis.
Below 
target
On-target
Superior
John Reizenstein (£’000)
Base pay Beneﬁts Pension Bonus LTIP
£0m £1m £4m £3m £2m
460
460
460
690
414
920 2,200
506 1,510
590
Below 
target
On-target
Superior
Paul Geddes (£’000)
Base pay Beneﬁts Pension Bonus LTIP
£0m £1m £4m £3m £2m
760
760
760
1,330
798
1,520 3,817
836 2,601
967
83 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance 2012 implementation
Base pay
The current base salaries paid to the Executive Directors, effective 1 October 2012, are:
Director Position
Date of appointment to  
Direct Line Group role
Base salary 
£’000
Paul Geddes Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 1 September 2012 760
John Reizenstein Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 1 September 2012 460
There will be no increase to Executive Directors’ salaries in 2013.
Annual Incentive Plan
For the 2012 AIP, the Committee determined the level of award for Paul Geddes, taking into account the views of RBS Group on  
his performance. The award for John Reizenstein was agreed by the Committee, making an assessment against the targets set by 
RBS Group at the beginning of 2012. Overall, the Committee felt the bonus outcome was marginally below ‘On-target’. The Committee 
acknowledged that the commitments set out at IPO have been met, and that the share price has increased signiﬁcantly since listing. 
However, taking into account wider factors and internal stretch targets, overall performance was slightly below ‘On-target’.
For all other employees, their performance was assessed against the targets set at the beginning of 2012, and senior employees 
were speciﬁcally considered by the Committee.
Resulting from the performance described above, the annual incentive awards payable to the Executive Directors in respect  
of the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2012 are:
Director Position
Maximum annual  
incentive award 
(% of base salary)
Actual annual incentive
award for 2012
1
(% of base salary)
Actual annual incentive award 
for 2012 
£’000
Paul Geddes Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 175% 100% 760
John Reizenstein Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 150% 75% 345
Note:
1.  Paul Geddes’s bonus outcome for 2012 will be deferred on terms comparable to those applying to all members of the RBS Group Executive Committee, due  
to his having been a member of the RBS Group Executive Committee for nine months of the year, with the exception that any deferral is into the Company’s 
shares. John Reizenstein’s bonus will be paid 60% in cash and 40% in deferred shares under the DAIP as per the plan for all other senior employees.
Deferred Annual Incentive Plan
The table below shows details of the deferred awards granted to Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein for the 2012 ﬁnancial year.
Total award 
£‘000 Percentage deferred Vesting date(s)
Paul Geddes 760 60% March 2013 – 2016
John Reizenstein 345 40% March 2016
Annual Incentive Plan measures in 2013
For the Executive Directors, 75% of bonus opportunity is linked to clearly measureable corporate targets. These comprise a balanced 
scorecard of measures, which reﬂects both ﬁnancial and strategically important non-ﬁnancial measures (including a customer-based 
assessment), with the majority being ﬁnancial measures. The ﬁnal 25% is linked to clear personal objectives. Personal objectives are set 
in line with the Group’s values and will be measured based on achievement of objectives and demonstration of these values.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
84 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Type of measure Measure Weighting
Financial Proﬁt 35%
Financial Combined operating ratio 10%
Financial £100 million gross annual cost savings in 2014 10%
Financial & risk adjusted Risk management within risk appetite 10%
Strategic KPI Customer satisfaction measure 10%
Personal objectives No more than ﬁve deﬁned objectives 25%
Long-Term Incentive Plan
The Company’s policy is to make awards twice a year following the announcement of the Company’s full and half-year results.  
The ﬁrst awards were made on 7 November 2012, following IPO. These awards were treated by the Committee as an ordinary 
award, consistent with awards that will usually be made in the second half of the Company’s ﬁnancial year. The value of these 
awards was, therefore, equal to 50% of the normal annual policy level, that is, the awards granted to Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein 
were over Ordinary Shares with a face value of 100% of their salary. Awards were also granted to SLT members for lower amounts 
than those applicable to the Executive Directors.
Details of RBS Group long-term incentive awards previously made to the Executive Directors under RBS Group plans  
(prior to the IPO) are disclosed on page 89.
Performance conditions for awards made in 2012
The initial awards granted on 7 November are subject to the achievement of the following performance conditions:
 60% is based on RoTE over a two-year performance period (2013 and 2014); and
 40% is based on relative TSR performance against the constituents of the FTSE 350 (excluding investment trusts) over a  
three-year performance period starting on 16 October 2012. The starting TSR is measured over the period of one month 
following 16 October 2012 and closing TSR will be measured over the last three months of the three-year period.
For these purposes, the Company’s standard deﬁnition for RoTE is used, subject to such other adjustments as the Committee 
considers appropriate.
The performance targets are as follows:
Performance measure Threshold vesting Maximum vesting
RoTE 20% of portion of award vests for average annual 
RoTE performance of 14%
Full vesting for average annual RoTE 
performance of 17%
Relative TSR 20% of portion of award vests for median performance Full vesting for upper quintile performance
Vesting on the RoTE scale is weighted, with 40% vesting for RoTE of 15%. Otherwise, there is straight line interpolation by ranking 
between these points.
In addition, the LTIP awards will only vest to the extent that the Committee is satisﬁed that the outcome of the TSR and RoTE 
performance conditions reﬂects the underlying ﬁnancial performance of the Group over the period from the awards date until 
vesting. In making these considerations, the Committee will take into account whether there have been any material risk failings.
Free share awards
Following the IPO in October, an offer of 143 shares (worth approximately £250 at the time of offer) was made to all employees  
in the Group under the all-employee, HMRC-approved, Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”). The SIP is not subject to performance conditions 
and the shares vest after three years. Both Executive Directors accepted this offer.
85 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance Pension provision
Paul Geddes elected to become a member of the Group’s deﬁned 
contribution pension plan with effect from 1 September 2012. 
Prior to this, he was a participant in an RBS Group deﬁned 
beneﬁt plan. Going forward, he receives a combination of 
Company contributions and a taxable cash allowance together 
worth 25% of annual gross salary. Information on the transfer 
value of his RBS Group legacy deﬁned beneﬁt pension can be 
found on page 90.
John Reizenstein elected not to join the Group’s deﬁned 
contribution pension plan and receives a taxable cash 
allowance in lieu of Company contributions. The cash  
payment is equal to 25% of annual gross salary.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ fees
The fees paid to the Chairman are inclusive of all Board  
and Committee membership fees and are determined by  
the Committee. The Chairman’s fees have been set at 
£400,000 per annum.
The fees of the other Non-Executive Directors are determined  
by the Board, with affected persons absenting themselves  
from the deliberations, and aim to be competitive with other 
fully listed companies of equivalent size and complexity.
Additional fees are paid to Non-Executive Directors who  
chair a Board Committee or sit on a Board Committee and  
to the Senior Independent Director.
The Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to receive any 
compensation for loss of ofﬁce and are not entitled to participate  
in the Company’s bonus, employee share plan or pension 
arrangements. Fee levels for Non-Executive Directors are 
reviewed annually and set in April of each year.
The fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors set  
in 2012 are as follows:
Position
Fees 
£’000
Basic Non-Executive Director fee 70
Additional fees
Senior Independent Director fee 30
Chair of Board Committee  
(Audit, Risk and Remuneration) 30
Chair of Board Committee (CSR) 10
Member of Board Committee  
(Audit, Risk and Remuneration) 10
Member of Board Committee  
(CSR and Nomination)
1
5
Note:
1.  As there were no Nomination Committee meetings in 2012, the fees for 
membership of this Committee were waived. 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Total remuneration for the 2012 ﬁnancial year
Remuneration for the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2012 was as follows:
2012  
Base 
salary
1
£’000
2012  
Allowances  
and 
beneﬁts
2
£’000
2012  
Pension 
contributions  
and cash 
allowance  
in lieu of 
pension
3
£’000
2012 Bonuses 
awarded for 
performance 
during the
year
4
£’000
2012  
Total  
emoluments
£’000
201 1  
Total 
emoluments
7
£’000
2012 
Participation  
in RBS Group 
deﬁned 
beneﬁt 
plan
5
£’000
2012  
LTI awards
vesting
6
£’000
2012  
Single  
ﬁgure of 
remuneration 
£’000 
Paul Geddes 671 44 189 760 1 ,664 1,72 1 35 162 1,86 1
John Reizenstein 407 27 1 15 345 894 937 n/a n/a 894
Notes:
1.  Base salary earned during the ﬁnancial year ending 31 December 2012. This includes eight months as an employee of RBS Group and four months as an 
employee of Direct Line Group.
2.  Beneﬁts in kind and allowances made during the ﬁnancial year ending 31 December 2012. This includes eight months as an employee of RBS Group and  
four months as an employee of Direct Line Group. 
3.   This ﬁgure represents the cash equivalent received in lieu of pension whilst an employee of RBS Group and Direct Line Group.
4.   Annual bonus includes both the cash element received and the deferred element awarded in relation to the ﬁnancial year ending 31 December 2012. 
5.   This is the change in accrued beneﬁts in RBS Group deﬁned beneﬁt plans for Paul Geddes. 
6.    This ﬁgure represents the vesting of the Medium Term Performance Plan award during the ﬁnancial year ending 31 December 2012, with performance 
conditions and appropriate vesting amounts assessed by the RBS Group Remuneration Committee.
7.    The 201 1 statutory ﬁgure for John Reizenstein includes a buyout award granted on his appointment in 201 1 that had a total value of £219,567 and which vests 
over a three-year period.
8.  Sheree Howard was an Executive Director for the period to 23 March 2012. Pro-rata remuneration during 2012 amounted to base pay of £58,750,  
beneﬁts of £5,946, pension of £10,572 and bonus of £31 ,500. The amounts for the year to 31 December 201 1 amounted to base pay of £215,000,  
beneﬁts of £22,409, pension of £17 ,620 and bonus of £130,000.
86 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors for the year 
ended 31 December 2012 was as follows:
Total 2012
1
£’000
Total 2011
1
£’000
Mike Biggs 269.8 –
Andrew Palmer 81 .6 45.0
Jane Hanson 79.8 –
Clare Thompson 30.7 –
Priscilla Vacassin 29.1 –
Glyn Jones 26.9 –
Mark Catton ––
Bruce Van Saun ––
Chris Sullivan
2
––
Ian Falconer
2
8.3 47 .3
Notes:
1.  The only remuneration paid to the Directors in 201 1 and 2012 was in the 
form of fees.
2.  Chris Sullivan and Ian Falconer resigned as Directors in 2012.
Bruce Van Saun and Mark Catton are RBS Group employees 
and fees are paid to RBS Group. Under the RBS Group policy 
on internal Non-Executive Directors, Chris Sullivan was not 
eligible to receive fees for the period he was a Director.
Historical total shareholder return performance
This graph is a requirement of Schedule 8 to The Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Group (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008. However, as the Group has only existed as 
an independent entity since October 2012 we have provided  
the entire three-month historical performance versus the TSR of 
the FTSE 350 index over the same period.
80
100
120
140
10/10/12 31/10/12 30/1 1/12 31/12/12
Direct Line Group FTSE 350
Shareholdings
The Executive Directors are subject to the Group’s Share 
Ownership Guidelines and until they reach the required amount 
they must retain the Ordinary Shares obtained from any of the 
Group’s employee share plans after any disposals necessary for 
the payment of personal taxes on the acquisition of such Ordinary 
Shares. For these purposes, the holding of Ordinary Shares will be 
treated as including all vested but unexercised awards, valued on 
a basis that is net of applicable personal taxes.
Directors
Shares held at 
31 December
2012
1, 2
Mike Biggs –
Paul Geddes 57 ,142
John Reizenstein 57 ,142
Andrew Palmer 11 ,428
Jane Hanson 28,571
Clare Thompson 28,571
Priscilla Vacassin 28,571
Glyn Jones 57 ,142
Mark Catton –
Bruce Van Saun –
Notes:
1.  There are no changes between the year-end and a date not more than  
one month prior to the date of the notice for the AGM.
2.   Includes holdings of connected persons, as deﬁned in sections 252 – 255  
of the Companies Act.
87 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance Direct Line Group share awards 
The table below details the unvested awards held by Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein made under the Group’s LTIP.
Director and scheme
Options 
held at  
1 January 
2012
Options 
granted 
during  
the year
Options 
vested 
during  
the year
Options 
cancelled 
during  
the year
Options  
held as at  
31 December 
2012 Grant date
Market 
price at 
date of 
grant  
£Vesting date
Paul Geddes LTIP
2
–388,250 – – 388,250
3
7 November 2012 1.96 7 November 2015
John Reizenstein LTIP
2
–234,993 – – 234,993
3
7 November 2012 1.96 7 November 2015
Notes:
1.  The Group’s share price on 31 December 2012 was £2.164 and the range of prices in the portion of the year where the Group was listed (16 October 2012 
to 31 December 2012) was £1.865 to £2.164.
2.  These awards take the form of nil-cost options over the Group’s shares and are subject to performance conditions to be assessed by the Committee and as 
described on page 85.
3. This ﬁgure does not include those RBS Group LTIP awards transferred into the Direct Line Group’s share options during 2012 as per the table on page 89.
Direct Line Group free share awards
The table below details the unvested awards held by Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein made under the all-employee free share 
awards over 143 shares per employee referred to earlier in this report.
Director and scheme
Awards 
held as at  
1 January 
2012
Awards 
granted 
during  
the year
Awards 
vested 
during  
the year
Awards 
lapsed 
during  
the year
Awards  
held as at  
31 December 
2012 Grant date
Market 
price at 
date of 
grant 
£Vesting date
Paul Geddes 
Free Share Award – 143 – – 143 27 November 2012 2.02 27 November 2015
John Reizenstein 
Free Share Award – 143 – – 143 27 November 2012 2.02 27 November 2015
Note:
1.  The Group’s share price on 31 December 2012 was £2.164 and the range of prices in year (1 1 October 2012 to 31 December 2012) was £1.865 to £2.164.
Dilution
Direct Line Group is not permitted to make awards over unissued shares while remaining a major subsidiary undertaking of  
RBS Group. In due course, unissued shares may be used and the Direct Line Group will ensure that it complies with both of the 
dilution levels recommended by the ABI guidelines (of 10% in 10 years for all share plans and 5% in 10 years for discretionary 
plans) consistent with the rules of the Direct Line Group’s share plans. To date, legacy RBS Group awards to be satisﬁed in  
Direct Line Group shares will be satisﬁed by RBS Group rather than the Direct Line Group and RBS Group have placed shares  
in trust to facilitate this.
Legacy RBS Group awards vesting in the year
The Executive Directors continue to hold unvested awards previously granted to them under the RBS Group Employee Share Plans 
as employees of the RBS Group. We include details of these awards within our report as they were awarded to the Executive 
Directors in respect of their work as Executive Directors of Direct Line Group (previously RBS Insurance).
For the Medium Term Performance Plan award vesting to Paul Geddes in 2012, RBS Group determined the level which would 
vest based on the original performance targets as set at grant.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
88 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 RBS Group Medium Term Performance Plan
 
Director  
and scheme
Awards held at 
1 January 2012
Awards 
granted  
during  
the year
Awards  
vested  
during
the year
2
Awards  
lapsed  
during  
the year
Awards  
held as at  
31 December 
2012 Grant date
Market price at 
grant date 
£Vesting date
Paul Geddes 125,294 – 75, 17 6
1
50,1 18 – 22 May 2009 4.09 22 May 2012
Note:
1. The market price of RBS Group shares at vesting was £2.16.
RBS Group Long-Term Incentive Plan (“RBS Group LTIP”) awards
Awards originally granted under the RBS Group LTIP in 201 1 and 2012 will now be delivered in the Direct Line Insurance Group plc 
shares transferred by RBS Group to the extent that the originally set performance conditions for these awards are considered 
achieved by the RBS Group Remuneration Committee.
The table below details the awards made to Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein under RBS Group plans which will vest in  
Direct Line Insurance Group plc shares.
Director  
and scheme
Awards  
held at  
1 January 
2012  
(RBS Group 
shares)
Awards 
granted 
during  
the year
Awards 
vested  
during  
the year
Conversion of  
RBS Group 
shares to  
DLG shares  
in November
2012
2,3
Awards  
held  
as at  
31 December 
2012  
(DLG shares) Grant date
Market price 
at grant date 
(RBS Group 
shares) 
£Vesting date
Paul Geddes 
RBS Group LTIP 
201 1 337 ,139 – – 501,394 501,394 7 March 201 1 4.45 7 March 2014
2
RBS Group LTIP 
2012 – 535,906 – 797 ,000 797 ,000 9 March 2012 2.80 9 March 2015
2
John Reizenstein 
RBS Group LTIP 
201 1 69,226 – – 102,953 102,953 7 March 201 1 4.45 7 March 2014
2
RBS Group LTIP 
2012 – 120,578 – 179,324 179,324 7 March 2012 2.80 7 March 2015
2
Notes:
1.   The Direct Line Insurance Group plc share price at 31 December 2012 was £2.164 and the range of prices in year (1 1 October 2012 to 31 December 2012) 
was £1.865 to £2.164.
2.   It was agreed with RBS Group that participants now employed by Direct Line Group holding awards granted in 201 1 and 2012 under the RBS Group LTIP would 
be given the opportunity to have those awards satisﬁed by the transfer of Direct Line Insurance Group plc shares from RBS Group on vesting. The conversion 
rate applied to these awards was the average price of RBS Group shares over the ﬁve business day period prior to 1 1 October 2012 divided by the  
Direct Line Insurance Group plc share offer price (£1.75). This conversion equated to 1.487 Direct Line Insurance Group plc shares for every RBS Group  
share under grant. Both Executive Directors took up this offer.
3.   These are subject to performance conditions to be assessed by the RBS Group Remuneration Committee. The conditions relate to ﬁnancial and operational 
performance against the strategic plan for Direct Line Group and effective risk management with, in the case of Paul Geddes only, 25% of vesting also 
dependent upon RBS Group performance. The 2012 awards also applied measures based on employee and customer satisfaction.
89 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance Awards that were originally awarded under the RBS Group LTIP in 2010 will continue to be delivered in RBS Group shares.  
The table below details the awards held by Paul Geddes made under RBS Group plans.
Director  
and scheme
Awards  
held at  
1 January
2012
2
Awards 
granted 
during  
the year
Awards  
vested  
during  
the year
Awards 
lapsed 
during  
the year
Awards  
held as at  
31 December
2012
2
Grant date
Market price  
at grant date 
£Vesting date
Paul Geddes
RBS Group LTIP 
2010 229,779 – – – 229,779 14 May 2010 4.90 14 May 2013
2
Notes:
1.  The RBS Group share price on 31 December 2012 was £3.245 and the range of prices in year (1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012) was £1.966 to £3.250.
2.  These are subject to performance conditions to be assessed by the RBS Group Remuneration Committee, as described above.
RBS Group deferred awards
Awards which were originally awarded under the RBS Group Deferral Plan will continue to be delivered in RBS Group shares. 
The awards detailed below under the RBS Group Deferral Plan give a conditional right to acquire Ordinary Shares under the  
RBS Group 2010 Deferral Plan.
Director  
and scheme
Awards  
held at  
1 January  
2012
Awards 
granted 
during  
the year
Awards  
vested  
during  
the year
Awards 
lapsed 
during  
the year
Awards  
held as at  
31 December 
2012 Grant date
Market price 
at grant date 
£Vesting date
Paul Geddes
March 2010 39,602 – 39,602 – – 5 March 2010 3.79 18 June 2012
March 201 1 53,941 – 17 ,980
1
– 35,961 7 March 201 1 4.45
7 March 2012 –  
7 March 2014
March 2012 –160,772 64,308
1
– 96,464 9 March 2012 2.80
9 March 2012 –  
9 March 2015
John 
Reizenstein
March 201 1 7, 1 9 1 – 2 ,397
2
– 4,794 7 March 201 1 4.45 7 March 2012
March 2012 –33,047 19,828
2
– 13,219 7 March 2012 2.80
7 March 2012 –  
7 March 2015
Notes:
1. Vested on 9 March 2012 when the RBS Group share price was £2.80.
2. Vested on 7 March 2012 when the RBS Group share price was £2.62.
Legacy RBS Group pension beneﬁts
For the ﬁrst part of the year, Paul Geddes participated in the RBS Group deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan. Mr. Geddes left this plan 
to join the Direct Line Group deﬁned contribution plan on 1 September 2012 but kept his accrued pension in the RBS Group 
deﬁned beneﬁts pension plan. His deferred beneﬁts and accrual in 2012 under the legacy RBS Group plan are shown below:
 
Change in accrued 
pension in year 
£
Total accrued pension at 
31 December 2012 
£
Transfer value of total 
accrued pension at  
31 December 2012 
£
Transfer value of total 
accrued pension at  
31 December 2011 
£
Difference in transfer 
values less member 
contributions 
£
Paul Geddes 1,77 4 18,237 299 ,632 309,484 (9,852)
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 27 February 2013.
Priscilla Vacassin, Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Directors’ remuneration report continued
90 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Activities, directors’ report and business review
Direct Line Group is the largest retail general insurer in the  
UK. The number one direct motor insurer in Italy and the 
number three direct motor insurer in Germany. We operate  
a multi-brand, multi-product and multi-channel business that 
covers the majority of customer segments in the UK for  
personal lines general insurance and SME commercial lines.
The information that fulﬁls the requirements of the Directors’ 
report for the purposes of section 415 of the Companies  
Act 2006 is included within this corporate governance  
report (pages 52 to 95). 
Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 requires the  
Directors to present a business review in the Directors’ report.  
The information that fulﬁls this requirement can be found on 
pages 10 to 51, and is incorporated by reference into this 
corporate governance report.
Information about the use of ﬁnancial instruments by the Company 
and its subsidiaries and its risk management policies is disclosed 
in the business review on pages 26 to 29. 
Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.5(2) also requires this 
Annual Report & Accounts to include a management report.  
The information that fulﬁls this requirement can be found in the 
business review on pages 10 to 51 and this report on pages  
52 to 94.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings which principally 
affect the proﬁts or net assets of the Group in the year are 
listed in note 19 to the ﬁnancial statements.
The cautionary statement about forward-looking statements  
is set out on page 175.
Signiﬁcant changes and events
Signiﬁcant changes and events affecting the Group during 2012 
and until the date of this report are set out on page 52 to 53 
under ‘A year of transformation’.
Post-balance sheet events
Details of events after the statement of ﬁnancial position dates 
are contained in note 41 to the ﬁnancial statements.
Dividends
The ﬁnal dividend for 2012 of 8 pence per ordinary share  
will, subject to shareholder approval, be paid on 1 1 June 2013 
to all holders of Ordinary Shares on the Register of Members  
at close of business on 8 March 2013. Full details of dividends 
paid and of the dividend policy may be found on pages 135 
and 171 respectively.
Details of the Company’s rules on the appointment and term  
of appointment of Directors are given on pages 65 to 66 
of this report. 
Remuneration of Directors
The Remuneration report starting on page 78 forms part  
of the Directors’ report and includes details of the nature  
and amount of each element of the remuneration (including 
share options) of each of the Directors.
Secretary
Details of the Company Secretary of Direct Line Insurance 
Group plc, including his qualiﬁcations and experience,  
are set out on page 59.
Directors’ indemnities
The Articles of the Company permit it to indemnify the ofﬁcers  
of the Company (and the ofﬁcers of any associated company) 
against liabilities arising from the conduct of Company business 
to the extent permitted by law. Accordingly, the Company 
executed deeds of indemnity for the beneﬁt of each Director  
in respect of liabilities that may attach to them in their capacity 
as Directors of the Company or of associated companies. These 
indemnities are qualifying third-party indemnities as deﬁned by 
section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. No amount was paid 
under any of these indemnities during the year.
The Company also purchased directors’ and ofﬁcers’ liability 
insurance during the year, which provides appropriate cover  
for legal actions brought against its Directors. 
Authorisation of conﬂicts of interest
The Company’s Articles of Association permit the authorisation of 
a Director’s potential conﬂict of interest or duty. Such authorisations 
may be given by the remaining Directors who are independent of 
the potential conﬂict. 
The Board has approved a number of authorisations in this 
manner. Notwithstanding such authorisation, the Board 
continues to ensure that any actual conﬂict of interest or duty, 
should it arise, is dealt with appropriately, which will usually  
be by arranging that the Director takes no part in the relevant 
Board or Committee discussion or decision.
At no time during the year did any Director hold a material 
interest in any contract of signiﬁcance with the Company or the 
Group other than the Relationship Agreement with RBS Group, 
the indemnity provision described above and service contracts 
between each Executive Director and the Company.
Other disclosures
91 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance Share capital and control
The issued and fully paid share capital of the Company 
immediately following Admission to the Ofﬁcial List of  
the London Stock Exchange (the Ofﬁcial List) was 
1,500,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each. 
Prior to listing, the Directors were authorised on 3 1 August 201 2, 
conditional on admission to the Ofﬁcial List, to subdivide each  
of the 1,500,000,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each in the 
Company into:
(a) 1,500,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence; and 
(b) 1,500,000,000 deferred shares of 90 pence each. 
Immediately following the subdivision of the Company’s  
issued share capital described above, the deferred  
shares were acquired and cancelled by the Company  
in accordance with sections 659(1) and 662(1)(c)  
respectively of the Companies Act 2006.
Accordingly, the Directors were authorised on 21 September 
2012, conditional on admission to the Ofﬁcial List of the 
London Stock Exchange, to:
 allot shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £50,000,000, or grant rights to subscribe for  
or to convert any security into shares;
 allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£100,000,000, for the purpose of a rights issue; and
 make market purchases of up to 150,000,000 shares  
of the Company (representing approximately 10% of the 
Company’s issued share capital at the time).
These authorities have not been used to date and shareholders 
will be asked to renew them at the 2013 AGM. Details are 
contained in the Notice of AGM.
Following the IPO on 16 October 2012, the Ordinary Shares 
have a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange. As  
at the date of this report, 65.27% of the Company’s issued 
shares are held by The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc.
Details of the Company’s share capital and shares under option 
at 31 December 2012 are given in notes 27 and 34 of the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
The Company held no treasury shares during the year or  
at the date of this report. 
Details of Directors’ remuneration, service contracts, 
employment contracts and interests in the shares of the 
Company are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s  
Ordinary Shares, together with the powers of the Company’s 
Directors, are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association, 
which can be obtained from the Company’s website,  
www.directlinegroup.com. Unless expressly speciﬁed to  
the contrary in the Articles of Association, they may only  
be amended by a special resolution of the Company’s 
shareholders at a general meeting.
Relationship Agreement with RBS Group
Under the terms of a Relationship Agreement between the 
Company and RBS Group, which is described on page 61, 
RBS Group has nominated Bruce Van Saun and Mark Catton  
as Directors of the Company.
Under the terms of the agreement, RBS Group may  
nominate up to two Directors to serve on the Company’s  
Board of Directors. With the exception of the Relationship 
Agreement, there is no arrangement or understanding with  
any shareholder, customer, supplier, or any other external  
party, providing the right to appoint a Director or a member  
of the Executive Committee.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares
The Relationship Agreement in place between the Company 
and RBS Group contains certain restrictions on the transfer  
of the Ordinary Shares registered in the name of RBS Group. 
In addition, there are restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary 
Shares under the Company’s employee share incentive plans 
while the shares are subject to the plan rules. Where, under  
an employee share incentive plan operated by the Company, 
participants are the beneﬁcial owners of shares but not the 
registered owners, the voting rights are normally exercised  
at the discretion of the participants. 
Other than those speciﬁed above, there are no restrictions on 
the voting rights attached to the Company’s Ordinary Shares or 
the transfer of securities in the Company. There are no special 
rights with regard to control of the Company attached to the 
Company’s Ordinary Shares. The Company is not aware of  
any agreements between holders of shares that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of shares or voting rights. 
Other disclosures continued
92 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Material contracts
A number of agreements may take effect, alter or terminate  
upon a change of control of the Company including following a 
takeover bid, for example commercial contracts and distribution 
agreements. None is considered to be signiﬁcant in terms of its 
impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
 The Relationship Agreement between the Company and  
RBS Group remains in force until such time as the RBS Group’s 
shareholding reduces below 20% of the issued share capital 
of the Company. There are also provisions which provide  
the RBS Group with the right automatically to terminate the 
Relationship Agreement if the Company ceases to be listed, 
or if it passes a resolution to wind up, or if an administration 
order is made or it makes an arrangement with creditors. 
There are no provisions in the Relationship Agreement which 
allows RBS Group to terminate the agreement in the event  
of a change of control of Direct Line Group.
 All of the Company’s employee share incentive plans contain 
provisions relating to a change of control. Outstanding 
awards would typically vest and become exercisable on  
a change of control, subject usually to the satisfaction of 
performance conditions and pro-rata reduction. 
Substantial shareholdings
In accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority, the following shareholder has provided the Company 
with notice of interests in the Company’s voting rights. 
Shareholder 31 December 2012 27 February 2013
The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Group plc 65.27% 65.27%
Note: The interests indicated above are held directly.
Employee consultation
The Group’s statement on our employees is set out in the 
Corporate Social Responsibility report. In summary, we encourage 
open, honest and transparent communication and dialogue with 
employees. ERBs are in place to advise the Executive Committee 
regarding employee matters, including concerns and reports on 
morale, and to support communications. Throughout 2012, ERBs 
have championed the BEST programme, helping all employees 
contribute to improving the Group’s business. The BEST 
programme focuses on how we can achieve our ambition to 
become Britain’s best retail general insurer. A key achievement 
of the programme was the distillation of the ideas received 
from employees to arrive at a set of values to govern the way 
the Group operates. In addition, we held workshops as part of 
the transformation plan focusing on what constitutes the BEST 
for People, BEST for Customers and BEST for Shareholders.
Group management uses an intranet-based social media  
site, run as part of the BEST programme, to share ideas  
and achieve a common awareness throughout the Group, 
including those ﬁnancial and economic factors that affect  
our performance. The site also contains employee-feedback 
questionnaires. In addition, the Group encourages the 
involvement of employees in its performance by allowing 
eligible employees to participate in our all-employee share 
ownership plans.
The Group values the diversity of its employees and is 
committed to creating a working environment that is inclusive  
of all. The Group embraces people’s differences in order to 
attract and retain talent and seeks to enable employees to 
reach their potential; these differences include but are not  
limited to age, belief, disability, ethnic or national origin, 
gender, gender identity, marital or civil partnership status, 
political opinion, race, religion or sexual orientation. These 
commitments extend to recruitment and selection, training, 
career development, ﬂexible working arrangements,  
promotion and performance appraisal.
Disabled employees
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always  
fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant 
concerned. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled 
every effort is made to ensure that they continue their employment 
with the Group and that they receive appropriate training. It is 
Group policy that the training, career development and promotion 
of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that 
of other employees.
Supplier payment policy
The Group’s policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with 
agreed terms of business. Whenever possible, purchase orders 
are placed on the basis of the Group’s standard terms and 
conditions. These include provision for the payment of suppliers 
within 30 days of the end of the month in which the Group 
receives the goods or in which services are provided.
The average trade creditors of the Group during 2012, which 
exclude insurance creditors, were equivalent to 26 days’ 
purchases (201 1: 18 days’ purchases), based on the ratio of 
Group trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts 
invoiced during the year.
93 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance Charitable and political contributions
Through our Community Cashback scheme our employees 
were able to donate £48,000 to the charities they are involved  
in. Through our payroll giving scheme, the Group matched 
employee donations and contributed a total of £1 12,000.  
The Group was also able to support Children in Need  
and Comic Relief with over 900 employees taking pledge 
telephone calls in 2012.
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee is responsible 
for the approval of the Group’s community-based activities; 
more detail on the role of the Group’s CSR and community 
development activities can be found in the Corporate Social 
Responsibility report on pages 47 to 51. 
The Group made no political donations during the  
year (201 1: nil).
Governmental regulation
To comply with European Union state aid requirements,  
RBS Group agreed to cede control of Direct Line Group  
by the end of 2013 and divest its entire interest by the end  
of 2014. The initial minority tranche of the divestment of  
Direct Line Group, by way of a public ﬂotation, was  
effected on 16 October 2012.
Financial instruments
The Group’s companies use ﬁnancial instruments to manage 
certain types of risk, including those relating to credit,  
foreign-currency exchange, cash ﬂow, liquidity, interest rates  
and equity and property prices. Details of the objectives and 
management of these instruments are contained in the Risk 
management and Capital management sections on pages  
26 to 29 and 45. An indication of the exposure of Group 
companies to such risks is also contained in note 3 to the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Going concern 
The Group has sufﬁcient ﬁnancial resources to meet its ﬁnancial 
needs and it manages a mature portfolio of insurance risk. The 
Directors believe that the Group is well positioned to manage its 
business risks successfully in the current economic environment.
The Financial Review on pages 36 to 46 describes the Group’s 
capital management strategy, which covers how we measure 
our regulatory and economic capital needs and how capital is 
deployed. The ﬁnancial position of the Group is also covered 
in that section, including a commentary on cash and investment 
levels, reserves, currency management, insurance liability 
management, liquidity and borrowings.
Other disclosures continued
In addition, note 27 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
describes capital management needs and policies and note 3 
covers underwriting, market, liquidity and credit risks which  
may affect the Group’s ﬁnancial position.
After making due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Accordingly, they have adopted the going concern basis 
in preparing this Annual Report & Accounts.
Statement of disclosure of information to auditors
Each Director at the date of the approval of this Annual Report 
& Accounts conﬁrms that:
 So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which Deloitte LLP, the Company’s external 
auditor, is unaware.
 The Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to 
have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware  
of any relevant audit information and to establish that  
Deloitte LLP is aware of that information.
This conﬁrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditors
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in ofﬁce  
as external auditors. A resolution to reappoint them will be 
proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
This Directors’ report was reviewed and approved by the 
Board on 27 February 2013.
By order of the Board
Humphrey Tomlinson, General Counsel and Company Secretary
94 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable  
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such ﬁnancial 
statements for each ﬁnancial year. Under that law the Directors 
are required to prepare the Group ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent 
company ﬁnancial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union. Under company law the Directors must not 
approve the accounts unless they are satisﬁed that they give  
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company  
and of the proﬁt or loss of the Company for that period. In 
preparing these ﬁnancial statements, International Accounting 
Standard 1 requires that Directors:
 properly select and apply accounting policies;
 present information, including accounting policies, in  
a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable  
and understandable information;
 provide additional disclosures when compliance with  
the speciﬁc requirements in IFRSs are insufﬁcient to enable 
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, 
other events and conditions on the entity’s ﬁnancial position 
and ﬁnancial performance; and
 make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue  
as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufﬁcient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the ﬁnancial position of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that the ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets  
of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for  
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and  
integrity of the corporate and ﬁnancial information included  
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement
We conﬁrm that to the best of our knowledge:
1.  the ﬁnancial statements, prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted  
by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
ﬁnancial position and proﬁt or loss of the Company and  
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as  
a whole; and
2.  the management report, which is incorporated into the 
Directors’ report, includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
Paul Geddes, 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
27 February 2013
John Reizenstein, 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 
27 February 2013
 
Directors’ responsibilities statement
95 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Directors’ report: Corporate governance Financial statements
 Independent auditor’s report 97
Consolidated ﬁnancial statements
 Consolidated income statement 98
 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 99
 Consolidated balance sheet 100
 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 101
 Consolidated cash ﬂow statement 102
Notes to the consolidated  
ﬁnancial statements
1. Accounting policies  103
2. Critical accounting estimates and judgements 111
3.  Risk management  11 4
4. Segmental analysis  126
5. Net earned premium  130
6. Investment return  130
7 . Instalment and other operating income 131
8. Insurance claims  131
9. Commission expenses  131
10. Operating expenses  132
11. Finance costs  133
12. Tax charge  134
13. Deferred tax  135
14. Dividends  135
15.  Earnings and net assets per share,  
return on equity  136
16. Goodwill and other intangible assets 137
17 . Property, plant and equipment 139
18. Investment property  140
19. Subsidiaries  140
20. Reinsurance assets  141
21. Deferred acquisition costs  141
22. Insurance and other receivables 141
23. Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 142
24. Financial investments  142
25. Cash and cash equivalents  143
26. Assets held for sale  143
27. Share capital  144
28. Other reserves  144
29. Subordinated liabilities  145
30.  Insurance liabilities, unearned premium  
reserve and reinsurance assets 146
31. Life insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 150
32. Borrowings  151
33. Retirement beneﬁts obligations 151
34. Share-based payments  154
35.  Trade and other payables including  
insurance payables  156
36. Notes to the consolidated cash ﬂow statement 157
37 . Contingencies and guarantees 158
38. Commitments  158
39. Classiﬁcation of ﬁnancial instruments 159
40. Related parties  16 1
41. Post balance sheet events  163
Parent company ﬁnancial statements 
 Parent company balance sheet 164
 Parent company statement of comprehensive income 165
 Parent company statement of changes in equity 165
 Parent company cash ﬂow statement 166
Notes to the parent company  
ﬁnancial statements
1. Accounting policies  167
2. Investment in subsidiary undertakings 167
3. Other receivables  167
4. Current tax assets  168
5. Cash and cash equivalents  168
6. Share capital  168
7. Subordinated liabilities  168
8. Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 168
9. Borrowings  169
10. Trade and other payables  169
11. Dividends  169
12. Cash generated from operations 169
13. Related parties  170
14. Share-based payments  170
15. Risk management  170
16. Directors and key management remuneration 170
Contents
96 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Independent auditor’s report to the members 
of Direct Line Insurance Group plc
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements of Direct Line 
Insurance Group plc (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries 
(together the “Group”) for the year ended 31 December 2012 
which comprise the accounting policies, the consolidated  
and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2012,  
the consolidated income statement, the consolidated and 
Company statements of changes in equity and the consolidated 
and Company cash ﬂow statements for the year ended  
31 December 2012 and the related notes 1 to 41 on  
the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, and the related notes  
1 to 16 on the Company ﬁnancial statements. The ﬁnancial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation  
is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as  
a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken  
so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters 
we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for  
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we  
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than  
the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our 
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors  
and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities 
statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they  
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and 
express an opinion on the ﬁnancial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with  
the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give 
reasonable assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free  
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or  
error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of signiﬁcant 
accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. In addition, we read  
all the ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information in the Annual 
Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
ﬁnancial statements. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion:
 the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view  
of the state of the Group’s and of the Company’s  
affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of the Group’s  
and the Company’s proﬁt for the year then ended;
 the ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
 the ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and,  
as regards the Group ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued  
by the IASB
As explained in the accounting policies to the Group ﬁnancial 
statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal 
obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, 
has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”).
In our opinion the Group ﬁnancial statements comply with  
IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be  
audited has been properly prepared in accordance  
with the Companies Act 2006; and
 the information given in the Directors’ report for the  
ﬁnancial year for which the ﬁnancial statements are  
prepared is consistent with the ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report  
by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report  
to you if, in our opinion:
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
 the Company ﬁnancial statements and the part of  
the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not  
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration speciﬁed  
by law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 the Directors’ statement, contained within the Directors’ report, 
in relation to going concern; 
 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating  
to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of  
the UK Corporate Governance Code speciﬁed for our 
review; and
 certain elements of the Remuneration report.
David Rush (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
27 February 2013
97 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Consolidated income statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
 
Notes 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Gross earned premium  4,048.5  4,522.9 
Reinsurance premium ceded  (326.5) (269.9)
Net earned premium 5 3,722.0  4,253.0 
Investment return 6 281.8  281.9 
Instalment income 7 125.4  145.0 
Other operating income 7 73.3  95.1 
Total income  4,202.5  4,775.0 
Insurance claims 8 (2,875.3) (3,160.6)
Insurance claims recoverable from reinsurers 8 451.0  193.1 
Net insurance claims  (2,424.3) (2,967.5)
Commission expenses 9 (452.9) (518.9)
Operating expenses 10 (1,047.5) (944.6)
Total expenses  (1,500.4) (1,463.5)
Operating profit  277.8  344.0 
Finance costs 11 (28.7) (2.7)
Gain on disposal of subsidiary  –  1.6 
Profit before tax  249.1  342.9 
Tax charge 12 (64.8) (93.9)
Profit for the year  184.3  249.0 
Profit attributable to:   
Owners of the Company  184.3  249.0 
Non-controlling interests  – – 
  184.3  249.0 
   
Earnings per share:   
Basic (pence) 15 12.3  16.6 
Diluted (pence) 15 12.3  16.6
The attached notes on pages 103 to 163 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
98 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
 
Notes 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Profit for the year  184.3 249.0 
Other comprehensive income   
Actuarial loss on defined benefit plan 33 (3.4) (0.6)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations  (2.4) (3.5)
Fair value gain on available-for-sale investments 28 109.9 183.8 
Less: realised net gains on available-for-sale investments 28 (89.5) (52.3)
  14.6 127.4
Tax credit / (charge) on other comprehensive income  1.9 (36.8)
Other comprehensive income for the year  16.5 90.6
Total comprehensive income for the year  200.8 339.6
Total comprehensive income attributable to:   
Owners of the Company  200.8 339.6
Non-controlling interests  –  – 
  200.8 339.6
The attached notes on pages 103 to 163 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
99 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Consolidated balance sheet 
As at 31 December 2012 
 
Notes 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Assets   
Goodwill and other intangible assets 16 421.5 365.8
Property, plant and equipment 17 92.4 46.9
Investment property 18 128.9 69.5
Reinsurance assets 20 1,102.0 741.6
Deferred tax assets 13 22.5 26.9
Current tax assets 12 5.5 – 
Deferred acquisition costs 21 327.6 310.5
Insurance and other receivables 22 1,164.0 1,252.9
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets  82.6 92.2
Derivative financial instruments 23 37.5 0.1
Retirement benefit asset 33 2.5 2.6
Financial investments 24 7,801.5 9,480.3
Cash and cash equivalents 25 1,508.4 1,379.8
Assets held for sale 26 1.0 1.0
Total assets  12,697.9 13,770.1
   
Equity   
Shareholders’ equity  2,831.6 3,612.8
Non-controlling interest  –  258.5
Total equity  2,831.6 3,871.3
   
Liabilities   
Subordinated liabilities 29 787.5 – 
Insurance liabilities 30 6,398.5 6,509.0
Unearned premium reserve 30 1,872.9 1,931.6
Borrowings 32 90.9 317.9
Derivative financial instruments 23 6.5 – 
Trade and other payables including insurance payables 35 654.6 910.2
Deferred tax liabilities 13 20.9 12.1
Current tax liabilities 12 34.5 218.0
Total liabilities  9,866.3 9,898.8
Total equity and liabilities  12,697.9 13,770.1
The attached notes on pages 103 to 163 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 27 February 2013. They were 
signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
John Reizenstein 
Chief Financial Officer
100 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
 
Share capital 
£m 
Employee 
trust
shares
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
 £m
Revaluation 
reserve
 £m
Non-
distributable 
reserve
 £m
Foreign 
exchange 
translation 
reserve 
 £m 
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total 
shareholders 
equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2011  1,500.0 – 100.0 41.9 197.6 5.4 1,378.73,223.6
Profit for the year –  – – – – –  249.0 249.0
Other comprehensive income –  – – 94.7 – (3.5) (0.6) 90.6
Transfer from non-distributable reserve –  – – – (167.3) –  167.3 – 
Capital contribution
1
 –  – – – – –  55.9 55.9
Movement in net assets of Direct Line 
Versicherung AG
2
 –  – – 0.5 – 4.5  (11.3) (6.3)
Balance at 31 December 2011 1,500.0 – 100.0 137.1 30.3 6.4 1,839.03,612.8
Profit for the year –  – – – – –  184.3184.3
Other comprehensive income –  – – 21.7 – (2.4) (2.8) 16.5
Dividends –  – – – – –  (1,000.0)(1,000.0)
Transfer to non-distributable reserve –  – – – 32.9 –  (32.9) – 
Capital contribution
1
 –  – – – – –  30.9 30.9
Movement in net assets of Direct Line 
Versicherung AG
2
 –  – – – – 1.0  (9.2) (8.2)
Share-based payments –  (5.0) – – – –  0.3 (4.7)
Issue of own shares 150.0 – – – – –  – 150.0
Own shares redeemed (1,500.0) – 1,350.0 – – –  – (150.0)
Balance at 31 December 2012 150.0 (5.0)1,450.0 158.8 63.2 5.0 1,009.62,831.6
Notes: 
1. See basis of preparation in note 1. 
2. The movements in net assets of Direct Line Versicherung AG ceased on 2 April 2012, see note 1. 
 Non-
controlling 
interest
£m
Balance at 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011  258.5
Transfer to subordinated liabilities (258.5)
Balance at 31 December 2012 – 
The attached notes on pages 103 to 163 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
10 1 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Consolidated cash flow statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
 
Notes 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Net cash used by operating activities before investment of insurance assets 36 (966.0) (359.8)
Cash generated from investment of insurance assets 36 2,004.8 38.8 
Net cash generated from / (used by) operating activities  1,038.8 (321.0)
Cash flows from investing activities   
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment  –  1.2 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 17 (63.7) (7.5)
Purchases of intangible assets 16 (96.6) (119.8)
Net cash flows from disposal of subsidiary   –  (0.1)
Cash flows from net investment hedges  6.1 – 
Net cash used by investing activities  (154.2) (126.2)
Cash flows from financing activities   
Dividends paid  (1,000.0) – 
Repayments of borrowings  (246.4) (205.5)
Proceeds on issue of subordinated debt  493.0 – 
Finance costs   (16.1) – 
Purchase of employee trust shares  (5.0) – 
Proceeds from borrowings  –  205.0 
Net cash used by financing activities  (774.5) (0.5)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  110.1 (447.7)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 25 1,309.6 1,763.5 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  (2.2) (6.2) 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 25 1,417.5 1,309.6
The attached notes on pages 103 to 163 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
102 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
 
 
Corporate information 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc is a public limited company 
incorporated in the United Kingdom. The address of the 
registered office is Churchill Court, Westmoreland Road, 
Bromley, BR1 1DP, England. 
1. Accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
As required by the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of  
the EU IAS Regulation, the consolidated financial statements 
are prepared in accordance with IFRSs issued by the IASB  
as adopted by the EU. The financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with and full compliance with IFRSs  
as issued by the IASB. 
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the 
historical cost basis except for available-for-sale financial 
assets, investment property and derivative financial instruments, 
which are measured at fair value. 
The Company’s financial statements and the Group’s 
consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds 
Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company. 
The Group in its current structure was formed on 2 April 2012 
when the Company acquired Direct Line Versicherung AG from 
a fellow subsidiary of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc. 
Therefore the basis of preparation represents a reorganisation 
of entities under common control, which is outside the scope  
of IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’. Accordingly, as permitted 
by IAS 8 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting 
Estimates and Errors’, it has been accounted for as a group 
reconstruction as described in Financial Reporting Standard  
6, ‘Acquisitions and Mergers’. The consolidated financial 
statements have been prepared as if the transaction that  
gave rise to the formation of the Group had taken place  
at the beginning of the comparative period. Under these 
principles, the consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared as if the Company were the holding company of 
Direct Line Versicherung AG from 1 January 2011, the date  
of the beginning of the comparative period.  
As part of the divestment from RBS Group, the way in which 
expenses incurred by RBS Group on behalf of the Group 
changed. Up until 30 June 2012, only some of these expenses 
were recharged to the Group by RBS Group. From 1 July 
2012, some of the services previously provided by RBS  
Group have been brought in-house and so the expense is now 
incurred directly by the Group and reflected in expenses in  
the income statement; other services are still provided by RBS 
Group under a transitional services agreement (“TSA”) and  
the expense of these is charged to the Group. In order to  
aid comparability, the Group’s accounting policy has been 
changed so that all expenses are included within the income 
statement. For the avoidance of doubt, this includes external 
costs incurred by the Group and costs incurred by RBS Group, 
irrespective of whether RBS Group recharged them to the 
Group. In the case of expenses incurred by RBS Group and 
not recharged to the Group, a capital contribution has been 
credited to retained earnings in the statement of changes in 
equity to reflect this contribution from a shareholder. In addition 
there was a further contribution of £6.3 million in respect  
of overseas taxation. The comparatives for the year ended  
31 December 2011 have been prepared on the same basis. 
The effect of the above on the Group profit for the year  
ended 31 December 2012 was to decrease profit after tax  
by £30.9 million, (31 December 2011: £55.9 million) with  
an equal and opposite credit in the statement of changes in 
equity. There was no impact on net assets at 1 January 2011 
or 31 December 2011, and accordingly no balance sheet  
at 1 January 2011 has been provided. 
Adoption of new and revised standards 
There have been no new or revised standards adopted in  
the year.  
1.1 Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 
statements of the Company and the entities that are controlled 
by the Group at 31 December 2012 and 2011. Control 
exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial 
and operating policies of an entity. In assessing if the Group 
controls another entity, the existence and effect of the potential 
voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible  
are considered. 
Where necessary, adjustments have been made to the 
financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting 
policies used into line with those used by the Group.  
The policies set out below have been applied consistently 
throughout the years ended 2012 and 2011 to items 
considered material to the consolidated financial information. 
A subsidiary acquired is included in the consolidated financial 
statements from the date it is controlled by the Group until  
the date the Group ceases to control it. On acquisition of  
a subsidiary, its identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities are included in the consolidated financial statements 
at fair value.  
All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses 
between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.  
The consolidated financial statements are prepared using 
consistent accounting policies.  
103 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
1. Accounting policies continued  
1.2 Foreign currencies 
The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented  
in Pounds Sterling which is the presentational currency of the 
Group. Group entities record transactions in the currency  
of the primary economic environment in which they operate 
(their functional currency), translated at the foreign exchange 
rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into 
the relevant functional currency at the foreign exchange rates 
ruling at the balance sheet date. Foreign exchange differences 
arising on the settlement of foreign currency transactions  
and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities are 
reported in the income statement except for differences arising 
on hedges of net investments in foreign operations. Non-
monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are 
stated at fair value are translated into the relevant functional 
currency at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the 
values are determined. Translation differences arising on non-
monetary items measured at fair value are recognised in the 
income statement except for differences arising on available-
for-sale non-monetary financial assets, for example equity 
shares, which are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill 
and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated 
into Pounds Sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling  
at the balance sheet date. Income and expenses of foreign 
operations are translated into Pounds Sterling at average 
exchange rates unless these do not approximate the foreign 
exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Foreign 
exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign 
operation are recognised in the consolidated statement of other 
comprehensive income. The amount accumulated in equity is 
reclassified from equity to the consolidated income statement 
on disposal or partial disposal of a foreign operation. 
1.3 Contract classification 
Insurance contracts are those contracts where the Group  
(the insurer) has accepted significant insurance risk from 
another party (the policyholder) by agreeing to compensate  
the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event  
(the insured event) adversely affects the policyholder. 
Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, 
it remains an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, 
even if the insurance risk reduces significantly during this 
period, unless all rights and obligations are extinguished. 
1.4 Revenue recognition 
Premiums earned 
Insurance and reinsurance premiums comprise the total 
premiums receivable for the whole period of cover provided  
by contracts incepted during the financial year, adjusted by an 
unearned premium provision, which represents the proportion 
of the premiums incepted in prior periods and that relate to 
periods of insurance after the balance sheet date. Unearned 
premiums are calculated over the period of exposure under  
the policy, on a daily basis, 24ths basis or allowing for the 
estimated incidence of exposure under policies. Insurance 
premiums are shown gross of any commission payable  
to intermediaries or other parties. 
Premiums collected by intermediaries or other parties,  
but not yet received, are assessed based on estimates from 
underwriting or past experience, and are included in insurance 
premiums. Insurance premiums exclude insurance premium  
tax or equivalent local taxes and are shown gross of any 
commission payable to intermediaries or other parties. 
The Group’s long-term assurance contracts include whole-life 
and term assurance contracts that are expected to remain in 
force for an extended period of time. These contracts insure 
events associated with human life (for example, death or the 
occurrence of a critical illness). These are recognised as 
revenue when they become payable by the contract holder. 
Premiums are shown before the deduction of commission. 
Investment return 
Interest income on financial assets is determined using the 
effective interest rate method. The effective interest rate method 
is a way of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset 
(or group of financial assets) and of allocating the interest 
income over the expected life of the asset. In the case of 
financial assets classified as available for sale, estimates  
are based on the straight-line method, which the directors  
have determined is a close approximation to the effective 
interest rate. 
Rental income from investment property is recognised in  
the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period  
of the contract. Any gains or losses arising from a change  
in fair value are recognised in the income statement. 
Instalment income 
Instalment income comprises the interest income earned  
on policyholder receivables, where outstanding premiums  
are settled by a series of instalment payments. Interest is 
earned using an effective interest rate method over the term  
of the policy. 
Other operating income 
Solicitors’ referral fee income 
Revenue relating to this activity is recognised when the service 
is rendered. The provision of these services is contractual and 
the associated cost is recognised when incurred. 
Vehicle replacement referral income 
Vehicle replacement referral fee income comprises fees in 
respect of referral income received when a customer or a  
non-fault policy holder (claimant) of another insurer has  
been provided with a hire vehicle from a preferred supplier.  
Income is recognised immediately when the customer or 
claimant is provided with the hire vehicle. 
Revenue from vehicle recovery and repairs services 
Fees in respect of services for vehicle recovery are recognised 
as the right to consideration, and accrue through the provision 
of the service to the customer. The arrangements are generally 
contractual and the cost of providing the service is incurred  
as the service is rendered. The price is usually fixed and 
always determinable. 
104 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
The Group’s income also comprises vehicle repair services 
provided to other third-party customers. Income in respect  
of repairs to vehicles is recognised upon completion of the 
service. The price is determined using market rates for the 
services and materials used after discounts have been 
deducted where applicable. 
Management systems income represents the sale of tracking 
units, installation services and monitoring services. Revenue  
is recognised immediately, with the exception of the non-
cancellable network subscriptions receivable in advance, 
which are classified as deferred income in the balance sheet 
and recognised on a straight-line basis over the stated term  
of the subscription. 
Other income 
Commission fee income in respect of services is recognised 
when a policy has been placed and incepted. Income is 
stated excluding applicable sales taxes. 
1.5 Insurance claims 
Insurance claims are recognised in the accounting period in 
which the loss occurs. Provision is made for the full cost of 
settling outstanding claims at the balance sheet date, including 
claims incurred but not yet reported at that date, net of salvage 
and subrogation recoveries. Outstanding claims provisions are 
not discounted for the time value of money except for claims  
to be settled by PPOs established under the Courts Act 2003. 
A UK court can award damages for future pecuniary loss in 
respect of personal injury or for other damages in respect of 
personal injury and may order that the damages are wholly  
or partly to take the form of PPOs. These are covered in more 
detail in note 2.1. Costs for both direct and indirect claims 
handling expenses are also included. 
Provisions are determined by management based on 
experience of claims settled and on statistical models which 
require certain assumptions to be made regarding the 
incidence, timing and amount of claims and any specific 
factors such as adverse weather conditions. When calculating 
the total provision required, the historical development of 
claims is analysed using statistical methodology to extrapolate, 
within acceptable probability parameters, the value of 
outstanding claims (gross and net) at the balance sheet date. 
Also included in the estimation of outstanding claims are 
factors such as the potential for judicial or legislative inflation. 
In addition, an allowance is made for reinsurance assets 
deemed not recoverable. 
Provisions for more recent claims make use of techniques  
that incorporate expected loss ratios and average claims  
cost (adjusted for inflation) and frequency methods. As claims 
mature, the provisions are increasingly driven by methods 
based on actual claim experience. The approach adopted 
takes into account the nature, type and significance of the 
business and the type of data available, with large claims 
generally being assessed separately. The data used for 
statistical modelling purposes is generated internally and 
reconciled to the accounting data. 
The calculation is particularly sensitive to the estimation of the 
ultimate cost of claims for the particular classes of business  
at gross and net levels and the estimation of future claims 
handling costs.  
Actual claims experience may differ from the historical pattern 
on which the actuarial best estimate is based and the cost  
of settling individual claims may exceed that assumed.  
As a result, the Group sets provisions at a margin above  
the actuarial best estimate. This amount is recorded as  
claims provisions. 
A liability adequacy provision is made for unexpired risks 
arising where the expected value of net claims and expenses 
attributable to the unexpired periods of policies in force at the 
balance sheet date exceeds the unearned premium reserve in 
relation to such policies after the deduction of any acquisition 
costs deferred and other prepaid amounts (for example, 
reinsurance). The expected value is determined by reference  
to recent experience and allowing for changes to the premium 
rates. The provision for unexpired risks is calculated separately 
by reference to classes of business that are managed together 
after taking account of relevant investment returns. 
1.6 Reinsurance 
The Group has reinsurance treaties and other reinsurance 
contracts that transfer significant insurance risk. 
The Group cedes insurance risk by reinsurance in the normal 
course of business, with the arrangement and retention limits 
varying by product line. Outward reinsurance premiums are 
generally accounted for in the same accounting period as  
the premiums for the related direct business being reinsured. 
Outward reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same 
accounting period as the direct claims to which they relate. 
Reinsurance assets include balances due from reinsurance 
companies for ceded insurance liabilities. Amounts recoverable 
from reinsurers are estimated in a consistent manner with the 
outstanding claims provisions or settled claims associated with 
the reinsured policies and in accordance with the relevant 
reinsurance contract. Recoveries in respect of PPOs are 
discounted for the time value of money. 
A reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed in respect of 
reinsurance debtors, to allow for the risk that the reinsurance 
asset may not be collected or where the reinsurer’s credit rating 
has been downgraded significantly. This also includes an 
assessment in respect of the ceded part of claims provisions  
to reflect the credit risk exposure to long-term reinsurance assets 
particularly in relation to periodical payments. This is affected 
by the Group reducing the carrying value of the asset 
accordingly and the impairment loss is recognised in  
the income statement. 
105 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
1. Accounting policies continued  
1.7 Deferred acquisition costs 
Acquisition costs relating to new and renewing insurance 
policies are matched with the earning of the premiums to 
which they relate. A proportion of acquisition costs incurred 
during the year is therefore deferred to the subsequent 
accounting period to match the extent to which premiums 
written during the year are unearned at the balance  
sheet date. 
The principal acquisition costs deferred are direct advertising 
expenditure, administration costs, commission paid and costs 
associated with telesales and underwriting staff. 
1.8 Goodwill and other intangible assets 
Acquired goodwill, being the excess of the cost of an 
acquisition over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of  
the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of  
the subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired, is initially 
recognised at cost and subsequently at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill arising on the 
acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures is 
included in the balance sheet category ‘goodwill and other 
intangible assets’. The gain or loss on the disposal of a 
subsidiary, associate or joint venture includes the carrying 
value of any related goodwill. 
Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated  
at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement over the 
assets’ economic lives using methods that best reflect the 
pattern of economic benefits and is included in other operating 
expenses. The estimated useful economic lives are as follows: 
Software development costs 5 years 
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is 
written off as incurred. Direct costs relating to the development 
of internal-use computer software and associated business 
processes are capitalised once technical feasibility and 
economic viability have been established. These costs include 
payroll costs, the costs of materials and services, and directly 
attributable overheads. Capitalisation of costs ceases when the 
software is capable of operating as intended. During and after 
development, accumulated costs are reviewed for impairment 
against the projected benefits that the software is expected to 
generate. Costs incurred prior to the establishment of technical 
feasibility and economic viability are expensed as incurred  
as are all training costs and general overheads. The costs of 
licences to use computer software that is expected to generate 
economic benefits beyond one year are also capitalised. 
1.9 Property, plant and equipment 
Items of property, plant and equipment (except investment 
property – see accounting policy 1.11) are stated at cost  
less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Where 
an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major 
components having different useful lives, they are accounted 
for separately. 
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a  
straight-line basis so as to write off the depreciable amount  
of property, plant and equipment over their estimated useful 
lives. The depreciable amount is the cost of an asset less its 
residual value. Land is not depreciated. Estimated useful lives 
are as follows: 
Freehold and long  
leasehold buildings 
50 years or the period of the 
lease if shorter 
Vehicles 5 years 
Computer equipment Up to 5 years 
Other equipment, including 
property adaptation costs 
4 to 15 years 
The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of 
property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference 
between the disposal proceeds, if any, and the carrying 
amount of the item. 
1.10 Impairment of intangible assets, goodwill and property, 
plant and equipment 
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is 
any indication that its intangible assets, goodwill or property, 
plant and equipment are impaired. If any such indication 
exists, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the  
asset and the impairment loss, if any. Goodwill is tested for 
impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes  
in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired. If an asset 
does not generate cash flows that are independent of those  
of other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount  
is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset 
belongs. The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher  
of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Value in 
use is the present value of future cash flows from the asset or 
cash-generating unit, discounted at a rate that reflects market 
interest rates, adjusted for risks specific to the asset or cash-
generating unit that have not been reflected in the estimation  
of future cash flows. 
If the recoverable amount of an intangible or a tangible asset 
is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognised 
immediately in the income statement and the carrying value  
of the asset is reduced by the amount of the impairment loss. 
A reversal of an impairment loss on intangible assets or 
property, plant and equipment is recognised as it arises 
provided the increased carrying value does not exceed  
the carrying amount that would have been determined had  
no impairment loss been recognised. Impairment losses on 
goodwill are not reversed. 
1.11 Investment property 
Investment property comprises freehold and long-leasehold 
properties that are held to earn rentals or for capital 
appreciation or both. Investment property is not depreciated 
but is stated at fair value based on valuations by independent 
registered valuers. Fair value is based on current prices for 
similar properties in the same location and condition. Any gain 
or loss arising from a change in fair value is recognised in the 
income statement. 
106 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
Investment property is derecognised either when it has been 
disposed of, or permanently withdrawn from use and no future 
economic benefit is expected from disposal. Any gains or losses 
on the retirement or disposal of investment property are 
recognised in the income statement in the year of retirement  
or disposal. 
1.12 Financial assets 
Financial assets are classified as held-to-maturity, available-for-
sale and designated at fair value through profit or loss, or 
loans and receivables. The Group only has available-for-sale 
financial assets and loans and receivables.  
Available-for-sale – Financial assets that are not classified  
as loans and receivables, are classified as available-for-sale. 
Financial assets can be designated as available-for-sale on 
initial recognition. Available-for-sale financial assets are initially 
recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs. 
They are subsequently measured at fair value. Impairment 
losses and exchange differences resulting from retranslating the 
amortised cost of foreign currency monetary available-for-sale 
financial assets are recognised in the income statement, 
together with interest calculated using the effective interest rate 
method. Other changes in the fair value of available-for-sale 
financial assets are reported in a separate component of 
shareholders’ equity until disposal, when the cumulative gain  
or loss is recognised in the income statement. 
Regular way purchases of financial assets classified as loans 
and receivables are recognised on settlement date; all other 
regular way purchases are recognised on trade date. 
A financial asset is regarded as quoted in an active market  
if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an 
exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service  
or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and 
regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length 
basis. The appropriate quoted market price for an asset held  
is usually the current bid price. When current bid prices are 
unavailable, the price of the most recent transaction provides 
evidence of the current fair value as long as there has not  
been a significant change in economic circumstances since  
the time of the transaction. If conditions have changed since 
the time of the transaction (for example, a change in the risk-
free interest rate following the most recent price quote for a 
corporate bond), the fair value reflects the change in 
conditions by reference to current prices or rates for similar 
financial instruments, as appropriate.  
The valuation methodology described above uses observable 
market data. 
If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group 
establishes the fair value by using a valuation technique. 
Valuation techniques include using recent arm’s length  
market transactions between knowledgeable, willing parties  
(if available), reference to the current fair value of another 
instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow 
analysis and option pricing models. If there is a valuation 
technique commonly used by market participants to price  
the instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to 
provide reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market 
transactions, the Group uses that technique. 
The fair value of other investments that do not have a quoted 
market price in an active market and derivatives that are linked 
to and must be settled by delivery of such an unquoted equity 
instrument are reliably measurable if: 
(a) the variability in the range of reasonable fair value 
estimates is not significant for that instrument; or 
(b) the probabilities of the various estimates within the  
range can be reasonably assessed and used in estimating 
fair value. 
Loans and receivables – Non-derivative financial assets with 
fixed or determinable repayments that are not quoted in an 
active market are classified as loans and receivables, except 
those that are classified as available-for-sale. Loans and 
receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus directly 
related transaction costs and are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method less  
any impairment losses. 
Insurance receivables comprise outstanding insurance 
premiums where the policyholders have elected to pay  
in instalments, or amounts due from third parties where  
they have collected or are due to collect the money from  
the policyholder.  
Other loans and receivables principally comprise loans to 
related parties and other debtors. 
Impairment of financial assets 
At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether  
there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group 
of financial assets classified as available-for-sale or loans  
and receivables is impaired. A financial asset or portfolio of 
financial assets is impaired and an impairment loss incurred  
if there is objective evidence that an event or events since 
initial recognition of the asset has adversely affected the 
amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset. 
Available-for-sale – When a decline in the fair value of  
a financial asset classified as available-for-sale has been 
recognised directly in equity and there is objective evidence that 
the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss is removed from equity 
and recognised in the income statement. The loss is measured as 
the difference between the amortised cost of the financial asset 
and its current fair value. Impairment losses on available-for-sale 
equity instruments are not reversed through profit or loss, but 
those on available-for-sale debt instruments are reversed, if  
there is an increase in fair value that is objectively related to  
a subsequent event. Subsequent increases in the fair value  
of available-for-sale other investment funds are all recognised  
in equity. 
107 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
1. Accounting policies continued  
Loans and receivables – If there is objective evidence that  
an impairment loss on a financial asset or group of financial 
assets classified as loans and receivables has been incurred, 
the Group measures the amount of the loss as the difference 
between the carrying amount of the asset or group of assets 
and the present value of estimated future cash flows from the 
asset or group of assets, discounted at the effective interest  
rate of the instrument at initial recognition. 
Impairment losses are assessed individually where significant 
or collectively for assets that are not individually significant. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement and 
the carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial 
assets is reduced by establishing an allowance for the 
impairment losses. If in a subsequent period the amount of the 
impairment loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to 
an event after the impairment was recognised, the previously 
recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance. 
For amounts due from policyholders, the bad debt provision is 
calculated based upon prior loss experience. For all balances 
outstanding in excess of three months, a bad debt provision  
is made. Where a policy is subsequently cancelled, the 
outstanding debt that is overdue is written off to the income 
statement and the bad debt provision is written back to the 
income statement. 
Derivatives and hedging 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially, and 
subsequently measured, at fair value. Derivative fair values  
are determined from quoted prices in active markets where 
available. Where there is no active market for an instrument, 
fair value is derived from prices for the derivative’s components 
using appropriate pricing or valuation models. 
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of a 
derivative are recognised as they arise in the income statement 
unless the derivative is the hedging instrument in a qualifying 
hedge. The Group currently enters into a number of hedge 
relationships, including net investment, cash flow and fair  
value hedges.  
Hedge relationships are formally documented at inception.  
The documentation identifies the hedged item and the hedging 
instrument and details the risk that is being hedged and the 
way in which effectiveness will be assessed at inception and 
during the period of the hedge. If the hedge is not highly 
effective in offsetting changes in cash flows and fair values 
attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the documented 
risk management strategy, or if the hedging instrument  
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting 
is discontinued. 
In the hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, the 
portion of foreign exchange differences arising on the hedging 
instrument determined to be an effective hedge is recognised 
directly in equity. Any ineffective portion is recognised in  
the income statement. Non-derivative financial liabilities as  
well as derivatives may be the hedging instrument in a net 
investment hedge. 
In a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or  
loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity.  
Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement. 
In a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument is recognised in the income statement. The gain  
or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is 
recognised in the income statement and, where the hedged 
item is measured at amortised cost, adjusts the carrying  
amount of the hedged item. 
Derecognition of financial assets 
A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive  
the cash flows from that asset have expired or when the  
Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the 
asset and has transferred substantially all the risk and rewards 
of ownership of the asset.  
1.13 Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and 
demand deposits with banks together with short-term highly 
liquid investments that are readily convertible to known 
amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of change  
in value. 
Borrowings, comprising bank overdrafts and group loans,  
are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest  
rate method. 
1.14 Financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value net  
of transaction costs incurred. Other than derivatives which  
are recognised and measured at fair value, all other financial 
liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest rate method. 
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation  
under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires. 
1.15 Subordinated liabilities 
Subordinated liabilities comprise subordinated dated loan 
notes and undated loans, which are initially measured at  
the consideration received less related transaction costs. 
Subsequently, subordinated liabilities are measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. 
1.16 Provisions 
The Group recognises a provision for a present legal or 
constructive obligation from a past event when it is more likely 
than not that it will be required to transfer economic benefits to 
settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. 
Restructuring provisions are made, including redundancy costs, 
when the Group has a constructive obligation to restructure. An 
obligation exists when the Group has a detailed formal plan 
and has communicated the plan to those affected by the plan. 
When the Group has an onerous contract, it recognises the 
present obligation under the contract as a provision. A contract 
is onerous when the unavoidable costs of meeting the 
108 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
contractual obligations exceed the expected economic benefit. 
A provision is recognised when the Group vacates a leasehold 
property for the costs under the lease which exceed expected 
economic benefits. 
The Group accrues for all insurance industry levies, such as the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme and Motor Insurance 
Bureau in the UK, as a provision in the balance sheet and not 
within insurance liabilities. The levy accruals are based on past 
underwriting levels at the best estimate rate given the available 
information at the balance sheet date.  
1.17 Leases 
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of  
the lease. 
1.18 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 
The Group provides post-retirement benefits in the form of 
pensions and healthcare plans to eligible employees. 
Contributions to the Group’s defined contribution pension 
scheme are recognised in the income statement when payable. 
As described in note 33, the Group’s defined benefit pension 
scheme was closed in 2003. Scheme liabilities are measured 
on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method 
and discounted at a rate that reflects the current rate of return 
on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and 
currency to the scheme liabilities. 
Scheme assets are measured at their fair value. Any surplus  
or deficit of scheme assets over liabilities is recognised in  
the balance sheet as an asset (surplus) or liability (deficit).  
The current service cost and any past service costs together 
with the expected return on scheme assets, less the unwinding 
of the discount on the scheme liabilities, is charged to 
operating expenses. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised 
in full in the period in which they occur outside the income 
statement and presented in other comprehensive income. 
1.19 Taxation 
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable 
and deferred tax. 
The current tax expense is based on the taxable profits for  
the year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax 
legislation, after any adjustments in respect of prior years. 
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income 
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that 
are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes 
items that are never taxable or deductible. 
Provision for taxation is calculated using tax rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet 
date, and is allocated over profits before taxation and amounts 
charged or credited to components of other comprehensive 
income and equity, as appropriate. 
Deferred taxation is accounted for in full using the balance 
sheet liability method on all temporary differences between the 
carrying amount of an asset or liability for accounting purposes 
and its carrying amount for tax purposes. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary timing differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits 
will be available against which deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised. 
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date 
and reduced to the extent that it is probable that they will not 
be recovered. 
Deferred tax liabilities are calculated at the tax rates expected 
to apply when the liability is settled and deferred tax assets 
based on laws and rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax  
is charged or credited in the income statement, except when  
it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive 
income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in 
other comprehensive income. 
1.20 Share-based payments 
The Group operates a number of share-based compensation 
schemes under which it awards Company shares and share 
options to its employees. Such awards are generally subject  
to vesting conditions: conditions that vary the amount of cash 
or shares to which an employee is entitled. 
Vesting conditions include service conditions (requiring the 
employee to complete a specified period of service) and 
performance conditions (requiring the employee to meet 
specified performance targets). 
The fair value of options granted is estimated using valuation 
techniques which incorporate exercise price, term, risk-free 
interest rates, the current share price and its expected volatility. 
The cost of employee services received in exchange for an 
award of shares or share options granted is measured by 
reference to the fair value of the shares or share options on the 
date the award is granted and takes into account non-vesting 
conditions and market performance conditions (conditions 
related to the market price of the Company’s shares). 
The cost is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period (the period during which all the specified vesting 
conditions must be satisfied) with a corresponding increase in 
equity in an equity-settled award, or a corresponding liability 
in a cash-settled award. The cost is adjusted for vesting 
conditions (other than market performance conditions) so as to 
reflect the number of shares or share options that actually vest. 
109 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
1. Accounting policies continued  
1.21 Capital instruments 
The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as  
a financial liability or an equity instrument in accordance with  
the substance of the contractual arrangement. An instrument is 
classified as a liability if it is a contractual obligation to deliver 
cash or another financial asset, or to exchange financial assets 
or financial liabilities on potentially unfavourable terms, or as 
equity if it evidences a residual interest in the assets of the 
group after the deduction of liabilities. 
The consideration for any ordinary share of the Company 
purchased by the Group (employee trust shares) is deducted 
from equity. On the cancellation of employee trust shares  
their nominal value is removed from equity and any excess  
of consideration over nominal value is treated in accordance  
with the capital maintenance provision of the Companies  
Act 2006. On the sale or reissue of employee trust shares  
the consideration received is credited to equity, net of any 
directly attributable incremental costs and related tax. 
1.22 Dividends 
Interim dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in  
equity in the period in which they are paid. Final dividends  
on ordinary shares are recognised when they have been 
approved at the AGM.  
1.23 Accounting developments 
The IASB issued an amendment to IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’  
in December 2010 to clarify that recognition of deferred  
tax should have regard to the expected manner of recovery  
or settlement of the asset or liability. The amendment and 
consequential withdrawal of SIC 21 ‘Deferred Tax: Recovery 
of Underlying Assets’, effective for annual periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2012, will not have a material effect  
on the Group. 
IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’, which replaces 
SIC 12 ‘Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities’ and the 
consolidation elements of the existing IAS 27 ‘Consolidated 
and Separate Financial Statements’, was issued by the IASB  
in May 2011. The new standard adopts a single definition  
of control: a reporting entity controls another entity when the 
reporting entity has the power to direct the activities of that 
other entity to generate returns for the reporting entity. Effective 
for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, the 
new standard is not expected to have any effect on the Group. 
In May 2011 the IASB issued amendments to IAS 27 
‘Separate Financial Statements’ which comprises those parts  
of the existing IAS 27 that dealt with separate financial 
statements, effective for annual periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2013. The amendment to this standard is not 
expected to have any effect on the Group. 
IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’, which supersedes IAS 31 
‘Interests in Joint Ventures’, was issued by the IASB in May 
2011. Joint operations are accounted for by the investor 
recognising its assets and liabilities including its share of  
any assets held and liabilities incurred jointly and its share  
of revenues and costs. Joint ventures are accounted for in  
the investor’s consolidated accounts using the equity method.  
This standard is effective for annual periods beginning on  
or after 1 January 2013 but as the Group does not have  
any joint arrangements at this time, it is not expected to  
have any effect on the Group. 
In May 2011 the IASB issued amendments to IAS 28 
‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’ to cover joint 
ventures as well as associates; both must be accounted for 
using the equity method. The mechanics of the equity method 
are unchanged. Effective for annual periods beginning on or 
after 1 January 2013, the amendments to this standard are  
not expected to have any effect on the Group. 
IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’ covers 
disclosures for entities reporting under IFRS 10 and IFRS 11, 
replacing requirements in IAS 28 and IAS 27, and was issued 
by the IASB in May 2011. Entities are required to disclose 
information that helps financial statement readers evaluate the 
nature, risks and financial effects associated with an entity’s 
interests in subsidiaries, in associates and joint arrangements 
and in unconsolidated structured entities. The new standard  
is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 
2013, and is not expected to have any effect on the Group. 
In May 2011 the IASB issued IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value 
Measurement’ which sets out a single IFRS framework for 
defining and measuring fair value and requiring disclosures 
about fair value measurements, effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2013. The new standard will 
have an impact on the quantitative and qualitative disclosure 
requirements of financial assets and liabilities of the Group that 
are not covered by IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’. 
In June 2011 the IASB issued amendments to IAS 1 
‘Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income’ which 
require items that will never be recognised in the income 
statement to be presented in other comprehensive income 
separately from those that are subject to subsequent 
reclassification. The amendments are effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012, and will have an 
impact on the disclosure requirements of the Group’s financial 
statements commencing on 1 January 2013. 
11 0 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
Amendments to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ require the 
immediate recognition of all actuarial gains and losses 
eliminating the ‘corridor approach’; interest costs to be 
calculated on the net pension liability or asset at the 
appropriate corporate bond rate; and all past service costs  
to be recognised immediately when a scheme is curtailed or 
amended. The amendments are effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2013. Earlier application  
is permitted. The Group is reviewing the amendments to 
determine their effect on the Group’s financial reporting.  
The new standard is not expected to have any material  
effect on the Group. 
In December 2011 the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 7 
‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure – Offsetting Financial Assets 
and Financial Liabilities’. The amended disclosure requirements 
are intended to enable the evaluation of the effect or potential 
effect of netting arrangements as permitted by IAS 32 
(paragraph 42), on the financial statements. The amendments 
are effective for annual periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2013 and are not expected to have any effect  
on the Group. 
In December 2011 the IASB amended IAS 32 ‘Financial 
Instruments: Presentation’ for the section dealing with offsetting 
a financial asset and a financial liability. Effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, to be applied 
retrospectively, this amendment is not expected to have any 
effect on the Group. 
The IASB has published IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement’ that will apply to financial 
years beginning on 1 January 2015. The new standard has 
not been adopted by the EU. The standard is a complete 
revision and will replace the current standard IAS 39 ‘Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. The standard 
reduces the number of valuation categories for financial assets 
and means that they are recognised at amortised cost or fair 
value through profit or loss. The rules for financial liabilities 
correspond to the existing rules in IAS 39 plus a supplement  
on how credit risk is presented when financial liabilities  
are measured at fair value. The change in the credit risk for 
financial liabilities designated at fair value according to the  
so-called “fair value option” is normally presented in other 
comprehensive income and not in the income statement, 
provided that further inconsistencies do not arise in 
presentation of any eliminated changes in value. 
The standard will be complemented by new rules for 
impairment of financial assets that are categorised as financial 
assets at amortised cost and new rules for hedge accounting. 
The adoption of IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and 
disclosures of financial instruments (the Group does not plan  
to adopt this before the year beginning on 1 January 2015). 
2. Critical accounting estimates  
and judgements 
The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the 
accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie 
the preparation of its financial information. The Group’s 
principal accounting policies are set out on pages 103 to 
111. UK company law and IFRSs require the Directors, in 
preparing the Group’s financial statements, to select suitable 
accounting policies, apply them consistently and make 
judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.  
In the absence of an applicable standard or interpretation,  
IAS 8 requires management to develop and apply an 
accounting policy that results in relevant and reliable 
information in the light of the requirements and guidance in 
IFRS dealing with similar and related issues and the IASB’s 
Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial 
Statements. The judgements and assumptions involved in  
the Group’s accounting policies that are considered by the 
Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial 
condition are discussed below. The use of estimates, 
assumptions or models that differ from those adopted by the 
Group would affect its reported results. 
2.1 General insurance: outstanding claims provisions and 
related reinsurance recoveries 
The Group makes provision for the full cost of outstanding 
claims from its general insurance business at the balance  
sheet date, including claims estimated to have been incurred 
but not yet reported at that date and loss adjustment  
expenses. Outstanding claims provisions net of related 
reinsurance recoveries and liability adequacy provision  
at 31 December 2012 amounted to £5,377.6 million  
(2011: £5,807.7 million). 
The most common method of settling bodily injury claims is by 
a lump sum paid to the claimant and in the cases where this 
includes an element of indemnity for recurring costs such as 
loss of earnings or ongoing medical care, settlement normally 
occurs using a standardised Ogden annuity factor at a 
discount rate of 2.5%. This is normally referred to as the 
Ogden discount rate which is a prescribed rate set by the 
Ministry of Justice. Other estimates are also required for case 
management expenses, loss of pension, court protection fees, 
alterations to accommodation and transportation fees.  
In August 2012, the Ministry of Justice announced a review  
of the approach to setting the Ogden discount rate within  
the existing legal framework in light of the current economic 
climate. The consultation has now taken place and the  
results are pending. In addition, in February 2013, a further 
consultation has been initiated on the legal framework within 
which the rate is set as well as consideration of the usage of 
PPOs as a form of settlement. 
111 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
2. Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued 
The Group holds provisions for a reduction in the Ogden discount rate at 31 December 2012 to 1.5% (2011: 1.5%), excluding 
PPOs, which are reserved for separately. A reduction in the Ogden discount rate would reduce the amount by which the cost  
of settling a claim as a PPO exceeds a lump sum settlement and this offset is allowed for in the provision. Outstanding claims 
provisions based on expected future settled amounts, are not discounted from settlement date to valuation date except for those  
in respect of PPOs under the Courts Act 2003. PPOs give rise to additional claims costs which are in excess of those calculated 
based on the Ogden tables and discounting is applied to the total cost of the PPO and not just the additional cost. The following 
table provides information regarding the outstanding claims provisions in respect of PPOs on a discounted and undiscounted 
basis. These represent the total cost of PPOs rather than any costs in excess of purely Ogden-based settlement. 
Discounted Undiscounted Discounted Undiscounted
At 31 December 
2012
£m
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2011
£m
Gross claims   
Approved PPO claims provisions 300.5 918.3 203.9 730.4
Anticipated PPOs 962.9 2,778.6 962.6 3,126.5
Total gross 1,263.4 3,696.9 1,166.5 3,856.9
Reinsurance   
Approved PPO claims provisions 175.5 573.3 123.6 485.3
Anticipated PPOs 270.0 1,074.4 207.6 966.7
Total reinsurance 445.5 1,647.7 331.2 1,452.0
Net of reinsurance   
Approved PPO claims provisions 125.0 345.0 80.3 245.1
Anticipated PPOs 692.9 1,704.2 755.0 2,159.8
Total net 817.9 2,049.2 835.3 2,404.9
The table above shows the discounted and undiscounted provision estimates for PPO claims split between those which have 
already settled as PPOs (approved PPO claims reserves) and those expected to settle as PPOs in the future (anticipated PPOs). 
Anticipated PPOs consists of both existing large loss case reserves including estimated incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) on  
these claims as well as claims yet to be reported to the Group. The results are produced from cash flow projections of individual 
PPO claims. For settled PPOs, these projections allow for the terms of settlement including assumed future life expectancy and 
indexation. Both the Group’s and the claimant’s medical expert advice of life expectancy are considered. Reinsurance is applied 
at claim level and the net cash flows are discounted for the time value of money. The discount rate is consistent with the  
long duration of the claims payments and the assumed future indexation of the claims payments. Future PPO settlements are 
estimated using a similar projection of cash flows based on a sample of the claim characteristics from settled PPOs adjusted  
for timing differences. 
In the majority of cases the inflation index agreed in the settlement is the Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings inflation, for  
which the long-term rate is assumed to be 4.0% (2011: 4.5%). The rate of interest used for the calculation of present values  
is 4.0% (2011: 4.5%), which results in a real discount rate of 0.0% (2011: 0.0%). All future payments in respect of approved 
PPOs are discounted to the current valuation date. All future payments in respect of anticipated PPO claims are discounted to  
the assumed settlement date of each claim, rather than the current valuation date. 
Details of sensitivity analysis to the discount rate applied to PPO claims are shown in note 3.3.1. 
2.2 Impairment provisions – financial assets 
Available-for-sale – the Group determines that available-for-sale financial assets are impaired when there is objective evidence 
that an event or events since initial recognition of the assets have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows  
from the asset. The determination of which events could have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from  
the asset requires judgement. In making this judgement, the Group evaluates, among other factors, the normal price volatility of 
the financial asset, the financial health of the investee, industry and sector performance, changes in technology and operational  
and financing cash flow or where there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost. 
Impairment may be appropriate when there is evidence of deterioration in these factors.
11 2 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
On a quarterly basis, the Group reviews whether there is any objective evidence that the direct investments in debt securities  
are impaired based on the following criteria: 
 price performance of a particular debt security, or group of debt securities, demonstrating an adverse trend compared  
to the market as a whole; 
 adverse movements in the credit rating for corporate debt; 
 actual, or imminent, default on coupon interest or nominal; or 
 offer on buyback of perpetual bonds below par value. 
Impairment provision charges on available-for-sale financial assets at 31 December 2012 amounted to £nil (2011: £2.0 million). 
Had all the declines in available-for-sale asset values met the criteria above at 31 December 2012, the Group would suffer a 
further £21.5 million loss (2011: £37.3 million loss), being the transfer of the total available-for-sale reserve for unrealised losses  
to the income statement. These movements represent mark to market movements and where there is no objective evidence of any 
loss events that could affect future cash flows, no impairments are recorded for these movements. 
2.3 Fair value 
Financial assets classified as available for sale are recognised in the financial statements at fair value. In the balance sheet, 
financial assets carried at fair value are included within available-for-sale debt securities and other investment funds. Unrealised 
gains and losses on available-for-sale financial assets are recognised directly in other comprehensive income unless an 
impairment loss is recognised. 
The fair value of all available-for-sale financial assets was determined using observable market input and at 31 December 2012 
amounted to £7,156.5 million (2011: £7,990.7 million). The judgements and assumptions adopted by the directors in the 
valuation of available-for-sale financial assets when a market is not active require the use of valuation techniques. These valuation 
techniques involve a degree of estimation and are shown in note 1.12. Details of sensitivity analysis are shown in note 3.4.1. 
2.4 Deferred acquisition costs 
The Group defers a proportion of acquisition costs incurred during the year to subsequent accounting periods. Management  
use estimation techniques to determine the level of costs to be deferred, by category of business. Judgement is used to determine 
the types of cost that can be deferred and these are referred to in note 1.7. The total deferred acquisition costs at 31 December 
2012 amounted to £327.6 million (2011: £310.5 million). During 2012, the Group reviewed the costs included in the 
calculation of deferred acquisition costs and considers them to be appropriate, and has determined that they are recoverable. 
2.5 Goodwill 
The Group capitalises goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses as discussed in note 1.8. The carrying value of goodwill 
at 31 December 2012 was £211.0 million (2011: £211.0 million).  
Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the fair value of its net assets. The determination of the fair value 
of assets and liabilities of businesses acquired requires the exercise of management judgement; for example those financial assets 
and liabilities for which there are no quoted prices and those non-financial assets where valuations reflect estimates of market 
conditions, such as property. Different fair values would result in changes to the goodwill arising and to the post-acquisition 
performance of the acquisition. Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-
generating units or groups of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combination. Goodwill impairment testing 
involves the comparison of the carrying value of a cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units with its recoverable 
amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the unit’s fair value and its value in use. Value in use is the present value of 
expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units. Fair value is the amount obtainable 
from the sale of the cash-generating unit in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties. 
Impairment testing inherently involves a number of judgemental areas: the preparation of cash flow forecasts for periods that  
are beyond the normal requirements of management reporting; the assessment of the discount rate appropriate to the business; 
estimation of the fair value of cash-generating units; and the valuation of the separable assets of each business whose goodwill  
is being reviewed. Details of sensitivity analysis are shown in note 16.  
11 3 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
3. Risk management 
3.1 Enterprise-Wide Risk Management framework 
The ERM framework within the Group is designed to ensure that risk management is a forward-looking discipline, focused on 
facilitating appropriate and fair outcomes on a consistent and reliable basis for all stakeholders. The ERM process provides the 
Group with a consistent and holistic view of risk management. Further information can be found in the Risk management section 
on page 26. 
3.2 Risk and capital management modelling 
The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Group has sufficient capital to meet its liabilities as they fall due.  
The Group carries out detailed capital modelling of its assets, liabilities and the key risks to which these are exposed. This 
modelling includes the Group’s own assessment of its capital requirements for solvency purposes, in its submission of its ICA to 
the FSA in respect of its UK regulated entities. The ICA quantifies the insurance, market, credit, liquidity, operational and group 
risk that the UK regulated entities are undertaking. 
The Board is closely involved in the ICA process and signs off on its assumptions and results. 
3.3 Insurance risk 
Insurance risk can arise from: 
 fluctuations in the timing, frequency and severity of insured events and their ultimate settlement, relative to the expectations  
of the Group at the time of underwriting, including those driven by inaccurate pricing, inappropriate underwriting guidelines 
and terms and conditions, and holding inadequate reserves; 
 inadequate reinsurance protection; and 
 concentration of business leading to unexpected claim levels (frequency and severity) from a single source. 
The Group predominantly underwrites personal lines insurance including residential property, motor, assistance, creditor, travel 
and pet business. The Group also underwrites commercial risks primarily for low-to-medium risk trades within the SME market. 
Contracts are typically issued on an annual basis, which means that the Group’s liability usually extends for a 12-month period, 
after which the Group is entitled to decline to renew or can impose renewal terms by amending the premium or other policy terms 
and conditions such as the excess as appropriate. 
The Group underwrites long-term insurance falling within the business classes of life and annuity and permanent health. However, 
from 6 July 2011 the Group ceased accepting new business. The products provided include mortgage life cover, fixed term life 
cover with critical illness, over 50s life cover and the life cover associated with the creditor business underwritten by the Group’s 
general insurance business. Contracts were issued typically on a long-term basis, which means that the Group’s liability can 
extend for a period ranging from five years up to 52 years. 
For creditor insurance, contracts were issued either on a monthly renewable basis (regular premium), which can be amended  
or cancelled by the customer at any point during the contract, or cover period of a loan (single premium). In the former case,  
the Group can cancel or amend the policy following a 90-day written notice period. In the latter case (these policies were 
withdrawn from sale in April 2009), the customer has the option to cancel the contract at any point but generally the Group  
is obligated for the full term up to a maximum of 10 years, but typically three to five years. 
3.3.1 Reserving risk 
Reserving risk relates to both premiums and claims. It is the risk that reserves are assessed incorrectly such that either insufficient 
funds have been retained to pay or handle claims as the amounts fall due both in relation to those claims which have already 
been incurred (in relation to claims reserves) or will be incurred in future periods of insurance (in relation to premium reserves),  
or a surplus of funds has been retained resulting in opportunity costs. 
Reserving risk is controlled through a range of processes: 
 regular periodic reviews of the claims and premium / liability adequacy reserves for the main classes of business by the 
internal actuarial team; 
 the use of external actuaries to review periodically the actuarial best estimate reserves produced internally, either through peer 
review or through provision of independent reserve estimates; 
 accompanying all reserve reviews with actuarial assessment of the uncertainties through a variety of techniques including 
bootstrapping and scenario analysis; 
 oversight of the reserving process by relevant senior management and the Board; 
11 4 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
 regular reconciliation of the data used in the actuarial reviews against general ledger data and reconciliation of the claims 
data history against the equivalent data from prior reviews; and 
 assessing the volatility in the reserves to help the Board set management best estimate reserves which it feels comfortable with. 
As referred to on page 28, uncertainty in claims reserve estimation is larger for claims such as PPOs for which annually indexed 
payments are made periodically over several years or even the lifetime of the injured party. Claims reserves for PPOs are held  
on a discounted basis and the table below indicates the sensitivity of discounted reserves to changes in the discount rate. 
The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions left 
unchanged. Other potential risks beyond the ones described in the table could have an additional financial impact on the Group. 
Increase / (decrease)  
in income statement 
Increase / (decrease)  
in total equity at  
31 December 
2012
£m
2011 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
PPOs
1
   
Impact of an increase in the discount rate used in the calculation of 
present values of 100bps 104.7 106.5 104.7 106.5
Impact of a decrease in the discount rate used in the calculation of  
present values of 100bps (150.4) (152.1) (150.4) (152.1)
Notes:  
1. The sensitivities relating to an increase or decrease in the discount rate used for PPOs illustrate a movement in the time value of money from the assumed level  
of 4%. An increase in the discount rate reflects a decrease in the time value of money and therefore the present value of future liabilities which increases the  
total equity which would be reflected in the income statement. 
2. The selection of these sensitivities should not be interpreted as a prediction. 
3. The sensitivities set out above reflect one-off impacts at 31 December. 
4. The sensitivities set out above exclude the impact of taxation.  
3.3.2 Claims management risk 
Claims management risk is the risk that claims are paid or handled inappropriately. 
Claims are managed utilising a range of IT system driven controls coupled with manual processes outlined in detailed policies 
and procedures to ensure claims are handled in an appropriate, timely and accurate manner. 
Each member of staff has a specified handling authority, with controls preventing them handling or paying claims outside  
their authority, as well as controls to mitigate the risk of paying invalid claims. In addition, there are various outsourced claims 
handling arrangements, all of which are monitored closely by management, with similar principles applying in terms of the 
controls and procedures. 
Loss adjustors are used in certain circumstances to handle claims to conclusion. This involves liaison with the policyholder,  
third parties, suppliers and the claims function. 
Specialist bodily injury claims teams in the UK are responsible for handling these types of losses with the nature of handling 
dependent on the level and type of claim. Where applicable they are referred to the technical and large loss teams who also 
deal with all other claim types above defined limits or within specific criteria. 
A process is in place in the UK business to deal with severe weather and other catastrophic events, known as the ‘Surge Demand 
Plan’. A surge is the collective name given to an incident which significantly impacts the volume of claims reported to the Group’s 
claims functions. The plan covers surge demand triggers, stages of incident, operational impact, communication and 
management information monitoring of the impact. 
11 5 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
3. Risk management continued 
3.3.3 Reinsurance risk 
The Group uses reinsurance to: 
 protect the insurance results against low-frequency, high-severity losses through the transfer of catastrophe claims volatility  
to reinsurers; 
 protect the insurance results against unforeseen volumes of, or adverse trends in, large individual claims, in order to reduce 
volatility and to improve stability of earnings; 
 reduce the Group’s capital requirements; and/or 
 transfer risk that is not within the Group’s current risk retention strategy. 
Using reinsurance the Group cedes away insurance risk to reinsurers but in return assumes back credit risk against which a 
reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed. The financial security of the Group’s panel of reinsurers is therefore extremely 
important and both the quality and quantum of the assumed credit risk are subject to a credit risk approval process. The  
Group’s leading counterparty exposures are analysed on a monthly basis where utilisation is monitored against agreed  
individual reinsurer limits. These limits represent the accumulated credit risk for all Group underwriting entities. The Group aims  
to contract with a diverse range of reinsurers on its contracts to mitigate the credit and/or non-payment risks associated with  
its reinsurance exposures. 
Certain reinsurance contracts have long durations as a result of PPOs, and insurance reserves therefore include provisions beyond 
the levels created for shorter term reinsurance bad debt. 
Reinsurance risk arises from: 
 a failure of reinsurance to control exposure to losses, to reduce volatility or to protect capital; 
 an inability to place reinsurance cost effectively or on acceptable terms; and/or 
 reinsurer defaults. 
3.3.4 Insurance concentration risk 
The Group is subject to concentration risk in a variety of forms, including: 
 geographic concentration risk – the Group purchases a UK catastrophe reinsurance programme to protect against  
a modelled 1 in 200 year combined windstorm and coastal inundation loss. The retained deductible is £125.0 million  
at 31 December 2012. There are also relevant covers to protect the Group’s international businesses; 
 product concentration risk – the Group’s business is heavily concentrated in the UK general insurance market. However,  
the Group offers a diversified portfolio of products and a variety of brands sold through a range of distribution channels  
to its customers; 
 sector concentration risk – the concentration of the Group to any given industry sector is monitored and analysed in respect  
of commercial customers; and 
 reinsurance concentration risk – reinsurance is purchased from a number of providers to ensure that a diverse range of 
counterparties is contracted with, within the desired credit rating range. 
3.4 Financial risk 
The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets and financial liabilities. The Group’s financial risk is 
concentrated within its investment portfolio and reinsurance.  
The strategic asset allocation within the investment portfolio is agreed for each legal entity by the Investment Committee.  
The Investment Committee determines high level policy and controls, covering such areas as safety, liquidity and performance. 
They meet at least three times a year to evaluate risk exposure, the current strategy, associated policies and investment guidelines 
and to consider investment recommendations submitted to it. Oversight of the implementation of decisions taken by the Investment 
Committee is via various risk fora. 
The objectives set out in the investment management minimum standard are: 
 to maintain the safety of the portfolio’s principal both in economic terms and from an accounting and reporting perspective; 
 to maintain sufficient liquidity to provide cash requirements for operations; and 
 to maximise the portfolio’s total return within the constraints of the other objectives and the limits defined by the  
investment guidelines. 
11 6 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
3.4.1 Market risk 
Market risk is the risk associated with the adverse impact of the market risk factors movement on the Group’s balance sheet due 
to changes in the fair value or cash flows of its assets or liabilities.  
The Group is mainly exposed to the following market risk factors: 
 interest rate risk; 
 credit spread risk; 
 foreign currency risk; and 
 property risk. 
The Group has policies and limits approved by the Board for managing the market risk exposure. These set out the principles  
that the business should adhere to for managing market risk and establishing the maximum limits the Group is willing to accept 
considering strategy, risk appetite and capital resources. 
The Group has the ability to monitor market risk exposure on a daily basis and has established limits per interest rate and credit 
spread exposures. The limits per asset class have been approved at the investment strategy level.  
The Group uses its internal capital model to determine its capital requirements and market risk limits, and monitors its market  
risk exposure based on a 98% one-year value at risk measure. The Group also applies market risk stressed scenarios testing  
for analysing the economic impact of specific severe market conditions. The results of this analysis are used to enhance the 
understanding of market risk spots not captured by the value-at-risk metric and for implementing mitigating actions as appropriate. 
The Group uses derivatives for hedging its exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risks. The market risk policy explicitly 
prohibits the use of derivatives for speculative or gearing purposes. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group’s interest rate risk arises mainly from its debt, floating interest rate investments and assets and liabilities exposed to 
fixed interest rates. 
In 2012, the Group issued £500 million of subordinated debt with a thirty-year maturity and fixed rate coupon for the first  
10 years. The cost of the fixed rate coupon has been hedged down to the three-month LIBOR floating rate, using the treasury 
investment benchmark as a reference. 
The Group also invests in floating rate notes. A downward movement of the short-term interest rate will affect the expected return 
on the investments.  
The market value of the Group’s investments in fixed coupon securities is affected by the movement of the interest rates. For the 
investments in US Dollar corporate bonds of £984.8 million, the Group hedges the exposure of this portfolio to the US Dollar 
interest rate risk using swaps. The derivatives reduce the duration of the portfolio to close to zero, eliminating its sensitivity to the 
US Dollar interest rate fluctuation. 
Credit spread risk 
The credit spread risk represents the risk of the adverse fluctuation of the values of assets and liabilities due to changes in the  
level of credit spreads. This represents the main market risk exposure of the Group’s investments in investment grade bonds. 
Foreign currency risk 
The exposure to currency risk is generated by the Group’s investments in US Dollar corporate bonds and its investment in 
subsidiaries. 
At 31 December 2012, the Group maintained two investment portfolios in US Dollar corporate bonds. The foreign currency 
exposure of these investments is hedged by foreign currency forward contracts. The currency risk exposure is monitored on a daily 
basis and minimal exposure has been identified since its inception in May 2012. 
The Group is also exposed to currency risk through its subsidiaries in Italy and Germany. The Group’s currency risk arises from  
its investments in the subsidiaries’ capital; this risk is hedged by foreign currency forward contracts from the date of acquisition. 
Property risk 
Property risk results from adverse price fluctuations on real estate investments. In 2012, the Board authorised the allocation of 5% 
of the UK subsidiary investment portfolio into real estate assets. At 31 December 2012, the value of these investments in property 
was £128.9 million (2011: £69.5 million). The property investments are located in the UK and are subject to the asset 
admissibility rules as defined by the FSA. 
11 7 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
3. Risk management continued 
The table below provides the sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions 
left unchanged. Other potential risks beyond the ones described in the table could have an additional financial impact on  
the Group. 
Increase / (decrease)  
in income statement 
Increase / (decrease)  
in total equity at  
31 December 
2012
£m
2011 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Credit spread   
Impact of an increase in AFS debt securities of 100bps movement in 
credit spreads
1
 – –  (155.3) (137.3)
Interest rate   
Impact on AFS debt securities of an increase in interest rate of 100bps
1,2
 12.9 9.2 (168.6) (233.2)
Other investment funds and investment property   
Impact of a decrease in property markets of 15% (19.3) (10.4) (19.3) (10.4)
Impact of a decrease in investment funds markets of 15%
3
 – –  – (57.4)
Notes: 
1. The income statement impacts on AFS debt securities is limited to floating rate bonds and interest rate derivatives used to hedge a portion of the portfolio.  
The income statement is not impacted in relation to fixed rate bonds, where the coupon return is not changed through an alteration in prevailing market rates,  
as the accounting treatment for AFS debt securities means that only the coupon received is processed through this statement with fair value movements being 
recognised through total equity.  
2. The sensitivities set out above reflect one-off impacts at 31 December with the exception of the income statement interest rate sensitivity on AFS debt securities, 
which projects a movement in a full year’s interest charge as a result of the increase in the interest rate applied to the AFS debt securities and interest rate hedges 
on those positions held at 31 December. 
3. The impact in 2011 results is a reduction in total equity only as a result of the accounting policy. 
4. The subordinated debt is excluded from the sensitivity analysis. 
5. The selection of these sensitivities should not be interpreted as a prediction. 
6. The sensitivities set out above have not considered the impact of the general market changes on the value of the Group’s insurance contract liabilities or retirement 
benefit obligations. 
7. The sensitivities set out above exclude the impact of taxation.  
The tables below analyse the maturity of the Group’s derivative assets and liabilities at 31 December 2012. In the prior period, 
the Group conducted a small amount of derivative activity, primarily in relation to hedging its investment in its foreign subsidiary 
in Italy. All these contracts had a maturity of three months or less. 
At 31 December 2012 
Notional 
amounts
£m
Less than 
1 year
£m
1 – 5 years 
£m 
Over  
5 years 
£m 
Total 
fair value
£m
Derivative assets   
At fair value through the income statement:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 1,339.7 11.9 –  –  11.9
Interest rate swaps 505.5 1.7 –  23.7 25.4
Interest rate futures 121.5 – 0.1 0.1 0.2
Designated as hedging instruments:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 1.2 – –  –  – 
Total 1,967.9 13.6 0.1 23.8 37.5
 
11 8 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
 
At 31 December 2012 
Notional 
amounts
£m
Less than 
1 year
£m
1 – 5 years 
£m 
Over  
5 years 
£m 
Total 
fair value
£m
Derivative liabilities   
At fair value through the income statement:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 666.5 0.2 –  –  0.2
Interest rate swaps 468.7 – 3.1 0.7 3.8
Interest rate futures 375.7 – 0.1 –  0.1
Designated as hedging instruments:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 228.2 2.4 –  –  2.4
Total 1,739.1 2.6 3.2 0.7 6.5
At 31 December 2012, £4.6 million in cash has been pledged by the Group and £0.8 million in cash and £1.1 million  
in a US Treasury bond pledged to the Group as collateral with regards to facilitating derivative trading (both interest rate and 
foreign exchange). The terms and conditions of collateral pledged for both assets and liabilities are market standard. The US 
Treasury bond is readily convertible to cash and as such there has been no policy established for the disposal of assets not 
readily convertible into cash.  
3.4.2 Credit risk 
Credit risk arises from the potential that losses are incurred from the failure of counterparties to meet their credit obligations,  
due either to their failure and/or their inability to pay, or their unwillingness to pay amounts due. 
The objective of the credit risk policy and supporting minimum standards is to document the control processes by which  
the Group is able to identify, monitor, measure, manage, control and mitigate the level of credit risk to which it is exposed 
effectively. The credit risk control environment is primarily managed through the Credit Risk and Investment Forum. The main 
responsibility of this forum is to ensure that all material aspects of credit risk within the Group are identified, monitored  
and measured. 
The main sources of credit risk for the Group are: 
 investment counterparty – this arises from the investment of monies in the range of investment vehicles permitted by the 
investment policy; and 
 reinsurance recoveries – credit exposure to reinsurance counterparties arises in respect of reinsurance claims against which a 
reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed. The Courts Act 2003, implemented in April 2005, gave the courts the power to 
award PPOs in place of lump sum awards to cover the future costs element of claims (that is, loss of future earnings and/or 
cost of future care). PPOs have the potential to increase the ultimate value of a claim and, by their very nature, to significantly 
increase the length of time to reach final payment. This has increased reinsurance credit risk in terms of both quantum and 
longevity. 
The tables below provide information regarding the carrying value of financial and insurance assets that bear credit risk, and that 
have been impaired, and the ageing of financial assets that are past due but not impaired.  
At 31 December 2012 
Neither 
past due nor 
impaired
£m
Past due 
1 – 90 days
£m
Past due  
more than  
91 days 
£m 
Financial assets 
that have been 
impaired 
£m 
Carrying value 
in the balance 
sheet
£m
Debt securities  7,147.9 – –  8.6 7,156.5
Deposits with credit institutions 1,951.7 – –  –  1,951.7
Reinsurance assets  1,102.0 – –  –  1,102.0
Derivative assets  37.5 – –  –  37.5
Cash at bank and in hand  201.7 – –  –  201.7
Insurance and other loans and receivables  1,109.8 50.3 3.9 –  1,164.0
Total  11,550.6 50.3 3.9 8.6 11,613.4
 
11 9 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
3. Risk management continued  
At 31 December 2011 
Neither 
past due nor 
impaired
£m
Past due 
1 – 90 days
£m
Past due  
more than  
91 days 
£m 
Financial assets 
that have been 
impaired 
£m 
Carrying value 
in the balance 
sheet
£m
Debt securities  7,598.3 – 0.7 8.9 7,607.9
Deposits with credit institutions  3,050.3 – –  –  3,050.3
Reinsurance assets  741.6 – –  –  741.6
Derivative assets  0.1 – –  –  0.1
Cash at bank and in hand  201.9 – –  –  201.9
Insurance and other loans and receivables  1,223.1 28.0 1.8 –  1,252.9
Total  12,815.3 28.0 2.5 8.9 12,854.7
There were no material financial assets that would have been past due or impaired had the terms not been renegotiated. 
The tables below analyse, by type of asset, the credit quality of available-for-sale debt securities (note 24) that are neither past 
due nor impaired.  
At 31 December 2012 
Sovereign, 
supranational 
and local 
government debt 
securities 
£m 
Corporate debt 
securities
£m
Bank debt 
securities
£m
Other financial 
institutions debt 
securities
£m
Total  
available-for-
sale debt  
securities 
£m 
of which: 
Mortgage 
backed  
securities 
£m 
Total non-
mortgage 
backed 
securities
£m
AAA rated 2,406.1 133.0 372.3 17.0 2,928.4 24.8 2,903.6
AA and above 196.9 377.4 371.0 – 945.3 –  945.3
A and above 15.6 1,810.6 691.8 48.6 2,566.6 16.7 2,549.9
BBB− and above 17.1 615.2 57.5 8.2 698.0 –  698.0
BB+ and below –  – 18.2 – 18.2 3.7 14.5
Total 2,635.7 2,936.2 1,510.8 73.8 7,156.5 45.2 7,111.3
 
At 31 December 2011 
Sovereign, 
supranational 
and local 
government debt 
securities 
£m 
Corporate debt 
securities
£m
Bank debt 
securities
£m
Other financial 
institutions debt 
securities
£m
Total  
available-for-
sale debt  
securities 
£m 
of which: 
Mortgage 
backed  
securities 
£m 
Total non-
mortgage 
backed 
securities
£m
AAA rated 3,415.0 96.4 637.0 27.3 4,175.7 206.8 3,968.9
AA and above 57.0 279.9 434.0 – 770.9 67.2 703.7
A and above 9.2 1,377.3 858.1 11.3 2,255.9 9.5 2,246.4
BBB− and above –  287.7 82.4 4.7 374.8 –  374.8
BB+ and below –  – 23.3 – 23.3 –  23.3
Unrated –  – 7.3 – 7.3 –  7.3
Total 3,481.2 2,041.3 2,042.1 43.3 7,607.9 283.5 7,324.4
Bank debt securities, at 31 December 2012, can be further analysed as: secured £211.1 million (2011: £418.8 million); 
unsecured £1,153.4 million (2011: £1,357.1 million); subordinated £146.3 million (2011: £193.9 million) and certificates  
of deposit £nil (2011: £72.3 million). 
120 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
The tables below analyse, by type of asset, the credit quality of financial and insurance assets that are neither past due nor 
impaired excluding debt securities. The table includes reinsurance exposure, after provision. Note 3.3.3 details the Group’s 
approach to reinsurance credit risk management.  
At 31 December 2012 
AAA 
£m 
AA+ to AA−
£m
A+ to A−
£m
BBB
£m
BB+ 
£m 
Not rated 
£m 
Total
£m
Deposits with credit    
institutions  1,256.7 145.0 550.0 – –  –  1,951.7
Reinsurance assets  – 747.9 339.0 4.6 –  10.5 1,102.0
Derivative assets –  2.5 35.0 – –  –  37.5
Cash at bank and in hand  –  – 193.2 4.2 4.3 –  201.7
Insurance and other loans and 
receivables –  10.7 88.7 1.0 1.8 1,061.8 1,164.0
Total 1,256.7 906.1 1,205.9 9.8 6.1 1,072.3 4,456.9
 
At 31 December 2011 
AAA 
£m 
AA+ to AA−
£m
A+ to A−
£m
BBB
£m
BB+ 
£m 
Not rated 
£m 
Total
£m
Deposits with credit institutions  637.1 398.0 1,622.4 10.0 –  –  2,667.5
Reinsurance assets  32.4 484.9 177.4 5.9 –  41.0 741.6
Derivative assets  –  – 0.1 – –  –  0.1
Cash at bank and in hand –  – 201.9 – –  –  201.9
Insurance and other loans and 
receivables  1.2 23.7 143.9 – –  1,084.1 1,252.9
Total 670.7 906.6 2,145.7 15.9 –  1,125.1 4,864.0
Other investment funds at 31 December 2012 were £nil (2011: £382.8 million). These were not included in deposits with 
credit institutions above, as the disclosure of the funds held by credit quality is considered to be impractical. 
Other loans and receivables due from policyholders, agents, brokers and intermediaries generally do not have a credit rating. 
3.4.3 Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the potential that obligations cannot be met as they fall due as a consequence of having a timing mismatch 
and/or an inability to raise sufficient liquid assets or cash without suffering a substantial loss on realisation. 
The measurement and management of liquidity risk within the Group is undertaken within the limits and other policy parameters  
of the Group’s liquidity risk appetite. Compliance is monitored in respect of both the internal policy and the regulatory 
requirements of local regulators. 
In the event that one or more liquidity stresses or scenarios crystallises, or should any other event that may impact liquidity occur, 
the Group ensures a rapid and controlled response to the event. In such an event, a liquidity crisis management team will be 
formed to assess the nature and extent of the threat and to develop an appropriate response. 
The table below provides information regarding the maturity of available-for-sale debt securities. 
 At 31 December 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Within 1 year 760.1 818.8
1 – 3 years 3,088.5 2,808.3
3 – 5 years 2,026.5 2,140.0
5 – 10 years 1,152.3 1,576.4
Over 10 years 129.1 264.4
Total 7,156.5 7,607.9
In addition to the above, the Group held cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2012 of £1,508.4 million  
(2011: £1,379.8 million) to cover short-term liabilities arising from insurance contracts. 
 
121 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
3. Risk management continued 
The tables below show the gross liability analysed by remaining duration for each category of insurance and financial liabilities. 
The total liability is split by remaining duration in proportion to the cash flows expected to arise during that period. 
At 31 December 2012 
Total
£m
Within
1 year
£m
1 – 3 years
£m
3 – 5 years 
£m 
5 – 10 years 
£m 
Over 
10 years
£m
Subordinated liabilities  787.5 266.7 – –  520.8 – 
Insurance liabilities  6,398.5 1,872.6 1,749.9 857.9 785.5 1,132.6
Borrowings  90.9 90.9 – –  –  – 
Trade and other payables including insurance 
payables  654.6 648.7 2.1 0.6 3.2 – 
Total 7,931.5 2,878.9 1,752.0 858.5 1,309.5 1,132.6
 
At 31 December 2011 
Total
£m
Within 
1 year
£m
1 – 3 years
£m
3 – 5 years 
£m 
5 – 10 years 
£m 
Over 
10 years
£m
Insurance liabilities  6,509.0 2,054.8 1,844.4 864.6 850.3 894.9
Borrowings  317.9 71.5 205.0 –  11.3 30.1
Trade and other payables including insurance 
payables 910.2 910.2 – –  –  – 
Total 7,737.1 3,036.5 2,049.4 864.6 861.6 925.0
The above tables exclude unearned premium reserves as there are no liquidity risks inherent in them. 
3.4.4 Investment concentration risk 
Investment concentration risk arises through excessive exposure to particular industry sectors, groups of business undertakings or 
similar activities. The Group may suffer significant losses in its investment portfolio as a result of over-exposure to particular sectors 
engaged in similar activities or similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be 
similarly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions. 
122 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
The table below analyses the distribution of available-for-sale debt securities held by geographical area at 31 December 2012 
as follows: 
Sovereign, 
supranational 
and local 
government debt 
securities 
£m 
Corporate debt 
securities
£m
Bank debt 
securities
£m
Other financial 
institutions debt 
securities
£m
Total available-
for-sale debt  
securities 
£m 
of which: 
Mortgage 
backed  
securities 
£m 
Total non-
mortgage 
backed 
securities
£m
Australia –  89.6 122.9 26.5 239.0 –  239.0
Austria 2.9 – – – 2.9 –  2.9
Belgium 7.1 14.3 1.7 – 23.1 –  23.1
Brazil –  0.4 – – 0.4 –  0.4
Canada 134.6 34.6 34.8 – 204.0 –  204.0
Cayman Islands –  7.5 – – 7.5 –  7.5
Czech Republic –  6.4 – – 6.4 –  6.4
Denmark –  14.5 18.0 – 32.5 –  32.5
Finland –  7.1 6.2 – 13.3 –  13.3
France 4.5 216.4 83.7 – 304.6 8.4 296.2
Germany –  207.4 185.3 – 392.7 33.1 359.6
Hong Kong –  3.3 – – 3.3 –  3.3
Ireland –  5.4 12.2 – 17.6 3.7  13.9
Israel –  4.4 – – 4.4 –  4.4
Italy –  33.7 2.7 – 36.4 – 36.4
Japan –  61.3 4.4 – 65.7 –  65.7
Mexico 17.2 5.8 – – 23.0 –  23.0
Netherlands 4.3 47.2 71.8 – 123.3 –  123.3
New Zealand –  26.5 13.8 – 40.3 –  40.3
Norway 82.2 6.7 15.7 – 104.6 –  104.6
Singapore –  25.5 – – 25.5 –  25.5
South Korea –  – 7.4 – 7.4 –  7.4
Spain –  4.2 12.1 – 16.3 –  16.3
Sweden 31.0 36.9 163.8 – 231.7 –  231.7
Switzerland –  68.7 39.8 – 108.5 –  108.5
UK 1,824.0 1,285.5 481.6 5.5 3,596.6 –  3,596.6
UAE –  12.2 – – 12.2 –  12.2
USA 6.1 710.7 232.9 41.8 991.5 –  991.5
Multilateral / supranational 521.8 – – – 521.8 –  521.8
Total 2,635.7 2,936.2 1,510.8 73.8 7,156.5 45.2 7,111.3
 
123 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
3. Risk management continued 
The table below analyses the distribution of available-for-sale debt securities held by geographical area at 31 December 2011 
as follows: 
Sovereign, 
supranational 
and local 
government debt 
securities 
£m 
Corporate debt 
securities
£m
Banks debt 
securities
£m
Other financial 
institutions debt 
securities
£m
Total available-
for-sale debt  
securities 
£m 
of which: 
Mortgage 
backed  
securities 
£m 
Total non-
mortgage 
backed 
securities
£m
Australia –  74.6 164.9 38.3 277.8 –  277.8
Austria 2.8 – 10.0 – 12.8 –  12.8
Belgium 6.9 2.7 4.4 – 14.0 –  14.0
Canada 68.1 16.6 1.8 – 86.5 –  86.5
Cayman Islands –  2.8 – – 2.8 –  2.8
Denmark –  8.4 23.0 – 31.4 –  31.4
Finland –  3.6 4.3 – 7.9 –  7.9
France 77.4 249.3 108.5 – 435.2 9.7 425.5
Germany –  108.7 275.7 – 384.4 29.0 355.4
Ireland –  13.4 28.9 – 42.3 3.7 38.6
Italy –  13.8 – – 13.8 –  13.8
Japan –  16.3 – – 16.3 –  16.3
Luxembourg –  5.2 – – 5.2 –  5.2
Mexico –  7.5 – – 7.5 –  7.5
Netherlands 4.4 183.9 111.1 – 299.4 –  299.4
New Zealand –  18.0 8.5 – 26.5 –  26.5
Norway 43.0 – 18.1 – 61.1 –  61.1
Spain –  8.7 16.0 – 24.7 –  24.7
Sweden 9.2 25.6 123.7 – 158.5 –  158.5
Switzerland –  7.1 36.8 – 43.9 –  43.9
UK 2,780.8 1,144.2 921.0 5.0 4,851.0 241.1 4,609.9
UAE –  2.6 0.4 – 3.0 –  3.0
USA –  128.3 185.0 – 313.3 –  313.3
Multilateral / supranational 488.6 – – – 488.6 –  488.6
Total 3,481.2 2,041.3 2,042.1 43.3 7,607.9 283.5 7,324.4
 
124 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
The table below analyses the distribution of debt securities held across industry sectors using Bloomberg classifications as follows: 
 At 31 December 
2012 2011 
£m % £m %
Basic materials 199.7 3% 117.9 2%
Communications 333.7 5% 196.7 3%
Consumer, cyclical 137.2 2% 56.1 1%
Consumer, non-cyclical 475.7 6% 291.4 4%
Diversified 120.9 2% 148.5 2%
Energy 273.8 4% 210.2 3%
Financial 1,798.3 25% 1,917.4 25%
Sovereign, supranational and local government 2,635.7 37% 3,481.2 44%
Industrial 265.1 4% 100.9 1%
Mortgage backed securities 45.2 0% 283.5 4%
Technology 59.9 1% –  – 
Transport 18.1 0% –  – 
Utilities 793.2 11% 804.1 11%
Total 7,156.5 100% 7,607.9 100%
Other investment funds at 31 December 2012 were £nil (2011: £382.8 million). These were not analysed in the above for 
prior periods, as the disclosure of the funds held by industry sector is considered to be impractical. 
3.5 Operational risk 
Effective operational risk management requires the Group to identify, assess, manage, monitor, report and mitigate all areas of 
exposure. Operational risk is inherent in all of the Group’s processes, systems and products, and from external events, with the 
Group’s ERM framework detailing the minimum standards, tools, techniques and other processes used to ensure that operational 
risks are identified, managed and mitigated to an acceptable level and that contingency plans are in place. 
There are a number of key factors that cause operational risk: 
 the Group’s operations support complex transactions and are highly dependent on the proper functioning of its IT and 
communication systems; 
 a dependency on the use of third-party information technology, software, data and service providers; 
 a need to adequately maintain and protect customer and employee information; and 
 the ability of the Group to attract and retain key qualified personnel. 
Effective operational risk management helps the Group to achieve its objectives, including: 
 focus on doing things the right way, leading to fewer surprises; 
 reducing operational errors and losses, leading to increased customer satisfaction and higher-quality earnings; 
 informed analytical risk taking; 
 increased management attention to the risks and issues that really matter; and 
 lower risk-based capital due to lower expected losses. 
3.6 Regulatory risk 
The risk is managed by a dedicated team responsible for providing expert advice and guidance to all parts of the business  
on regulatory, political and legislative change, including Solvency II. Through proactive and early engagement the team raises 
awareness of regulatory changes, enabling management to plan for potential threats and opportunities. The team also supports 
the business in identifying, analysing and coordinating responses to relevant UK and European regulatory developments through 
to facilitating the initiation of implementation programmes. 
125 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
3. Risk management continued 
3.7 Capital adequacy 
The Group defines its capital requirement in accordance with regulations prescribed by the FSA, other regulatory bodies and  
the credit rating agencies. Capital is managed in accordance with the Group’s capital management minimum standard,  
the objective of which is to manage capital efficiently and maintain an appropriate level of capitalisation and solvency. 
The Group determines the appropriate level of capital on the basis of a number of criteria including its risk-based requirement,  
the maintenance of a prudent excess versus regulatory capital requirements, and its capital risk appetite statement of ensuring 
consistency with a credit rating in the ’A’ range. The Group seeks to hold capital coverage in the range of 125% to 150% of  
the risk-based capital requirement. The Group also manages its subsidiaries on an ongoing basis to ensure that capital resources 
exceed regulatory minima in accordance with its risk appetite. 
The Group uses a risk-based capital model to determine how much capital it needs to maintain in order to operate in accordance 
with its risk strategy for the UK general insurance underwriters established within its ERM framework. The risk-based capital model 
also supports decision making in the business. In addition, the Group monitors financial resources with reference to the requirements 
of the IGD. 
The UK regulated insurance entities of the Group carry out an assessment of the adequacy of their overall financial resources  
in accordance with the FSA’s ICA methodology. For the UK, this is based on an internal capital model which is calibrated, as 
required by the FSA, to a 99.5% confidence interval over a one-year time horizon. As stated above, the Group’s capital risk 
appetite is to hold capital consistent with the Group maintaining a credit rating in the ’A’ range and as such its capital resources 
are in excess of the ICA requirement. The capital for European entities is maintained in accordance with the local regulatory 
solvency requirements. 
The Group has an IGD surplus at 31 December 2012 of approximately £1.8 billion (2011: £2.4 billion). 
Management information to monitor the Group’s capital requirements and solvency position is produced and presented to the 
asset and liability committee on a regular basis. 
4. Segmental analysis 
The Group is a general insurer with leading direct market positions in the UK, Italy and Germany. The Group utilises a multi-
brand, multi-product, multi-channel business model that covers most major customer segments in the UK for personal lines general 
insurance and a more limited presence in the commercial market. 
The Directors manage the Group primarily by product type and present the segmental analysis on that basis. The segments reflect 
the management structure whereby a member of the Executive Committee is accountable to the Chief Executive Officer  
for each of the following operating segments: 
Motor 
This segment consists of personal car insurance cover together with the associated legal expenses business. The Group sells 
motor insurance through its own brands – Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege – and through partnership brands directly to 
customers or through PCWs. As a result, the Group has a brand and product offering that covers most major retail customer 
segments for motor insurance in the UK. 
Home 
This segment consists of the underwriting of home insurance cover. The Group sells home insurance through its own brands – 
Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege – and through partnerships or PCWs. The Group’s brand and product offering covers most of 
the major retail customer segments for home insurance in the UK. 
126 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
Rescue and other personal lines 
This segment consists of the underwriting of rescue and recovery insurance products and other personal lines business including 
travel, pet, life (closed for new business) and creditor. 
The Group sells rescue and recovery insurance as a stand-alone product through the Green Flag brand or as an insurance  
add-on to all Group own brand and certain partner motor policies, or as part of packaged bank accounts. Rescue insurance 
policies range from basic roadside rescue to a full Europe-wide breakdown recovery service. 
The Group sells its other personal lines insurance through its own brands – Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege – and  
through partnerships. 
Commercial 
This segment consists of the underwriting of commercial insurance for micro businesses and SMEs in the UK. The Group sells 
commercial products through its own brands – NIG and DL4B – and through its partnership with RBS and NatWest. 
International 
This segment consists primarily of motor insurance, sold to private customers in Germany and Italy using a multi-channel strategy 
through the Direct Line brand and through partnerships and PCWs. 
Certain charges are not allocated to the specific operating segments above as they are considered by management to be 
outside underlying business activities by virtue of their one-off incidence, size or nature. Such charges are categorised as either 
run-off or restructuring and other one-off items, as described below: 
Run-off 
The businesses included in the run-off segment consist of two principal lines, being policies written through partnership 
arrangements with TPF and NIG personal lines business sold via brokers. The partnership arrangements have been exited  
and the residual businesses are now in run-off. TPF was entered into as a 50:50 joint venture with Tesco in 1999, whereby  
the Group underwrote a range of general and life insurance products under the Tesco brand to Tesco customers.  
Restructuring and other one-off costs 
Costs included within restructuring and other one-off costs include items that are exceptional in nature, including additional 
expenses as a result of separation and divestment from RBS Group and impairment of goodwill. 
No inter-segment transactions occurred in the periods ending 2012 and 2011. If any transaction were to occur, transfer  
prices between operating segments are set on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. 
Segment income, expenses and results will include those transfers between business segments which will then be eliminated  
on consolidation. 
For each operating segment, there is no individual policyholder or customer that represents 10% or more of the Group’s  
total revenue. 
127 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
4. Segmental analysis continued  
The table below is an analysis of the Group’s revenue and results by reportable segment for the year ended 31 December 2012: 
 
Motor 
£m 
Home 
£m 
Rescue and 
other 
personal lines
£m
Commercial
£m
International
£m
Total 
ongoing
£m
Run-off 
£m 
Restructuring 
and other 
one-off costs
£m
Total 
Group
£m
Gross written premium 1,623.5  989.0  389.8 435.6 552.7 3,990.6 10.8  – 4,001.4 
Gross earned premium 1,677.8  1,005.2 402.5 433.2 510.3 4,029.0 19.5  – 4,048.5 
Reinsurance premium 
ceded (48.6) (54.4) (19.7) (30.4) (167.2) (320.3) (6.2) – (326.5)
Net earned premium 1,629.2  950.8 382.8 402.8 343.1 3,708.7 13.3  – 3,722.0 
Investment return 140.0  34.1  7.5 29.4 23.7 234.7 47.1  – 281.8 
Instalment and other 
operating income 148.1  26.5  10.7 5.9 7.1 198.3 0.4  – 198.7 
Total income 1,917.3  1,011.4  401.0 438.1 373.9 4,141.7 60.8  – 4,202.5 
Insurance claims (1,364.8) (560.7) (218.1) (278.2) (401.9) (2,823.7) (51.6) – (2,875.3)
Insurance claims 
recoverable from 
reinsurers 148.3  6.0  23.2 24.1 133.9 335.5 115.5 – 451.0 
Net insurance claims (1,216.5) (554.7) (194.9) (254.1) (268.0) (2,488.2) 63.9  – (2,424.3)
Commission expenses (31.9) (154.2) (22.9) (87.0) (41.5) (337.5)(115.4) – (452.9)
Operating expenses (407.1) (209.2) (98.8) (94.8) (44.9) (854.8) (3.2) (189.5) (1,047.5)
Total expenses (439.0) (363.4) (121.7) (181.8) (86.4) (1,192.3) (118.6) (189.5) (1,500.4)
Operating profit / (loss) 261.8  93.3  84.4 2.2 19.5 461.2 6.1  (189.5) 277.8 
Finance costs    (28.7)
Profit before tax    249.1 
Loss ratio 74.6% 58.4% 50.9% 63.1% 78.1% 67.1% 
Commission ratio 2.0% 16.2% 6.0% 21.6% 12.1% 9.1% 
Expense ratio 25.0% 22.0% 25.8% 23.5% 13.1% 23.0% 
Combined operating ratio 101.6% 96.6% 82.7% 108.2% 103.3% 99.2% 
 
 
128 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
The table below is an analysis of the Group’s revenue and results by reportable segment for the year ended 31 December 2011: 
 
Motor 
£m 
Home 
£m 
Rescue and 
other 
personal lines
£m
Commercial
£m
International
£m
Total 
ongoing
£m
Run-off 
£m 
Restructuring 
and other 
one-off costs
£m
Total 
Group
£m
Gross written premium 1,734.8  1,031.3  350.2 438.6 570.0 4,124.9 43.4  – 4,168.3 
Gross earned premium 1,797.4  1,031.1  410.3 420.5 482.8 4,142.1 380.8  – 4,522.9 
Reinsurance premium 
ceded (25.8) (57.0) (19.5) (27.8) (121.1) (251.2) (18.7) – (269.9)
Net earned premium 1,771.6  974.1  390.8 392.7 361.7 3,890.9 362.1  – 4,253.0 
Investment return 145.2  28.5  9.5 30.5 25.0 238.7 43.2  – 281.9 
Instalment and other 
operating income 208.2  35.1  – 5.0 7.2 255.5 (15.4) – 240.1 
Total income 2,125.0  1,037.7  400.3 428.2 393.9 4,385.1 389.9  – 4,775.0 
Insurance claims (1,501.6) (579.2) (195.7) (268.6) (391.4) (2,936.5) (224.1) – (3,160.6)
Insurance claims 
recoverable from 
reinsurers 54.8  19.9  22.1 11.9 96.8 205.5 (12.4) – 193.1 
Net insurance claims (1,446.8) (559.3) (173.6) (256.7) (294.6) (2,731.0) (236.5) – (2,967.5)
Commission expenses (25.9) (170.0) (87.8) (82.3) (28.6) (394.6) (124.3) – (518.9)
Operating expenses (397.5) (196.5) (75.6) (101.6) (66.4) (837.6) (53.0) (54.0) (944.6)
Total expenses (423.4) (366.5) (163.4) (183.9) (95.0) (1,232.2) (177.3) (54.0) (1,463.5)
Operating profit / (loss) 254.8  111.9  63.3 (12.4) 4.3 421.9 (23.9) (54.0) 344.0 
Finance costs    (2.7)
Gain on disposal  
of subsidiary    1.6 
Profit before tax    342.9 
Loss ratio 81.7% 57.4% 44.4% 65.4% 81.4% 70.2% 
Commission ratio 1.5% 17.5% 22.5% 21.0% 7.9% 10.1% 
Expense ratio 22.4% 20.2% 19.4% 25.9% 18.3% 21.5% 
Combined operating ratio 105.6% 95.1% 86.3% 112.3% 107.6% 101.8% 
The table below is an analysis of the Group’s segment assets and liabilities at 31 December 2012: 
 
Motor
£m
Home
£m
Rescue and 
other 
personal lines
£m
Commercial
£m
International 
£m 
Run-off 
£m 
Total 
Group
£m
Goodwill 126.4 45.8 28.7 10.1 –  –  211.0
Other segment assets 7,146.8 873.1 358.2 1,318.0 1,199.6 1,591.2 12,486.9
Segment liabilities (5,519.5) (674.3) (276.6) (1,017.9) (977.5) (1,400.5) (9,866.3)
Reportable segment net assets 1,753.7 244.6 110.3 310.2 222.1 190.7 2,831.6
 
129 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
4. Segmental analysis continued  
The table below is an analysis of the Group’s segment assets and liabilities at 31 December 2011: 
Motor 
£m 
Home
£m
Rescue and 
other 
personal lines
£m
Commercial
£m
International 
£m 
Run-off 
£m 
Total 
Group
£m
Goodwill 126.4 45.8 28.7 10.1 –  –  211.0
Other segment assets 7,241.2 1,565.9 316.7 1,486.4 1,070.8 1,878.1 13,559.1
Segment liabilities (5,204.5) (1,138.5) (244.0) (1,057.1) (871.3) (1,383.4) (9,898.8)
Reportable segment net assets 2,163.1 473.2 101.4 439.4 199.5 494.7 3,871.3
All operations are in the UK except for International which operates in Germany and Italy. The reportable segment net assets do 
not represent the Group’s view of the capital requirements for its operating segments. 
5. Net earned premium 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Premium income from insurance contracts issued:  
Premium receivable 4,001.4 4,168.3
Change in unearned premium reserve 47.1 354.6
 4,048.5 4,522.9
Premium revenue ceded to reinsurers on insurance contracts issued:  
Premium payables (365.4) (257.1)
Change in reinsurance unearned premium reserve 38.9 (12.8)
 (326.5) (269.9)
Total 3,722.0 4,253.0
6. Investment return 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Investment income:  
Interest income on debt securities 172.5 208.1
Other investment funds income 3.1 8.5
Cash and cash equivalent interest income 19.3 20.4
Rental income from investment property 4.4 6.6
Total 199.3 243.6
Net realised gains:  
Debt securities 66.3 54.3
Other investment funds 23.2 – 
Derivatives
1
 17.8 – 
Impairments of available-for-sale debt securities –  (2.0)
Net unrealised losses:  
Derivatives
2
 (20.0) – 
Investment property (note 18) (4.8) (14.0)
Total 281.8 281.9
Notes: 
1. Derivative net realised gains includes a £3.8 million loss on interest rate derivatives, with a £0.2 million gain on associated hedged risk and a £24.3 million 
gain on foreign exchange derivatives with a £2.9 million loss on the associated hedged risk. 
2. Derivative net unrealised losses includes a £2.1 million loss on interest rate derivatives with a £3.0 million gain on the associated hedged risk and  
a £11.7 million gain on foreign exchange derivatives with a £32.6 million loss on the associated hedged risk. 
130 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
7. Instalment and other operating income 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Instalment income 125.4 145.0
  
Solicitors’ referral fee income 21.2 27.9
Vehicle replacement referral income 17.5 21.9
Revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services 25.9 39.3
Fee income from insurance intermediary services 1.9 3.4
Other income 6.8 2.6
Other operating income  73.3 95.1
Total 198.7 240.1
8. Insurance claims 
2012 
Gross 
£m 
Reinsurance 
£m 
Net
£m
Current accident year claims paid 1,360.0 (71.3) 1,288.7
Prior accident years claims paid 1,612.1 (55.6) 1,556.5
Movement in claims provision (96.8) (324.1) (420.9)
Total 2,875.3 (451.0) 2,424.3
 
 2011 
Gross 
£m 
Reinsurance 
£m 
Net
£m
Current accident year claims paid 1,646.5 (113.2) 1,533.3
Prior accident years claims paid 1,976.4 (37.4) 1,939.0
Movement in claims provision (462.3) (42.5) (504.8)
Total 3,160.6 (193.1) 2,967.5
Loss adjustment expenses for the year ended 31 December 2012 of £290.3 million (2011: £296.4 million) have been 
included in the claims figures above. 
An increase in the liability adequacy provision for the year ended 31 December 2012 of £0.7 million (2011: £21.8 million 
reduction) has been included in the movement in claims provision. 
9. Commission expenses 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Commission expenses 316.5 324.5
Expenses incurred under profit participations 136.4 194.4
Total 452.9 518.9
 
13 1 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
10. Operating expenses 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Staff costs 416.7 321.6
Marketing 203.1 203.5
Management fees 145.5 282.0
Depreciation  13.1 10.4
Amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets 40.7 29.8
Impairment of goodwill –  10.2
Other operating expenses 228.4 87.1
Total 1,047.5 944.6
Staff costs attributable to claims handling activities are allocated to claims and loss adjustment expenses. 
Management fees are in respect of expenses recharged from RBS Group up until 30 June 2012; management fees are charged 
on an arm’s length basis. These costs since 30 June 2012 have been incurred directly and included in staff costs and other 
operating expenses.  
Included in operating expenses are run-off, restructuring and other one-off costs as follows: 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Staff costs 103.9 33.0
Management fees 16.3 42.0
Impairment of goodwill –  10.2
Other operating expenses 72.5 21.8
Total 192.7 107.0
Average number of persons employed 
 2012 2011
Operations 13,662 14,765
Support 1,880 1,552
Total 15,542 16,317
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Wages and salaries 444.5 425.3
Social security costs 50.0 47.6
Pension costs 62.3 41.6
Share-based payments 0.3 – 
Total 557.1 514.5
 
132 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
Auditor’s remuneration  
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Fees payable for the audit of:  
The Company’s annual accounts – Deloitte LLP 0.2 0.1
The Company’s subsidiaries – Deloitte LLP 1.3 1.4
The Company’s subsidiaries – Mazars 0.1 0.1
Total audit fees 1.6 1.6
Fees payable to Deloitte LLP for non-audit services:  
Audit-related assurance services 0.3 0.3
Taxation advisory services 0.1 – 
Corporate finance services 4.1 0.7
Other services – 1.0
Total non-audit services 4.5 2.0
Total 6.1 3.6
Fees in relation to corporate finance services relate to the divestment of Direct Line Group from RBS Group. Fees in relation  
to other services in 2011 relate to the provision of advice and design support on the new claims operating model. 
Aggregate Directors’ emoluments 
The remuneration and pension benefits of the Directors, including those of the highest paid Director, are included in the Directors’ 
remuneration report in the corporate governance section of the Annual Report & Accounts. 
At 31 December 2012, one Director (2011: three) had retirement benefits accruing under money purchase pension schemes  
in respect of qualifying service. 
During the year ended 31 December 2012 one Director exercised share options (2011: none). 
11. Finance costs 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Interest expense on subordinated dated notes
1
 26.7 – 
Other interest expense 2.0 2.7
Total  28.7 2.7
Note: 
1. As described in note 29, the Group entered into a 10-year hedge to exchange the fixed rate of interest on the subordinated loan notes for a floating rate  
of three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 706 basis points. 
133 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
12. Tax charge 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Current taxation:  
Charge for the year 61.7 157.2
(Over) / under-provision in respect of prior year (1.0) 10.8
 60.7 168.0
Deferred taxation (note 13):  
Charge / (credit) for the year 13.9 (56.1)
Over-provision in respect of prior year (9.8) (18.0)
 4.1 (74.1)
  
Current taxation 60.7 168.0 
Deferred taxation (note 13) 4.1 (74.1)
Tax charge for the year 64.8 93.9 
The actual income tax charge differs from the expected income tax charge computed by applying the standard rate of UK 
corporation tax of 24.5%
1
 (2011: 26.5%) as follows: 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Profit before tax 249.1 342.9
Expected tax charge 61.0 90.9 
Effects of:  
Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 3.0 – 
Net movement in impairment of goodwill –  2.9 
Realised gains on disposal of subsidiary  –  0.4 
Disallowable expenses 9.6 7.1 
Non-taxable items (0.7) – 
Effect of change in UK taxation rate 2.7 (0.2)
Over-provision in respect of prior year (10.8) (7.2)
Tax charge for the year 64.8 93.9 
  
Effective income tax rate 26.0% 27.4%
Note: 
1.  The UK Government enacted a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 26% to 24% effective from 1 April 2012 in the Finance Act 2012, which also 
enacted a further reduction to 23% to be effective from 1 April 2013. As a consequence the closing deferred tax assets and liabilities have been recognised  
at an effective rate of 23%. The impact of these changes on the tax charge for the year is set out in the table above. 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Per balance sheet:  
Current tax assets  5.5 – 
Current tax liabilities 34.5 218.0
 
134 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
13. Deferred tax 
The following are the deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group, and the movements thereon, during the current 
and prior reporting years. 
Other 
temporary 
differences
£m
Retirement 
benefit 
obligation
£m
Depreciation  
in excess of 
capital 
allowances 
£m 
Non-
distributable 
reserve 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2011 (5.8) – 1.4 (54.9) (59.3)
Credit / (charge) to income statement 28.3 (0.6) (0.5) 46.9 74.1
At 31 December 2011 22.5 (0.6) 0.9 (8.0) 14.8
Credit / (charge) to income statement 4.4 (0.6) (0.5) (7.4) (4.1)
(Charge) / credit to other comprehensive income (6.1) 0.6 –  –  (5.5)
Other movements (3.6) – –  –  (3.6)
At 31 December 2012 17.2 (0.6) 0.4 (15.4) 1.6
A deferred tax asset of £1.2 million has not been recognised in respect of capital losses arising on the revaluation of investment 
property as there are currently no eligible gains against which these unrealised losses can be utilised. 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Per balance sheet:  
Deferred tax assets 22.5 26.9
Deferred tax liabilities (20.9) (12.1)
 1.6 14.8
14. Dividends 
2012 
pence
2011  
pence 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Ordinary dividend:   
Interim dividend paid in respect of current year on 27 March 2012 20.0 –  300.0 – 
Interim dividend paid in respect of current year on 6 June 2012 33.3 –  500.0 – 
Interim dividend paid in respect of current year on 3 September 2012 13.3 –  200.0 – 
Total  1,000.0 – 
The Directors have recommended that, subject to approval at the AGM on 6 June 2013, a final dividend of 8 pence per 
Ordinary Share totalling £120.0 million is to be paid on 9 June 2013 to members on the register at the close of business  
on 6 March 2013.  
135 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
15. Earnings and net assets per share, return on equity 
Earnings per share is calculated by dividing earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average  
of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period.  
Basic 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company and the weighted 
average of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period, excluding Ordinary Shares held as employee trust shares. 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Earnings attributable to owners of the Company 184.3 249.0
  
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (millions) 1,499.4 1,500.0
Basic earnings per share (pence)  12.3 16.6
Diluted 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company and the weighted 
average of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period adjusted for the dilutive potential Ordinary Shares. The Company has 
share options and contingently issuable shares as categories of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares. 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Earnings attributable to owners of the Company 184.3 249.0
  
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (millions) 1,499.4 1,500.0
Adjustments for share options and contingently issuable shares (millions) 0.6 – 
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share (millions) 1,500.0 1,500.0
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 12.3 16.6
Net asset value and tangible net asset value per share 
Net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders’ equity (excluding non-controlling interest) divided by the number  
of Ordinary Shares in issue at the end of the period. Ordinary Shares in issue exclude shares held by employee share trusts  
at 31 December 2012 of 2,848,991 (2011: nil). 
Tangible net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders’ equity (excluding non-controlling interest) less goodwill  
and other intangible assets divided by the number of Ordinary Shares in issue at the end of the period.  
Net asset and tangible net asset value per share are as follows: 
At 31 December 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Net assets 2,831.6 3,612.8
Goodwill and other intangible assets (421.5) (365.8)
Tangible net assets 2,410.1 3,247.0
  
Number of Ordinary Shares in issue (millions) 1,500.0 1,500.0
Shares held by employee share trusts (millions) (2.8) –
Closing number of Ordinary Shares in issue (millions) 1,497.2 1,500.0
  
Net asset value per share (pence) 189.1 240.9
Tangible net asset value per share (pence) 161.0 216.5
 
136 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
Return on equity 
Return on equity is calculated as follows: 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Profit for the year 184.3 249.0
  
Opening shareholders’ equity 3,612.8  3,223.6
Closing shareholders’ equity 2,831.6  3,612.8
Average shareholders’ equity 3,222.2  3,418.2
  
Return on equity 5.7% 7.3%
16. Goodwill and other intangible assets 
Goodwill 
£m 
Other intangible 
assets 
£m 
Total
£m
Cost   
At 1 January 2011 346.2 426.8 773.0
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment (1.0) (0.8) (1.8)
Additions –  119.8 119.8
Impairment and write-off of intangible assets –  (8.8) (8.8)
At 31 December 2011 345.2 537.0 882.2
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment (0.6) (0.9) (1.5)
Additions –  96.6 96.6
Fully utilised –  (282.1) (282.1)
Impairment and write-off of intangible assets –  (21.2) (21.2)
At 31 December 2012 344.6 329.4 674.0
 
Goodwill 
£m 
Other intangible 
assets 
£m 
Total
£m
Amortisation / accumulated impairment losses   
At 1 January 2011 125.0 361.9 486.9
Charge for the year –  21.1 21.1
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment (1.0) (0.7) (1.7)
Impairment and write-off of intangible assets 10.2 (0.1) 10.1
At 31 December 2011 134.2 382.2 516.4
Charge for the year –  30.0 30.0
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment (0.6) (0.7) (1.3)
Fully utilised –  (282.1) (282.1)
Impairment and write-off of intangible assets –  (10.5) (10.5)
At 31 December 2012 133.6 118.9 252.5
Net book amount   
At 31 December 2012 211.0 210.5 421.5
At 31 December 2011 211.0 154.8 365.8
Goodwill arose on the acquisition of U K Insurance Limited (£141 million) and Churchill Insurance Company Limited  
(£70 million), which is allocated across Motor, Home, Rescue and other personal lines and Commercial. 
137 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
16. Goodwill and other intangible assets continued 
The Group’s goodwill is reviewed annually at 30 September for impairment by comparing the recoverable amount of each cash-
generating unit (“CGU”) to which goodwill has been allocated with its carrying value and updated at each reporting date in the 
event of indicators of impairment.  
The goodwill of the CGUs of the Group is as follows: 
 
Motor
£m
Home
£m
Rescue and 
other personal 
lines
£m
Commercial 
£m 
Tracker Network 
(UK) Limited 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2011 126.4 45.8 28.7 10.1 10.2 221.2
Impairment of goodwill – – – –  (10.2) (10.2)
At 31 December 2011 and 2012 126.4 45.8 28.7 10.1 –  211.0
The recoverable amount is the higher of the CGU’s fair value less the costs to sell and its value in use. Value in use is the present 
value of expected future cash flows from the CGU. Fair value is the amount obtainable for the sale of the CGU in an arm’s length 
transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties. 
Impairment testing inherently involves a number of judgemental areas: the preparation of cash flow forecasts for periods that  
are beyond the normal requirements of management reporting; the assessment of the discount rate appropriate to the business; 
and estimation of the fair value of CGUs and the valuation of the separable assets of each business whose goodwill is  
being reviewed. 
The recoverable amounts of all CGUs at 30 September were based on the value in use test, using the Group’s latest five-year 
forecasts. The long-term growth rates have been based on GDP rates adjusted for inflation. The risk discount rates are based  
on observable market long-term government bond yields and average industry betas adjusted for an appropriate risk premium 
based on independent analysis. 
The recoverable amounts in excess of carrying value for the CGUs where goodwill is held are analysed as follows:  
CGU 
Assumptions
1
  
Sensitivity: Impact on  
recoverable amount of a: 
 
Terminal growth 
rate
Pre-tax 
discount rate
Recoverable 
amount in excess 
of carrying value
£m
1% change in 
pre-tax discount 
rate 
£m 
1% change in 
terminal growth 
rate 
£m 
1% change 
in forecast 
pre-tax profit
2
£m
Motor 3.0% 11.9% 1,284.1 323.7 292.3 31.0
Home 3.0% 11.9% 836.7 117.7 106.9 11.1
Rescue and other personal lines 3.0% 11.9% 645.8 81.3 74.6 7.3
Commercial 3.0% 11.9% 43.5 40.4 37.3 3.5
Notes: 
1. Key assumptions used in impairment testing in 2011 were terminal growth rate of 3% and pre-tax discount rate of 12.1%. 
2. Reflects a 1% change to each year of the five-year forecast and terminal profit forecast.  
Tracker Network UK Limited provides stolen vehicle recovery systems and vehicle asset management systems. Goodwill was fully 
impaired by 31 December 2011 (impairment charge 2011: £10.2 million) as performance was not in line with that anticipated 
at the date of purchase. The recoverable amount was calculated in 2011 using a value in use methodology, with the key 
assumptions underlying the calculation being a terminal growth rate of 3% and a pre-tax discount rate of 12.1%. 
138 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
17. Property, plant and equipment 
 £m
Cost 
At 1 January 2011 91.6
Additions 7.5
Disposals (7.9)
Reclassified as held-for-sale (1.5)
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment (0.6)
At 31 December 2011  89.1
Additions  63.7
Disposals (9.2)
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment  (1.2)
At 31 December 2012  142.4
 
 £m
Depreciation 
At 1 January 2011 39.0
Depreciation charge for the year 10.4
Disposals (6.4)
Reclassified as held-for-sale (0.5)
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment (0.3)
At 31 December 2011 42.2
Depreciation charge for the year 13.1
Disposals (4.4)
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment (0.9)
At 31 December 2012  50.0
Net book amount 
At 31 December 2012 92.4
At 31 December 2011  46.9
  
139 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
18. Investment property 
 2012 
£m 
2011
£m
At 1 January 69.5  83.5 
Additions 133.7 – 
Disposals (69.5) – 
Decrease in fair value (4.8) (14.0)
At 31 December 128.9 69.5 
Investment properties were purchased during the year to provide an investment return over the long term in accordance with  
the Group’s investment strategy. These properties are managed, on behalf of the Group, by a property services company. 
The lease agreements are drawn up in line with local practice and the Group has no exposure to leases that include  
contingent rents.  
Disposals in the year comprised freehold property occupied by RBS Group under operating leases.  
19. Subsidiaries 
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group are shown below. Their capital consists of ordinary shares which are unlisted. 
Direct Line Versicherung AG, DL Insurance Services Limited (“DLISL” – the company changed its name from RBS Insurance 
Services Limited on 10 September 2012) and U K Insurance Limited are owned directly by Direct Line Insurance Group plc. 
Direct Line Insurance S.p.A is owned indirectly through intermediary holding companies. All subsidiaries are included in the 
Group’s consolidated financial information and have an accounting reference date of 31 December. 
Name of subsidiary 
Place of incorporation  
and operation 
Type of  
ownership interest 
(share type) 
Proportion of  
voting power held Principal activity 
Direct Line Insurance S.p.A Italy Ordinary 100% General insurance 
Direct Line Versicherung AG Germany Ordinary 100% General insurance 
DL Insurance Services Limited Great Britain Ordinary 100% Management services 
U K Insurance Limited Great Britain Ordinary 100% General insurance 
The above information is provided in relation to principal related undertakings as permitted by Section 410(2) of the Companies 
Act 2006. Full information on all related undertakings is included in the Annual Return available from Companies House by 
visiting www.companieshouse.gov.uk. 
The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Direct Line Versicherung AG on 2 April 2012. The fair value of identifiable 
assets acquired was £368.7 million (including cash and cash equivalents of £39.7 million) and the fair value of identifiable 
liabilities assumed was £263.5 million. The total cash consideration paid was £105.2 million.  
The Group did not dispose of any of its subsidiaries in the year ended 31 December 2012. 
In 2011 Devitt Insurance Services Limited was sold to CKH Limited for a consideration of £2.3 million. Cash and cash 
equivalents included in the disposal were £2.4 million along with other assets of £7.3 million and other liabilities of  
£9.0 million. 
140 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
20. Reinsurance assets 
 2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Reinsurers’ share of general insurance 1,068.0 712.8
Impairment provision (60.7) (53.9)
 1,007.3 658.9
Reinsurers’ share of life insurance 94.7 82.7
Total  1,102.0 741.6
 
 2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Analysis of movement in impairment provision:  
At 1 January (53.9) (9.2)
Impairment loss recognised on reinsurance contracts (7.6) (44.8)
Impairment losses reversed 0.8 0.1
At 31 December  (60.7) (53.9)
21. Deferred acquisition costs 
 2012 
£m 
2011
£m
At 1 January 310.5 299.5
Net credit to the income statement 17.1 11.0
At 31 December  327.6 310.5
22. Insurance and other receivables 
 2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Receivables arising from insurance and reinsurance contracts:  
Due from policyholders 965.3 988.9
Impairment of policyholder receivables (9.7) (8.8)
Due from agents, brokers and intermediaries 106.6 176.9
Impairment of agent, broker and intermediary receivables (0.3) (0.4)
Due from reinsurers 34.8 46.0
Other loans and receivables:  
Accrued interest 2.0 3.3
Receivables from related parties 5.1 7.7
Other debtors 60.2 39.3
Total  1,164.0 1,252.9
 
14 1 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
23. Derivative financial instruments 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Derivative assets  
At fair value through the income statement  37.5 – 
Designated as hedging instruments  –  0.1
Total 37.5 0.1
Derivative liabilities  
At fair value through the income statement  4.1 – 
Designated as hedging instruments 2.4 – 
Total 6.5 – 
Derivative financial instruments as shown above are all classified as level 2 under the fair value hierarchy as described in note 
24. These are measured at fair value, which equates to carrying value. 
Included in the above are related party transactions with RBS Group at 31 December 2012 £23.0 million (2011: £0.1 million). 
24. Financial investments 
 
2012 
 £m 
2011
£m
Available-for-sale debt securities  
Sovereign, supranational and local government debt securities 2,635.7 3,481.2
Corporate debt securities 4,475.6 3,843.2
Mortgage backed securities 45.2 283.5
Total 7,156.5 7,607.9
 
 
2012  
£m 
2011
£m
Available-for-sale debt securities  
Listed – fixed interest rate 6,854.2 6,747.8
Listed – floating interest rate 302.3 860.1
 7,156.5 7,607.9
Other investment funds
1
 –  382.8
Total  7,156.5 7,990.7
 
Loans and receivables  
Deposits with credit institutions with maturities in excess of three months:  
Third parties 595.0 1,342.6
Related parties  50.0 147.0
Total  645.0 1,489.6
Total 7,801.5 9,480.3
Note: 
1. Other investment funds comprised a single fund which included Euro and US Dollar-denominated bonds, hedged back to Pounds Sterling. 
Included within the debt securities balance at 31 December 2012 is £75.0 million (2011: £304.6 million) relating to securities 
issued by members of RBS Group. 
142 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
The following table shows an analysis of financial instruments recorded at fair value, which equates to their carrying value,  
by level of the fair value hierarchy: 
 2012 2011 
At 31 December 
Available-
for-sale debt 
securities
 £m
Other
investment
funds
£m
Total
£m
Available- 
for-sale debt  
securities 
£m  
Other 
investment 
funds 
£m 
Total
£m
Level 1
1
 1,839.9 – 1,839.92,862.6 –  2,862.6
Level 2
2
 5,316.6 – 5,316.6 4,745.3 382.8 5,128.1
Total 7,156.5 – 7,156.5 7,607.9 382.8 7,990.7
Notes: 
1. Level 1 financial assets are measured in whole or in part by reference to published quotes in an active market. In an active market quoted prices are readily  
and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or regulatory agency and those prices represent actual and regularly 
occurring market transactions on an arm’s length basis. 
2. Included in the Level 2 category are financial assets measured using a valuation technique based on assumptions that are supported by prices from observable 
current market transactions. These are assets for which pricing is obtained via pricing services, but where prices have not been determined in an active market,  
or financial assets with fair values based on broker quotes, investments in private equity funds with fair values obtained via fund managers or assets that are 
valued using the Group’s own models whereby the majority of assumptions are market-observable. 
3. The Group held no Level 3 securities at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011. 
25. Cash and cash equivalents 
 
2012  
£m 
2011
£m
Cash at bank and in hand:  
Third parties 132.6 153.5
Related parties  69.1 48.4
 201.7 201.9
Short-term deposits with credit institutions:  
Third parties
1
 1,277.9 1,029.5
Related parties  28.8 148.4
 1,306.7 1,177.9
Total 1,508.4 1,379.8
Note: 
1. Included in the above are investments of £492.5 million (2011: £612.0 million) held by the Group in Global Treasury Funds PLC (an open ended umbrella 
investment company with variable capital incorporated with limited liability in Ireland). RBS Asset Management (Dublin) Limited is the appointed manager to the 
fund. 
The effective interest rate on short-term deposits with credit institutions for the year ended 31 December 2012 was 0.35%  
(2011: 0.78%) and has an average maturity of 11 days (2011: 85 days). 
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and bank overdrafts are as follows: 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 1,508.4 1,379.8
Bank overdrafts  (90.9) (70.2)
Total 1,417.5 1,309.6
26. Assets held for sale 
 2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Freehold property held for sale 1.0 1.0
The Group intends to dispose of freehold property it no longer utilises at Lumbry Park, Alton. At 31 December 2012, the property 
is being actively marketed, with no impairment losses recognised in the year ended 31 December 2012. 
143 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
27. Share capital 
 
2012 
Number 
million 
2011
Number
million
Issued and fully paid: equity shares  
Ordinary Shares of £1 each –  1,500.0
Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each 1,500.0 – 
On 31 August 2012, board and shareholder resolutions were approved to subdivide the share capital of Direct Line Insurance 
Group plc from 1.5 billion Ordinary Shares of £1 each to 1.5 billion Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each and 1.5 billion 
deferred shares of 90 pence each. 
The deferred shares were then transferred back to the Company by its parent, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, for no 
value and immediately cancelled by the Company. This cancellation has created a non-distributable capital redemption reserve 
in the Company of £1,350.0 million. 
The Company’s issued share capital now comprises 1.5 billion Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each. For the year ended  
31 December 2012, this has not altered the earnings per share calculation. 
The Group satisfies share-based payments under the Group’s share plans primarily through shares purchased in the market  
and held by employee share trusts. This note gives details of the shares held in these trusts. 
At 31 December 2012, 2,848,991 Ordinary Shares (2011: nil) were owned by the employee share trusts with a cost  
of £5.0 million, with an undertaking to satisfy the awards of shares in the Company under the Company’s share plans  
and schemes.  
These shares were purchased by the employee share trusts and are carried at cost. At 31 December 2012, they had  
an aggregate nominal value of £0.3 million (2011: £nil) and a market value of £6.2 million (2011: £nil).  
28. Other reserves 
Movements in the revaluation reserve for available-for-sale investments were as follows: 
Other 
investment 
funds 
£m 
Debt 
securities 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2011 4.0 37.9 41.9
Revaluation during the year – gross 11.8 172.0 183.8
Revaluation during the year – tax (3.1) (47.3) (50.4)
Realised gains – gross –  (52.3) (52.3)
Tax on realised gains –  14.1 14.1
At 31 December 2011  12.7 124.4 137.1
Revaluation during the year – gross 6.3 103.6 109.9
Revaluation during the year – tax (1.5) (19.1) (20.6)
Realised gains – gross (23.2) (66.3) (89.5)
Tax on realised gains 5.7 16.2 21.9
At 31 December 2012 –  158.8 158.8
 
144 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
Movements in the non-distributable reserve were as follows: 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
At 1 January 30.3 197.6
Transfer from / (to) retained earnings 32.9 (167.3)
At 31 December  63.2 30.3
The non-distributable reserve relates to a UK statutory claims equalisation reserve that is calculated in accordance with the rules  
of the FSA. The transfer to retained earnings in 2011 was a consequence of the Group’s consolidation of its four UK general 
insurance underwriting entities by way of a UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 Part VII transfer, which is a mechanism 
used to transfer all the insurance business, rights, benefits, obligations and interests into one insurance underwriter. 
29. Subordinated liabilities 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Subordinated dated notes 529.0 – 
Undated subordinated loans 258.5 – 
Total  787.5 – 
The subordinated dated notes were issued on 27 April 2012 at a fixed rate of 9.25%. On issuance the Group entered into a 
10-year hedge to exchange the fixed rate of interest for a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 706 basis points. 
The nominal £500 million bonds have a redemption date of 27 April 2042. The Group has the option to repay the notes on 
specific dates from 27 April 2022. If the notes are not repaid on that date, the rate of interest would be reset at a rate of the  
six-month LIBOR plus 7.91%.  
The notes are unsecured, subordinated obligations of the Group, and rank pari passu without any preference among themselves. 
In the event of a winding-up or of bankruptcy, they are to be repaid only after the claims of all other creditors have been met. 
There have been no defaults on any of the notes during the year. The Group has the option to defer interest payments on  
the notes but to date has not exercised this right. The aggregate fair value of subordinated dated notes is £597.6 million  
(2011: £nil).  
The undated subordinated loans of £258.5 million were provided by TPF in 2006 and were reclassified from non-controlling 
interest in total equity following FSA approval to repay the loans. There is no interest payable on this instrument. The loans were 
fully repaid on 8 January 2013 (see note 41). 
145 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
30. Insurance liabilities, unearned premium reserve and reinsurance assets 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Insurance liabilities  
Life insurance (note 31) 107.2 97.8
General insurance 6,291.3 6,411.2
Total 6,398.5 6,509.0
Gross general insurance  
Claims reported 3,969.3 4,036.9
Claims incurred but not reported 2,153.9 2,217.5
Loss adjustment expenses 163.8 153.2
Liability adequacy provision 4.3 3.6
Total  6,291.3 6,411.2
Unearned premium reserve 1,872.9 1,931.6
Total 8,164.2 8,342.8
Reinsurers’ share of general insurance  
Claims reported (397.8) (318.1)
Claims incurred but not reported (511.6) (281.8)
Total  (909.4) (599.9)
Unearned premium reserve (97.9) (59.0)
Total  (1,007.3) (658.9)
Net general insurance  
Claims reported 3,571.5 3,718.8
Claims incurred but not reported 1,642.3 1,935.7
Loss adjustment expenses 163.8 153.2
Liability adequacy provision 4.3 3.6
Total  5,381.9 5,811.3
Unearned premium reserve 1,775.0 1,872.6
Total  7,156.9 7,683.9
  
146 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
General insurance claims – gross  
Accident year 
2003 
£m 
2004 
£m 
2005 
£m 
2006
£m
2007
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2010 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2012
£m
Total
£m
Estimate of ultimate 
claims costs:      
At end of accident 
year 3,648.5 3,679.1 4,007.5 4,091.6 4,390.5 3,878.1 4,148.0 4,261.9 3,080.5 2,797.3 37,983.0
One year later (135.6) (187.2) (175.8) (266.1) (62.0) 23.2 120.0 (98.1) (80.3) – (861.9)
Two years later (105.5) (89.8) (141.7) (42.0) (1.1) 43.9 (42.5) (115.3) –  – (494.0)
Three years later (62.1) (61.3) (57.9) (17.6) 49.4 (38.3) (24.2) –  –  – (212.0)
Four years later (42.9) (41.9) (59.5) 10.1 (7.0) (22.0) – –  –  – (163.2)
Five years later (19.7) (15.2) 15.3 (21.6)(17.8) – – –  –  – (59.0)
Six years later (25.3) 70.5 7.8 (9.1) – – – –  –  – 43.9
Seven years later 19.5 12.8 5.4 – – – – –  –  – 37.7
Eight years later 7.7 22.0 –  – – – – –  –  – 29.7
Nine years later (12.1) –  –  – – – – –  –  – (12.1)
Current estimate of 
cumulative claims 3,272.5 3,389.0 3,601.1 3,745.3 4,352.0 3,884.9 4,201.3 4,048.5 3,000.2 2,797.3 36,292.1
Cumulative 
payments to date (3,156.2) (3,175.3) (3,432.2) (3,489.5) (3,956.7) (3,424.8) (3,396.4) (3,139.1) (2,009.7) (1,194.9) (30,374.8)
Liability recognised  
in balance sheet 116.3 213.7 168.9 255.8 395.3 460.1 804.9 909.4 990.5 1,602.4 5,917.3
2002 and prior      205.9
Loss adjustment 
expenses      163.8
Total gross liability
1
      6,287.0
Note: 
1.  This balance excludes liability adequacy provision.  
147 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
30. Insurance liabilities, unearned premium reserve and reinsurance assets continued 
General insurance claims – net 
Accident year 
2003 
£m 
2004 
£m 
2005 
£m 
2006
£m
2007
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2010 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2012
£m
Total
£m
Estimate of ultimate 
claims costs:      
At end of 
accident year 3,207.4 3,486.1 3,869.6 4,030.8 4,341.3 3,816.0 4,113.0 4,219.3 2,946.1 2,570.1 36,599.7
One year later (103.3) (169.2) (159.3) (249.7) (81.7) 24.1 70.0 (109.7) (119.3) – (898.1)
Two years later (101.8) (94.1) (159.4) (52.7) (23.3) 8.2 (23.0) (136.4) –  – (582.5)
Three years later (71.0) (68.3) (62.0) (28.2) 17.7 (24.5) (64.2) –  –  – (300.5)
Four years later (42.4) (53.3) (61.6) 9.9 (10.4) (51.2) – –  –  – (209.0)
Five years later (36.0) (13.5) 7.2 (43.5) (22.4) – – –  –  – (108.2)
Six years later (20.5) 60.7 (0.4) (21.0) – – – –  –  – 18.8
Seven years later 5.5 (4.1) (12.2) – – – – –  –  – (10.8)
Eight years later 6.2 (5.4) –  – – – – –  –  – 0.8
Nine years later (3.4) –  –  – – – – –  –  – (3.4)
Current estimate of 
cumulative claims 2,840.7 3,138.9 3,421.9 3,645.6 4,221.2 3,772.6 4,095.8 3,973.2 2,826.8 2,570.1 34,506.8
Cumulative 
payments to date (2,778.4) (3,020.9) (3,303.4) (3,439.4) (3,895.9) (3,391.6) (3,366.2) (3,122.8) (1,929.2) (1,141.9) (29,389.7)
Liability recognised  
in balance sheet 62.3 118.0 118.5 206.2 325.3 381.0 729.6 850.4 897.6 1,428.2 5,117.1
2002 and prior       96.7
Loss adjustment 
expenses      163.8
Total net liability
1
      5,377.6
Note: 
1.  This balance excludes liability adequacy provision.  
148 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
Movements in general insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 
 
Gross 
£m 
Reinsurance 
£m 
Net
£m
Notified claims 4,327.6 (310.0) 4,017.6
Incurred but not reported 2,514.2 (220.8) 2,293.4
Liability adequacy provision 25.4 –  25.4
At 1 January 2011 6,867.2 (530.8) 6,336.4
Cash paid for claims settled in the year (3,547.7) 81.7 (3,466.0)
Increase / (decrease) in liabilities:   
Arising from current-year claims 3,345.3 (134.4) 3,210.9
Arising from prior-year claims (209.9) (17.2) (227.1)
Net exchange differences (21.9) 0.8 (21.1)
Decrease in liability adequacy provision (21.8) –  (21.8)
At 31 December 2011 6,411.2 (599.9) 5,811.3
Notified claims 4,190.1 (318.1) 3,872.0
Incurred but not reported 2,217.5 (281.8) 1,935.7
Liability adequacy provision 3.6 –  3.6
At 31 December 2011 6,411.2 (599.9) 5,811.3
Cash paid for claims settled in the year (2,949.1) 108.6 (2,840.5)
Increase / (decrease) in liabilities:   
Arising from current-year claims 3,038.2 (227.2) 2,811.0
Arising from prior-year claims (196.5) (193.0) (389.5)
Net exchange differences (13.2) 2.1 (11.1)
Increase in liability adequacy provision 0.7 –  0.7
At 31 December 2012  6,291.3 (909.4) 5,381.9
Notified claims 4,133.1 (397.8) 3,735.3
Incurred but not reported 2,153.9 (511.6) 1,642.3
Liability adequacy provision 4.3 –  4.3
At 31 December 2012  6,291.3 (909.4) 5,381.9
Movement in prior-year net claims liabilities by operating segment 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Motor (174.3) (138.2)
Home (37.4) 48.5
Rescue and other personal lines (23.9) (52.8)
Commercial (56.2) (38.4)
International (30.2) (7.9)
Total ongoing (322.0) (188.8)
Run-off (67.5) (38.3)
Total (389.5) (227.1)
  
149 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
30. Insurance liabilities, unearned premium reserve and reinsurance assets continued  
Movement in unearned premium reserve 
 
Gross 
£m 
Reinsurance 
£m 
Net
£m
At 1 January 2011 2,288.6 (71.8) 2,216.8
Net (decrease) / increase in the year (354.6) 12.8 (341.8)
Exchange movement (2.4) –  (2.4)
At 31 December 2011 1,931.6 (59.0) 1,872.6
Net decrease in the year (47.1) (38.9) (86.0)
Exchange movement (11.6) –  (11.6)
At 31 December 2012  1,872.9 (97.9) 1,775.0
31. Life insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Gross life insurance  
Long-term insurance contracts:  
With fixed and guaranteed terms 102.9 93.0
Benefits outstanding 4.3 4.8
Total 107.2 97.8
Reinsurers’ share of life insurance  
Long-term insurance contracts:  
With fixed and guaranteed terms (91.1) (78.6)
Benefits outstanding (3.6) (4.1)
Total  (94.7) (82.7)
Net life insurance  
Long-term insurance contracts:  
With fixed and guaranteed terms 11.8 14.4
Benefits outstanding 0.7 0.7
Total  12.5 15.1
Movements in life insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 
 
Gross 
£m 
Reinsurance 
£m 
Net
£m
At 1 January 2011 68.4 (53.3) 15.1
Provisions in respect of new and existing business 45.9 (25.4) 20.5
Expected change in existing business provisions (21.7) 16.2 (5.5)
Variance between actual and expected experience 8.7 (16.1) (7.4)
Other movements (8.3) –  (8.3)
At 31 December 2011 93.0 (78.6) 14.4
Provisions in respect of new and existing business 42.8 (24.7) 18.1
Expected change in existing business provisions (20.3) 18.3 (2.0)
Variance between actual and expected experience (4.7) (6.1) (10.8)
Other movements (7.9) –  (7.9)
At 31 December 2012  102.9 (91.1) 11.8
 
150 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
32. Borrowings 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Loans from related parties  –  247.7
Bank overdrafts with related parties  90.9 64.2
Bank overdrafts with third parties –  6.0
Total 90.9 317.9
The carrying value of borrowings approximates to their fair value. 
33. Retirement benefits obligations  
Defined contribution scheme 
DLISL operates the Group pension scheme which was established in 1988. The contributions paid by DLISL are charged to the 
income statement, as incurred. 
The pension charge in respect of the defined contribution scheme at 31 December 2012 was £26.0 million  
(2011: £28.0 million). 
In addition, certain employees of the Group who were previously members of the RBS Group defined benefit pension scheme 
transferred to the Group’s defined contribution scheme in the year. As a result of standardising employment terms for all Group 
employees, which included changes to the employment terms of a small number of Group employees who were members  
of the RBS Group defined benefit pension scheme, the Group crystallised a debt under section 75 of the UK Pensions Act  
1995. Consequently the Group was required to pay into the RBS Group’s defined benefit pension scheme (in which those 
employees ceased to participate) as a result of a deficit in that scheme. The debt was calculated based on the amount needed  
to secure Direct Line Group’s share of the pension liabilities in the pension scheme with an insurance company. An amount of 
£31.3 million was paid to the RBS Group pension scheme on 29 June 2012 in full and final settlement. 
Defined benefit scheme 
The Group’s defined benefit pension scheme was closed in 2003 although DLISL remains the sponsoring employer for 
obligations to current and deferred pensioners. 
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2012 is 20 years (2011: 19 years) using 
accounting assumptions. 
The assumptions in respect of the defined benefit scheme and the amounts accounted for under IAS 19 are set out below. 
 
2012 
% 
2011
%
Rate of increase in pension payment 2.1 2.1
Rate of increase of deferred pensions 2.1 2.1
Discount rate 4.5 5.0
Inflation rate 2.8 3.0
No assumption has been made for salary growth as there are no liabilities in the scheme that are linked to future increases  
in salaries. 
15 1 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
33. Retirement benefits obligations continued  
The expected return on the scheme assets at 31 December is based upon the assumed returns in the table below together with 
the present value of the obligations and deficit in the scheme. 
 
Expected
return
2012
%
Value at  
2012 
£m 
Expected 
return 
2011 
% 
Value at
 2011
£m
Equities 7.7 13.9 7.7 34.5
Index-linked bonds 3.2 10.2 3.1 7.2
Government bonds 3.2 6.5 3.1 7.2
Corporate bonds 4.2 32.5 4.7 7.2
Other 4.5 0.6 5.0 0.6
Total market value of assets 63.7  56.7
Present value of fund obligations 61.2  54.1
Surplus in the scheme 2.5  2.6
Deferred tax asset at 23% (2011: 25%) 0.6  0.6
IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits revised’ is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. Under the revised 
standard, an expected rate of return will no longer be applied to assets. The interest cost to be calculated on the net pension 
liability or asset will be at the long-term bond rate. 
The deferred tax asset has been netted off against the net pension liability and has been accounted for as a liability (note 13). 
Amounts credited to the income statement 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Interest on obligation (2.7) (3.0)
Expected return on plan assets 3.5 3.7
 0.8 0.7
The credit to the income statement has been included under other operating expenses. 
Amounts charged to the statement of comprehensive income 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Actual return on scheme assets (5.7) (1.1)
Expected return on scheme assets 3.5 3.7
Experience (gain) / loss on scheme assets  (2.2) 2.6
Experience loss / (gain) on scheme liabilities 0.1 (0.4)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities 5.5 (1.6)
Actuarial loss 3.4 0.6
152 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Opening defined benefit obligation 54.1 54.5
Interest cost 2.7 3.0
Actuarial losses / (gains) 5.6 (2.1)
Benefits paid (1.2) (1.3)
Closing defined benefit obligation 61.2 54.1
Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are as follows: 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Opening fair value of plan assets 56.7 54.4
Expected return 3.5 3.7
Actuarial gains / (loss) 2.2 (2.6)
Contributions 2.5 2.5
Benefits paid (1.2) (1.3)
Closing fair value of plan assets 63.7 56.7
Net pension surplus / (deficit) before deferred tax:  
At 1 January 2.6 (0.1)
At 31 December 2.5 2.6
The history of the plan for the current and prior years is as follows: 
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010 
£m 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligation (61.2) (54.1) (54.5) (60.8) (45.3)
Fair value of plan assets 63.7 56.7 54.4 47.2 37.5
Surplus / (deficit) 2.5 2.6 (0.1) (13.6) (7.8)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 0.1 (0.4) (0.5) (2.6) (0.7)
Experience adjustments on plan assets (2.2) 2.6 (3.1) (5.4) (10.7)
Sensitivity analysis 
The table on page 154 provides the sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other 
assumptions left unchanged. Other potential risks beyond the ones described in the table could have an additional financial 
impact on the Group. 
Sensitivity factor 
Discount rate 
The impact of a change in the principal actuarial assumptions on the discount rate for the present value of pension scheme 
obligations. This sensitivity analysis has been selected to reflect the changes to discounted cash flows as a result of changes  
to the discount rate. The methodology adopted involves actuarial techniques. 
Inflation rate 
The impact of a change in the principal actuarial assumptions on the inflation rate for the present value of pension scheme 
obligations. This sensitivity analysis has been selected to reflect the changes to the general level of prices of goods and services 
over time. The methodology adopted involves actuarial techniques. 
153 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
33. Retirement benefits obligations continued  
Sensitivity analysis 
Discount
rate
+0.25%
Discount 
rate 
−0.25% 
Inflation 
rate 
+0.25% 
Inflation
rate
−0.25%
At 31 December 2012   
Impact on profit before tax (£m) – –  –  – 
Impact before tax on total equity (£m) (3.0) 3.2 3.1 (3.0)
   
At 31 December 2011   
Impact on profit before tax (£m) – –  –  –
Impact before tax on total equity (£m) (2.6) 2.6 2.5 (2.4)
The most recent funding valuation of the defined benefit scheme took place at 1 October 2011. The Group has agreed to  
make contributions of £2.8 million per annum from 2013 to 2016 for the future accrual of benefits, and does not anticipate  
any material change to the level of funding before the next valuation, which is due on 1 October 2014. 
34. Share-based payments 
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans, details of which and their financial effect  
are set out below: 
Free share awards 
During the year ended 31 December 2012, upon listing on the London Stock Exchange, the Group offered all employees  
a ‘free share’ award granting shares to the value of £250 to each eligible employee free of charge. These awards will be 
satisfied using market-purchased shares.  
The details of the award are set out below: 
Type of arrangement Free share award 
Date of grant 27 November and 3 December 2012 
Number granted 1,951,950 
Forfeited during the period 3,718 
Vested during the period 8,151 
Number outstanding at 31 December 2012  1,940,081 
Contractual life 3 years 
Vesting conditions Continuing employment or leavers in certain circumstances 
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2012 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the 
employee remains in employment with the Group for three years. Awards granted under the plan will be exercised upon the 
award vesting date. 
The estimated fair value of the free shares granted under the award is £3,942,939, or £2.02 per share award. The fair value 
of each award is based upon the market value of the award at grant date of £2.02, applicable to both grants. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan 
In November 2012, conditional awards were made over 3,159,625 ordinary shares under the Group’s LTIP. Senior 
management are eligible to participate in the LTIP and awards are granted in the form of a nil-priced option. 
Under the scheme, the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon the following: continued employment  
by the Group and achieving predefined performance conditions associated with TSR and RoTE. 
154 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
The awards are subject to both non-market and market-based performance conditions. 
 
Value at  
grant 
£ 
Options over 
shares 
Number
Granted during the year 5,001,813 3,159,625
Forfeited during the year –  – 
Exercised during the year –  – 
Expired during the year –  – 
At 31 December 2012 5,001,813 3,159,625
In respect of the outstanding options at 31 December 2012, the exercise price was £nil with a weighted average remaining 
contractual life of 2.85 years. 
The estimated fair value of the LTIP share awards made during the year, at the date of grant, was £5,001,813. For awards  
with market-based performance conditions, this was calculated using the Monte-Carlo simulation model. 
The inputs into the model were as follows: 
 2012
Share price (pence) 194
Exercise price (pence) 0
Volatility of Company share price (%) 27
Average comparator volatility (%) 32
Expected life (years) 3
Risk-free rate (%) 0.3
Expected dividend yields (%) 0
As historic data is not available for the Group, expected volatility was determined by calculating the median historic volatility for 
a group of comparable companies using daily share price data over a period commensurate with the expected life assumption. 
The companies chosen as comparable companies for the LTIP award were from members of the TSR comparator group  
(all companies in the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts) and are classified as being in the insurance sector. 
Expected life was based on the contractual life of the awards and adjusted based on management’s best estimate, for the effects 
of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
Prior to October 2012 certain employees benefited from share-based awards originally granted by RBS Group. The expense 
incurred in respect of awards granted by RBS Group to Direct Line Group employees is not material and has been included 
within operating expenses. 
RBS Group has indemnified Direct Line Group for all future costs in respect of RBS Group share-based awards made to  
Direct Line Group staff. All costs in respect of these share awards for Direct Line Group employees have since been borne  
by RBS Group. 
The RBS Group Remuneration Committee has agreed that RBS Group will be responsible for the settlement of the following 
outstanding LTIP Awards, with no charge to be made to Direct Line Group:  
 LTIP awards in 2010 – expected to vest in March 2013 
 LTIP awards in 2011 – expected to vest in March 2014 
 LTIP awards in 2012 – expected to vest in March 2015 
It was agreed that the 2010 LTIP award scheme will continue to be settled in RBS Group shares; however, the 2011 and 2012 
LTIP award schemes will be settled with Company shares currently held by RBS Group. 
155 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
35. Trade and other payables including insurance payables  
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Due to agents, brokers and intermediaries 6.9 4.8
Due to reinsurers 81.9 66.1
Due to insurance companies 13.8 5.4
Due to related parties  34.7 158.7
Trade creditors and accruals 201.0 184.6
Other creditors 107.8 287.6
Other taxes 81.7 86.5
Provisions 114.2 105.2
Deferred income 12.6 11.3
Total  654.6 910.2
On 2 April 2012, the Group acquired Direct Line Versicherung AG. In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2011, a liability for the payment to RBS Group for the transfer of ownership and control was 
recognised. This liability was settled in April 2012. Included within other creditors is an amount of £nil (2011: £110.9 million) 
in respect of an inter-company creditor with RBS Group. 
Movements during the year in provisions are as follows: 
 
Regulatory levies
 £m
Restructuring  
£m 
Other
1
 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2012 42.6 7.7 54.9 105.2
Charged to the income statement:   
Additional provisions 28.3 28.8 50.9 108.0
Used during year (37.7) (5.6) (55.7) (99.0)
At 31 December 2012  33.2 30.9 50.1 114.2
Note: 
1.  Other provisions include £11.0 million (2011: £nil) held in respect of costs associated with vacated leasehold properties.  
156 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
36. Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Profit for the year  184.3 249.0
Adjustments for:  
Investment revenues (199.3) (249.0)
Instalment income (125.4) (145.0)
Other operating loss 2.1 12.4
Net fair value gains on assets at fair value through income statement 4.8 14.0
Finance costs 28.7 2.7
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 0.3 – 
Tax charge 64.8 93.9
Depreciation and amortisation expenses  43.1 31.5
Non-cash movement in demerger reserve 24.6 55.9
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets 10.7 18.9
Impairment losses on financial investments –  2.0
Impairment losses on reinsurance contracts 6.8 44.7
Profit on sale of available-for-sale financial investments (89.4) (52.9)
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 4.8 0.2
Profit on disposal of subsidiary –  (1.6)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital (39.1) 76.7
 
Movements in working capital  
Net decrease in net insurance liabilities (532.5) (885.4)
Net decrease in prepayments and accrued income and other assets 9.6 36.9
Net decrease in insurance and other receivables 86.5 238.4
Net increase in derivative financial instruments –  (0.4)
Net (decrease) / increase in trade and other payables including insurance payables (253.4) 158.3
Increase in cash contribution to retirement obligation (2.5) (2.5)
Cash used by operations (731.4) (378.0)
 
Taxes (paid) / received (232.4) 20.7
Finance costs (2.0) (2.5)
Cash flow hedges (0.2) – 
Net cash flow used by operating activities before investment of insurance assets (966.0) (359.8)
 
Interest received 327.7 440.8
Rental income received from investment property 4.4 7.1
Purchase of investment property (133.7) – 
Proceeds on disposal of investment property 69.5 – 
Distributions received from other investment funds 3.1 8.5
Proceeds on disposal / maturity of available-for-sale financial assets 4,021.6 6,403.4
Net decrease / (increase) in investment balances held with credit institutions 844.6 (422.9)
Purchases of available-for-sale investments  (3,132.4) (6,398.1)
Cash generated from investment of insurance assets 2,004.8 38.8
 
157 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
37. Contingencies and guarantees 
The Group did not have any contingent liabilities. 
Companies within the Group have guaranteed the performance of certain contracts with insurance partners. There was  
a guarantee in place from 1 June 2011 until 31 January 2012 of £70 million for events occurring up to 31 January 2012, 
although liability under this guarantee was reduced at 31 January 2012 to £58.5 million for events occurring after that  
date. There are further guarantees in place which also relate to contracts with insurance partners for £90.3 million at  
31 December 2012. 
38. Commitments 
Operating lease commitments 
The Group leases vehicles under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. 
The Group also leases vehicles and other assets under cancellable operating lease agreements. 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 7.5 7.4
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due  
as follows: 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Within one year 33.0 8.7
In the second to fifth years inclusive 92.3 19.0
After five years 250.5 9.3
Total  375.8 37.0
Operating lease commitments where the Group is the lessor 
Future aggregate minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Within one year 7.8 7.1
In the second to fifth years inclusive 26.6 28.2
After five years 41.2 27.4
Total  75.6 62.7
 
158 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
39. Classification of financial instruments 
The following table analyses the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities in accordance with the categories of financial 
instruments in IAS 39. Non-financial assets and liabilities outside the scope of IAS 39 are shown separately. Other than those 
financial assets and liabilities stated at fair value below, the carrying value of all other financial assets and liabilities equals  
their fair value. 
At 31 December 2012 
Assets / 
liabilities 
at fair 
value
£m
Available-
for-sale
£m
Loans and
receivables
£m
Other 
(amortised 
costs) 
£m 
Non-financial 
assets /  
liabilities  
£m 
Total
£m
Assets   
Goodwill and other intangible assets – – – –  421.5 421.5
Property, plant and equipment – – – –  92.4 92.4
Investment property – – – –  128.9 128.9
Reinsurance assets – – – –  1,102.0 1,102.0
Deferred tax assets – – – –  22.5 22.5
Current tax assets – – – –  5.5 5.5
Deferred acquisition costs – – – –  327.6 327.6
Insurance and other receivables – – 1,164.0 –  –  1,164.0
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets – – – –  82.6 82.6
Derivative financial instruments 37.5 – – –  –  37.5
Retirement benefit asset – – – –  2.5 2.5
Financial investments – 7,156.5 645.0 –  –  7,801.5
Cash and cash equivalents – – 1,508.4 –  –  1,508.4
Assets held for sale – – – –  1.0 1.0
 37.5 7,156.5 3,317.4 –  2,186.5 12,697.9
Liabilities   
Subordinated liabilities – – – 787.5 –  787.5
Insurance liabilities – – – –  6,398.5 6,398.5
Unearned premium reserve – – – –  1,872.9 1,872.9
Borrowings – – – 90.9 –  90.9
Derivative financial instruments 6.5 – – –  –  6.5
Trade and other payables including  
insurance payables – – – 540.4 114.2 654.6
Deferred tax liabilities – – – –  20.9 20.9
Current tax liabilities – – – –  34.5 34.5
 6.5 – – 1,418.8 8,441.0 9,866.3
Total equity   2,831.6
   12,697.9
 
159 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
39. Classification of financial instruments continued 
At 31 December 2011 
Assets / 
liabilities 
at fair
 value
£m
Available-
for-sale
£m
Loans and
receivables
£m
Other 
(amortised 
costs) 
£m 
Non-financial 
assets /  
liabilities 
£m 
Total
£m
Assets   
Goodwill and other intangible assets – – – –  365.8 365.8
Property, plant and equipment – – – –  46.9 46.9
Investment property – – – –  69.5 69.5
Reinsurance assets – – – –  741.6 741.6
Deferred tax assets – – – –  26.9 26.9
Deferred acquisition costs – – – –  310.5 310.5
Insurance and other receivables – – 1,252.9 –  –  1,252.9
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets – – – –  92.2 92.2
Derivative financial instruments 0.1 – – –  –  0.1
Retirement benefit asset – – – –  2.6 2.6
Financial investments – 7,990.7 1,489.6 –  –  9,480.3
Cash and cash equivalents – – 1,379.8 –  –  1,379.8
Assets held for sale – – – –  1.0 1.0
 0.1 7,990.7 4,122.3 –  1,657.0 13,770.1
Liabilities   
Insurance liabilities – – – –  6,509.0 6,509.0
Unearned premium reserve – – – –  1,931.6 1,931.6
Borrowings – – – 317.9 –  317.9
Trade and other payables including  
insurance payables – – – 805.0 105.2 910.2
Deferred tax liabilities – – – –  12.1 12.1
Current tax liabilities – – – –  218.0 218.0
 – – – 1,122.9 8,775.9 9,898.8
Total equity   3,871.3
   13,770.1
 
160 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
40. Related parties 
On 1 December 2008, the UK Government through HM Treasury became the ultimate controlling party of The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Group plc and is therefore the ultimate controlling party of Direct Line Group. The UK Government’s shareholding is 
managed by UK Financial Investments Limited, a company wholly owned by the UK Government. This gives rise to related party 
transactions and balances, specifically in respect of tax with HMRC and debt security investments with the UK Government. 
Direct Line Group’s immediate holding company is The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc which is incorporated in the United 
Kingdom and registered in Scotland. 
At 31 December 2012, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc heads the largest group in which Direct Line Group is 
consolidated. Copies of the consolidated financial statements of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc may be obtained  
from The Secretary, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, Gogarburn, PO Box 1000, Edinburgh EH12 1HQ. 
The following transactions were carried out with related parties, who are all members of RBS Group. 
i. Sales of insurance contracts and other services 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Parent (0.1) – 
Fellow subsidiaries 7.0 17.6
Total 6.9 17.6
ii. Purchases of services 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Parent 223.8 287.9
Fellow subsidiaries 46.9 63.9
Total 270.7 351.8
Purchases of services are charged on an arm’s length basis. 
Employee costs recharged by RBS Group include the full costs of key managers and other staff in respect of share-based 
payments. The attribution among members of RBS Group has regard to the needs of RBS Group as a whole. 
iii. Compensation of key management 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Short-term employee benefits 5.6 4.2
Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.4
Other long-term benefits 1.5 2.1
Termination benefits 2.2 0.1
Share-based payments 0.5 0.1
Total 10.4 6.9
For the purposes of IAS24 ‘Related party disclosures’, key management personnel comprise the Directors of the Company,  
Non-Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee. 
16 1 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
40. Related parties continued 
iv. Year end balances arising from cash and investment transactions with members of the RBS Group 
 notes 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Cash at bank held with related parties  25 69.1 48.4
Short-term bank deposits held with related parties  25 28.8 148.4
Bank overdrafts held with related parties  32 (90.9) (64.2)
Derivative financial assets and liabilities  23 23.0 0.1
Term deposits held with related parties  24 50.0 147.0
Total  80.0 279.7
Debt securities held with related parties (note 24) 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
RBS Group issuers 75.0 304.6
v. Year end balances arising from sales and purchases of products and services 
Receivables from related parties (note 22) 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Parent 0.3 0.1
Fellow subsidiaries 4.8 7.6
Total 5.1 7.7
Movements in receivables from related parties were as follows: 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
At 1 January 7.7 7.6
Transactions in the year 68.0 7.3
Settled in the year (70.6) (7.2)
At 31 December 5.1 7.7
Included in the above is an amount of £69.5 million in the year ended 31 December 2012, invoiced to and paid by  
RBS Group for the purchase of investment properties. 
Due to related parties (note 35) 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Parent 5.4 75.1
Fellow subsidiaries 29.3 83.6
Total 34.7 158.7
 
162 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
Movements in amounts due to related parties were as follows: 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
At 1 January 158.7 44.7
Transactions in the year  294.6 261.0
Settled in the year  (418.6) (147.0)
At 31 December 34.7 158.7
Included in the above is an amount of £39.3 million in the year ended 31 December 2012, invoiced by and paid to RBS 
Group for the acquisition of furniture, fittings and IT hardware. Furthermore, also included is an amount of £31.3 million paid  
to the RBS Group pension scheme (see note 33 for further details). 
vi. Loans from related parties (note 32) 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Parent –  12.5
Fellow subsidiary –  235.2
Total –  247.7
Movements in loans to related parties were as follows: 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
At 1 January 247.7 249.2
Loans received during the year –  205.0
Loan repayments made (246.4) (205.5)
Interest charged  2.7 2.3
Interest settled (2.7) (2.3)
Exchange movement (1.3) (1.0)
At 31 December –  247.7
During the year ended 31 December 2012, the Group repaid its loans from RBS Group in preparation for operational separation.  
41. Post balance sheet events 
On 8 January 2013, the Group repaid undated subordinated loans of £258.5 million to TPF. 
 
163 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Parent Company balance sheet 
As at 31 December 2012 
 
 Notes 
2012  
£m 
2011 
£m
Assets   
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 2 3,226.1 3,415.3
Other receivables 3 521.7 34.1
Current tax assets 4 4.5 1.3
Cash and cash equivalents 5 268.3 32.1
Total assets  4,020.6 3,482.8
 
Equity   
Share capital 6 150.0 1,500.0
Capital redemption reserve  1,350.0 – 
Other reserves  100.3 100.0
Retained earnings  1,661.5 1,421.1
Total equity  3,261.8 3,021.1
 
Liabilities   
Subordinated liabilities 7 501.7 – 
Derivative financial instruments 8 1.7 – 
Borrowings 9 255.4 460.4
Trade and other payables 10 –  1.3
Total liabilities  758.8 461.7
Total equity and liabilities  4,020.6 3,482.8
The attached notes on pages 167 to 170 form an integral part of these separate financial statements. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 27 February 2013. They were 
signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
John Reizenstein 
Chief Financial Officer 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc 
Registration No. 02280426 
 
164 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Parent Company statement of comprehensive income 
For the year ended 31 December 2012  
 
  
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Profit for the year 1,240.4 515.9
Total comprehensive income for the year 1,240.4 515.9
Total comprehensive income attributable to:  
Owners of the Company 1,240.4 515.9
 1,240.4 515.9
 
 
 
Parent Company statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
 
 
 
Share
capital
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
£m
Other 
reserves 
£m 
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Total
equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2011 1,500.0 – 100.0 905.2 2,505.2
Total comprehensive income for the year – – –  515.9 515.9
Balance at 31 December 2011 1,500.0 – 100.0  1,421.1 3,021.1
Total comprehensive income for the year – – –  1,240.4 1,240.4
Share redemption (1,350.0) 1,350.0 –  –  – 
Dividends paid – – –  (1,000.0) (1,000.0)
Share-based payments – – 0.3 –  0.3
Balance at 31 December 2012 150.0 1,350.0 100.3 1,661.5 3,261.8
The attached notes on pages 167 to 170 form an integral part of these separate financial statements. 
 
165 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Parent Company cash flow statement 
For the year ended December 2012  
 Notes 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Net cash generated from / (used by) operating activities 12 7.4 (39.5)
Cash flows from investing activities   
Interest received on loans to related parties  23.8 7.7
Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings  1,545.0 1,134.2
Acquisition of investments in subsidiary undertakings 2 (105.2) (3,510.5)
Disposal of investments in subsidiary undertakings  –  1,797.1
Net cash generated from / (used by) investing activities  1,463.6 (571.5)
Cash flows from financing activities   
Dividends paid  (1,000.0) – 
Proceeds on issue of subordinated debt  493.0 – 
Finance costs  (23.1) – 
Repayments of borrowings from related parties  (322.5) (1,704.8)
Proceeds of borrowings from related parties  120.9 1,959.8
Net (increase) / decrease in loans advanced to subsidiary undertakings  (503.1) 388.1
Net cash (used by) / generated from financing activities  (1,234.8) 643.1
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  236.2 32.1
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 5 32.1 – 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 5 268.3 32.1
The attached notes on pages 167 to 170 form an integral part of these separate financial statements. 
 
166 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Notes to the parent Company financial statements 
 
 
1. Accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc, incorporated in the UK, is the ultimate parent company of the Direct Line Group. The principal 
activity of the Company is managing its investments in subsidiaries, providing loans to those subsidiaries and the receipt and 
payment of dividends. 
The Company’s financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and are presented in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006. In accordance with the exemption permitted under section 408 of Companies  
Act 2006, the Company’s income statement and related notes have not been presented in these separate financial statements. 
The accounting policies that are used in the preparation of these separate financial statements are consistent with the accounting 
policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Direct Line Insurance Group plc as set out in those 
financial statements. 
The additional accounting policies that are specific to the separate financial statements of the Company are set out below. 
Investment in subsidiaries 
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any impairment. 
Dividend income 
Dividend income from investments in subsidiaries is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. 
2. Investment in subsidiary undertakings 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
At 1 January 3,415.3 2,313.3
Additions 105.5 3,510.5
Disposals –  (1,797.1)
Impairments (291.8) (611.4)
Exchange differences (2.9) – 
At 31 December 3,226.1 3,415.3 
The Company acquired 100% of the share capital of Direct Line Versicherung AG on 2 April 2012. The fair value of identifiable 
assets acquired was £368.7 million (including cash and cash equivalents of £39.7 million), and the fair value of identifiable 
liabilities assumed was £263.5 million. The total cash consideration paid was £105.2 million. 
Full details of investments in principal subsidiaries are set out in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. 
3. Other receivables 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Loans to subsidiary undertakings 521.4 9.1
Receivables from subsidiary undertakings 0.3 25.0
Total 521.7 34.1 
 
Current 21.7 34.1
Non-current 500.0 – 
 521.7 34.1 
 
167 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the parent Company financial statements continued 
 
4. Current tax assets 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Corporation tax recoverable 4.5 1.3 
5. Cash and cash equivalents 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Short-term deposits with credit institutions:  
Third parties 263.6 – 
Fellow subsidiaries 4.7 32.1
Total 268.3 32.1 
6. Share capital 
Full details of the share capital of the Company are set out in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements. 
7. Subordinated liabilities 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Subordinated dated notes 501.7 – 
The subordinated dated notes were issued on 27 April 2012 at a fixed rate of 9.25%. The nominal £500.0 million bonds  
have a redemption date of 27 April 2042. The Company has the option to repay the notes on specific dates from 27 April 
2022. If the notes are not repaid on that date, the rate of interest would be reset at a rate of the six-month LIBOR plus 7.91%.  
The notes are unsecured, subordinated obligations of the Company, and rank pari passu without any preference among 
themselves. In the event of a winding up or of bankruptcy, they are to be repaid only after the claims of all other creditors  
have been met. 
There have been no defaults on any of the notes during the year. The Company has the option to defer interest payments  
on the notes but to date has not exercised this right. 
The aggregate fair value of subordinated dated notes is £597.6 million (2011: £nil).  
8. Derivative financial instruments 
 2012 2011 
 
Notional 
amounts
£m
Liabilities  
£m 
Notional 
amounts 
£m 
Liabilities 
£m
Forward foreign exchange contracts
1
 134.0 1.7 –  – 
Note: 
1  The derivative is held with RBS Group. 
168 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012  
 
9. Borrowings 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Loans from subsidiary undertakings 255.4 255.4
Loans from fellow subsidiary
1
 – 205.0
Total 255.4 460.4
 
Current 255.4 0.4
Non-current –  460.0
Total 255.4 460.4
Note: 
1.  During the year ended 31 December 2012, the Company repaid the £205.0 million loan from RBS Group in preparation for operational separation from  
RBS Group. 
10. Trade and other payables 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Payables to subsidiary undertakings –  1.3
11. Dividends 
Full details of the dividends paid by the Company are set out in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.  
12. Cash generated from operations 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Profit for the period 1,240.4 515.9
Adjustments for:  
Impairment in subsidiary undertakings 291.8 611.4
Investment revenues (1,578.1) (1,141.9)
Other operating income 1.3 – 
Finance costs 41.6 6.3
Tax credit (5.5) (1.3)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital (8.5) (9.6)
Net decrease / (increase) in related party balances 23.4 (24.6)
Tax received 2.3 0.6
Finance costs (9.8) (5.9)
Cash generated from / (used by) operations 7.4 (39.5)
 
169 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Notes to the parent Company financial statements continued 
 
13. Related parties 
The Company’s immediate parent company is The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc which is incorporated in Great Britain  
and registered in Scotland. 
During the year The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc sold 520.8 million of the Company’s Ordinary Shares, representing 
34.7% of the total share capital of the Company. 
Full details of related parties are set out in note 40 to the consolidated financial statements. 
The following transactions were carried out with related parties: 
i. Sales of services 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Interest received from subsidiary undertakings 32.9 7.7
Interest income received from deposits held with related parties were at rates ranging from 0.51% to 9.50%  
(2011: 0.71% to 5.94%). 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings 1,545.0 1,134.2
ii. Purchases of services 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Management fees payable to subsidiary undertakings 8.7 6.7
Interest payable to subsidiary undertakings 7.1 3.8
Interest payable to fellow subsidiary 2.7 2.5
Total 18.5 13.0
Interest charged on borrowings from related parties were at rates ranging from 0.51% to 1.92% (2011: 0.71% to 1.92%). 
14. Share-based payments 
Full details of share-based compensation plans are provided in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements. 
15. Risk management 
The risks faced by the Company are considered to be the same as those in the operations of the Group itself and details of the 
key risks to the Group and the steps taken to manage them are disclosed in the Risk management section of the consolidated 
financial statements (note 3).  
16. Directors and key management remuneration 
The Directors and key management of the Group and the Company are the same. The remuneration and pension benefits of the 
Directors, including those of the highest paid Director, are included in the Directors’ remuneration report in the corporate 
governance section of the Annual Report & Accounts. 
 
170 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Additional information
Market
The Company has a primary listing on the UK Listing Authority’s 
Ofﬁcial List and its Ordinary Shares are admitted to trading on 
the London Stock Exchange.
Share ownership
Share capital
The details of the Company’s share capital is presented in note 
27 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Dividends
The Group aims to generate long-term sustainable value  
for shareholders, while balancing all operational, regulatory, 
rating agency and policyholder requirements. The Board  
has adopted a progressive dividend policy for the Company, 
which will aim to increase the dividend annually in real  
terms to reﬂect its cash ﬂow generation and long-term  
earnings potential.
It is expected that one third of the annual dividend will 
generally be paid in the third quarter as an interim dividend  
and two thirds will be paid as a ﬁnal dividend in the second 
quarter of the following year. The Board may revise the 
dividend policy from time to time. 
In addition, if the Board believes that the Group has capital 
that is surplus to the Board’s view of its requirements, it is 
intended that it will be returned to shareholders. The Company 
may consider a special dividend and the repurchase of  
its own shares as a means of distributing surplus capital  
to shareholders.
The Company pays its dividends in Pounds Sterling to 
shareholders registered on its principal register in the UK. 
Shareholders may have their cash dividends paid directly into  
a bank or building society by completing a dividend mandate 
form, which is available from the Company’s Share Registrar 
(“Registrar”) Computershare Investor Services PLC in the UK. 
Contact details for the Registrar are set out on the inside back 
cover of this report. Alternatively, shareholders may access their 
shareholdings online and download a dividend mandate from 
the Investor Centre. Please see the inside back cover for details. 
Shareholder enquiries
Shareholders with queries on any matter relating to their shares 
are invited to contact our Registrar using the contact details listed 
on page 176 of this Annual Report & Accounts.
Shareholders should notify the Registrar of any change in 
shareholding details in a timely manner.
Shareholders can also access their current shareholding details 
online at www.investorcentre.co.uk/directline. Investor Centre  
is a free-to-use, secure, self-service website where shareholders 
can manage their holdings online. The website enables 
shareholders to:
 check their holdings;
 update their records (including address and direct  
credit details);
 access all their securities in one portfolio by setting up a 
personal account;
 vote online; and
 register to receive electronic shareholder communications.
The website requires shareholders to quote their Shareholder 
Reference Number in order to access this information.
Shareholder warning 
The Group is aware that fraudsters are placing unsolicited 
phone calls or engaging in correspondence concerning 
investment matters with a view to defrauding investors. 
Shareholders are warned that they may receive an approach 
from persons purporting to be brokers or to be representatives 
of the Company. These fraudsters are using increasingly 
sophisticated means to approach shareholders, and they can 
be persistent and extremely persuasive. The FSA, reports that 
the average amount lost by investors in a share scam is around 
£20,000, with as much as £200 million being lost in total in 
the UK each year. Even seasoned investors have been caught 
out, with the biggest individual loss recorded by the police 
being £6 million. 
Shareholders are also warned to consider carefully any 
unsolicited offers they receive to buy their shares. Some 
companies make offers to shareholders for their shareholdings  
at prices signiﬁcantly below what they could expect on the 
market. Although it is not against the law to make an unsolicited 
offer to buy someone’s shares, it is illegal to mislead or deceive 
shareholders into accepting any offer. The offer must also comply 
with strict legal requirements, including prominent details of the 
shares’ current market value. Shareholders are urged to seek 
independent professional advice to protect themselves against  
a poor deal.
If you receive an unsolicited call:
 make sure you get the correct name of the person  
and organisation;
 check that they are properly authorised by the FSA by  
visiting www.fsa.gov.uk/register/; and
 if the call persists, hang up.
171 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements For further advice and tips on how to identify and  
avoid investment scams, access the FSA’s advice at:  
http:/ /www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/consumerinformation/
scamsandswindles/safe/boiler_room/index.shtml
Tips on how you can protect your shares
 Ensure all your certiﬁcates are kept in a safe place,  
or consider holding your shares in the UK’s electronic 
registration and settlement system for equity, CREST,  
or via a nominee.
 Keep all correspondence from the Registrar that shows your 
shareholder reference number in a safe place and shred 
unwanted correspondence.
 Inform the Registrar as soon as you change your address.
 If you receive a letter from the Registrar regarding a change 
of address and you have not recently moved, please contact 
them immediately.
 Be aware of when the dividends are paid and contact the 
Registrar if you do not receive your dividend.
 Consider having your dividends paid directly into your bank 
account (you will need to ﬁll out a dividend mandate form 
and send it to the Registrar); this reduces the risk of the 
cheque being intercepted or lost in the post.
 If you change your bank account, inform the Registrar  
of the details of your new account immediately.
 If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers 
registered in the UK or in your country of residence.
 Be aware that the Company will never contact you by 
telephone concerning investment matters. If you receive  
such a call from a person purporting to represent the  
Group please contact the Company Secretary immediately.
Corporate website
The Group’s corporate website is www.directlinegroup.com.  
It contains more useful information for the Company’s investors  
and shareholders, including press releases, forthcoming events, 
essential shareholder information, a ﬁnancial calendar and  
details of the Company’s AGM. You may also subscribe for  
email news alerts.
Electronic communications and voting
The Group produces a range of communications which  
shareholders can receive in a range of formats. View online, 
download or receive a paper copy by contacting the Registrar. 
The contact details can be found on page 176.
Shareholders who register their email address with our Registrar 
or on the Investor Centre can be kept informed of events such 
as the AGM and receive shareholder communications like the 
Annual Report & Accounts and Notice of Meeting electronically.
Dealing facilities
Shareholders can buy, sell or transfer DLG shares through a 
stockbroker or a high street bank, or through the Registrar’s 
share-dealing facility.
The Registrar may be contacted regarding their share-dealing 
facility by telephone or by email as follows:
 for telephone sales call +44 (0)870 703 0084 between 
8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding public 
holidays; and
 for internet sales log on to www.investorcentre.co.uk/directline. 
You will need your shareholder reference number as shown 
on your share certiﬁcate or your welcome letter from  
the Chairman.
Financial calendar
1
2013
28 February Announcement of results for 2012
6 March ‘Ex-dividend’ date for 2012 ﬁnal dividend
8 March Record date for 2012 ﬁnal dividend
3 May First quarter 2013 Interim  
Management Statement
6 June Annual General Meeting
11 June Payment date for 2012 ﬁnal dividend
2 August Announcement of half year results for 2013 
14 August ‘Ex-dividend’ date for 2013 interim dividend
16 August Record date for 2013 interim dividend
26 September Payment date for 2013 interim dividend
1 November Third quarter 2013 Interim  
Management Statement
Note:
1. These dates are subject to change
Annual General Meeting
The 2013 AGM will be held on 6 June 2013 at The Auditorium, 
Allen & Overy LLP , One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD, 
starting at 10.00 am. All shareholders will receive a separate 
notice convening the AGM, which will explain the resolutions  
to be put to the meeting.
Additional information continued
172 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Glossary
Term Deﬁnition
ABI SORP Association of British Insurers’ Statement of Recommended Practice.
Actuarial best estimate The probability-weighted average of all future claims and cost scenarios calculated using historical data, 
actuarial methods and judgement.
Capital The funds invested in the Group, which includes funds invested by shareholders and retained proﬁts.
Claims frequency The number of claims divided by the number of policies per annum.
Claims reserve (provision  
for losses and loss  
adjustment expense)
Funds set aside by the Group to meet the estimated cost of claims payments and related expenses that the 
Group calculates will ultimately be required to be paid.
Combined operating ratio 
(“COR”)
The sum of the loss, expense and commission ratios. The ratio is a measure of the amount of claims costs  
and expenses compared to net earned premium generated. A ratio of less than 100% indicates  
proﬁtable business.
Commission ratio The ratio of commission expense divided by net earned premium.
Current year attritional  
loss ratio
The loss ratio for the current accident year excluding the impact of movement of reserves relating to previous 
accident years and claims relating to weather events in the Home division.
Earnings per share The amount of the Group’s proﬁt allocated to each Ordinary Share of the Group.
Expense ratio The ratio of operating expenses divided by net earned premium.
Commission Amounts paid to brokers, partners and PCWs for generating business.
Finance costs The cost of servicing the Group’s external borrowings and subordinated liabilities.
FRS Financial Reporting Standard.
Financial Services Authority 
(“FSA”) 
The independent body that regulates the ﬁnancial services industry in the UK.
Gross written premium The total premiums for the period from contracts incepted during the period.
IASB International Accounting Standards Board.
Incurred but not reported 
(“IBNR”)
Funds set aside to meet the cost of claims for accidents that have taken place, but have not yet been  
reported to us.
Incurred loss Claims that have been paid plus claims advised by a policyholder but not paid. Does not include IBNR  
(see above).
ICA Individual capital assessment.
In-force policies The number of policies on a given date that are active and against which the Group will pay following a valid 
insurance claim.
Initial Public Offering (“IPO”) The ﬁrst sale of shares by a previously unlisted company to investors on a securities exchange.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard.
Insurance reserves This consists of general and life insurance liabilities, unearned premium reserve and liability adequacy reserve.
Investment income yield The annualised investment return earned through the income statement during the period, divided by the 
average assets under management (“AUM”) for each asset class during the same period. The investment  
return excludes realised gains, impairments and fair value adjustments whilst the average AUM for the  
period is derived by taking the opening and closing balances for the period.
Investment return The income earned from the investment portfolio.
Investment return yield The total annualised investment return earned through the income statement during the period, including all 
one-off items such as realised gains, fair value adjustments and impairments, divided by the average AUM  
for each asset class during the same period.
Loss ratio Net insurance claims divided by net earned premium.
173 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Term Deﬁnition
Net asset value The net asset value of the Group is calculated by subtracting total liabilities from total assets. 
Net claims The cost of claims incurred in the period less any claims costs recovered under reinsurance contracts.  
It includes both claims payments and movements in claims reserves.
Net earned premium The element of gross written premium less reinsurance premium ceded for the period that insurance cover  
has already been provided.
Ogden discount rate The discount rate set by the relevant government bodies and used to calculate lump sum awards in bodily  
injury cases.
Operating proﬁt The pre-tax proﬁt generated by the activities of the Group, including insurance and investment activity,  
but excluding ﬁnance costs.
Periodic payment order  
(“PPO”)
These are payments as awarded under the Courts Act 2003.
RBS Group The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and its subsidiary companies.
Reinsurance Contractual arrangements whereby the Group transfers part or all of the insurance risk accepted to  
another insurer.
Relevant government bodies The Ogden discount rate for use in England, Wales and Northern Ireland is set by the Lord Chancellor,  
with the rate for Scotland set by the Scottish Ministers.
Reserves Funds that have been set aside to meet outstanding claims and IBNR.
Return on equity Return on equity is calculated by dividing the proﬁt attributable to the owners of the company by average 
ordinary shareholders’ equity for the period.
Return on tangible equity 
(“RoTE”)
Return on tangible equity is adjusted proﬁt after tax from ongoing operations divided by the Group’s average 
tangible shareholders’ equity. Proﬁt after tax is adjusted to exclude Run-off operations and restructuring and 
other one-off costs and is stated after charging tax (using the UK standard tax rate).
Pro forma RoTE is based on RoTE, but assumes that the capital actions taken by the Group (£1 billion  
dividend payment and £500 million long-term subordinated debt issue) occurred on 1 January 2012.
Run-off Where the Group no longer underwrites new business but continues to meet its claims liabilities under  
existing contracts.
SME Small and medium-sized enterprises.
Solvency II The proposed capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry, which establishes  
a revised set of EU-wide capital requirements and risk management standards.
SOX 404 Sarbanes Oxley Act, Section 404.
Total shareholder return Compares the movements in the share price and dividends paid over a period of time, as a percentage  
of the share price at the beginning of the period.
UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the ”Code”)
The UK Corporate Governance Code, dated June 2010 and issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Underwriting proﬁt / (loss) The proﬁt or loss from operational activities, excluding investment performance. It is calculated as:
Net earned less Net insurance less Total 
 premium  claims  expenses
Glossary continued
17 4 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 This Annual Report & Accounts has been prepared for,  
and only for, the members of the Company as a body, and  
no other persons. The Company, its Directors, employees, 
agents or advisers do not accept responsibility to any other 
person to whom this document is shown or into whose  
hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability  
is expressly disclaimed.
Certain information contained in this document including  
any information as to the Group’s strategy, plans or future 
ﬁnancial or operating performance constitute “forward-looking 
statements”. These forward-looking statements may be identiﬁed 
by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms 
“aims”, “anticipates”, “believes”, “estimates”, “expects”, “intends”, 
“may”, “plans”, “predicts”, “projects”, “seeks”, “should”, “targets”  
or “will” or, in each case, their negative or other variations  
or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy,  
plans, objectives, goals, future events or intentions. These 
forward-looking statements include all matters that are not 
historical facts. They appear in a number of places throughout 
this document and include statements regarding the intentions, 
beliefs or current expectations of the Directors concerning, 
amongst other things: the Company’s results of operations, 
ﬁnancial condition, prospects, growth, strategies and the industry 
in which the Group operates. Examples of forward-looking 
statements include ﬁnancial targets which are contained in this 
document speciﬁcally with respect to RoTE, the Group’s COR, 
the COR for the Group’s commercial business, and cost savings. 
By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and 
uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on 
circumstances that may or may not occur in the future or are 
beyond the Group’s control. Forward-looking statements are  
not guarantees of future performance. The Company’s actual 
results of operations, ﬁnancial condition and the development  
of the business sector in which the Group operates may  
differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking 
statements contained in this document including, but not limited 
to, UK domestic and global economic business conditions, 
market-related risks such as ﬂuctuations in interest rates and 
exchange rates, the policies and actions of regulatory authorities 
(including changes related to capital and solvency requirements  
or the Ogden discount rate), the impact of competition, currency 
changes, inﬂation, deﬂation, the timing impact and other 
uncertainties of future acquisitions or combinations within relevant 
industries, as well as the impact of tax and other legislation and 
other regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Group and its 
afﬁliates operate. In addition, even if the Company’s actual 
results of operations, ﬁnancial condition, and the development  
of the business sector in which the Group operates are consistent 
with the forward-looking statements contained in this document, 
those results or developments may not be indicative of results or 
developments in subsequent periods.
The forward-looking statements contained in this document 
reﬂect knowledge and information available as of the date of 
preparation of this document. The Company and the Directors 
expressly disclaim any obligations or undertaking to update  
or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as  
a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless 
required to do so by applicable law or regulation. Nothing  
in this Annual Report & Accounts should be construed as  
a proﬁt forecast.
Cautionary statement about forward-looking statements
175 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Financial statements Contact information
Registered ofﬁce
Direct Line Insurance Group plc 
Churchill Court 
Westmoreland Road 
Bromley 
BR1 1DP
Registered in England No. 02280426 
Company Secretary: Humphrey Tomlinson
Telephone: +44 (0)20 8313 3030 
Website: www.directlinegroup.com
Registrars 
Computershare Investor Services plc 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol 
BS99 6ZZ
Shareholder helpline: +44 (0)870 873 5880 
Shareholder fax: +44 (0)870 703 6101 
Telephone number for the hard of hearing:  
+44 (0)870 702 0005 
Website: www.computershare.com
Investor Centre: 
To ﬁnd out more about Investor Centre, go  
to www.investorcentre.co.uk/directline
Auditors
Deloitte LLP 
Hill House 
1 Little New Street 
London 
EC4A 3TR 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7936 3000 
Website: www.deloitte.com
Legal advisers
Allen & Overy LLP 
One Bishops Square 
London  
E1 6AD 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 3088 0000 
Website: www.allenovery.com
Principal banker
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 
280 Bishopsgate 
London  
EC2M 4RB 
Telephone: +44 (0)131 556 8555 
Website: www.rbs.com
Corporate brokers
Goldman Sachs International 
Peterborough Court  
133 Fleet Street  
London  
EC4A 2BB  
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7774 1000  
Website: www.goldmansachs.com
Morgan Stanley & Co International plc 
25 Cabot Square 
Canary Wharf 
London  
E14 4QA  
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7425 8000 
Website: www.morganstanley.com
RBC Europe Ltd 
Riverbank House 
2 Swan Lane 
London  
EC4R 3BF  
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7653 4000  
Website: www.rbc.com
17 6 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 This report is printed on mixed source paper which is FSC® certiﬁed  
(the standards for well-managed forests, considering environmental, social and economic issues). 
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc     Printed by Pureprint Group
www.directlinegroup.com
Our corporate website houses the most 
up-to-date information about the Group 
as well as detailed investor and media 
sections with the following information:
 Results and presentations
 Share price information
 Financial calendar
 Company and regulatory news
 
Go online
Our report is supplemented by a range of other 
information that can be found online
ara2012.directlinegroup.com
In conjunction with this report, we have 
produced a separate online version of key 
sections of the report for those who have 
opted for e-communications. This has been 
supplemented by video discussing our  
year end results. Direct Line Insurance Group plc ©
Registered in England & Wales No 02280426.  
Registered Ofﬁce: Churchill Court, Westmoreland Road, Bromley, BR1 1DP
