 Annual Report & Accounts 2016
Building our brands
Direct Line Insurance Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report
2 Group highlights
4 Group at a glance
6 Market overview
8 Business model
10 Chairman’s statement
12 Chief Executive Officer’s review
14 Our strategy
24 Our key performance indicators
26 Risk management
30 Corporate social responsibility
34 Operating review
38 Finance review
Governance
48 Chairman’s introduction
50 Board of Directors
52 Executive Committee
53 Corporate governance report
64 Committee reports
82 Directors’ remuneration report
1 10 Directors’ report
Financial statements
114 Contents
1 15 Independent Auditor’s report
1 2 2  C o n sol i d a t e d  
financial statements
127  Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements
1 7 9  P ar e n t C o mp an y  
financial statements
182  Notes to the Parent Company 
financial statements
Other information
187 Additional information
189 Glossary and appendices
1 9 5  F o r w a r d - lo o ki n g  
statements disclaimer
196 Contact information
Contents
For all the latest news  
and announcements visit  
www.directlinegroup.com Our mission: To make insurance  
much easier and better value for our customers
Our strategy supports our aspiration to be the leading personal 
and small business general insurer in the UK. Our customers are 
at the centre of everything we do, as we remain focused on 
protecting an ever-changing Britain.
Building our brands
Building  
a culture  
of great  
service
Find out more  
on page 18
Building our technology and  
data capabilities
Find out more on page 20
Building our brands  
by offering more
Find out more on page 22
www.directlinegroup.com 1 Group highlights
Providing stability for our  
customers and shareholders
Target
At least 15%
16y 15y 14y
14.2%
Return on tangible equity
2
(%) 
18.5
16.8
14.2
Total costs
2 
Ongoing operations (£m) 
3,222.1 
16y 15y 14y
927.7
884.7
923.7
£923.7m
Dividend per share
3
(pence) 
24.6p
16y 15y 14y
14.0
27.5 8.8 13.8
13.2
10.0 14.6
97.7%
Combined operating ratio
2
Ongoing operations
2 
(%) 
3,222.1 
16y 15y 14y
95.0
94.0
97.7
£403.5m
Operating proﬁt
2
Ongoing operations (£m)
16y 15y 14y
506.0
520.7
403.5
Adjusted diluted earnings 
per share
2
 (pence) 
21 .2p
16y 15y 14y
25.5
26.6
21.2
£3,274.1m
Gross written premium
1
(£m)  
16y 15y 14y
3,099.4 
3,152.4
3,274.1
£353.0m
Proﬁt before tax
1
(£m) 
16y 15y 14y
456.8
507.5
353.0
Basic earnings per share
1 
(pence) 
16y 15y 14y
20.4p
24.0
27.9
20.4
Notes:
1. Results for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 are based on continuing operations and exclude discontinued operations
2. See glossary on pages 189 and 190 and Alternative performance measures (“APM”) in Appendix A on page 191 and Appendix B – Proforma results on page 
194 presents the Group’s results excluding the recent impact of the Ogden discount rate reduction
3. The Board is proposing a final dividend of 9.7 pence per share, making a total regular dividend for 2016 of 14.6 pence per share 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 2 Financial highlights
• Gross written premium for Ongoing operations
1,2
 up 3.9% 
to £3,274.1m (2015: £3,152.4m), driven by growth in 
Motor and Home own-brand in-force policies (up 4.3%)
• 2016 results reflect the one-off impact of using the new 
Ogden discount rate of minus 0.75%. Operating profit  
from Ongoing operations of £403.5m (pre-Ogden  
discount rate reduction
3
: £578.6m; 2015: £520.7m)  
and profit before tax of £353.0m (pre-Ogden
3
: £570.3m;  
2015: £507.5m). Return on tangible equity
1,2
 of 14.2%, 
(pre-Ogden
3
: 20.2%; 2015: 18.5%)
• Combined operating ratio
1
 from Ongoing operations of 
97.7% (pre-Ogden
3
: 91.8%; 2015: 94.0%), increased  
as a result of the reduction in the Ogden discount rate, 
partially offset by improved current-year underwriting 
performance and favourable weather claims. Adjusted  
for normal weather and before the Ogden discount  
rate change, the combined operating ratio was 93.5%, 
towards the lower end of the target range of 93% to 95%
• 5.4% increase in final dividend per share to 9.7 pence per 
share, (2015: 9.2 pence). Total dividends per share for 
2016, including special interim dividend of 10.0 pence 
per share paid in September 2016 following the approval 
of the Group’s partial internal model (“PIM”), of 24.6 
pence per share (2015: 50.1 pence) 
• The Group’s estimated Solvency II capital coverage ratio
4
 
post dividend is 165%, above the middle of the Group’s 
risk appetite range of 140% – 180% (pre-dividend: 174%)
Strategic and operational highlights
• Direct Line Motor and Home new business growth at the 
highest annual level since IPO, demonstrating the success of 
the investment in brand, proposition and customer service
• Total costs for Ongoing operations of £923.7m broadly 
flat year on year before non-cash impairment charge of 
£39.3m, after absorbing £24.1m Flood Re levy and 
supporting growth in Motor and Home own brands
• Extended Home and Private Insurance partnership with  
RBS for a further three years, and implemented faster and 
easier sales journeys using cloud-based technology making 
connectivity and future change easier 
• Invested in innovation, including partnership with PSA 
Peugeot Citroën for telematics extended for 4 more years, 
introducer role developed with Tesla, and MOVE_UK 
project brought into data collection stage 
• Received approval from the Prudential Regulation Authority 
(“PRA”) to use the Group’s Solvency II PIM
We had a successful 2016, absorbing a reduction in the discount rate 
applicable to personal injury lump sum damages awards to minus 0.75% 
and the Flood Re levy, while at the same time investing in the business  
and making progress on implementing our strategy. Our investments in  
our direct brands, competitiveness on price comparison websites and 
partnership capabilities are bearing fruit.
Notes:
1. See glossary on pages 189 and 190
2. See appendix A – Alternative performance measures on page 191  
for reconciliation to financial statement line items
3. See appendix B – Proforma results on page 194 for the Group’s results 
excluding the recent impact of the Ogden discount rate reduction 
4. Estimates based on the Group’s Solvency II PIM for 31 December 2016
www.directlinegroup.com 3
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our brands
Group at a glance
Protecting our customers
We have multiple brands, products and distribution channels. 
Each enables our customers to choose the right cover to protect 
their cars, homes, holidays, businesses and pets.
Direct Line has maintained its brand heritage by 
selling products direct to customers exclusively  
by phone and internet. We target customers  
with a high affinity to the brand, and focus on  
providing a fast and straightforward service.
www.directline.com
NIG is our specialist 
commercial insurance 
brand. We sell our 
products through brokers, 
including an in-house 
intermediary that 
arranges RBS
1
 and 
NatWest commercial 
insurance.
www.nig.com
Green Flag is our 
roadside rescue and 
recovery provider. We 
sell it as a standalone 
service and an  
additional optional 
product alongside  
motor insurance.
www.greenflag.com
Brand Partners is the 
Group’s partnerships 
arm. We specialise  
in providing personal 
lines insurance, and 
roadside rescue and 
recovery products  
to some well-known 
brands.
Direct Line for Business  
is an extension of our  
Direct Line brand. It is our  
direct commercial insurance 
brand for small businesses  
that have straightforward 
commercial insurance 
requirements.
www.directlineforbusiness.co.uk
Churchill is a household 
name. We market our 
products by phone 
and internet, including 
PCWs. We target 
customers who have  
a high affinity to the 
brand, and who need 
an extra helping hand.
www.churchill.com
Privilege targets 
customers who mainly 
buy through PCWs. We 
focus on making sure 
they experience a quick 
service at the best price. 
 
www.privilege.com
Note:
1. The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, including National Westminster Bank plc
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 4 Motor
We are Britain’s leading personal motor 
insurer measured by in-force policies
1
, 
mainly represented through our highly 
recognised brands Direct Line, Churchill 
and Privilege, and also through our 
partners. We insure around one in  
six insured cars on the road in the UK, 
representing 3.9 million in-force policies.
Home
We are Britain’s leading personal home 
insurer measured by in-force policies
1
. 
We reach our customers by selling home 
insurance products through our brands, 
Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege,  
and our partners – RBS, NatWest  
and Prudential.
We protect commercial businesses through our brands, NIG, 
Direct Line for Business and Churchill, and through our partners 
RBS and NatWest. NIG sells its products exclusively through 
brokers operating across the UK. Direct Line for Business 
provides business, van and landlord insurance products direct 
to customers. Churchill sells business, landlord and van 
products direct to customers and through price comparison 
websites (“PCWs”).
Personal lines
Commercial
£1,539.1m
Gross written premium
3.9m
In-force policies
106.3%
Combined operating ratio
£149.1m
Operating profit
£834.4m
Gross written premium
3.4m
In-force policies
85.0%
Combined operating ratio
£ 166.7m
Operating profit
£400.8m
Gross written premium
7.9m
In-force policies
93.3%
Combined operating ratio
£45.9m
Operating profit
Rescue and other  
personal lines
We are one of the leading providers of 
rescue and other personal lines insurance 
in the UK
2,3
 with 7.9 million in-force 
policies. This includes providing 
roadside assistance and recovery for 
customers through Green Flag, the UK’s 
third-largest roadside recovery provider
2
. 
We also offer customers protection for 
their pets and holidays and are the 
second largest travel and the third  
largest pet insurer respectively
3
. 
£499.8m
Gross written premium
98.7%
Combined operating 
ratio
675k
In-force policies
£41.8m
Operating profit
Notes:
1. Includes Direct Line, Churchill, Privilege and partner brands: RBS, Nationwide (home only), NatWest, Prudential and Sainsbury’s © GfK Financial Research Survey 
six months ending November 2016, 13,665 adults interviewed for motor insurance and 12,270 for home insurance
2. Mintel Vehicle Recovery – UK, September 2016
3. Mintel Pet Insurance – UK, August 2016 and Mintel Travel Insurance – UK, February 2016
www.directlinegroup.com 5
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Claims and premium inflation
Rising costs for insurers and customers
Customers’ motor premiums have been rising over the past 
two years. Increasing claims costs have continued to push 
premiums higher, with increases in Insurance Premium Tax 
(“IPT”) also contributing. Despite sustained declines in the 
number of claims in recent years, average motor claim 
payouts rose again in 2016, with an increase of over 
2.5% as personal injury claims have escalated
2,3
.
Digitalisation & technology
Innovative companies offer  
partnership possibilities
New technology has the power to create feature-rich insurance 
apps and systems that can analyse vast amounts of data. These 
developments support the possibility of more tailored insurance 
products, as underwriting techniques evolve. Such innovations 
are being partly driven by InsureTech and FinTech companies, 
who are creating opportunities for partnerships with established 
insurers. However, given the amount of private and confidential 
information being generated, cyber security remains an 
increasing focus for the insurance industry.
£9.5bn
Our changing environment
invested globally in FinTech  
companies during 2015
1
Market overview
We operate in a dynamic environment, and the way we interact  
with customers is evolving. Changes inside and outside the industry, 
including technology and regulation, are shaping customers’ expectations.  
It is vital that we continue to serve customers and manage claims to the 
highest standards.
Notes:
1. KPMG – The Pulse of Fintech [Converted to GBP at 2015 12 month average – £1 = $1.52860]
2. Association of British Insurers (“ABI”) – Key facts 2015
3. ABI – Key Facts 2016
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 6 Sharing economy and car automation
Changing habits offer opportunities and challenges
The new sharing economy is changing the way we live. Insurance products  
must change to reflect this. For example, we will need more innovative products 
than traditional buildings and contents insurance, as communal living and 
short-term rentals grow in popularity. Change will also affect motor insurance, 
where increasingly autonomous cars may lead to significant reductions in severe 
crashes and injuries and change the profile of claims. In the long term, the 
industry will need to consider how best to provide cover as risk shifts from the 
driver to the vehicle.
Regulation and legislation
The pace of change  
remains rapid
Insurance regulation has continued to evolve over 
the past year with a reduction in the personal injury 
discount rate, Flood Re, the Enterprise Bill, Solvency 
II, an Insurance Premium Tax increase and new 
FCA renewal legislation being implemented.  
The UK’s vote to leave the European Union adds 
significant regulatory uncertainty. The Bank of 
England’s decision to cut the base rate to 0.25% 
has reduced insurers’ investment returns with 
impacts on industry profitability.
Brand strength
Brand investment pays off for insurers
Insurance brands that are well known and valued by customers
2
 are 
consistently amongst the most successful in the industry
3
. Brand strength 
and visibility is an important factor in consumers’ insurance acquisition 
process. Therefore, to generate new business, insurers must invest in their 
brands to stay at the front of the public’s minds. Providing quality customer 
service and offering something above and beyond the average insurer 
reaps its benefits, with the market cost of acquiring new customers up to 
five times the cost of retention
4
.
84%
of consumers would use one insurer for all  
of their insurance needs if quality customer  
service and low prices were available
5
1 .8 million
The average bodily injury 
claim cost following an 
accident is
6
connected cars  
in the UK in 2016
1
£10,955
£5.8bn
one-off impact to  
the industry due to  
the personal injury 
discount rate reduction
7
Notes:
1. Statista – Number of connected cars in the United Kingdom (UK)  
from 2014 to 2020
2. Hall & Partners
3. Deloitte Household and Motor Insurance Seminars 2016
4. Digital Market Magazine – How can the insurance industry retain  
existing customers?
5. Consumer Intelligence – Digital Insurance World 2016
6. ABI – Key facts 2016
7. Willis Towers Watson
www.directlinegroup.com 7
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Business model
Creating value  
for our customers
Read more about our brands on page 4
Read more about our key performance indicators on page 24
Read more about our risk management on page 26
Our multi-brand, multi-product and multi-distribution channel business offers 
different propositions to distinct customers. We believe this approach 
should enable us to generate value for customers and sustainable returns 
for our shareholders.
Proﬁt Reinvest in the business
Dividends
Servicing
Managing risk
Our shareholders
Costs
Our people
Our customers
Managing 
ﬁnances
Capital
Net claims
Investment and 
other income 
Premiums
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 8 Customers are at the centre of our business model. So our 
mission is clear: we want to make insurance much easier and 
better value for them. We aspire to give them products that 
best suit their needs and exceptional service throughout their 
relationship with us. We also strive to adapt to their changing 
needs. From the moment customers choose our products, to the 
time they claim or need to resolve an event we treat every step 
of the customer journey as an opportunity to provide excellent 
service and outcomes.
We seek to make sure our business is well governed and 
controlled. We manage our finances carefully and balance  
this with targeting a suitable and sustainable return for  
our shareholders.
We hold assets that exceed our expected liabilities as capital 
to allow us to absorb any unexpected losses that might occur. 
We maintain a buffer that significantly exceeds our regulatory 
capital requirements. 
We prefer to adopt a conservative approach to claims 
reserving in order to hold sufficient funds to pay customer 
claims. This may result in subsequent releases from these 
reserves, which contribute to our annual profit. 
We aim to make it easy for our customers to access  
our products, and to give them what they are looking for.  
We want to make sure they have appropriate cover to  
protect against the unexpected.
Customers can buy products online – including through  
PCWs – by phone, and indirectly through our partners.  
In our Commercial business, they can also buy our products 
through brokers.
Each brand provides products for one or more insurance 
segments: motor, home, rescue, pet, travel and commercial.  
By tailoring the mix of distribution channels for each product, 
we seek to offer customers a blend of brands, products and 
services that best suit their needs.
Everyone, from our front-line staff to employees in support  
and central functions, helps ensure we meet customers’ needs. 
Without our people, we could not generate value for customers 
and sustainable returns for our shareholders. 
Our shareholders are a big part of our business model.  
They invest in the business wanting to achieve a good level of 
return. So we aim to give our shareholders value by generating 
sustainable business profits. We reinvest part of this profit in the 
business, or add to capital and, where appropriate, distribute 
the rest to shareholders as dividends.
We ensure our products meet regulatory standards and that 
customers understand what they are buying from us. We also 
aim to price our policies accurately and invest our assets 
appropriately to minimise potential losses.
We transfer insurance risk through reinsurance in our normal 
business activities. External experts review our insurance claims 
reserves regularly. We mitigate risks by implementing our 
Group policies and minimum standards. These are reviewed 
regularly to ensure we are in line with the risk appetite that the 
Board sets.
Our business has been in operation for over 30 years, giving 
us a deep insight into the risks we underwrite. This insight 
enables us to make our pricing more reflective of the risks we 
underwrite. It also allows us to invest substantially in data and 
increase efficiencies. Again, this means we are better able to 
set accurate prices for the risks we underwrite.
Customers experience the value of their cover when they come 
to claim. So we aim to settle claims as quickly and easily as 
possible by engaging closely with our customers. This helps us 
demonstrate why our products and services are valuable, and 
to manage our claims costs.
Making insurance much easier and better value for our customers
Our focused processes
Our disciplined approach
www.directlinegroup.com 9
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chairman’s statement
Focused on creating  
long-term value
Mike Biggs
Chairman
Returns to our shareholders 
remain a key focus in this 
challenging market 
environment. Cumulative 
dividends represent 
approximately 72% of  
the share price at the initial 
public offering.
Dear shareholders,
In 2016, the Group delivered profit before tax of £353.0 
million (2015: £507.5 million). Before the reduction in the 
Ogden discount rate to minus 0.75%, profit before tax was 
£570.3 million. We achieved this resilient result through our 
continued focus on the value, service and brand propositions 
offered to our customers, on operating efficiency and on 
underwriting discipline in competitive markets. 
Strategy
The Group’s mission is to make insurance much easier and 
better value for our customers. The Board’s role is to support 
and challenge the Group’s management to develop and 
execute a strategy which is aligned with this mission, and 
positions the business to take advantage of changes in 
technology affecting vehicles, homes and how our customers 
communicate with us, as well as delivering operating 
efficiencies and targeting sustainable income streams.  
The effective execution of our strategy requires a substantial 
and continuing change agenda to improve our core systems, 
digital offering and the agility of the organisation. 
Dividends
We aim to increase the dividend annually in real terms, under 
our progressive dividend policy (see page 110). This aim 
reflects the potential of the Company’s cash-flow generation 
and long-term earnings. We are recommending a final regular 
dividend of 9.7 pence per share. If approved, the total regular 
dividend of 14.6 pence per share will represent 5.8% growth 
on 2015’s regular dividend (13.8 pence per share), which is 
consistent with this policy.
In addition, we paid a special interim dividend of 10.0 pence 
per share in September 2016. The Board’s ability to return  
a dividend to shareholders is against the backdrop of a 
challenging economic environment following the UK’s EU 
membership referendum and the recent reduction in the  
Ogden discount rate. Whilst the day-to-day operations remain 
unaffected, the Group continues to monitor the consequences 
of the devaluation of Sterling, inflation, uncertain financial 
markets and the Ogden discount rate reduction.
Linking remuneration to performance
We remain committed to ensuring that executive pay is  
aligned with the Company’s strategy of delivering long-term 
shareholder value. 
The Group achieved a return on tangible equity (“RoTE”)  
of 14.2% for 2016. However, a decrease of 9.4%  
(2015: an increase of 39.9%) in the share price over the  
year to 369.4 pence (2015: 407.5 pence) at 31 December 
2016, together with dividend payments, provided a total 
shareholder return (“TSR”) of minus 1% for the year (2015: 
46.9%), which is reflected in the long-term incentive plan 
(“LTIP”) outcome for 2016. This follows three consecutive years 
of outperformance versus the benchmark (FTSE 350 excluding 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 10 Leadership
Your Board seeks to ensure that decisions are of the highest 
standard. It challenges strategic proposals, performance 
delivery and management responsibilities. See page 53.
Effectiveness
The effectiveness of your Board’s and its Committees’ 
performance is considered annually in an effectiveness 
review. See page 59.
Accountability
Your Board provides shareholders with an assessment  
of the Group’s position and prospects. We monitor and 
review the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control systems. See pages 26 and 61.
Remuneration
Your Remuneration Committee ensures a close correlation 
between creating value for shareholders, and remunerating 
Executive Directors and senior executives appropriately.  
See pages 63 and 82.
Relationships with shareholders
Your Board maintains strong relationships and regular 
interaction with our shareholders. Their continued support 
for our strategic aims is important. See page 63.
investment trusts) meaning that shareholders, since the initial 
public offering in 2012 (“IPO”), have received a TSR of 188% 
compared to the FTSE350 (excluding investment trusts) of 48%. 
Since the IPO, the Group has delivered good results each 
year, enabling the Board to declare cumulative dividends, 
including special interim dividends, equivalent to 
approximately 72% of the IPO share price.
The Remuneration Committee has consulted our major 
shareholders and other stakeholders, on our proposed  
Directors‘ remuneration policy on which shareholders will  
be given the opportunity to vote at the forthcoming AGM. 
More information on awards and our proposed Directors’ 
remuneration policy is provided in the letter from the Chair  
of the Remuneration Committee on page 82.
Solvency II
In June 2016, the Group received approval from the PRA  
for the use of a Group PIM to calculate its solvency capital 
requirements (“SCR”). At 31 December 2016, the Group  
held a capital surplus of approximately £0.92 billion above  
its SCR. This was equivalent to a Solvency II capital coverage 
ratio of 165%, post-dividend and taking into account the 
impact of the new Ogden discount rate. The Board considers 
the appropriate Group risk appetite range to be 140% to 
180% of its SCR, which should enable the Group to meet  
its operational, regulatory and rating agency requirements.
IT Infrastructure
The Group has been making positive changes to its IT 
infrastructure, including working towards the implementation 
and integration of major IT systems which is inherently complex 
and challenging. The Board’s ongoing areas of focus include 
developing future capability, and continuing to monitor risks 
associated with IT systems’ stability, cyber security, and the 
internal control environment.
Regulation, conduct and culture
We maintain active relationships with our regulators through 
constructive two way dialogue. Your Board promotes the 
Group’s culture and oversees the Group’s conduct policy, 
which aims to ensure that we achieve good customer outcomes 
and that our employees behave with integrity. We also have  
a Code of Business Conduct which sets out standards that  
our employees are required to observe. We recognise that 
opportunities always exist to improve the services offered to  
our customers; and your Board has encouraged a range of 
customer experience initiatives which are designed to deliver 
increased levels of customer satisfaction.
Board and Committee membership changes
Succession planning remains a key area of focus for the 
Board. In January 2016, Dr Richard Ward was appointed as 
our Senior Independent Director. Following Priscilla Vacassin’s 
retirement from the Board in March 2016, a number of 
changes were made to the chairmanship and membership  
of the Board’s Committees. 
On 1 February 2017, I was delighted to welcome  
Danuta Gray as a Non-Executive Director and Mike Holliday-
Williams as an Executive Director to the Board. Danuta brings 
executive and non-executive experience from her previous  
roles in a number of sectors, including financial services. 
Mike’s appointment reflects the importance of the Personal  
Lines business to the Group. Your Board will benefit from  
closer interaction with the Personal Lines business and from  
the expertise that Mike will bring to the Board. My introduction 
to the Corporate Governance report and the Nomination 
Committee report provide further information on these changes.
I would like to thank the entire Board for their significant 
contribution, commitment and service; and look forward to 
working with them in 2017 as the Group continues to build  
on its strategic priorities.
Employees
I would also like to thank our employees for their hard work, 
initiative and commitment to our mission. Their positive energy 
and dedication in supporting our customers helped our 
business progress in 2016, and has put us in a strong position 
for the future.
Michael N Biggs
Chairman
www.directlinegroup.com 11
Governance highlights
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chief Executive Officer’s review
Building on our success
Paul Geddes
Chief Executive Officer
The fact that our own brands 
have grown shows that 
customers like the many  
changes we have made  
in recent years. In particular,  
the success of Direct Line  
has encouraged us to keep 
innovating for our customers.
What is your view on the Group’s financial 
performance?
It was a strong year, maintaining our record of strong financial 
performance and underwriting discipline since our IPO, but 
also with an added ingredient: growth. This is particularly 
gratifying because it shows that customers really like the new 
propositions, the great value and the excellent service that our 
brands are delivering, especially Direct Line. 
The Group has hit nearly all its targets since  
its IPO four years ago. To what do you attribute  
this success?
We found the whole IPO process actually helped us get  
really clear on our strategy and plans, and motivated the 
whole team to deliver against them. In particular, the fact that 
we have now given all of our colleagues three grants of free 
shares helps everyone to care about the Company enough  
to change it. We listen to colleagues’ ideas, for example, 
through the employee representative bodies and through  
our IdeasLab scheme, and continue to invest in their training 
and development. All this has helped us to do hard things  
like reducing our costs yet at the same time increase the 
engagement of our colleagues and improve our service  
to customers. 
What do you believe will be the risks, 
opportunities and challenges in 2017?
As 2016 has shown, no one can predict the future. Everything 
from the unpredictability of the weather, combatting new types 
of fraud such as cyber attacks, the uncertainties of Brexit and 
the change to the Ogden discount rate means we all have to 
remain vigilant.  
However, as 2016 revealed, we can do well in uncertain 
times. We hold our head, know what we’re trying to achieve, 
and have experienced teams that are well prepared to tackle 
whatever the world throws at us. We also have to keep pace 
with what customers expect from technology. We expect 
profound revolution with connected cars and homes; the risks 
we cover; new sources of data; and new propositions for 
customers. That’s exciting. 
In terms of regulation, we’ve actively lobbied Government  
to make whiplash claims more efficient for customers and 
ourselves. If we reduce costs, we can be in a position to  
pass on savings to customers, so we hope the Government 
consultation will produce effective reform for the industry. 
How do you feel the Group is progressing 
towards its goal to make insurance much  
easier and better value for our customers?
The fact our brands are growing is evidence that we’re  
doing the right thing. In a market that people believed was 
commoditised and only about cheap prices, growing the 
Direct Line brand is the ultimate accolade. It shows customers 
still value great products and service too. 
Our TV advertising helps show where we believe our 
propositions differentiate us from our competitors. Our people 
have also received training on how to better understand and 
empathise with customers to help meet their needs appropriately. 
Alongside this, we have improved both the sales and claims 
processes for our customers. Improving the digital journey 
through mobile devices, allowing customers to use their 
smartphones on more aspects of their claims and enabling 
customers to amend their policies with no additional fees are 
just a few ways we’re making Direct Line much easier and 
better value for our customers.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 12 This year saw many success stories. What were 
the highlights for you? 
Apart from the great success of Direct Line, we made good 
progress on our other brands too. Churchill equals Direct Line 
for customer recognition, and it has been great to see how the 
brand is so central to the British sense of identity. Launching a 
“Bring Back Lollipoppers” campaign for schools also linked the 
brand to improving road safety in a tangible way.
We have big ambitions for our Green Flag business, and we 
think technology will continue changing what it means to be 
good at rescue. So, we have introduced an exciting service 
called “Green Flag Alert Me”, which tells drivers what’s going 
on in their cars via an app. And alongside this, the Green Flag 
app enables people to easily let us know they have broken 
down, where they are, and track the Green Flag unit coming 
to help them. 
Direct Line for Business has also seen strong growth, with policy 
numbers rising by 6.4% over the year. We have ambitions of 
ensuring the Company can do more for businesses in the future. 
What is the Group’s opinion on driverless cars?
We have an open-minded, optimistic attitude to new car 
technology. However, there are two dangerous attitudes that I 
sometimes hear in our industry. The first is that new technology 
will remove the need for insurance because cars won’t have 
accidents at all, or that drivers will not be held responsible for 
any accidents. I think that, for now, this remains in the realms 
of science fiction. It’s not the way legislation is shaped, it’s not 
the current reality, and it won’t be for many years ahead.
However, a second and more dangerous view I hear is  
that nothing will change. We believe technology will make 
cars much safer and improve driver experiences. Usage, 
ownership, prices, and how people choose to buy cars and 
insurance will evolve. So, while I feel the market will remain 
large, what it means to be an insurer can be expected to 
change profoundly. 
I believe we are thought leaders regarding what car 
technology will mean. We talk to many groups, including  
car manufacturers and technology companies. There are  
also many strands to our work, such as developing the legal 
framework for autonomous driving, through to becoming the 
market leader for insuring safer cars. We are already giving 
customers discounts, for example, if their cars have features 
such as autonomous emergency braking. 
Reducing accidents can only be a good thing. I lost my best 
friend in an accident so I’m absolutely behind it. Technology 
might change how our business is configured. The market may 
get smaller, so we’ll need to win more of it. If we have the right 
attitude; consider all the opportunities; and remain experts at 
using data, helping our customers, and finding new partners,  
I believe we can grow our market share. 
What are your thoughts about 2016’s  
employee engagement survey “Dialogue”?
I’m delighted that our efforts on engaging and motivating our 
colleagues continue to pay off. There is a risk that engagement 
can suffer in organisations like ours that are undergoing rapid 
change, seeking to improve their efficiency and lower costs. 
We have seen quite the opposite, and the fact that 88% of  
our people complete the Dialogue survey means it represents 
all the various views across our business. 
The Dialogue approach enables over 900 teams to discuss 
how they feel about the business, what’s working well and 
tackle what’s not quite right. ‘Say it like it is’ is a core value  
of ours; whether it’s through dialogue or through talking to our 
employee representative body and other representative groups. 
This year’s survey showed that we now also have a record 
number of colleagues we can identify as “champions” – 
people who are both fully engaged and committed to the 
Group. They want to contribute to our success, something 
which I’m able to see and feel when I visit our sites and talk  
to individual teams. I believe it is our engaged colleagues 
themselves who can drive the changes and efficiency 
improvements in our business. 
What do you feel unites and defines the  
Group’s people?
We are unique in that we are small enough as a business  
that every person can make a difference, but also big enough 
that we can invest in our people and support their growth  
and progress. This investment is crucial and we have been 
developing our frontline teams, managers and professional 
technical teams to ensure that we have the best people, trained 
to the highest standards that can ‘Do the right thing’ for our 
customers, investors and other external stakeholders. 
Supporting this are internal initiatives such as our diversity 
network alliance, external schemes such as the 2016 Women 
in Finance charter, and several other associations that I am 
proud we have joined. These are all helping us to chip away 
at the ‘male, pale, stale’ image of insurance. 
Every day, I see evidence of people bringing all of themselves 
to work – I think this is because we are diverse, and value  
the individuality and the unique strengths of each person.  
This is backed up by our Dialogue results, where 90% of our 
colleagues say that they feel they can be themselves at work. 
This is important as it ensures we have the most talented  
teams and truly represent the ever changing Britain we look  
to protect. I believe this further helps our people genuinely  
care about their actions, whether that’s in the way they treat 
our customers, or how they help other parts of the Company to 
be efficient and effective. Although there is even more we can 
do in this area, diversity is something that unites and defines 
us. Not only in the conventional sense, but also through striving 
to have a powerful combination of people, with a rich diversity 
of experience and thinking.
My thanks go to our people for their hard work and support 
throughout the year. I am excited by their passion and by how 
they work tirelessly to make insurance much easier and better 
value for our customers. 
 
Paul Geddes
Chief Executive Officer
www.directlinegroup.com 13
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our strategy
Focusing strategy to deliver now 
and build for the future
Our mission is to make insurance much easier and better value for our 
customers. Our strategy to achieve this is based on three strategic pillars: 
great retailer, smart & efficient manufacturer and lead & disrupt the market. 
We continue to invest in our key enablers to help grow and strengthen 
these pillars, which we believe will help us with our ambitions of growing 
sustainably and delivering at least a 15% RoTE. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 14
Great  
retailer
Smart & efficient 
manufacturer
Lead & disrupt  
the market
Make insurance much easier  
and better value for our customers
Data & technology
Culture & capability
Capital & risk management
Our mission
Our strategic pillars
Long-term ambition: 
Sustainable growth  
and at least 15% RoTE
Our key enablers Great  
retailer
Smart & efficient 
manufacturer
Compelling brands, propositions and 
customer experience to meet diverse 
and long-term customer needs
We aim to make it easy for our customers to access our 
products and services at every stage of their journey. This 
includes increasing online servicing for customer policies  
and claims, and evolving telephone sales and servicing by 
investing in next-generation customer systems. We focus on 
training our contact centre employees to understand and 
respond better to our customer needs.
How we performed in 2016
The differentiation of our brands remained a key focus in 
2016. For Direct Line we have built strong foundations since 
our ‘reboot’ of the brand just over two years ago, introducing 
a succession of effectively marketed product enhancements. 
This year we added a three-hour emergency plumbing service 
for our Home Plus customers. Our strong marketing and 
branding is key to clearly articulating these enhancements to 
our customers so they want to come directly to us. The success 
of our marketing to drive Direct Line growth was recognised 
when we won the Gold Institute of Practitioners in Advertising 
award for marketing effectiveness.
The strength of our Direct Line brand is not limited to the 
personal lines sector, with more small businesses looking  
for reliable and easy to use direct insurance, Direct Line for 
Business continued to grow strongly in the year, highlighting  
the value of this brand asset.
Our effectiveness on PCWs via the Churchill and Privilege 
brands has also increased, particularly in Home as we 
improved the customer journey. This contributed to strong  
new sales growth through this channel.
Our Churchill brand was strengthened with the launch of our 
‘Lollipoppers’ campaign and we have recruited new Lollipop 
men and women nationwide. We also relaunched our  
Churchill Motor free rescue campaign, differentiating this brand 
and leveraging our Rescue capabilities at the same time.
Our Green Flag brand continued to perform well. Green Flag’s 
app was enhanced with Green Flag ‘Alert Me’ and ‘Rescue 
Me’, providing the capability for rescue customers to monitor 
the health of their car and to improve their rescue experience.
Our objectives for 2017
Continue to build the Direct Line brand presence, offering a 
differentiated and valued service and proposition not available 
on PCWs. Further leverage our ‘Direct’ capabilities with our 
small to medium-sized enterprise (“SME”) commercial customers 
and maintain our competitiveness on PCWs.
Efficiency and flexibility to deliver 
better claims and customer service 
at lower cost
We aim to improve efficiency and effectiveness across the 
organisation everyday. While we re-established our traditional 
partnership capabilities, we intend to establish ourselves as  
the UK insurance partner of choice for less traditional partners.
How we performed in 2016
Our underlying costs (excluding higher non-cash impairments  
to intangible assets than in recent years) were stable compared 
to 2015, having absorbed the £24m Flood Re levy and  
still supporting 4.3% in-force policy growth in our Motor and 
Home own brands. Excluding the impairment, H2 2016 costs 
were lower than H2 2015, primarily due to lower claims 
handling expenses. 
In our Partnerships, we extended our Home and Private 
Insurance arrangement with RBS for a further three years and 
our Travel insurance contract with Nationwide Building Society 
until the end of 2018.
We agreed an extension of our Home and Motor insurance 
partnership with Prudential for a further two years. As part of 
this, we will renew policies under the Prudential brand until 
2019. We’ve also launched our first Affinity Partnership 
scheme to offer access to Churchill-branded Home and Motor 
policies to Prudential Group customers who do not currently 
have such insurance with us. This partnership demonstrates our 
ability to deliver tailored propositions to meet the needs of our 
partners and their customers.
The Group increased the number of accident repair centres  
it owns to 18 in 2016 strengthening its ability to control 
indemnity spend and improve customer experience. 
Our objectives for 2017
While we made good progress in establishing new partners in 
2016, we continue to be on the lookout for more opportunities 
where our flexibility and expertise can benefit all stakeholders. 
We maintain a firm focus on improving the efficiency of the 
business through cost efficiency programmes, while investing  
in systems and capabilities to increase customer self-service.
We are investing to further strengthen our application and 
claims fraud capabilities.
www.directlinegroup.com 15
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our strategy continued
Lead & disrupt  
the market
Data &  
technology
Maximise existing growth 
opportunities while creating and 
driving future areas of value
We aim to remain a leading competitor in our chosen markets 
by providing quality propositions and value for money. Where 
there are opportunities, we will look to launch new and 
exciting products and services. These will aim to put us at the 
forefront of disruptive market changes.
How we performed in 2016
We continued to build on our strong market position by 
identifying and investing in market developments we believe 
can contribute to future growth. 
We have extended our partnership with PSA Finance UK (part 
of Peugeot Citroën) for a further four years. The partnership  
has found success by packaging insurance with car finance to 
create innovative mobility solutions for consumers, particularly 
young or inexperienced drivers through the use of telematics  
in the Peugeot Just Add Fuel and Citroen SimplyDrive offers. 
Extending the partnership allows us to create propositions 
based on the technology being fitted to the car.
We are working with Tesla to understand the role advanced 
technology and driving aids can play in enhancing road safety 
and therefore insurance. In 2017, Tesla became an introducer 
appointed representative to be able to refer customers to  
Direct Line to insure their Tesla.
In 2016, we formed a partnership called MOVE_UK  
with the UK government, technology providers and car 
manufacturers to accelerate the development, market readiness 
and deployment of Automated Driving Systems (“ADS”).  
With ADS systems observing and recording in the background 
while MOVE_UK vehicles are driven normally, this is a unique 
opportunity to learn how ADS technology would respond in 
real life situations.
In Commercial, we continued to be recognised for our leading 
capabilities in eTrade and direct Commercial insurance, both 
of which are expected to continue to grow. 
Our objectives for 2017
New car technology centred on improving safety is emerging 
at a fast pace and the Group aims to take a lead by 
becoming the insurer of choice for the owners of the cars 
equipped with such technology. We continue to look for new 
partners and ways to help our customers benefit from these 
new technologies.
In Commercial, we are looking to further leverage our strong 
Direct Line brand and direct marketing capabilities to disrupt 
the small commercial customer segment. 
Harness the power of technology 
and the scale of our data 
We aim to harness the power of technology to make things 
easier for our customers and our people. By implementing 
integrated systems that are flexible and efficient, over time we 
aim to reduce costs while improving customer interactions such 
as self-service. We also enjoy a wealth of data from being a 
major insurer for a number of years, which we can use to 
make our business better for our customers.
How we performed in 2016
The ongoing areas of focus include developing future 
capability, and managing risks associated with IT systems’ 
stability and cyber security. Technology remains at the heart  
of our operations and the focus is on upgrading our IT systems 
and capabilities, aimed at improving the digital offering, 
customer experience and operational efficiency. While 
progress has been made in each of these three areas, 
implementation and integration of a range of new IT systems  
is inherently complex and challenging. We remained focused 
on adopting the right capabilities and will take the time 
necessary to do so.
We have made progress improving the performance of the 
core infrastructure during the year, supporting our people in 
performing their roles more effectively.
Our objectives for 2017
We will continue to look to improve the performance and cost 
effectiveness of our existing IT systems and work on developing 
and building new IT systems.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 16 Culture &  
capability
Capital & risk 
management
Build on our people’s potential 
 
We are continuing to invest in our employees’ skills. This will 
help us to improve effectiveness and customer experiences. 
We aim to create excellent Group-wide employee engagement 
by focusing on leadership and people management at all 
levels. This has helped improve our employee engagement 
metrics year on year.
How we performed in 2016
During the year we continued to invest in employees’  
skills to improve effectiveness and customer experience.  
We are committed to broadening the diversity of our talent 
pool and this year signed up to the Women in Finance 
Charter, seeking to increase the number of women in senior 
roles in the organisation.
In addition, we launched a new graduate scheme and 
apprentice recruitment drive to build a stronger organic  
talent pool.
We also launched a major new training programme for our 
people, designed to help flex their approaches to improve 
engagement with customers. Not only has this strengthened  
our front office staff skills, as they handle customers in often 
difficult situations, but it has also strengthened the way our 
people interact with one another.
This has in turn helped the engagement rate to continue  
to improve through the year from an already improved level  
in 2015. 
Our objectives for 2017
We have a range of new initiatives to build on our  
people strategy focused on developing a high performance 
culture based on diversity, continuous training and a focus  
on the customer.
Our foundation of capital and  
risk management 
Our risk and capital management policy seeks to maintain an 
appropriate level of capital and solvency for the risk appetite 
agreed by the Board to support our business, while aiming  
to grow dividends annually in real terms.
How we performed in 2016
During 2016, we received approval from the PRA to use  
the Group’s PIM, successfully concluding a multi-year project. 
We have embedded this model at the centre of the risk 
management framework and now use it to report our Solvency 
II capital coverage.
We have used the PIM to establish a clear capital target range 
which provides additional security over the regulatory SCR. 
We were well prepared for the UK’s referendum on leaving  
the European Union (“EU”) and have actively managed the 
impacts from the subsequent volatile financial markets. We are 
a UK-based business underwriting risk within the UK, and the 
day-to-day operations remain largely unaffected. We continue 
to monitor the consequences of the devaluation of Sterling and 
uncertain financial markets.
Our objectives for 2017
We aim to further embed the use of our internal model within 
the business and operational decision making. We recognise 
the strategic value and competitive advantage strong risk 
management can provide and continue to work to drive 
ownership of risk management across the Group. 
www.directlinegroup.com 17
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Building  
a culture of 
great service 
In order to constantly improve 
our customer experience we 
are investing in training and 
development for our people.
4,000+
colleagues trained  
in “Connect” since 
its launch in 2015
Providing the tools  
for success 
The Connect programme  
was designed to challenge the 
mindset of our organisation 
and help our people with the 
skills they need to have real 
conversations with customers. 
The aim was to connect them 
to the vital role they play in 
supporting people through 
what can be difficult times. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 18 Committed support
Because our people are our 
biggest asset and have the 
biggest impact on our 
customers, we wanted this 
cultural change to touch every 
customer facing area of our 
business. This includes contact 
centres, accident repair centres, 
offshore partners and suppliers. 
This contributes to our aim of 
creating an effortless journey 
for our customers.
www.directlinegroup.com 19 Preparing for the roads of the future
This year we kicked off a partnership called MOVE_UK with 
Government, technology providers, and car manufacturers  
to accelerate the development, market readiness and 
deployment of Automated Driving Systems (ADS). Planning 
for the future of our business is vital so that we continue to 
provide customers with a service that fits their needs.
Testing tomorrow’s cars 
The three-year project is one 
of the first of its kind in the 
UK and aims to develop a 
new method for validating 
ADS and a data resource 
that will help us analyse  
and prepare for the impact 
of ADS on three-year  
vehicle insurance.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 20 Building  
our technology  
and data 
capabilities
Further advances of in-car 
technology and driverless cars are 
set to change British roads. As a 
leading insurer we have a key role 
to play in the development and,  
in particular, the adoption of this 
technology which has the potential 
to improve road safety significantly.
250+
data points monitored 
in each car
Embracing new technology
With ADS observing and 
recording in the background 
while MOVE_UK vehicles are 
driven normally, it’s a unique 
opportunity to learn how ADS 
technology would respond in 
real life situations.
www.directlinegroup.com 21 Building 
our brands 
by offering 
more 
We take pride in investing 
in our brand propositions 
to give customers 
increased certainty around 
the service they can expect 
from their insurance.
Direct Line committing to providing  
a plumber within
3 hours
day or night was an industry first
Support around the clock 
We identified escape of water as a costly 
problem for both homeowners and insurers 
and one that requires a quick remedy –  
a burst pipe can result in 30 gallons of 
water escaping in as little as two minutes.
To tackle this, in 2016 we introduced our 
commitment to providing an emergency 
plumber within three hours of reporting an 
uncontrollable leak for all Direct Line Home 
Insurance Plus policyholders and those who 
add ‘Home Emergency’ to their standard 
Direct Line Home policy. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 22 Available when our customers 
need us 
The commitment to a plumber 
arriving in such a short time frame 
is a first for the insurance industry.
For water leaks that can be 
contained by turning off the water 
supply, Direct Line will still ensure 
an emergency plumber is sent to 
the property at a time convenient 
for the householder.
www.directlinegroup.com 23 Our key performance indicators
Defining and measuring  
our performance
Read more about our rewards for performance on page 82. For definitions, see the glossary on pages 189 and 190
Definition
The return generated on the capital  
that shareholders have in the business. 
This is calculated by dividing adjusted 
earnings by average tangible equity.
The amount of cash paid to 
shareholders from the Group’s profit.
This is calculated by dividing the 
earnings attributable to shareholders  
by the weighted average number  
of Ordinary Shares in issue.
A measure of financial year 
underwriting profitability. It is the sum  
of the net claims, commissions and 
expenses divided by net earned 
premium. This excludes instalment and 
other operating income, and investment 
return. A combined operating ratio 
(“COR”) of less than 100% indicates 
profitable underwriting.
Aim
We aim to achieve at least a  
15% RoTE. 
We have a progressive dividend 
policy and aim to increase the 
dividend in real terms each year. 
Additionally, we look to return  
surplus capital to shareholders  
when appropriate.
We have not set a target. However, 
growing earnings per share is 
considered an indicator of a healthy 
business.
We aim to make an underwriting 
profit. For 2017, we expect to achieve 
a COR in the range of 93% to 95%  
for Ongoing operations, assuming  
a normal level of claims from major 
weather events and no further change 
to the Ogden discount rate.
Performance
See Finance review page 42 See Finance review page 42 See Finance review page 42 See Finance review page 39
Link to Directors’ remuneration
We base the Long-Term Incentive Plan 
(“LTIP”) awards partly on RoTE over  
a three-year performance period.
We base LTIP awards partly on  
relative TSR performance, which 
includes dividends. Directors also 
receive dividends on their beneficial 
shareholdings and accrue these on 
unvested LTIP awards.
This is a broad measure of earnings 
and reflects the results of the Group 
after tax. We base part of the Annual 
Incentive Plan (“AIP”) awards on profit 
before tax and earnings per share is 
closely linked to this. 
We base part of the AIP awards on 
profit before tax. COR is closely linked 
to this.
Notes:
1. See glossary on pages 189 and 190 and APM in appendix A on page 191
2. See note 3 on page 2
These key performance indicators assess our performance  
against our strategy.
16y 15y 14y
Return on tangible equity
1 
(%) 
16.8 
18.5 
14.2
Target
At least 15%
14.2%
Dividend per share
2
(pence) 
16y 15y 14y
8.8 27.5
14.0 13.2
10.0
13.8
14.6
24.6p
Basic earnings per share
(pence) 
16y 15y 14y
24.0
27.9
20.4
20.4p
Combined operating ratio
(%) 
16y 15y 14y
95.0 
94.0
97.7
97.7%
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 24 Definition
The cost of doing business, including 
paying our people, marketing 
expenses, and spending on 
infrastructure and IT. This includes the 
costs we incur handling claims, but 
excludes any commissions we pay to 
brokers or partners, and restructuring 
and other one-off costs. 
A measure to show the level of  
capital held compared to the level  
that is required, accounting for the  
risks we face.
Net Promoter Score (“NPS”) is an index 
that measures the willingness of 
customers to recommend products or 
services to others. It is used to gauge 
customers’ overall experience with a 
product or service, and the customer’s 
loyalty to a brand.
The number of complaints we received 
during the year as a proportion of the 
average number of in-force policies.
Aim
We aim to reduce our expense  
ratio during 2017, absorbing  
our investment in future capability.  
We also aim to deliver a lower 
commission ratio in 2017,  
normalised for major weather events.
We target capital coverage to the 
Board’s risk appetite range of 140%  
to 180% of our SCR. We also aim to 
maintain a rating in the ‘A’ range from 
our credit rating agencies.
We aim to improve this to achieve 
strong levels of customer loyalty and 
retention rates.
This measure indicates the level  
of customer service we provide.  
We aim to improve this over time. 
Performance
See Finance review page 40 See Finance review pages 45 and 46 Customer claims experience 
programmes and improved 
propositions have contributed to an 
increase in our overall brand score.
While the proportion of complaints 
received improved on 2015, we 
recognise we have more to do to 
reduce these.
Link to Directors’ remuneration
Costs are considered and form  
part of the gateway measures for  
the AIP awards.
Risk management within risk appetite, 
which includes an assessment of 
capital strength, and acts as a 
gateway for the AIP awards and 
underpin for LTIP awards.
The AIP awards include a weighting  
to a balance of customer metrics, 
including NPS.
The AIP awards include a weighting  
to a balance of customer metrics, 
including complaints.
Notes:
1. Estimates based on the Group’s Solvency II partial internal model for 31 December 2016 and 30 June 2016. Solvency II capital coverage based on standard 
formula for 31 December 2015
2. On an aggregated 12-months rolling basis, with 2013 rebased to 100
3. For the Group’s principal underwriter, U K Insurance Limited; it excludes discontinued operations
Total costs
 
(£m) 
16y 15y 14y
927.7
884.7
923.7
£923.7m
Capital coverage
1  
Total Group (%)  
16y 16H1 15y
147.4
184.0
165.0
165.0%
Net Promoter Score
2 
Direct Line brand (points)  
16y 15y 14y
110.8
118.3
129.1
129 . 1points
Complaints
 
Principal underwriter
3
 (%) 
16y 15y 14y
0.35
0.33
0.26
0.26%
www.directlinegroup.com 25
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk management
Managing our risks
Managing risk in line with our strategy
Management, and ultimately the Board, are responsible  
for developing our strategy. Our strategic planning process 
aims to ensure we have developed clear objectives and 
targets, and identified the actions needed to deliver them, 
including the management of risks. These clear objectives are 
consistent with our overall long-term ambition of sustainable 
growth and at least a 15% RoTE delivered within our risk 
appetite. To find out more about our strategy, see page 14.
Our risk governance structure
The Board sets and monitors adherence to the risk strategy,  
risk appetite, and risk framework. It has established a risk 
management model that separates responsibilities into  
‘Three Lines of Defence’.
Our First Line of Defence is responsible for owning and 
managing risks to achieve our business objectives on a 
day-to-day basis. The Second Line of Defence is responsible  
for providing proportionate oversight, and challenging risks, 
events and management actions. Group Audit is the Third Line 
of Defence, providing an independent and objective  
view of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management, governance and internal control framework.
The Group’s governance structure is set out in more detail  
in the corporate governance section. 
Risk appetite
Our risk appetite statements define the opportunities and 
associated risks we are prepared to accept to achieve our 
business objectives. The Group has recalibrated its risk 
appetite range relating to the Solvency II internal model –  
see the table below. To monitor whether the business remains 
within risk appetite, we use key risk indicators (“KRIs”).  
We derive the KRIs from the risk appetite statements which  
are used to drive and monitor risk-aware decision-making. 
These KRIs are qualitative and quantitative, and forward and 
backward looking. We review our risk appetite statements and 
KRIs annually, using outputs from the Internal Economic Capital 
Model (“IECM”).
Our risk objectives and appetite
Our business is risk. So to ensure our strategy’s success, we must manage 
risk effectively and efficiently.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 26
Risk objective Risk appetite statement
Overarching risk objective The Group recognises that its long-term sustainability depends on having sufficient economic 
capital to meet its liabilities as they fall due, thus protecting its reputation and the integrity  
of its relationship with policyholders and other stakeholders.
As part of this, the Group’s appetite is for general insurance risk, focusing on personal lines 
retail and SME insurance in the UK. The Group has appetite for non-insurance risks, as 
appropriate, to enable and assist it to undertake its primary activity of insurance.
1. Maintain capital adequacy The Group seeks to hold own funds in the range of 140% to 180% of the internal model 
SCR. The Group also seeks to maintain sufficient economic capital consistent with its 
strategic aim of achieving a standalone credit rating in the ‘A’ range. 
2.  Stable and efficient access  
to funding and liquidity
The Group aims to meet planned and unexpected cash outflow requirements, including those 
requirements that arise following a one-in-200 years insurance, market or credit risk event.
3.  Maintain stakeholder  
confidence
The Group has no appetite for material risks resulting in reputational damage, regulatory or 
legal censure, fines or prosecutions, and other types of non-budgeted operational risk losses 
associated with Group conduct and activities. The Group will maintain a robust and 
proportionate internal control environment. Our Enterprise Risk Management Strategy 
and Framework
This section sets out, at a high level, our approach to setting 
risk strategy and the Enterprise Risk Management Framework 
(“ERMF”) for managing risks. It documents the high-level 
principles and practices to achieve appropriate risk 
management standards and demonstrates the inter-relationships 
between components of the ERMF – see diagram.
The ERMF enables us to run the business with the necessary 
understanding of our risks and controls, as well as having 
appropriate oversight to manage risks proactively. The ERMF  
is aligned to the Three Lines of Defence model, and intends to 
provide a coherent, robust, fit-for-purpose, end-to-end approach 
for managing all material risks. Our policy framework is a 
central part of the ERMF, and includes policies and minimum 
standards. These inform the business about how it needs to 
conduct activities to remain within its risk appetite.
The Board approves our strategy, risk appetite and policies, 
and the Board Risk Committee (“BRC”) approves the ERMF.
Our risk culture
Our risk culture underpins our business and decision-making, 
and helps us embed a robust approach to managing risk.  
Our risk culture is demonstrated in the understanding and 
business-wide use of the risk management systems and 
processes and through risk-aware decision-making. The  
Board is committed to promoting a culture of high standards  
of corporate governance, business integrity, ethics, and 
professionalism in all our activities. An annual assessment  
of risk behaviours and attitudes (“ARBA”) is undertaken jointly 
by the Risk function and Group Audit and considers a range  
of factors influencing risk culture. 
Risk  
profile
Reporting & 
monitoring
Group strategy
Risk appetite
Policy framework
Principal risks
Identify
Assess
Manage
Monitor
Report
Risk management
Principal risks and uncertainties
We assess robustly the principal risks facing us. Principal risks are defined as having a residual risk impact of £40 million or 
more on profit before tax or net asset value on a one-in-200 years basis, accounting for customer, financial and reputational 
impacts. We believe our risk profile remained broadly unchanged over the last year.
Principal risks Owner Management and mitigation examples
Insurance risk
• Underwriting
• Reserve
• Distribution
• Pricing
• Reinsurance
The risk of loss due to fluctuations in the 
timings, amount, frequency and severity 
of an insured event relative to the 
expectations at the time of underwriting. 
See pages 136 to 139.
Chief Financial 
Officer, Managing 
Directors of  
Personal Lines  
and Commercial
• We estimate technical reserves using various actuarial and 
statistical techniques. Management’s best estimate of total 
reserves is set at not less than the actuarial best estimate
• Third parties review our reserves
• Underwriting guidelines are set for all transacted business,  
and pricing refined by analysing comprehensive data
• Catastrophe and motor excess of loss reinsurance limits our 
exposure to events and large losses
• We invest in enhanced external data to analyse and  
mitigate exposures
• We have set reserves using the latest data and trends. In 
particular, the recent decision to reduce the Ogden discount 
rate has been reflected in the estimate of reserves
www.directlinegroup.com 27
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk management continued
Principal risks Owner Management and mitigation examples
Market risk
• Spread
• Interest rate
• Property
The risk of loss resulting from fluctuations 
in the level and volatility of market prices 
of assets, liabilities and financial 
instruments. See pages 139 to 141.
Chief Financial 
Officer
• We manage and control the risks in our investment  
portfolio through:
− an investment strategy approved by the Board;
− diversifying the types of assets; limits on the amount of 
illiquid investments; tightly controlling individual credit 
exposures; and risk-reduction techniques, such as hedging 
foreign currency exposures with forward contracts, and 
hedging exposure to US interest rates with swap contracts
Credit risk
• Concentration
• Counterparty default
The risk of loss resulting from fluctuations 
in the credit standing of issuers of 
securities, counterparties and any 
debtors to which we are exposed.  
See pages 141 to 146.
Chief Financial 
Officer
• Credit limits are set for each counterparty and we actively 
monitor credit exposures
• We only purchase reinsurance from reinsurers with at least  
an ‘A–’ rating
Operational risk
• Information security
• IT and business continuity
• Outsourcing
• Financial reporting
• Model
• Partnership contractual obligations
• Change
• Technology and infrastructure
The risk of loss due to inadequate  
or failed internal processes, people, 
systems, or from external events.
Specific members  
of the Executive
• We have appropriate operational processes and systems, 
including detection systems for fraudulent claims
• We are working to improve the performance of our IT systems 
while focusing on developing future systems capability. With 
significant change underway, we are continuing to monitor 
risks associated with our IT systems’ stability, cyber security, 
and the internal control environment
• Our risk management system is designed to enable us to 
capture risk information in a robust and consistent way
• We monitor the performance of outsourced and offshored 
activities
Regulatory and conduct risk
• Compliance
• Conduct
The risks leading to reputational 
damage, regulatory or legal censure, 
fines or prosecutions, and other  
types of non-budgeted operational  
risk losses associated with our conduct 
and activities.
Chief Risk Officer  
and Managing 
Director,  
Personal Lines
• We maintain a constructive and open relationship with  
our regulators
• We use specific risk management tools and resources  
to help manage our exposure to regulatory risk
• Our risk-based monitoring is designed to ensure we use  
our resources effectively
• We have a strong culture of considering customers’ 
perspectives; delivering the right outcomes for our customers  
is central to how we operate
• Our robust customer conduct risk management is designed  
to minimise our risk exposure
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 28 Emerging risks
Our definition of emerging risks is newly developing or 
changing risks that are often difficult to quantify, but may 
materially affect our business. We have further defined 
emerging risks as highly uncertain risks that are external to our 
business. We record emerging risks within an Emerging Risk 
Register. We report these to the Risk Management Committee 
and BRC for them to review, challenge, approve and feed into 
the Board’s strategic planning process. Our emerging risks 
processes aim to:
• achieve ‘first mover advantage’ by recognising risks and 
associated opportunities early;
• reduce the uncertainty and volatility of our business’ results; 
and
• manage emerging risks proactively.
We consider our main emerging risks to be as follows:
Technological change in driving habits reduces 
consumer need for motor insurance
New car technologies, such as crash-prevention technologies 
and driverless cars, could significantly affect the size and 
nature of the insurance market, and the role of insurers.  
In addition to our partnership with the Government on 
Automated Driving Systems – MOVE_UK, the Group continues 
to consider new motor technologies as part of its pricing and 
underwriting approach. 
Changes to traditional insurance business models
New market entrants and changes in consumer expectations 
could result in significant changes to the structure of the general 
insurance market, and require us to update our business model. 
Our strategy, aligned to our mission to make insurance much 
easier and better value for our customers, is positioned to take 
advantage of changes in technology and customer behaviours. 
UK economy
The UK could enter a prolonged period of reduced growth 
following its referendum vote on EU membership, potentially 
reducing insurance sales and the value of our investment 
portfolio. Equally, the uncertainty surrounding the nature and 
outcome of the Article 50 negotiations could have various 
implications. In addition, whilst our operations are based 
mainly in the UK, we have monitored and will continue to 
monitor actual and potential implications including: changes  
to the value of Sterling which impact claims and non-claims 
supplier costs; volatility in currency exposures and hedging 
costs; inflation; recruitment and retention of people; potential 
changes to direct and indirect tax; and the impact on our 
capital position. 
Climate change
Climate change could increase the frequency of severe 
weather events in the UK, and particularly flooding claims 
costs. We continue to monitor changes in claims experience 
and consider weather trends as part of our pricing and 
underwriting processes. 
Potential future changes to the Ogden discount rate
The Ogden discount rate has recently been reduced to  
minus 0.75%, with an imminent consultation announced to 
consider the methodology for setting this discount rate and 
therefore potentially leading to further changes to the rate itself. 
We are monitoring the development of the consultation and 
analysing the implications on claims costs and the solvency 
capital requirement. 
Principal risks Owner Management and mitigation examples
Strategic risk
• Strategy implementation
• Strategy formulation
The risk of direct or indirect adverse 
impact on the earnings, capital, or 
value of our business, resulting from  
the strategies not being optimally 
chosen, implemented or adapted  
to changing conditions.
Chief Executive 
Officer
• We agree, monitor and manage performance against the  
plan and targets
• We run an annual strategy and 5-year planning process  
which considers our performance, competitor positioning  
and strategic opportunities
• We identify and manage emerging risks using established 
governance processes and forums
We consider brand, reputational and political risk within the drivers of other risk types, such as regulatory and conduct, 
operational and strategic risks.
www.directlinegroup.com 29
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate social responsibility
Safer young drivers
Approach 
Our Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) strategy helps us 
put society’s interests at the heart of our business. The strategy 
has four strands. As shown in the graphic, they are ‘Helping  
to make our society safer’, ‘Proud to be here’, ‘Recognised  
as part of our communities’ and ‘Reduce, Reuse and Recycle’.
We manage our strategy through our CSR Advisory Group, 
which comprises senior managers from across the business. 
Our sustainability team supports the Advisory Group. Individual 
members of our Executive Committee are accountable for each 
strand of the strategy. The CSR Committee’s role is to oversee 
our approach. See page 72.
To help us understand, prioritise, and respond to the sometimes 
competing needs of our different stakeholders across society, 
we partner with several leading CSR organisations. 
You can find more details of our approach on the Group’s 
website at www.directlinegroup.com, including our CSR 
Charter, policy framework, performance against last year’s 
targets, and targets for 2017. 
Helping to make our society safer
We recognise that our products, services and operations affect 
our many stakeholders so we seek to make our society safer for 
everyone. Our current focus is on road safety. We believe we 
can responsibly use our expertise and experience to reduce 
deaths and life changing injuries on Britain’s roads. 
Safer young drivers
In December last year we launched Shotgun, a free 
smartphone app that aims to reduce road deaths among  
new young drivers. 
In the UK, around half a million 17 to 25 year olds pass their 
driving test each year. It is a significant rite of passage for 
many young people, but it is also a time when young drivers 
are at their most vulnerable. Our data shows that accident 
rates among young drivers are, perhaps not surprisingly, 
enormously higher during the first year of driving, with one  
in five young drivers having some form of accident during this 
time. Young drivers are also hugely over-represented in the 
most serious accidents. 
There are various reasons why young drivers crash; these 
include over-confidence, a natural human urge to test personal 
boundaries and take risks, and little experience of recognising 
hidden hazards. Using road-safety data and our knowledge of 
driver behaviour, we identified contextual speed (speed relative 
to other safe road users) as a significant cause of fatal and 
serious crashes involving young drivers. In particular, the first 
1,000 miles for a new driver are critical; this is when the gap 
between perceived and actual driving competence drives 
much higher risk. 
In response, we have set ourselves the ambitious goal of 
cutting deaths in the first 1,000 miles to zero across the UK. 
We will, of course, need to work with many other stakeholders 
to achieve this goal.
To find out more about our CSR Committee, see page 72
While progressing our broad Corporate Social Responsibility strategy,  
we have increased our focus on road safety as the area where we have 
some of the clearest and strongest expertise in the UK. We are using our 
position as Britain’s leading car insurer to try to inspire a generation of 
safer young drivers and make a radical and measurable change to the 
level of young driver deaths. 
Proud to be here
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 30 The biggest barrier to addressing this issue is that young drivers 
often feel immune to the risks. Our goal of inspiring a generation 
of safe and careful drivers sits at odds with many of the 
motivations of new drivers. Young drivers, especially young men, 
can be pro-risk and competitive. From our surveys, we found that 
many believe that ‘most people drive faster than the speed limit’ 
and that ‘good driving means travelling as fast as you can’.  
To change behaviour, we must change this perspective.
Shotgun acts as the wingman for newly qualified drivers and 
was developed with their direct input. Through GPS technology 
on a user’s smartphone, Shotgun uses the best of our telematics 
capability to assess driving performance, evaluating 
smoothness, contextual speed and a number of other factors  
to generate a score for each journey taken. Each user builds 
up a personal score which is a core indicator of accident risk. 
In turn, this score earns app users a place on the Shotgun 
leaderboard, gamifying the experience and allowing users  
to compete with their peers. Shotgun re-frames what it takes  
to be a good driver, and explodes the myth that everybody 
else is driving fast. The app also gives users detailed 
feedback, highlighting what they have done well, and how 
they could improve their driving score next time. When users 
hit pre-determined point thresholds, they unlock rewards.  
This encourages drivers to use the app through 1,000 miles 
and to improve their performance still further to earn ever more 
valuable rewards. 
We are working with various reward partners, including Boost 
and Virgin Experience. Shotgun offers rewards which are 
attractive to a 17 to 25 year old demographic. Our research 
showed we needed a range of reward options that appealed 
to different tastes and to both urban and more rural users.
To launch the app we used the same leading-edge thinking 
that won Direct Line a coveted Institute of Practitioners in 
Advertising Gold award for Effectiveness. The Shotgun launch 
represented a departure from traditional advertising, in a bid  
to engage the target audience using channels that are relevant. 
This moves the topic of road safety into a more social space, 
with a particular focus on personal platforms like Instagram, 
You Tube and Snapchat. The strategy was to create content  
in a range of formats, based on creative ideas that resonate 
with the audience. These were seeded with carefully chosen 
partners to build saliency and drive momentum. They are also 
quite a bit edgier than our traditional marketing messages.
We put in place a communication plan for a diverse range  
of audiences – young drivers, of course, were central but  
also their parents as well as our own employees. Making sure 
we capture all of these groups is critical. For our staff, our 
approach has been to create awareness, build understanding 
and drive engagement across the business. We want our 
people to be proud of our shared belief that the know-how and 
power of Direct Line can be a real force for good in the UK. 
We also want our employees to become active advocates for 
this initiative in their local communities right across the country.
From our research and testing, we know we can engage  
with this vulnerable audience and change both their attitudes  
to driving and materially improve their driving behaviour, 
making a real change in their chances of being killed or 
injured on the roads. 
During 2017, we are focusing on delivering against this 
objective. We will run a series of attitudinal research studies  
to track our users’ attitude to driving. In addition, the Shotgun 
app will give us a rich source of data allowing us to measure 
improvements to driving performance over time. 
Road safety partners
During 2016, we worked with various partners to highlight  
a range of road safety issues.
PACTS
In November, we launched our third Road Safety Dashboard 
with the Parliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safety 
(“PACTS”). This pioneering tool uses Department for Transport 
statistics to produce an index that ranks the road safety record 
of individual parliamentary constituencies. MPs tell us they find 
the tool valuable. In July, we also ran an event in Parliament at 
which 33 parliamentarians signed up to our pledge to improve 
road safety awareness. We also sponsored the PACTS Annual 
Westminster Transport Safety Lecture in the House of Commons 
where policymakers and campaigners come together to share 
ideas and best practice.
Department for Transport
We continue to engage proactively with the Department for 
Transport on various topics, including telematics technology, 
driverless cars and road safety policy.
Brake
We maintained our partnership with road safety charity,  
Brake, to produce a series of survey reports on driver behaviour 
and attitudes. We released the results to the media to raise 
awareness of road safety issues and educate the public.  
This year’s reports have covered ‘drink driving’, ‘eating and 
drinking at the wheel’, ’texting while driving’, ‘winter driving’ 
and ‘speed awareness in urban areas’. Brake uses this 
research for its wider campaigning, education, community and 
professional engagement activities. We also sponsored Brake’s 
Parliamentarian of the Year Awards, which recognise Members 
of Parliament who have campaigned on road safety issues.
www.directlinegroup.com 31
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate social responsibility continued
Note:
1. This excludes discontinued operations, the Group’s former International division. Total Group emissions for 2014 and 2015 were 28,759 and 23,143, respectively 
14.6%
Greenhouse gas 
emissions
1
 (tonnes)
3,222.1 
16y 15y 14y
27 ,308
22,611
19,315
Reduce, Reuse and Recycle
We aim to manage our operations sustainably and have 
progressed well in reducing our impact on the environment.
Emissions
You can find information on Group-wide greenhouse gas 
(“GHG”) emissions in the chart below – and more details  
of our emissions in the Directors’ report on page 112.
Energy use is the main cause of our emissions. In absolute 
terms, we have reduced our emissions significantly after 
rationalising and implementing an energy-savings plan  
across our estate. This covered location management, 
air-conditioning, heating and lighting, for instance. We are 
targeting a 30% like-for-like reduction in the Group’s energy 
use by 2020 against a 2013 baseline.
We communicate the details of a carbon management 
programme through the Carbon Disclosure Project. Throughout 
2016, 100% of the Group’s electricity was purchased on a 
green tariff.
Waste
We have further improved our systems for managing waste 
and increased the percentage of waste we recycle at our UK 
Accident Repair Centres to 61% from 54% in 2015 and at our 
office sites to 42% from 40% in 2015. These figures exclude 
paper waste which is 100% recycled. Including paper, we 
recycled 80% of waste at our UK Accident Repair Centres and 
78% at our offices in 2016. All of our office waste is diverted 
from landfill, including recycling.
Suppliers
Our Ethical Code for Suppliers sets out our approach to 
managing CSR related matters across our supply chain. We 
support the aims of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and are 
committed to ensuring that modern slavery is not present in our 
supply chain. We have extended our Ethical Code to expressly 
cover this commitment. In accordance with the Act, we publish 
an annual statement on slavery and human trafficking on the 
Group website at www.directlinegroup.com.
Proud to be here
Our people strategy supports our business strategy, ensuring 
we have capable, skilled and engaged people that can help 
make insurance easier and better value for our customers.
We continue to focus on building pride in Direct Line Group, 
encouraging and celebrating the strength of our workforce. 
Various volunteer groups, such as our Employee Representative 
Bodies and Local Co-ordination Teams, increase our 
employees’ voice. Last year we invited employees to 
participate in research to help shape their future way of 
working. The research considered how the future working 
environment, technology and culture could give our people  
the tools they need to live and work at their best. 
We also invested significantly in a new Graduate Programme. 
The Programme offers opportunities equally to existing 
employees and new applicants and will help further drive  
the pipeline of qualified, bright young people coming into  
our business.
Employee feedback remains an important gauge of how  
our initiatives affect change. In 2016 our people managers 
created over 900 action plans to improve their teams’ 
experience. Again this played a major part in significantly 
improving our engagement score from 60% in 2015 to 73%. 
The percentage of our employees who are proud to work for 
the Group also increased from 80% in 2015 to 87%, while 
81% tell others that the Group is a great place to work  
(70% in 2015).
Diversity, inclusion and human rights
We continue to work towards an environment based on 
meritocracy and inclusion, where every employee can achieve 
their full potential, whatever their background or situation.
Our diversity and inclusion practices are in line with the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our Ethical Code  
for Suppliers requires that all our suppliers adhere to the  
core International Labour Organisation standards.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 32 Examples of activities include:
• 780 employees manning our call centres to take pledges 
for appeals such as Stand Up to Cancer, Comic Relief and 
Children in Need;
• supporting national appeals such as the World’s Biggest 
Coffee Morning in aid of Macmillan and raising funds 
during Movember for various men’s health charities; and
• organising quiz nights, fun runs, masquerade balls, festivals, 
cake sales, sky dives, charity football matches and much 
more to raise thousands of pounds for local causes.
We encourage all employees to volunteer individually or  
as a team through our ‘One Day’ initiative. 
Our Employee Opinion Survey revealed that 33% of staff 
volunteered or fundraised in company time last year. Our target 
for 2017 is to at least maintain this high level of engagement.
Matched giving and grants
In 2016, our employees donated £149,000 through our 
payroll giving scheme and we donated a further £100,000  
in matched giving. We also provided £68,250 in grants to 
organisations for which our employees fundraise or volunteer.
Male 5,768
Female 5,209
Gender diversity 
of all employees 
Male 7
Female 3
Gender diversity 
of Board of Directors 
Male 112
Female 32
Gender diversity 
of senior managers 
In 2016, the Group signed up to the Women in Finance 
Charter. The Charter is a commitment by HM Treasury and 
signatory firms to work together to build a more balanced and 
fairer industry. Our pledge to the Charter reinforces our other 
initiatives such as our Diversity Network Alliance in promoting 
diversity and inclusion in our business. The Group committed to 
increase female representation in senior management to 30% 
by the end of 2019.
You can find the ratio of female-to-male employees at 
31 December 2016 in the charts below.
In 2016, the Group was proud to be named in the OUTstanding 
Power Lists. We started working with OUTstanding, a professional 
network of executives committed to diversity, alongside other 
partner organisations to help shape our plans and bring new 
ideas and thinking on diversity and inclusion.
Living wage
We comply with the principles of the Living Wage Foundation, 
relating to our employees.
Recognised as part of our communities
We believe that our people’s feelings about working for the 
Group are linked to our reputation in the community and we 
therefore try to align our approach to giving more generally 
with their interests.
Volunteering and fundraising 
We know that participating in fundraising and volunteering  
is linked to higher engagement levels amongst our people.  
In order to encourage our people to participate, therefore,  
we run a network of Community and Social Committees which 
are made up of local volunteers. These receive central funding 
and support from the Group to support Group-wide national 
appeals and create a programme of events and activities 
based on the interests of employees at their sites. 
www.directlinegroup.com 33
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Operating review 
34 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
Motor 
Highlights 
 Britain’s leading personal motor insurer measured by  
in-force policies 
 In-force policies increased by 4.5% with growth in own 
brands in-force policies in each quarter 
 Gross written premium increased by 9.4% with own brands 
increasing by 9.3% 
 COR increased by 13.9 percentage points to 106.3% 
primarily reflecting the increase in reserves following the 
reduction in the Ogden discount rate 
 Operating profit reduced to £149.1 million due to higher 
non-cash intangible asset impairments and the reduction  
in the Ogden discount rate  
Performance highlights 
 2016 2015
In-force policies (thousands) 3,873 3,707
Gross written premium £1,539.1m £1,406.7m
Loss ratio 74.9% 63.6%
Commission ratio 3.2% 2.6%
Expense ratio 28.2% 26.2%
Combined operating ratio 106.3% 92.4%
Operating profit £149.1m £338.0m
Performance 
Motor in-force policies increased by 4.5% during 2016, 
driven primarily by own brands. Overall, Motor gross written 
premium increased by 9.4% in comparison to 2015. 
The market experienced high levels of shopping during  
2016. The Direct Line brand was able to use this environment 
to continue to improve its competitive position, resulting in  
strong new business growth. The comparatively high level of 
persistency and attractive customer base allowed the Group  
to reinvest some of that value back into propositions and price 
competitiveness.  
Motor average written premiums
1
 increased by 6.3% in  
2016 compared with an average increase of 5.2% in 2015. 
As demonstrated by the improving current-year loss ratio,  
the Group was able to continue to write business at attractive 
margins, as a result of successful pricing and a slightly 
improved risk mix. Claims inflation remained at the top of the 
Group’s long-term expectation of 3%-5%, driven by higher 
damage costs. 
The COR for the Motor division was 106.3% (2015: 92.4%), 
including an 11.2 percentage points one-off increase due to 
the recent reduction in the Ogden discount rate. Prior-year 
reserve releases were significantly lower at £123.5 million 
(2015: £266.8 million), including a £139.8 million charge  
in respect of the recent Ogden discount rate change. 
The expense ratio increased due to higher non-cash intangible 
asset impairments of £39.3 million. The commission ratio 
remained broadly stable compared to 2015. 
The current-year attritional loss ratio improved by 0.9 
percentage points to 84.1% (2015: 85.0%). Excluding the 
impact of the recent reduction in the Ogden discount rate,  
the current-year attritional loss ratio for Motor was 83.3% an 
improvement of 1.7 percentage points compared to 2015. 
Growth in average premiums, coupled with improving claims 
trends in large bodily injury, were partially offset by higher 
than expected damage inflation and the Group’s investment  
in new business growth.  
Operating profit was £149.1 million, lower than 2015 
primarily as a result of a one-off charge due to the reduction  
in the Ogden discount rate of £150.3 million and higher 
intangible asset impairments of £39.3 million. 
Regulatory 
On 27 February 2017, the Lord Chancellor announced a 
reduction in the Ogden discount rate to minus 0.75% with 
effect from 20 March 2017, which has led to an increase  
in the amount of claims reserves necessary to be held by the 
Group, specifically those that are settled as lump sums by the 
Courts. This follows a consultation process instigated by the 
Ministry of Justice some years ago in connection with the rate 
to be applied to personal injury lump sum damages awards  
in settling such claims. The Group is committed to ensuring 
claimants receive appropriate compensation and has made 
appropriate provision in its claims reserves for the ruling, which 
will apply to all open unsettled claims. The Lord Chancellor’s 
announcement referred to a consultation to consider options  
for reform concerning the discount rate and accordingly has 
left open the possibility of further changes to the process by 
which the rate is set, and therefore to the rate itself. The Group 
welcomes the consultation to consider options for reform, with 
a view to achieving a better and fairer framework for claimants 
and defendants. 
On 23 February 2017, the Government announced  
measures to reduce the volume and cost of soft tissue damage 
‘whiplash’ claims and stated its expectation that this will see  
a reduction in motor insurance premiums by £40 on average. 
The measures include a fixed tariff for payment of injuries up to 
24 months in duration. Further measures detailed in the paper 
are still being considered. The Government is keen to introduce 
all changes to whiplash claims as a package in late 2018. 
The Group has been calling for reform in this area for some 
time and continues to work with Government and industry 
bodies on how the reforms should be implemented. 
Outlook 
The market was highly competitive and faced a number  
of significant government policy and regulatory changes  
during 2016 and 2017. In the face of these challenges,  
we demonstrated our resilience and appeal to customers by 
growing our own brand policies while maintaining overall 
margins, which has continued into early 2017. We do not 
expect any material residual impact on 2017 Motor profit  
as a result of adopting the reduction in the Ogden discount 
rate to minus 0.75%. 
Note: 
1. Average incepted written premiums excluding IPT for total Motor for year ended 31 December 2016 
 
Personal Lines
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 34 Operating review 
34 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
Motor 
Highlights 
 Britain’s leading personal motor insurer measured by  
in-force policies 
 In-force policies increased by 4.5% with growth in own 
brands in-force policies in each quarter 
 Gross written premium increased by 9.4% with own brands 
increasing by 9.3% 
 COR increased by 13.9 percentage points to 106.3% 
primarily reflecting the increase in reserves following the 
reduction in the Ogden discount rate 
 Operating profit reduced to £149.1 million due to higher 
non-cash intangible asset impairments and the reduction  
in the Ogden discount rate  
Performance highlights 
 2016 2015
In-force policies (thousands) 3,873 3,707
Gross written premium £1,539.1m £1,406.7m
Loss ratio 74.9% 63.6%
Commission ratio 3.2% 2.6%
Expense ratio 28.2% 26.2%
Combined operating ratio 106.3% 92.4%
Operating profit £149.1m £338.0m
Performance 
Motor in-force policies increased by 4.5% during 2016, 
driven primarily by own brands. Overall, Motor gross written 
premium increased by 9.4% in comparison to 2015. 
The market experienced high levels of shopping during  
2016. The Direct Line brand was able to use this environment 
to continue to improve its competitive position, resulting in  
strong new business growth. The comparatively high level of 
persistency and attractive customer base allowed the Group  
to reinvest some of that value back into propositions and price 
competitiveness.  
Motor average written premiums
1
 increased by 6.3% in  
2016 compared with an average increase of 5.2% in 2015. 
As demonstrated by the improving current-year loss ratio,  
the Group was able to continue to write business at attractive 
margins, as a result of successful pricing and a slightly 
improved risk mix. Claims inflation remained at the top of the 
Group’s long-term expectation of 3%-5%, driven by higher 
damage costs. 
The COR for the Motor division was 106.3% (2015: 92.4%), 
including an 11.2 percentage points one-off increase due to 
the recent reduction in the Ogden discount rate. Prior-year 
reserve releases were significantly lower at £123.5 million 
(2015: £266.8 million), including a £139.8 million charge  
in respect of the recent Ogden discount rate change. 
The expense ratio increased due to higher non-cash intangible 
asset impairments of £39.3 million. The commission ratio 
remained broadly stable compared to 2015. 
The current-year attritional loss ratio improved by 0.9 
percentage points to 84.1% (2015: 85.0%). Excluding the 
impact of the recent reduction in the Ogden discount rate,  
the current-year attritional loss ratio for Motor was 83.3% an 
improvement of 1.7 percentage points compared to 2015. 
Growth in average premiums, coupled with improving claims 
trends in large bodily injury, were partially offset by higher 
than expected damage inflation and the Group’s investment  
in new business growth.  
Operating profit was £149.1 million, lower than 2015 
primarily as a result of a one-off charge due to the reduction  
in the Ogden discount rate of £150.3 million and higher 
intangible asset impairments of £39.3 million. 
Regulatory 
On 27 February 2017, the Lord Chancellor announced a 
reduction in the Ogden discount rate to minus 0.75% with 
effect from 20 March 2017, which has led to an increase  
in the amount of claims reserves necessary to be held by the 
Group, specifically those that are settled as lump sums by the 
Courts. This follows a consultation process instigated by the 
Ministry of Justice some years ago in connection with the rate 
to be applied to personal injury lump sum damages awards  
in settling such claims. The Group is committed to ensuring 
claimants receive appropriate compensation and has made 
appropriate provision in its claims reserves for the ruling, which 
will apply to all open unsettled claims. The Lord Chancellor’s 
announcement referred to a consultation to consider options  
for reform concerning the discount rate and accordingly has 
left open the possibility of further changes to the process by 
which the rate is set, and therefore to the rate itself. The Group 
welcomes the consultation to consider options for reform, with 
a view to achieving a better and fairer framework for claimants 
and defendants. 
On 23 February 2017, the Government announced  
measures to reduce the volume and cost of soft tissue damage 
‘whiplash’ claims and stated its expectation that this will see  
a reduction in motor insurance premiums by £40 on average. 
The measures include a fixed tariff for payment of injuries up to 
24 months in duration. Further measures detailed in the paper 
are still being considered. The Government is keen to introduce 
all changes to whiplash claims as a package in late 2018. 
The Group has been calling for reform in this area for some 
time and continues to work with Government and industry 
bodies on how the reforms should be implemented. 
Outlook 
The market was highly competitive and faced a number  
of significant government policy and regulatory changes  
during 2016 and 2017. In the face of these challenges,  
we demonstrated our resilience and appeal to customers by 
growing our own brand policies while maintaining overall 
margins, which has continued into early 2017. We do not 
expect any material residual impact on 2017 Motor profit  
as a result of adopting the reduction in the Ogden discount 
rate to minus 0.75%. 
Note: 
1. Average incepted written premiums excluding IPT for total Motor for year ended 31 December 2016 
 
   www.directlinegroup.com 35 
Home 
Highlights 
 Britain’s leading personal home insurer measured by  
in-force policies 
 Own brands in-force policies increased by 2.3%;  
overall reduction in in-force policies of 1.2% primarily  
due to partnerships 
 Gross written premium was 3.7% lower primarily due  
to partnerships, while own brands reduced by 0.9% 
 COR improved by 7.2 percentage points to 85.0% 
 Operating profit improved by 51.7 percentage points  
to £166.7 million reflecting lower claims from major 
weather events 
Performance highlights 
 2016 2015
In-force policies (thousands) 3,378 3,418
Gross written premium £834.4m £866.3m
Loss ratio 40.7% 51.5%
Commission ratio 22.6% 20.9%
Expense ratio 21.7% 19.8%
Combined operating ratio 85.0% 92.2%
Operating profit £166.7m £109.9m
Performance 
In-force policies for Home own brands increased by 2.3% to 
1.8 million over 2016, while partner in-force policies reduced 
by 4.7%. Gross written premium was 3.7% lower than for 
2015 primarily due to partnerships which were 6.2% lower, 
while own brands experienced a smaller reduction of 0.9%. 
Following a prolonged period of significant deflation,  
the home market showed signs of some stability during the 
second half of 2016. Home‘s average written premium
1
 
decreased by 3.9% in 2016 compared with 3.6% in 2015, 
primarily due to changes to tenure and distribution channel  
mix including higher sales through the PCW channel. Home 
market new business premiums improved during the year  
after years of premium deflation. New business pricing for  
the Group’s Home own brands was sufficiently competitive  
to allow the Home division to continue to grow own brands 
through web and aggregator channels. 
In Home, the COR improved by 7.2 percentage points 
primarily as a result of a lower loss ratio, which was 10.8 
percentage points lower than 2015. The impact of major 
weather events in 2016 was approximately £18 million 
(2015: £90 million) and was lower than the normal annual 
level of claims costs expected from major weather events of 
approximately £70 million. Prior-year reserve releases, which 
included some favourable development from the storms in  
late 2015, were higher than last year at £75.9 million  
(2015: £41.9 million). 
 
 
 
The current-year attritional loss ratio, excluding claims costs 
from major weather events, was 2.0 percentage points higher 
than 2015. This was predominantly driven by a greater 
proportion of new business sales compared to 2015 and  
an increase in claims inflation. 
The expense ratio at 21.7% was 1.9 percentage points  
higher than in 2015 primarily due to the Flood Re levy.  
The commission ratio at 22.6% was 1.7 percentage points 
higher than in 2015 as profit share due to partners was  
higher as a result of the improved loss ratio performance. 
Operating profit of £166.7 million improved by 51.7 
percentage points benefitting from lower claims costs from 
major weather events and higher than expected prior-year 
reserve releases. 
The Group‘s partnership with Nationwide Building Society  
was due to terminate in June 2017. These plans are currently 
being reviewed which may result in the migration moving to 
the second half of 2017, whilst the Group works with 
Nationwide to ensure a smooth transition for customers. If this 
is the case, the Group will continue to earn premiums written in 
the second half of 2017 through to the second half of 2018. 
The Group continued with its planned digital and proposition 
investment in the successful RBS Home and Private Insurance 
relationship. This will enable the Group to offer RBS customers 
tailored products consistent across distribution channels. 
The Group agreed an extension of its Home and Motor 
insurance partnership with Prudential for a further two years.  
As part of this, policies will be renewed under the Prudential 
brand until 2019. The Group also launched its first affinity 
partnership scheme to offer access to Churchill-branded Home 
and Motor policies for Prudential Group customers who do not 
currently have such insurance with the Group. This partnership 
demonstrates the Group’s ability to deliver tailored propositions 
to meet the needs of partners and their customers. 
Flood Re 
From 1 April 2016, Flood Re, the Government and industry-
backed scheme to provide affordable home insurance to 
households at high risk of flooding, became operational.  
The Group has supported Flood Re’s formation and was  
ready to cede chosen risks to Flood Re on its inception. 
Outlook 
The market remained competitive in 2016, although with  
some signs of premium inflation on new business, following 
several years of significant deflation.  
There is evidence that claims inflation has been increasing  
and has continued to run ahead of premium inflation. The 
focus remains on balancing margin and volume with a view  
to delivering sustainable long term value. 
Note: 
1. Average incepted written premiums excluding IPT for Home own brands for year ended 31 December 2016 
 
www.directlinegroup.com 35
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Operating review continued 
36 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
Rescue and other personal lines 
Highlights 
 In-force policies for Rescue reduced by 7.3% primarily  
as a result of lower partner volumes 
 Gross written premium for Rescue and other personal lines 
increased by 1.7% to £400.8 million primarily due to 
Travel partnerships pricing 
 COR increased by 2.1 percentage points to 93.3% 
 Operating profit reduced by 11.7% to £45.9m 
Performance highlights 
 2016 2015
In-force policies (thousands)  
Rescue
1
 3,646 3,932
Other personal lines 4,234 4,356
Total in-force policies 7,880 8,288
Gross written premium £400.8m £394.1m
Loss ratio 61.6% 59.9%
Commission ratio 7.2% 6.4%
Expense ratio 24.5% 24.9%
Combined operating ratio 93.3% 91.2%
Operating profit £45.9m £52.0m
Performance 
In-force policies for Rescue reduced by 7.3% to 3.6 million  
in comparison to the prior year through lower partner volumes. 
The reduction in in-force policies for other personal lines of 
2.8% across 2016 primarily reflected lower packaged bank 
account volumes. 
Gross written premium for Rescue and other personal lines 
grew by 1.7% compared with 2015. Rescue gross written 
premium remained broadly stable compared with 2015. 
Green Flag performed well supported by competitive 
propositions. Gross written premium for other personal lines 
grew by 3.0% compared to 2015. 
The COR for Rescue and other personal lines was  
2.1 percentage points higher than 2015 at 93.3%  
(2015: 91.2%). The Rescue COR was 83.4% (2015: 82.3%) 
with a higher loss ratio reflecting changes in business mix and 
investment in the network. The commission ratio of 7.2% was 
0.8 percentage points higher than 2015, reflecting higher 
partner profit share, while the expense ratio was stable 
compared to 2015. 
Operating profit reduced by 11.7% to £45.9 million.  
Within Rescue and other personal lines, Rescue operating 
profit was similar to the prior year at £42.8 million  
(2015: £42.2 million). 
The Group continues to support RBS with rescue and travel 
products sold to packaged account customers. The provision  
of these services beyond the current contract term is subject  
to a market review, in which the Group is participating. 
Outlook 
Rescue continued to build its underlying capability to provide 
an excellent customer experience. During 2016 strong 
improvements in NPS underlined the progress being made  
and Green Flag has a strong focus for 2017 to seek to further 
enhance customer experience. The Group also continues to 
roll-out improvements in Pet and Travel to enhance our service 
while updating our customer propositions.  
Note: 
1. Rescue in-force policies have been revised to exclude partner post-accident vehicle recoveries 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 36 Operating review continued 
36 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
Rescue and other personal lines 
Highlights 
 In-force policies for Rescue reduced by 7.3% primarily  
as a result of lower partner volumes 
 Gross written premium for Rescue and other personal lines 
increased by 1.7% to £400.8 million primarily due to 
Travel partnerships pricing 
 COR increased by 2.1 percentage points to 93.3% 
 Operating profit reduced by 11.7% to £45.9m 
Performance highlights 
 2016 2015
In-force policies (thousands)  
Rescue
1
 3,646 3,932
Other personal lines 4,234 4,356
Total in-force policies 7,880 8,288
Gross written premium £400.8m £394.1m
Loss ratio 61.6% 59.9%
Commission ratio 7.2% 6.4%
Expense ratio 24.5% 24.9%
Combined operating ratio 93.3% 91.2%
Operating profit £45.9m £52.0m
Performance 
In-force policies for Rescue reduced by 7.3% to 3.6 million  
in comparison to the prior year through lower partner volumes. 
The reduction in in-force policies for other personal lines of 
2.8% across 2016 primarily reflected lower packaged bank 
account volumes. 
Gross written premium for Rescue and other personal lines 
grew by 1.7% compared with 2015. Rescue gross written 
premium remained broadly stable compared with 2015. 
Green Flag performed well supported by competitive 
propositions. Gross written premium for other personal lines 
grew by 3.0% compared to 2015. 
The COR for Rescue and other personal lines was  
2.1 percentage points higher than 2015 at 93.3%  
(2015: 91.2%). The Rescue COR was 83.4% (2015: 82.3%) 
with a higher loss ratio reflecting changes in business mix and 
investment in the network. The commission ratio of 7.2% was 
0.8 percentage points higher than 2015, reflecting higher 
partner profit share, while the expense ratio was stable 
compared to 2015. 
Operating profit reduced by 11.7% to £45.9 million.  
Within Rescue and other personal lines, Rescue operating 
profit was similar to the prior year at £42.8 million  
(2015: £42.2 million). 
The Group continues to support RBS with rescue and travel 
products sold to packaged account customers. The provision  
of these services beyond the current contract term is subject  
to a market review, in which the Group is participating. 
Outlook 
Rescue continued to build its underlying capability to provide 
an excellent customer experience. During 2016 strong 
improvements in NPS underlined the progress being made  
and Green Flag has a strong focus for 2017 to seek to further 
enhance customer experience. The Group also continues to 
roll-out improvements in Pet and Travel to enhance our service 
while updating our customer propositions.  
Note: 
1. Rescue in-force policies have been revised to exclude partner post-accident vehicle recoveries 
   www.directlinegroup.com 37 
Highlights 
 Commercial in-force policies grew by 3.1% with Direct Line 
for Business growth of 6.4% 
 Gross written premium increased by 3.0 percentage points 
to £499.8 million. Direct Line for Business gross written 
premium grew by 7.7 percentage points to £109.6 million 
 COR reduced by 5.8 percentage points and operating 
profit increased by £21.0 million with both benefitting  
from lower claims costs from major weather events 
Performance highlights 
 2016 2015
In-force policies (thousands)  
DL4B 433 407
NIG and other 242 248
Total in-force policies 675 655
Gross written premium £499.8m £485.3m
Loss ratio 55.3% 62.7%
Commission ratio 19.5% 19.6%
Expense ratio 23.9% 22.2%
Combined operating ratio 98.7% 104.5%
Operating profit £41.8m £20.8m
Performance 
Commercial in-force policy growth across 2016 was achieved 
by increased sales through the Direct Line for Business and 
NIG. By 31 December 2016, there were more than 
433,000 Direct Line for Business in-force policies. 
Commercial gross written premium increased by 3.0% to 
£499.8 million compared to 2015, reflecting growth in 
Commercial direct, particularly landlord and van products. 
Gross written premium for NIG and other increased by 1.7% 
compared to 2015 in part reflecting premium rate increases.  
The Commercial market has remained competitive during 
2016, in particular in the broker channel. Overall premium 
rates have slightly lagged claims inflation albeit with variation 
by class of business and channel. Commercial continued to 
maintain its underwriting discipline and seek to balance the 
retention of customers with premium rate inflation.  
The Commercial COR of 98.7% was 5.8 percentage points 
lower compared to 2015. This benefited from lower weather 
related claims costs, which were offset by the impact of the 
recent Ogden discount rate change. 
Operating profit was therefore £41.8 million, an increase of 
£21.0 million compared to 2015. The reduction due to the 
recent change in the Ogden discount rate was £24.7 million, 
of which £23.1 million relates to 2015 and prior accident 
years. The current-year attritional loss ratio was 9.2 percentage 
points lower than 2015 due to lower weather-related claims 
costs and over 1 percentage point of underlying improvement 
due to better pricing and risk selection. 
Regulatory 
The Insurance Act went live in August 2016 with changes 
applied to all of our product wordings across Commercial 
along with new processes in the claims area to ensure 
alignment to the principles of the Act. 2017 will bring changes 
from the Enterprise Act and the Commercial division is well 
placed to support these changes.  
Outlook 
The Commercial division continued to develop both its direct  
to customer and broker led operations. Direct Line for Business 
continues to invest in its proposition to take advantage of the 
growing direct Commercial insurance market. Meanwhile, 
NIG is consolidating its position in the broker market with  
a focus on delivering effortless trading to its broker partners 
across both electronically and regionally traded business. 
 
Commercial
www.directlinegroup.com 37
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Finance review 
 
38 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
 
 
Highlights 
 Gross written premium for Ongoing operations
1,2
 up 3.9% 
to £3,274.1m (2015: £3,152.4m), driven by growth in 
Motor and Home own brand in-force policies (up 4.3%)  
 2016 results reflect the one-off impact of using the new 
Ogden discount rate of minus 0.75%. Operating profit 
from Ongoing operations of £403.5m (pre-Ogden 
discount rate reduction
3
:
 
£578.6m; 2015: £520.7m) and 
profit before tax of £353.0m (pre-Ogden
3
: £570.3m; 
2015: £507.5m). Return on tangible equity
1, 2
 of 14.2%, 
(pre-Ogden
3
: 20.2%; 2015: 18.5%) 
 Combined operating ratio
1
 from Ongoing operations of 
97.7% (pre-Ogden
3
: 91.8%; 2015: 94.0%) increased  
as a result of the reduction in the Ogden discount rate, 
partially offset by improved current-year underwriting 
performance and favourable weather claims. Adjusted  
for normal weather and before the Ogden discount rate 
change, the combined operating ratio was 93.5%, 
towards the lower end of the target range of 93% to 95% 
 5.4% increase in final dividend per share to 9.7 pence per 
share (2015: 9.2 pence). Total dividends per share for 
2016, including special interim dividend of 10.0 pence 
per share paid in September 2016 following the approval 
of the Group’s partial internal model, of 24.6 pence per 
share (2015: 50.1 pence) 
 The Group’s estimated Solvency II capital coverage ratio
4
 
post-dividend is 165%, above the middle of the Group’s 
risk appetite range of 140% – 180% (pre-dividend: 174%) 
 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Ongoing operations
1
  
In-force policies
1
 (thousands) 15,806  16,068 
Gross written premium
1
 3,274.1  3,152.4 
Net earned premium
1
 3,000.6  2,920.8 
Underwriting profit 70.1  175.2 
Investment return
1
 168.1  194.7 
Instalment and other operating 
income 165.3  150.8 
Operating profit
1
 – Ongoing 403.5  520.7 
Run-off
1
 26.6  73.1 
Restructuring and other 
one-off costs (39.9) (48.7)
Operating profit 390.2  545.1 
Finance costs
1
 (37.2) (37.6)
Profit before tax 353.0  507.5 
Tax (74.2) (108.3)
Profit from discontinued operations, 
net of tax –  181.2 
Profit after tax 278.8  580.4 
Of which is Ongoing operations 293.0  385.3 
Key metrics   
Loss ratio
1
 60.9% 59.5%
Commission ratio
1
 11.5% 10.9%
Expense ratio
1
 25.3% 23.6%
COR
1
 97.7% 94.0%
Investment income yield
1,2
 2.5% 2.4%
Investment return
1,2
 2.6% 2.9%
Basic earnings per share (pence) 20.4  27.9 
Adjusted diluted earnings per 
share
1,2
 (pence) 21.2  26.6 
Return on tangible equity
1,2
 14.2% 18.5%
Net asset value per share (pence) 184.7  192.2 
Tangible net asset value 
per share (pence) 147.4  153.8 
Dividend per share  
– interim (pence) 4.9  4.6 
– final (pence) 9.7  9.2 
– regular (pence) 14.6  13.8 
– first special (pence) 10.0  27.5
– second special (pence) – 8.8 
– total (pence) 24.6  50.1 
Notes: 
1. See glossary on pages 189 and 190 
2. See appendix A – Alternative performance measures on page 191  
3. See appendix B – Proforma results on page 194 which presents the Group’s results excluding the recent impact of the Ogden discount rate reduction 
4.  Estimates based on the Group’s Solvency II partial internal model for 31 December 2016 
 
Strong profits and 
growth in own brands
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 38
John Reizenstein
Chief Financial Officer Finance review 
 
38 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
 
 
Highlights 
 Gross written premium for Ongoing operations
1,2
 up 3.9% 
to £3,274.1m (2015: £3,152.4m), driven by growth in 
Motor and Home own brand in-force policies (up 4.3%)  
 2016 results reflect the one-off impact of using the new 
Ogden discount rate of minus 0.75%. Operating profit 
from Ongoing operations of £403.5m (pre-Ogden 
discount rate reduction
3
:
 
£578.6m; 2015: £520.7m) and 
profit before tax of £353.0m (pre-Ogden
3
: £570.3m; 
2015: £507.5m). Return on tangible equity
1, 2
 of 14.2%, 
(pre-Ogden
3
: 20.2%; 2015: 18.5%) 
 Combined operating ratio
1
 from Ongoing operations of 
97.7% (pre-Ogden
3
: 91.8%; 2015: 94.0%) increased  
as a result of the reduction in the Ogden discount rate, 
partially offset by improved current-year underwriting 
performance and favourable weather claims. Adjusted  
for normal weather and before the Ogden discount rate 
change, the combined operating ratio was 93.5%, 
towards the lower end of the target range of 93% to 95% 
 5.4% increase in final dividend per share to 9.7 pence per 
share (2015: 9.2 pence). Total dividends per share for 
2016, including special interim dividend of 10.0 pence 
per share paid in September 2016 following the approval 
of the Group’s partial internal model, of 24.6 pence per 
share (2015: 50.1 pence) 
 The Group’s estimated Solvency II capital coverage ratio
4
 
post-dividend is 165%, above the middle of the Group’s 
risk appetite range of 140% – 180% (pre-dividend: 174%) 
 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Ongoing operations
1
  
In-force policies
1
 (thousands) 15,806  16,068 
Gross written premium
1
 3,274.1  3,152.4 
Net earned premium
1
 3,000.6  2,920.8 
Underwriting profit 70.1  175.2 
Investment return
1
 168.1  194.7 
Instalment and other operating 
income 165.3  150.8 
Operating profit
1
 – Ongoing 403.5  520.7 
Run-off
1
 26.6  73.1 
Restructuring and other 
one-off costs (39.9) (48.7)
Operating profit 390.2  545.1 
Finance costs
1
 (37.2) (37.6)
Profit before tax 353.0  507.5 
Tax (74.2) (108.3)
Profit from discontinued operations, 
net of tax –  181.2 
Profit after tax 278.8  580.4 
Of which is Ongoing operations 293.0  385.3 
Key metrics   
Loss ratio
1
 60.9% 59.5%
Commission ratio
1
 11.5% 10.9%
Expense ratio
1
 25.3% 23.6%
COR
1
 97.7% 94.0%
Investment income yield
1,2
 2.5% 2.4%
Investment return
1,2
 2.6% 2.9%
Basic earnings per share (pence) 20.4  27.9 
Adjusted diluted earnings per 
share
1,2
 (pence) 21.2  26.6 
Return on tangible equity
1,2
 14.2% 18.5%
Net asset value per share (pence) 184.7  192.2 
Tangible net asset value 
per share (pence) 147.4  153.8 
Dividend per share  
– interim (pence) 4.9  4.6 
– final (pence) 9.7  9.2 
– regular (pence) 14.6  13.8 
– first special (pence) 10.0  27.5
– second special (pence) – 8.8 
– total (pence) 24.6  50.1 
Notes: 
1. See glossary on pages 189 and 190 
2. See appendix A – Alternative performance measures on page 191  
3. See appendix B – Proforma results on page 194 which presents the Group’s results excluding the recent impact of the Ogden discount rate reduction 
4.  Estimates based on the Group’s Solvency II partial internal model for 31 December 2016 
 
 
   www.directlinegroup.com 39 
Performance 
Operating profit – Ongoing operations 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Underwriting profit 70.1 175.2
Investment return 168.1 194.7
Instalment and other operating 
income 165.3 150.8
Operating profit 403.5 520.7
In 2016, operating profit from Ongoing operations was 
£403.5 million (pre-Ogden: £578.6 million; 2015: £520.7 
million) primarily due to a lower underwriting result as the 
Group has reflected an increase in its claims reserves for  
the recent reduction in the Ogden discount rate, and lower 
investment returns. The underwriting profit was £70.1 million, 
(2015: £175.2 million), principally due to the recent 
reduction in the Ogden discount rate, which led to lower  
prior-year reserve releases from Ongoing operations of 
£266.7 million (2015: £378.9 million). This was partially 
offset by lower claims costs from major weather events. 
Expenses include higher non-cash impairments than in  
previous years of £39.3 million and the Flood Re levy of 
£24.1 million. Investment return was lower primarily due  
to a reduction in unrealised property gains. 
In-force policies – Ongoing operations (thousands) 
At 31 December 2016 2015
Own brands 3,642 3,459
Partnerships 231 248
Motor total 3,873 3,707
Own brands 1,759 1,719
Partnerships 1,619 1,699
Home total 3,378 3,418
Of which Nationwide and 
Sainsbury’s  719 719
Rescue 3,646 3,932
Other personal lines 4,234 4,356
Rescue and other personal lines 7,880 8,288
Direct Line for Business 433 407
NIG and other 242 248
Commercial 675 655
Total ongoing 15,806 16,068
Total in-force policies for Ongoing operations during 2016 
reduced by 1.6% to 15.8 million (31 December 2015:  
16.1 million). The fall primarily related to partner volumes in 
Home and Rescue and other personal lines. Motor in-force 
policies grew by 4.5% and Commercial by 3.1% across the 
period. Own brands in-force policies during 2016 grew by 
4.3% including a 5.3% increase in Motor. 
 
 
Gross written premium – Ongoing operations 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Own brands 1,428.7 1,307.5
Partnerships 110.4 99.2
Motor total 1,539.1 1,406.7
Own brands 404.7 408.4
Partnerships 429.7 457.9
Home total 834.4 866.3
Of which Nationwide and 
Sainsbury’s 215.5 221.2
Rescue 163.1 163.3
Other personal lines 237.7 230.8
Rescue and other personal lines 400.8 394.1
Direct Line for Business 109.6 101.8
NIG and other 390.2 383.5
Commercial 499.8 485.3
Total Ongoing 3,274.1 3,152.4
Gross written premium of £3,274.1 million increased by 
3.9% compared with 2015 (£3,152.4 million) primarily 
relating to an increase in Motor own brands. 
Underwriting profit – Ongoing operations 
 2016 2015
Underwriting profit (£ million) 70.1 175.2
Loss ratio 60.9% 59.5%
Commission ratio 11.5% 10.9%
Expense ratio 25.3% 23.6%
COR 97.7% 94.0%
The COR for Ongoing operations of 97.7% (2015: 94.0%), 
was 3.7 percentage points higher year on year primarily as  
a result of the recent Ogden discount rate reduction, partially 
offset by lower weather losses. The loss ratio was 60.9%  
(pre-Ogden: 55.0%; 2015: 59.5%) which was higher by  
1.4 percentage points compared to 2015. The commission 
ratio increased by 0.6 percentage points and the expense 
ratio by 1.7 percentage points. Excluding the impact of the 
recent reduction in the Ogden discount rate, the COR for 
Ongoing operations improved to 91.8% in 2016. 
At the start of the year, the Group set 2016 COR guidance 
for Ongoing operations in the range of 93% to 95%. This 
assumed a normal level of claims from major weather events. 
On this basis and excluding the recent Ogden discount rate 
reduction, the Group achieved a normalised COR of 93.5% 
which is towards the lower end of the Group’s target range. 
This also includes a non-cash intangible asset impairment 
charge of £39.3 million. 
Within the loss ratio, the current-year attritional loss ratio 
improved by 0.2 percentage points to 69.2% (pre-Ogden: 
68.8%; 2015: 69.4%) with improvements in Motor and 
Commercial offset by a deterioration in Home and Rescue  
and other personal lines.
Notes: 
1. Home claims from major weather events, including inland and coastal flooding, and storms 
2. See definition in glossary on pages 189 and 190 
www.directlinegroup.com 39
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Finance review continued 
40 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
The increase in the commission ratio of 0.6 percentage points 
to 11.5% primarily reflected higher payments to partners, 
particularly in Home, following lower claims costs as a result 
of prior-year reserve releases and major weather events. 
The Group’s expense ratio increased to 25.3%, predominantly 
due to higher intangible asset impairments of £39.3 million 
and the Flood Re levy of £24.1 million. Excluding the 
impairment charge and Flood Re levy, the expense ratio would 
have been 23.2%.  
Loss ratio analysis by division – Ongoing  
  
 Notes Motor Home
Rescue and other 
personal lines Commercial
1
 
Total
   Ongoing
For the year ended 31 December 2016   
Net insurance claims 4 1,001.7 332.0 243.0 250.5 1,827.2
Prior-year reserve releases 32 123.5 75.9 17.5 49.8 266.7
Major weather events n/a (18.0) n/a n/a (18.0)
Attritional net insurance claims 1,125.2 389.9 260.5 300.3 2,075.9
Net earned premium 4 1,337.1 816.3 394.4 452.8 3,000.6
Loss ratio current-year attritional 84.1% 47.8% 66.0% 66.3% 69.2%
Loss ratio – prior-year reserve releases (9.2%) (9.3%) (4.4%) (11.0%) (8.9%)
Loss ratio – major weather events – Home
2
 n/a 2.2% n/a n/a 0.6%
Loss ratio – reported 4 74.9% 40.7% 61.6% 55.3% 60.9%
Commission ratio 4 3.2% 22.6% 7.2% 19.5% 11.5%
Expense ratio 4 28.2% 21.7% 24.5% 23.9% 25.3%
Combined operating ratio 4 106.3% 85.0% 93.3% 98.7% 97.7%
For the year ended 31 December 2015   
Net insurance claims 4 794.8 435.1 231.6 275.8 1,737.3
Prior-year reserve releases 32 266.8 41.9 13.6 56.6 378.9
Major weather events n/a (90.0) n/a n/a (90.0)
Attritional net insurance claims 1,061.6 387.0 245.2 332.4 2,026.2
Net earned premium 4 1,249.3 845.0 386.4 440.1 2,920.8
Loss ratio current-year attritional 85.0% 45.8% 63.5% 75.5% 69.4%
Loss ratio – prior-year reserve releases (21.4%) (5.0%) (3.6%) (12.8%) (13.0%)
Loss ratio – major weather events – Home
2
 n/a 10.7% n/a n/a 3.1%
Loss ratio – reported 4 63.6% 51.5% 59.9% 62.7% 59.5%
Commission ratio 4 2.6% 20.9% 6.4% 19.6% 10.9%
Expense ratio 4 26.2% 19.8% 24.9% 22.2% 23.6%
Combined operating ratio 4 92.4% 92.2% 91.2% 104.5% 94.0%
 
The movement in the current-year attritional loss ratio is a  
key indicator of underlying accident year performance as  
it excludes prior-year reserve movements and claims from major 
weather events. The Group’s current-year attritional loss ratio 
improved by 0.2 percentage points to 69.2% in 2016 (2015: 
69.4%) with improvements in Motor and Commercial partially 
offset by a deterioration in Home and Rescue and other personal 
lines. Excluding the impact of the recent reduction in the Ogden 
discount rate, the current-year attritional loss ratio for Ongoing 
operations improved to 68.8% in 2016. 
By division, the COR improved in Home and Commercial, 
mainly as a result of benign weather compared to 2015. The 
COR deteriorated in Motor due to the recent Ogden discount 
rate change and an intangible asset impairment charge of 
£39.3 million. 
Prior-year reserve releases for Motor were significantly lower at 
£123.5 million (2015: £266.8 million), including a £139.8 
million charge in respect of the recent Ogden discount rate 
change. Home prior-year reserve releases increased to £75.9 
million (2015: £41.9 million) due to some favourable 
development from the storms in late 2015.  
Total costs 
Notes 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Staff costs  406.5 407.5
Other operating expenses  277.8 261.3
Marketing  112.6 117.8
Amortisation and impairment 
of other intangible assets 
 
96.7 67.4
Depreciation  30.1 30.7
Total costs  923.7 884.7
Operating expenses 11 759.3 689.1
Claims handling expenses 9 164.4 195.6
Total costs  923.7 884.7
Total costs for Ongoing operations were £923.7 million  
for 2016, after non-cash intangible asset impairments of 
£39.3 million and the Flood Re levy of £24.1 million  
(2015: £884.7 million). The non-cash impairment charge  
is in respect of intangible assets previously capitalised on the 
balance sheet and primarily relates to ongoing IT projects 
which aim to enhance the Group’s digital offering, customer 
experience and operational efficiency. 
Notes: 
1. Commercial attritional loss ratio includes weather costs 
2. Home claims for major weather events, including inland and coastal flooding and storms 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 40 Finance review continued 
40 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
The increase in the commission ratio of 0.6 percentage points 
to 11.5% primarily reflected higher payments to partners, 
particularly in Home, following lower claims costs as a result 
of prior-year reserve releases and major weather events. 
The Group’s expense ratio increased to 25.3%, predominantly 
due to higher intangible asset impairments of £39.3 million 
and the Flood Re levy of £24.1 million. Excluding the 
impairment charge and Flood Re levy, the expense ratio would 
have been 23.2%.  
Loss ratio analysis by division – Ongoing  
  
 Notes Motor Home
Rescue and other 
personal lines Commercial
1
 
Total
   Ongoing
For the year ended 31 December 2016   
Net insurance claims 4 1,001.7 332.0 243.0 250.5 1,827.2
Prior-year reserve releases 32 123.5 75.9 17.5 49.8 266.7
Major weather events n/a (18.0) n/a n/a (18.0)
Attritional net insurance claims 1,125.2 389.9 260.5 300.3 2,075.9
Net earned premium 4 1,337.1 816.3 394.4 452.8 3,000.6
Loss ratio current-year attritional 84.1% 47.8% 66.0% 66.3% 69.2%
Loss ratio – prior-year reserve releases (9.2%) (9.3%) (4.4%) (11.0%) (8.9%)
Loss ratio – major weather events – Home
2
 n/a 2.2% n/a n/a 0.6%
Loss ratio – reported 4 74.9% 40.7% 61.6% 55.3% 60.9%
Commission ratio 4 3.2% 22.6% 7.2% 19.5% 11.5%
Expense ratio 4 28.2% 21.7% 24.5% 23.9% 25.3%
Combined operating ratio 4 106.3% 85.0% 93.3% 98.7% 97.7%
For the year ended 31 December 2015   
Net insurance claims 4 794.8 435.1 231.6 275.8 1,737.3
Prior-year reserve releases 32 266.8 41.9 13.6 56.6 378.9
Major weather events n/a (90.0) n/a n/a (90.0)
Attritional net insurance claims 1,061.6 387.0 245.2 332.4 2,026.2
Net earned premium 4 1,249.3 845.0 386.4 440.1 2,920.8
Loss ratio current-year attritional 85.0% 45.8% 63.5% 75.5% 69.4%
Loss ratio – prior-year reserve releases (21.4%) (5.0%) (3.6%) (12.8%) (13.0%)
Loss ratio – major weather events – Home
2
 n/a 10.7% n/a n/a 3.1%
Loss ratio – reported 4 63.6% 51.5% 59.9% 62.7% 59.5%
Commission ratio 4 2.6% 20.9% 6.4% 19.6% 10.9%
Expense ratio 4 26.2% 19.8% 24.9% 22.2% 23.6%
Combined operating ratio 4 92.4% 92.2% 91.2% 104.5% 94.0%
 
The movement in the current-year attritional loss ratio is a  
key indicator of underlying accident year performance as  
it excludes prior-year reserve movements and claims from major 
weather events. The Group’s current-year attritional loss ratio 
improved by 0.2 percentage points to 69.2% in 2016 (2015: 
69.4%) with improvements in Motor and Commercial partially 
offset by a deterioration in Home and Rescue and other personal 
lines. Excluding the impact of the recent reduction in the Ogden 
discount rate, the current-year attritional loss ratio for Ongoing 
operations improved to 68.8% in 2016. 
By division, the COR improved in Home and Commercial, 
mainly as a result of benign weather compared to 2015. The 
COR deteriorated in Motor due to the recent Ogden discount 
rate change and an intangible asset impairment charge of 
£39.3 million. 
Prior-year reserve releases for Motor were significantly lower at 
£123.5 million (2015: £266.8 million), including a £139.8 
million charge in respect of the recent Ogden discount rate 
change. Home prior-year reserve releases increased to £75.9 
million (2015: £41.9 million) due to some favourable 
development from the storms in late 2015.  
Total costs 
Notes 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Staff costs  406.5 407.5
Other operating expenses  277.8 261.3
Marketing  112.6 117.8
Amortisation and impairment 
of other intangible assets 
 
96.7 67.4
Depreciation  30.1 30.7
Total costs  923.7 884.7
Operating expenses 11 759.3 689.1
Claims handling expenses 9 164.4 195.6
Total costs  923.7 884.7
Total costs for Ongoing operations were £923.7 million  
for 2016, after non-cash intangible asset impairments of 
£39.3 million and the Flood Re levy of £24.1 million  
(2015: £884.7 million). The non-cash impairment charge  
is in respect of intangible assets previously capitalised on the 
balance sheet and primarily relates to ongoing IT projects 
which aim to enhance the Group’s digital offering, customer 
experience and operational efficiency. 
Notes: 
1. Commercial attritional loss ratio includes weather costs 
2. Home claims for major weather events, including inland and coastal flooding and storms 
 
   www.directlinegroup.com 41 
Consequently, the Group’s expense ratio increased to 25.3% 
(2015: 23.6%). Excluding the impairment charge and Flood 
Re levy the expense ratio would have been 23.2%. The 
reduction in claims handling expenses was largely due to 
lower staff costs and other operating costs being allocated  
to claims and a reduction in claims handling provision. 
On 16 January 2017 the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme announced that it would raise a supplementary levy of 
£63 million on general insurers to compensate policyholders 
of the Enterprise and Gable insurance companies. The 
Group’s share of the levy, approximately £5 million for 2017, 
will be charged to operating expenses in Q1 2017.  
Instalment and other operating income – Ongoing 
operations 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Instalment income 107.1 100.1
Other operating income:  
Vehicle replacement referral income 14.1 12.5
Revenue from vehicle recovery  
and repair services
1
 19.3 15.5
Other income 24.8 22.7
Other operating income 58.2 50.7
Total Ongoing 165.3 150.8
Instalment and other operating income from Ongoing 
operations of £165.3 million increased 9.6% on the prior 
year (2015: £150.8 million). Instalment income increased  
by £7.0 million compared to 2015, primarily as a result of 
higher Motor volumes. Other operating income increased by 
£7.5 million in 2016 to £58.2 million (2015: £50.7 million). 
Investment return – Ongoing operations 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Investment income 164.5 165.6
Net realised and unrealised gains 3.6 29.1
Investment return – Ongoing 168.1 194.7
The total investment return for Ongoing operations decreased  
to £168.1 million compared to £194.7 million in 2015.  
The decrease is primarily as a result of lower net realised and 
unrealised gains. Investment income remained broadly stable, 
at £164.5 million compared with 2015, despite lower 
average assets under management (“AUM”) of £6,581.0 
million (2015: £6,818.7 million) and a reduction of 25  
basis points by the Bank of England in the UK base rate 
during the year. These downward factors were partially  
offset by portfolio actions. 
Net realised and unrealised gains for Ongoing operations  
of £3.6 million were significantly lower than the comparative 
period (2015: £29.1 million) primarily due to lower 
unrealised property gains, which were £4.1 million for the 
year (2015: £24.2 million). 
Investment yields 
 2016 2015
Investment income yield
2
 2.5% 2.4%
Investment return
2
 2.6% 2.9%
The investment income yield in 2016 was 2.5%, an increase 
on the yield achieved in 2015. Actions to diversify the 
portfolio including investment in commercial real estate loans, 
subordinated financial debt and global credit, have helped 
offset yield pressure from low UK interest rates. The Group 
currently forecasts an investment income yield of 2.4% for 
2017 on the basis of current market conditions given the 
continuing low interest rate environment. 
Operating profit – Ongoing operations 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Motor 149.1 338.0
Home 166.7 109.9
Rescue and other personal lines 45.9 52.0
Commercial 41.8 20.8
Total Ongoing 403.5 520.7
All divisions were profitable in 2016, with Home and 
Commercial reporting significant improvements in operating 
profit compared to 2015. This was partially offset by a 
decrease in Motor, due to the recent reduction in the Ogden 
discount rate and a higher level of intangible asset 
impairments, and in Rescue and other personal lines.  
Reconciliation of operating profit 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Operating profit – Ongoing 
operations 403.5 520.7
Run-off 26.6 73.1
Restructuring and other one-off costs (39.9) (48.7)
Operating profit 390.2 545.1
Finance costs (37.2) (37.6)
Profit before tax 353.0 507.5
Tax (74.2) (108.3)
Profit from discontinued  
operations, net of tax – 181.2
Profit after tax 278.8 580.4
Run-off 
The Run-off segment generated a profit of £26.6 million in 
2016 (pre-Ogden: £68.8 million; 2015: £73.1 million).  
The reduction in the result followed lower prior-year reserve 
releases from large bodily injury claims in comparison to the 
previous year, primarily as a result of the recent reduction in 
the Ogden discount rate. 
Notes: 
1. Vehicle recovery includes post-accident and pay-on-use recovery. Repair services constitute the provision of non-insurance related repairs services 
2. See glossary on pages 189 and 190 
www.directlinegroup.com 41
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Finance review continued 
42 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
Restructuring and other one-off costs 
Restructuring and other one-off costs for 2016 of £39.9 
million (2015: £48.7 million) primarily reflected the costs 
associated with the exit of the Group’s Bristol property and 
relocating to a smaller site. Over the four-year period 2015  
to 2018, the Group expects cumulative restructuring and other 
one-off costs to be substantially offset by the operating profit 
from the Run-off segment. 
Finance costs 
Finance costs remained stable at £37.2 million  
(2015: £37.6 million). 
Taxation 
The effective tax rate in 2016 was 21.0% (2015: 21.3%), 
which was higher than the standard UK corporation tax rate  
of 20.0% (2015: 20.25%), primarily due to disallowable 
expenses. Based on current information, the Group expects  
the effective tax rate to be broadly in line with the UK  
standard tax rate.  
Discontinued operations 
On 29 May 2015, the Group completed the sale of its 
International division, which comprised its Italian and German 
operations, to Mapfre, S.A. Accordingly, this division is  
treated as discontinued operations. The gain on disposal  
of £167.1 million is included in profit from discontinued 
operations of £181.2 million in 2015. Operating profit  
for 2015 includes £29.9 million of realised net gains on 
divisional available-for-sale (“AFS”) investments reclassified 
through the income statement on disposal. Further details on 
discontinued operations are presented in note 5 to the 
consolidated financial statements, see page 152. 
Profit for the year and return on tangible equity 
Profit for the year amounted to £278.8 million (pre-Ogden 
£452.6 million; 2015: £580.4 million), following the one-off 
gain on disposal of the Group’s International division in 2015 
and lower underwriting profit as a result of the recent reduction 
in the Ogden discount rate, partially offset by an improvement 
in the underlying underwriting performance in 2016. 
RoTE was 14.2% due to lower profit after tax as a result of  
the reduction in the Ogden discount rate (pre-Ogden: 20.2%; 
2015: 18.5%). 
The Group reiterates its ongoing target of achieving at least a 
15% RoTE. Following a review of the approach to the Group’s 
Directors’ remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee is 
proposing that the level of RoTE required for the March 2017 
long-term incentive plan awards to vest be increased from the 
current range of 14.5% to 17.5% to a range of 15.0% to 
18.0%. This will ensure that awards will only vest in full if 
significant value has been delivered to shareholders.  
Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share was 20.4 pence (2015: 27.9 
pence) reflecting the decrease in profit after tax. 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
1
 from Ongoing operations 
were 21.2 pence (2015: 26.6 pence) reflecting the decrease 
in operating profit. 
Dividends 
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 9.7 pence per 
share making a total regular dividend for 2016 of 14.6 
pence per share. This represents 5.8% growth over the 2015 
regular dividend and is in line with the Group’s aim to grow 
the regular dividend annually in real terms, see page 110 for 
the Group’s dividend policy. The final dividend will be paid 
on 18 May 2017 to shareholders on the register on 17 
March 2017. The ex-dividend date will be 16 March 2017. 
Cash flow 
Net cash generated from operating activities before investment 
of insurance assets totalled £35.0 million (2015: £42.1 
million). This reflected a decrease in cash generated from 
operations to £117.1 million (2015: £149.3 million), offset 
by lower taxes paid. 
The net cash used by investing activities of £125.6 million 
(2015: £190.8 million generated from investing activities)  
the movement primarily reflects the proceeds on sale of 
discontinued operations in 2015. 
Dividends paid amounted to £450.6 million (2015: £666.0 
million) resulting in net cash used by financing activities of 
£528.4 million (2015: £722.0 million). 
Overall, cash and cash equivalents increased by £208.4 
million (2015: £14.0 million increase) across the year to 
£1,110.8 million (31 December 2015: £902.4 million). 
Net asset value 
At 31 December 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Net assets 2,521.5 2,630.0
Goodwill and intangible assets (508.9) (524.8)
Tangible net assets 2,012.6 2,105.2
Closing number of shares 1,365.1 1,368.7
Net asset value per share (pence) 184.7 192.2
Tangible net asset value per share 
(pence) 147.4 153.8
The net asset value at 31 December 2016 was £2,521.5 
million (31 December 2015: £2,630.0 million) with a 
tangible net asset value of £2,012.6 million (31 December 
2015: £2,105.2 million). The decrease since the beginning 
of the year reflected the payment of dividends, offset by the 
profit in 2016 and an increase in AFS investment reserve. 
Financial management 
Accessing sufficient funding as liabilities fall due is central to 
the Group’s long-term sustainability. The Group’s integrity and 
brand reputation for customers and other stakeholders relies on 
this sustainability. The Group’s key financial management risks 
are reserving for insurance liabilities, and market risk 
connected to the investment portfolio. 
Reserving 
Financial management includes the central aspect of estimating 
claims reserves. Uncertainty is an inherent part of insurance,  
and requires judgement when assessing claims liabilities.
Note: 
1. See glossary on page 189 and 190 and appendix A on page 191  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 42 Finance review continued 
42 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
Restructuring and other one-off costs 
Restructuring and other one-off costs for 2016 of £39.9 
million (2015: £48.7 million) primarily reflected the costs 
associated with the exit of the Group’s Bristol property and 
relocating to a smaller site. Over the four-year period 2015  
to 2018, the Group expects cumulative restructuring and other 
one-off costs to be substantially offset by the operating profit 
from the Run-off segment. 
Finance costs 
Finance costs remained stable at £37.2 million  
(2015: £37.6 million). 
Taxation 
The effective tax rate in 2016 was 21.0% (2015: 21.3%), 
which was higher than the standard UK corporation tax rate  
of 20.0% (2015: 20.25%), primarily due to disallowable 
expenses. Based on current information, the Group expects  
the effective tax rate to be broadly in line with the UK  
standard tax rate.  
Discontinued operations 
On 29 May 2015, the Group completed the sale of its 
International division, which comprised its Italian and German 
operations, to Mapfre, S.A. Accordingly, this division is  
treated as discontinued operations. The gain on disposal  
of £167.1 million is included in profit from discontinued 
operations of £181.2 million in 2015. Operating profit  
for 2015 includes £29.9 million of realised net gains on 
divisional available-for-sale (“AFS”) investments reclassified 
through the income statement on disposal. Further details on 
discontinued operations are presented in note 5 to the 
consolidated financial statements, see page 152. 
Profit for the year and return on tangible equity 
Profit for the year amounted to £278.8 million (pre-Ogden 
£452.6 million; 2015: £580.4 million), following the one-off 
gain on disposal of the Group’s International division in 2015 
and lower underwriting profit as a result of the recent reduction 
in the Ogden discount rate, partially offset by an improvement 
in the underlying underwriting performance in 2016. 
RoTE was 14.2% due to lower profit after tax as a result of  
the reduction in the Ogden discount rate (pre-Ogden: 20.2%; 
2015: 18.5%). 
The Group reiterates its ongoing target of achieving at least a 
15% RoTE. Following a review of the approach to the Group’s 
Directors’ remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee is 
proposing that the level of RoTE required for the March 2017 
long-term incentive plan awards to vest be increased from the 
current range of 14.5% to 17.5% to a range of 15.0% to 
18.0%. This will ensure that awards will only vest in full if 
significant value has been delivered to shareholders.  
Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share was 20.4 pence (2015: 27.9 
pence) reflecting the decrease in profit after tax. 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
1
 from Ongoing operations 
were 21.2 pence (2015: 26.6 pence) reflecting the decrease 
in operating profit. 
Dividends 
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 9.7 pence per 
share making a total regular dividend for 2016 of 14.6 
pence per share. This represents 5.8% growth over the 2015 
regular dividend and is in line with the Group’s aim to grow 
the regular dividend annually in real terms, see page 110 for 
the Group’s dividend policy. The final dividend will be paid 
on 18 May 2017 to shareholders on the register on 17 
March 2017. The ex-dividend date will be 16 March 2017. 
Cash flow 
Net cash generated from operating activities before investment 
of insurance assets totalled £35.0 million (2015: £42.1 
million). This reflected a decrease in cash generated from 
operations to £117.1 million (2015: £149.3 million), offset 
by lower taxes paid. 
The net cash used by investing activities of £125.6 million 
(2015: £190.8 million generated from investing activities)  
the movement primarily reflects the proceeds on sale of 
discontinued operations in 2015. 
Dividends paid amounted to £450.6 million (2015: £666.0 
million) resulting in net cash used by financing activities of 
£528.4 million (2015: £722.0 million). 
Overall, cash and cash equivalents increased by £208.4 
million (2015: £14.0 million increase) across the year to 
£1,110.8 million (31 December 2015: £902.4 million). 
Net asset value 
At 31 December 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Net assets 2,521.5 2,630.0
Goodwill and intangible assets (508.9) (524.8)
Tangible net assets 2,012.6 2,105.2
Closing number of shares 1,365.1 1,368.7
Net asset value per share (pence) 184.7 192.2
Tangible net asset value per share 
(pence) 147.4 153.8
The net asset value at 31 December 2016 was £2,521.5 
million (31 December 2015: £2,630.0 million) with a 
tangible net asset value of £2,012.6 million (31 December 
2015: £2,105.2 million). The decrease since the beginning 
of the year reflected the payment of dividends, offset by the 
profit in 2016 and an increase in AFS investment reserve. 
Financial management 
Accessing sufficient funding as liabilities fall due is central to 
the Group’s long-term sustainability. The Group’s integrity and 
brand reputation for customers and other stakeholders relies on 
this sustainability. The Group’s key financial management risks 
are reserving for insurance liabilities, and market risk 
connected to the investment portfolio. 
Reserving 
Financial management includes the central aspect of estimating 
claims reserves. Uncertainty is an inherent part of insurance,  
and requires judgement when assessing claims liabilities.
Note: 
1. See glossary on page 189 and 190 and appendix A on page 191  
 
   www.directlinegroup.com 43 
The Group considers the class of business, the length of time  
to notify a claim, the validity of the claim against a policy,  
and the claim value. Claims reserves could settle at a range  
of outcomes, and settlement certainty increases over time. 
However, for bodily injury claims, the uncertainty is greater 
due to the length of time taken to settle these claims. Annuity 
payments for injured parties also increase this uncertainty. 
The Group seeks to adopt a conservative approach to 
assessing liabilities, as evidenced by the favourable 
development of historical claims reserves. Reserves are based 
on management’s best estimate, which includes a prudent 
margin that exceeds the internal actuarial best estimate. This 
margin is made in reference to various actuarial scenario 
assessments and reserve distribution percentiles, and considers 
other short and long-term risks not reflected in the actuarial 
inputs, as well as management’s view on the risks and 
improvements in relation to the actuarial best estimate. 
Following the Lord Chancellor’s announcement on 27 
February 2017 of a reduction in the Ogden discount rate to 
minus 0.75%, the Group has assessed its liabilities in light of 
the reduction in the rate. The Ogden discount rate primarily 
affects the value of large bodily injury claims in the Motor, 
Commercial and Run-off divisions, and as a result also impacts 
reinsurance recoveries and the propensity for claims to settle 
as periodic payment orders (“PPO”). As a result, the Group 
has made provision within its claims reserves for a reduction  
in the Ogden discount rate to minus 0.75%. The impact of this 
on the income statement for the year ended 31 December 
2016 is shown in Appendix B on page 194 and has reduced 
operating profit from Ongoing operations by £175.1 million 
and profit before tax by £217.3 million. 
The Group’s prior-year reserves releases were £290.1 million 
(2015: £449.3 million) after £205.2 million of strengthening 
due to the recent reduction in the Ogden discount rate. 
Excluding the change in the Ogden discount rate, the releases 
have arisen as a result of good experience in large bodily 
injury claims and PPOs. Home prior-year reserve releases 
increased to £75.9 million (2015: £41.9 million) with the 
increase coming mainly from favourable development on the 
December 2015 weather events. 
Prior to the recent reduction in the Ogden discount rate, the 
Group established claims reserves at an assumed Ogden 
discount rate of 1.5%, compared with the rate then in force  
of 2.5%. This differential resulted in lower current-year profits, 
with a small and diminishing prior-year reserve release in the 
Group’s reported profits as claims settled. The Group will now 
hold claims reserves at the new Ogden discount rate pending 
the outcome of the consultation and so the timing difference 
between current and prior-year profit recognition will no longer 
exist. The net impact of this change in approach on current-
year profit is expected to be small. 
Following the Group’s normal actuarial review process, the 
Group reduced its margin during 2016 due to improved 
claims experience, particularly in large bodily injury claims, 
not yet recognised in the actuarial best estimate. The Group 
continues to hold a significant margin above the actuarial best 
estimate and its overall reserving strength has been maintained 
following the recent reduction in the Ogden discount rate.
Looking forward, the Group expects to continue to set its  
initial management best estimate for future accident years 
conservatively. Over time, the proportion of the Group’s 
underwriting profit attributable to current year is expected  
to increase, including due to targeted improvements in the 
expense and commission ratio. Assuming current claims trends 
continue, the contribution from prior-year reserve releases is 
expected to remain significant, albeit it is expected to reduce 
over time. 
Claims reserves net of reinsurance 
At 31 December 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Motor 2,084.2 2,125.9
Home 298.1 387.7
Rescue and other personal lines 72.8 79.3
Commercial 607.0 627.3
Total Ongoing 3,062.1 3,220.2
Run-off 326.2 382.4
Total Group 3,388.3 3,602.6
For details relating to the sensitivity for changes in the assumed 
Ogden discount rate and the discount rate used in relation to 
periodical payment orders see note 3.3.1 of the consolidated 
financial statements. 
Reinsurance 
The objectives of the Group’s reinsurance strategy are to 
reduce the volatility of earnings, facilitate effective capital 
management, and transfer risk outside the Group’s risk 
appetite. This is achieved by transferring risk exposure through 
various reinsurance programmes: 
 Catastrophe reinsurance to protect against an accumulation 
of claims arising from a natural peril event. The retained 
deductible is at £150 million, and cover is purchased 
annually on 1 July, up to a modelled one-in-200 year loss 
event of £1,250 million (2015: £1,350 million).  
 Motor reinsurance to protect against a single or an 
accumulation of large claims which renews on 1 January. 
The retained deductible is at an indexed level of £1 million 
per claim, providing a substantial level of protection 
against large motor bodily injury claims. 
 Commercial property risk reinsurance to protect against 
large individual claims with a retained deductible of  
£4 million which renews annually on 1 October. 
Taxation 
The Board recognises that the Group has an important 
responsibility to its stakeholders to manage its tax position 
effectively. The Board has delegated day-to-day management 
of taxes to the Chief Financial Officer. The Audit Committee 
provides oversight. 
These arrangements are intended to ensure that the Group 
complies with applicable laws and regulations, and meets  
its obligations as a contributor of taxes and a collector of  
taxes on behalf of the tax authorities; and manages its tax 
affairs efficiently, claiming reliefs and other incentives,  
where appropriate. 
www.directlinegroup.com 43
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Finance review continued 
44 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
Investment portfolio 
The investment strategy is designed to deliver several 
objectives, which are summarised below: 
 To ensure there is sufficient liquidity available within the 
investment portfolio to meet stressed liquidity scenarios 
determined by the Risk function 
 To match PPO and non-PPO liabilities in an optimal manner 
 To deliver a suitable risk-adjusted investment return 
commensurate with the Group’s risk appetite 
Asset and liability management 
The following table summarises the Group’s high level 
approach to asset and liability management. 
Liabilities Assets Characteristics 
More than 10 years, 
for example PPOs 
Property and 
infrastructure debt 
Inflation linked 
or floating 
Short and medium 
term  all other 
claims 
Investment-grade 
credit, short-term high 
yield and 
subordinated 
financial debt 
Key rate 
duration 
matched 
Tier 2 sub-debt 
(swapped fixed to 
floating) 
Commercial real 
estate loans and cash 
Floating 
Surplus  tangible 
equity 
Investment-grade 
credit, cash and 
government debt 
securities 
Fixed or floating 
Asset allocation and benchmarks 
The current strategic asset benchmarks for the Group are 
detailed in the following table: 
At 31 December 
Benchmark 
holding 
 2016 
Actual 
holding 
 2016 
Benchmark 
holding
 2015
Actual 
holding
 2015
Investment-grade 
credit 
58.0% 59.1% 54.0% 59.5%
High yield 6.0% 6.2% 6.0% 4.8%
Investment-grade 
private placements 
4.0% 1.3% 4.0% 0.2%
Credit 68.0% 66.6% 64.0% 64.5%
Securitised credit − − 5.0% 5.2%
Sovereign 8.0% 5.2% 9.0% 6.5%
Total debt securities 76.0% 71.8% 78.0% 76.2%
Infrastructure debt 6.0% 5.1% 6.0% 4.8%
Commercial real 
estate loans 
3.0% 1.2% 3.0% −
Cash and cash 
equivalents 
9.0% 16.9% 7.0% 13.9%
Investment property 6.0% 5.0% 6.0% 5.1%
Total 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
At 31 December 2016, total investment holdings of 
£6,581.0 million were 3.5% lower than at 31 December 
2015, reflecting dividends paid offset by operating cash 
flows. Total debt securities were £4,724.5 million (31 
December 2015: £5,194.4 million), of which 6.1% were 
rated as ‘AAA’ and a further 63.8% were rated as ‘AA’ or  
‘A’. The average duration at 31 December 2016 of total debt 
securities was 2.3 years (31 December 2015: 2.3 years). 
At 31 December 2016, total unrealised gains, net of tax,  
on AFS investments were £92.1 million (31 December 2015: 
£5.4 million). 
Decisions were taken to exit securitised credit during  
Q3 2016. In addition the Group sold two investment 
properties in 2016. 
In 2016, the Group delivered a robust investment result 
against a background of increased financial market 
uncertainties and further yield compression for much of the 
year. Investment in three new mandates commenced, with  
two fully funded to benchmark holdings (subordinated financial 
debt and global credit). The commercial real estate loans 
mandate is expected to be fully funded to its benchmark 
holding by the end of 2017. 
Investment risk is, in part, mitigated by the following 
characteristics of the investment portfolio: 
 All holdings within the short duration US Dollar high-yield 
portfolio have a credit rating of BB or B. The Group’s 
strategy does not generally permit any debt securities  
to be held below B–.  
 The infrastructure debt portfolio is made up of UK assets 
only, which are purchased via the secondary market post 
the construction phase of the project concerned. The 
portfolio is weighted heavily towards social infrastructure 
with 89% of the year-end portfolio invested in projects 
across this sector (36% in healthcare, 48% in education 
and 5% in other). 
 The investment property portfolio consists presently of 24 
UK-based properties. The Group’s strategy does not permit 
any overseas holdings. The portfolio is predominantly 
based in the South East and invested mainly in the prime 
(rather than secondary) sector of the market.  
Derivatives are permitted only for risk mitigation and  
efficient portfolio management within the investment portfolio. 
Derivatives used include interest rate swaps, for example to 
hedge exposure to US Dollar interest rate movements, and 
forward currency contracts to hedge assets denominated in  
foreign currency back to Sterling. Separately, interest rate 
swaps have also been used to change the interest rate liability 
on the Group’s debt issuance to a floating rate basis. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 44 Finance review continued 
44 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
Investment portfolio 
The investment strategy is designed to deliver several 
objectives, which are summarised below: 
 To ensure there is sufficient liquidity available within the 
investment portfolio to meet stressed liquidity scenarios 
determined by the Risk function 
 To match PPO and non-PPO liabilities in an optimal manner 
 To deliver a suitable risk-adjusted investment return 
commensurate with the Group’s risk appetite 
Asset and liability management 
The following table summarises the Group’s high level 
approach to asset and liability management. 
Liabilities Assets Characteristics 
More than 10 years, 
for example PPOs 
Property and 
infrastructure debt 
Inflation linked 
or floating 
Short and medium 
term  all other 
claims 
Investment-grade 
credit, short-term high 
yield and 
subordinated 
financial debt 
Key rate 
duration 
matched 
Tier 2 sub-debt 
(swapped fixed to 
floating) 
Commercial real 
estate loans and cash 
Floating 
Surplus  tangible 
equity 
Investment-grade 
credit, cash and 
government debt 
securities 
Fixed or floating 
Asset allocation and benchmarks 
The current strategic asset benchmarks for the Group are 
detailed in the following table: 
At 31 December 
Benchmark 
holding 
 2016 
Actual 
holding 
 2016 
Benchmark 
holding
 2015
Actual 
holding
 2015
Investment-grade 
credit 
58.0% 59.1% 54.0% 59.5%
High yield 6.0% 6.2% 6.0% 4.8%
Investment-grade 
private placements 
4.0% 1.3% 4.0% 0.2%
Credit 68.0% 66.6% 64.0% 64.5%
Securitised credit − − 5.0% 5.2%
Sovereign 8.0% 5.2% 9.0% 6.5%
Total debt securities 76.0% 71.8% 78.0% 76.2%
Infrastructure debt 6.0% 5.1% 6.0% 4.8%
Commercial real 
estate loans 
3.0% 1.2% 3.0% −
Cash and cash 
equivalents 
9.0% 16.9% 7.0% 13.9%
Investment property 6.0% 5.0% 6.0% 5.1%
Total 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
At 31 December 2016, total investment holdings of 
£6,581.0 million were 3.5% lower than at 31 December 
2015, reflecting dividends paid offset by operating cash 
flows. Total debt securities were £4,724.5 million (31 
December 2015: £5,194.4 million), of which 6.1% were 
rated as ‘AAA’ and a further 63.8% were rated as ‘AA’ or  
‘A’. The average duration at 31 December 2016 of total debt 
securities was 2.3 years (31 December 2015: 2.3 years). 
At 31 December 2016, total unrealised gains, net of tax,  
on AFS investments were £92.1 million (31 December 2015: 
£5.4 million). 
Decisions were taken to exit securitised credit during  
Q3 2016. In addition the Group sold two investment 
properties in 2016. 
In 2016, the Group delivered a robust investment result 
against a background of increased financial market 
uncertainties and further yield compression for much of the 
year. Investment in three new mandates commenced, with  
two fully funded to benchmark holdings (subordinated financial 
debt and global credit). The commercial real estate loans 
mandate is expected to be fully funded to its benchmark 
holding by the end of 2017. 
Investment risk is, in part, mitigated by the following 
characteristics of the investment portfolio: 
 All holdings within the short duration US Dollar high-yield 
portfolio have a credit rating of BB or B. The Group’s 
strategy does not generally permit any debt securities  
to be held below B–.  
 The infrastructure debt portfolio is made up of UK assets 
only, which are purchased via the secondary market post 
the construction phase of the project concerned. The 
portfolio is weighted heavily towards social infrastructure 
with 89% of the year-end portfolio invested in projects 
across this sector (36% in healthcare, 48% in education 
and 5% in other). 
 The investment property portfolio consists presently of 24 
UK-based properties. The Group’s strategy does not permit 
any overseas holdings. The portfolio is predominantly 
based in the South East and invested mainly in the prime 
(rather than secondary) sector of the market.  
Derivatives are permitted only for risk mitigation and  
efficient portfolio management within the investment portfolio. 
Derivatives used include interest rate swaps, for example to 
hedge exposure to US Dollar interest rate movements, and 
forward currency contracts to hedge assets denominated in  
foreign currency back to Sterling. Separately, interest rate 
swaps have also been used to change the interest rate liability 
on the Group’s debt issuance to a floating rate basis. 
 
   www.directlinegroup.com 45 
Investment holdings and yields – total Group 
 2016  2015  
£m Allocation Income Yield Allocation Income
1
 Yield
Investment-grade credit
2
 3,888.3 104.9 2.6% 4,060.0  108.7  2.7%
High yield 409.9 17.8 4.8% 327.4  12.6  4.0%
Private placements  85.1 1.4 2.9% 13.5  0.1  2.0%
Credit 4,383.3 124.1 2.8% 4,400.9  121.4  2.8%
Securitised credit
2,3
 – 3.5 2.0% 350.8  6.0  1.6%
Sovereign
2
 341.2 8.9 2.3% 442.7  12.7  1.8%
Total debt securities 4,724.5 136.5 2.8% 5,194.4  140.1  2.6%
Infrastructure 337.0 7.8 2.4% 329.6  4.4  2.2%
Commercial real estate loans 79.7 1.0 2.6% –  –  –
Cash
4
 1,110.8 4.2 0.4% 947.3  6.7  0.8%
Investment property 329.0 18.4 5.1% 347.4  17.9  5.4%
Total Group 6,581.0 167.9 2.5% 6,818.7  169.1  2.4%
Capital management 
Capital management policy 
The Group seeks to manage its capital efficiently, maintaining 
an appropriate level of capitalisation and solvency, while 
aiming to grow its regular dividend annually in real terms. 
As has been its practice, where the Board believes the Group 
has capital which is expected to be surplus to the Group’s 
requirements for a prolonged period, it would intend to return 
the excess to shareholders.  
In future, the Board has decided that in the normal course  
of events it will consider whether or not it is appropriate to  
pay a special dividend only once a year, alongside the full 
year results. In doing this, the Group will harmonise its major 
capital management decisions with its planning process and 
its full-year earnings.  
Solvency II 
Solvency II is the new solvency framework implemented on  
1 January 2016 as the capital adequacy regime for the 
European insurance industry. It established a set of EU-wide 
capital requirements and risk management standards with the 
aim of increasing protection for policyholders. The Group is 
regulated by the PRA on both a Group basis and, for the 
Group’s principal underwriter, U K Insurance Limited (“UKI”), 
on a solo basis. 
At 1 January 2016, the Group (including UKI) assessed its 
capital requirements using the standard formula. UKI had its 
IECM approved for use by the PRA in June 2016, and this 
now forms part of a Group-wide PIM, which has been in use 
from the same date.  
 
The Board has considered the risk appetite range of the Group 
under its Solvency II PIM and considers that the appropriate 
range, which should enable it to meet its operational, 
regulatory and rating agency requirements, is 140% to 180% 
of its SCR. 
In its results, the Group has estimated its Solvency II own 
funds, SCR and Solvency II capital coverage ratio as at  
31 December 2016. The Group will formally submit its final 
Solvency II Solvency Financial Condition Report (“SFCR”)  
in May 2017 to the PRA, and expects to continue to update 
the assumptions and implement model changes until then. 
Therefore, the final estimates may differ from those presented 
in this report. 
Solvency ratio sensitivity analysis  
The following table shows the Group’s solvency ratio 
sensitivities estimated based on assessed impact of scenarios 
as at 31 December 2016. 
  
Scenario  
Impact on 
solvency ratio
Motor premium rate reduction of 10% (14 pts)
One-off catastrophe loss equivalent to the  
1990 storm (9 pts)
One-off catastrophe loss based on extensive 
flooding of the River Thames  (9 pts)
100bps increase in credit spreads (8 pts)
100bps decrease in interest rates (7 pts)
Notes: 
1. Investment income for the year ended 31 December 2015 relates to continuing operations 
2. Asset allocation at 31 December 2016 includes investment portfolio derivatives, which have been netted and have a mark-to-market liability value of £5.8 million 
included in investment grade credit (31 December 2015: mark-to-market liability value of £45.7 million of which £40.4 million included in investment grade 
credit and £5.3 million in securitised credit). This excludes derivatives that have been used to hedge interest on subordinated debt and operational cash flows 
3. Securitised credit was disposed of during 2016 
4. Net of bank overdrafts, includes cash at bank and in hand and money market funds with no notice period for withdrawal (31 December 2015: also included 
money market funds with maturities greater than three months 
www.directlinegroup.com 45
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Finance review continued 
46 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
Capital position 
At 31 December 2016, the Group held a Solvency II capital 
surplus of approximately £0.92 billion above its regulatory 
capital requirements. This was equivalent to an estimated capital 
coverage ratio of 165%, post-dividend. Excluding the impact of 
the recent reduction in the Ogden discount rate to minus 0.75%, 
the capital coverage ratio would have been approximately 
189% post-dividend. Other than the effects of the Ogden 
discount rate change, which increased the SCR by £0.08 
billion, the SCR remained largely stable in the second half of 
2016, since the Group was approved to use its PIM. In the first 
half of 2016, the Group’s SCR fell from £1.68 billion to £1.37 
billion, largely as a result of the transition from the standard 
formula to the PIM. The SCR calculation fully recognises the new 
Ogden discount rate of minus 0.75%, but does not take into 
account any implications of uncertainty around the future rate. 
The Group’s capital coverage is as follows: 
At 
31 December 
2016  
30 June
2016
Solvency capital requirement  
(£ billion) 1.42  1.37
Capital surplus above solvency 
capital requirement (£ billion) 0.92  1.14
Capital coverage ratio post- 
dividend 165%  184%
The following table splits the Group’s own funds by tier on a 
Solvency II basis. 
At  
31 December 
2016 
£bn 
30 June 
  2016
£bn
Tier 1 capital before foreseeable 
dividends 1.81 2.04
Foreseeable dividends (0.13) (0.20)
Tier 1 capital 1.68 1.84
Tier 2 capital 0.62 0.60
Tier 3 capital 0.04 0.07
Own funds 2.34 2.51
Tier 1 capital after foreseeable dividends represents 
approximately 72% of own funds and 118% of the Group’s 
estimated SCR. Tier 2 capital relates solely to the Group’s 
subordinated debt issued in 2012, which has a market value 
of £0.62 billion. The Group also recognises a deferred  
tax asset of £0.04 billion as Tier 3 capital. Therefore, the 
Group’s Tier 2 and 3 capital is within the limits established  
by Solvency II of up to 50% of the SCR in Tier 2 and 3 
combined, and 15% for Tier 3 alone.  
Reconciliation of IFRS shareholders’ equity to  
Solvency II own funds 
At 
31 December 
2016 
£bn 
30 June
2016
£bn 
Shareholders’ equity 2.52 2.67
Goodwill and intangible assets (0.51) (0.54)
Change in valuation of technical 
provisions (0.04) 0.11
Other asset and liability 
adjustments (0.16) (0.20)
Foreseeable dividends (0.13) (0.20)
Tier 1 capital 1.68 1.84
Tier 2 capital 0.62 0.60
Tier 3 capital 0.04 0.07
Own funds 2.34 2.51
Movement in own funds 
  
2016
 £bn
Own funds as at 1 January 2016 2.47
Change in risk margin from Group standard 
formula basis to Group PIM at 1 January 2016 (0.09)
Ogden discount rate impact (0.19)
Mark to market movement 0.12
Capital generation 0.49
Capital expenditure (0.12)
Capital distribution (0.34)
Own funds as at 31 December 2016 2.34
During 2016, the Group’s own funds reduced from £2.47 
billion to £2.34 billion. The Group generated £0.49 billion  
of Solvency II capital, excluding the effects of the Ogden 
discount rate change, offset by £0.12 billion of capital 
expenditure and capital distribution of £0.34 billion, including 
the 2016 interim and final ordinary dividends and special 
interim dividends. Mark to market gains, as lower interest rates 
and credit spread tightening increased the value of the bond 
portfolio, were offset by a change in the basis of the risk 
margin calculation following approval of the Group’s PIM.  
Leverage 
At 31 December 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Shareholders’ equity 2,521.5 2,630.0
Financial debt  subordinated 
guaranteed dated notes 539.6 521.1
Total capital employed 3,061.1 3,151.1
Financial-leverage ratio
1
 17.6% 16.5%
The Group’s leverage continues to be conservative. During 
2016, the leverage increased from 16.5% to 17.6% due 
primarily to the increase in value of the subordinated 
guaranteed dated notes and a reduction in shareholders’ 
equity, following the reduction in the Ogden discount rate.  
Note: 
1. Total financial debt as a percentage of total capital employed 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 46  
   www.directlinegroup.com 47 
Credit ratings 
Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service provide 
insurance financial-strength ratings for UKI. UKI is currently 
rated ‘A’ (strong) with a stable outlook by Standard & Poor’s, 
and ‘A2’ (good) with a stable outlook by Moody’s. 
Outlook 
The Group’s markets were highly competitive and faced  
a number of significant government policy and regulatory 
changes during 2016 and in early 2017. In the face of these 
challenges, the Group demonstrated both its resilience and its 
appeal to customers by growing its own brands policies while 
maintaining overall margins, which has continued into early 
2017. The Group does not expect any material residual 
impact on 2017 profit as a result of adopting the reduction  
in the Ogden discount rate to minus 0.75%. 
The Group aims to reduce its expense ratio during 2017, 
absorbing its investment in future capability. The Group also 
aims to deliver a lower commission ratio during 2017, 
normalised for major weather events: this will in part reflect 
changes in its distribution channel mix. Over the longer term, 
the Group aims to achieve further reductions in both the 
expense and commission ratios. 
For 2017, the Group targets achieving a COR in the range  
of 93% to 95% for Ongoing operations, assuming a normal 
annual level of claims from major weather events and no 
further change to the Ogden discount rate. In addition, the 
Group reiterates its ongoing target of achieving at least a  
15% RoTE.  
 
 
0BStatement of the Directors in respect of the Strategic report 
The Board reviewed and approved the Strategic report on pages 1 to 47 on 6 March 2017. 
By order of the Board 
 
 
Paul Geddes   John Reizenstein 
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer 
6 March 2017   6 March 2017 
www.directlinegroup.com 47
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chairman’s introduction 
48   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016    
 
The Board recognises the 
importance of succession 
planning and understands 
the need to have leaders 
who reflect the Group’s 
culture and values. 
 
 
Dear shareholders and other 
stakeholders 
Our commitment to good corporate governance 
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Corporate 
Governance report for the year ended 31 December 2016.  
A major focus of the Board and mine as Chairman continues 
to be on maintaining high standards of corporate governance, 
which we seek to achieve through the Group’s robust 
governance arrangements. 
The Corporate Governance report sets out the Direct Line 
Group framework, which we believe enables effective decision 
making and management of the risks in the markets in which 
we operate. Matters Reserved for the Board and the role of  
the Board’s Committees are core elements of this framework. 
The Corporate Governance and Committee reports highlight 
the areas of focus, challenge and supervision for the Board 
and its Committees during 2016.  
Succession planning and Board changes 
Succession planning has been an area of focus for the Board 
in 2016. The Board recognises the importance of succession 
planning and understands the need to have leaders who reflect 
the Group’s culture and values. Gender diversity is also 
considered an important matter by the Board and its 
Nomination Committee. The Board has female representation 
of 30% and the Board remains committed to improving this 
position when the appropriate opportunity arises.  
During 2016, the Nomination Committee reviewed the Board’s 
expertise and experience and engaged an external consultant  
in the search for new candidates. The Board’s Nomination 
Committee oversaw the selection and appointment of Richard 
Ward as Senior Independent Director. Following Priscilla 
Vacassin’s retirement from the Board in March 2016, a number 
of changes were made to the chairmanship and membership of 
the Board’s Committees. I am pleased to report that Danuta Gray 
was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and Mike Holliday-
Williams was appointed as an Executive Director on 1 February 
2017. Having previously held executive and non-executive roles 
in a number of sectors, including financial services, Danuta brings 
vast experience to the Board whilst Mike’s appointment reflects 
the importance of the Personal Lines business to the Group.  
The Nomination Committee report on page 76 contains further 
information on the Board’s approach to succession planning and 
Board and Committee changes.  
Effectiveness and Evaluation 
As Chairman, my objective is to develop and lead an effective 
Board for the benefit of our shareholders. In 2014 and 2015, 
we evaluated the performance of the Board and its  
   
Our Code of Business Conduct
Business practices 
We shall engage in honest, 
professional and ethical  
conduct and maintain effective 
procedures to prevent  
confidential information  
being misused. 
Dealing with  
customers 
We shall treat customers  
fairly, openly and honestly,  
and operate an effective 
complaints process to address  
any perceived departure  
from these standards. 
Dealing with 
shareholders and  
other stakeholders 
We shall seek to maximise 
shareholder value over time, 
recognising that wealth  
generated also benefits  
customers, employees and the 
communities where we operate. 
Dealing with  
employees 
We shall maintain a working 
environment that attracts,  
motivates and retains employees, 
and is intolerant of any type of 
discrimination, harassment  
or victimisation. 
Corporate 
Governance
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 48
Mike Biggs
Chairman  
   www.directlinegroup.com   49 
Committees internally. During 2016, our Board evaluation  
was externally facilitated by Professor Rob Goffee of London 
Business School. The review focused on the Board’s role and 
composition; the relevance, flow and quality of information, 
and the Non-Executive Directors’ balance of knowledge, skills 
and expertise. The findings have equipped us to continue to 
improve the leadership of the Group. You can find further 
details on page 59.  
Executive Remuneration  
The debate in the UK over Executive remuneration remains a  
valid topic for discussion and continuous evaluation. The Group’s 
remuneration policy remains aligned with our strategic priorities 
and the interests of our shareholders. As required by legislation, 
the policy will be put forward for adoption by shareholders at our 
forthcoming AGM. Details of the consultation process undertaken 
by the Remuneration Committee can be reviewed on page 80 
and the revised remuneration policy proposed is detailed on 
pages 100 to 109. 
UK Corporate Governance Code  
The Board is committed to the principles of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council 
(the “Code”). I am pleased to report that we have complied 
with all of the principles of the 2014 edition of the Code 
which applied to the financial year under review. You can  
find further explanation and details on pages 53 to 63. 
Culture and values 
The Board is responsible for securing the long-term success  
of the Group. The Board aims to deliver this success by creating 
an open culture that encourages the Group to make decisions 
that are best for our stakeholders. I believe that the values and  
the Code of Business Conduct set by the Board are central to  
the Group’s culture. Our Code of Business Conduct governs the 
way we treat our stakeholders, and our values determine our 
behaviours. Together, these elements reflect the way we do 
business with the objectives of delivering long-term sustainable 
shareholder value and of ensuring our Group’s long-term success. 
Our shareholders 
Communication with shareholders is extremely important to us. 
By maintaining dialogue with you, we aim to ensure that your 
concerns are met and our objectives are understood. I would 
like to thank you for your support and look forward to 
discussing the Group’s progress with you at our forthcoming 
AGM on 11 May 2017.  
Yours sincerely 
Michael N Biggs 
Chairman  
 
Our values 
 Do the right thing 
For our people, our customers, our shareholders and our wider 
stakeholders; make decisions based on what is right, not what 
is easy; demonstrate personal and professional integrity; do 
what’s right for the long-term sustainability of our business. 
  Aim higher 
Strive to be the best in every area of the business; be 
ambitious, courageous and innovative; relentlessly challenge 
and improve; seek and embrace change; learn from our 
mistakes; persevere, always deliver our promises and don’t 
settle for second best. 
Work together
Collaborate across all levels and functions; leverage the  
skills, knowledge and experience, irrespective of hierarchy,  
to deliver the best possible results; develop relationships based 
on trusting each other, partnerships and win-wins; recognise 
and celebrate success. 
 Take ownership 
Treat it like it’s OUR business; take the initiative, if you can  
see a better way, go and make a difference; take decisions, 
be accountable for your actions in whatever role you perform; 
take responsibility for your personal development  
and performance. 
 Say it like it is 
Be real, authentic and true to yourself; have adult-to-adult 
conversations with all audiences; listen, seek to understand 
and respect diversity of views; be open, call out issues we  
see; share information and keep things as simple as possible. 
 Bring all of yourself to work 
Be the best you can be, the real and whole you; celebrate  
our diversity of skills, experiences and personalities; be a  
role model to others, demonstrate a ‘can do’ spirit, have fun 
and make this a great place to be; be excited about our 
Company and our future; believe in yourself, feel confident 
and empowered.
 
Dealing with suppliers of 
goods and services and  
business partnerships 
We shall maintain the highest  
possible standards of integrity in 
business relationships with suppliers 
and partners by treating them  
honestly and with respect, and 
avoiding compromising offers of  
gifts and hospitality. 
Dealing with 
communities and  
the environment 
We shall contribute to the  
social and economic well-being  
of those communities where we  
are an employer, and encourage 
employees to participate in  
projects and initiatives to  
strengthen those communities. 
Dealing with 
competitors 
We will compete fairly and 
honestly and in accordance  
with all applicable  
competition laws. 
Dealing with  
regulators 
We shall maintain a constructive 
and open relationship with our 
regulators to foster mutual trust, 
respect and understanding, and 
will not offer anything to officials 
in return for favourable treatment.
 
www.directlinegroup.com 49
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board of Directors 
50   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016    
Key for Committee membership: 
Audit Committee 
Board Risk Committee 
CSR Committee 
Investment Committee 
Nomination Committee 
Remuneration Committee
 
Mike Biggs,  
Chairman of the Board  
(appointed April 2012)  
 
 
 
Biography 
Mike is also Chair of the Nomination Committee. He has over 40 
years’ experience of the UK and international financial services sector. 
He is a respected figure in the insurance industry and well regarded 
by City investors.  
Mike was previously Chairman of Resolution, then a FTSE 100 UK  
life assurance business, and has acted as Chief Executive Officer and 
Group Finance Director of Resolution plc. He was previously Group 
Finance Director of Aviva plc. He is an Associate of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.  
External appointments 
None. 
 
 
Paul Geddes,  
Chief Executive Officer  
(appointed August 2009)  
 
 
 
Biography 
Paul is Chief Executive Officer. He led one of the UK’s largest retail 
banking businesses during a challenging period, improving its 
customer and financial performance against peers. In 2009, this 
experience singled him out as a Chief Executive who could turn 
around Direct Line Group and lead its divestment from RBS Group. 
After joining RBS Group in 2004 as Managing Director responsible 
for products and marketing, he became the Chief Executive Officer  
of RBS Group’s mainland UK retail banking business. Before joining 
RBS Group, Paul held various senior multi-channel retailing roles in  
the GUS and Kingfisher groups. Paul started his career in marketing, 
with UK and European roles at Procter & Gamble.  
External appointments 
Paul is the Deputy Chairman of the Association of British Insurers Board 
and a Non-Executive Director of Channel Four Television Corporation. 
 
 
Danuta Gray,  
Independent NED  
(appointed February 2017) 
 
 
 
Biography 
Danuta was Chairman of Telefónica O2 in Ireland until December 
2012, having previously been its Chief Executive from 2001 to 
2010. During her nine year tenure as Chief Executive, she increased 
the customer base from just under 1 million to over 1.7 million. Prior to 
Telefónica O2, Danuta held various senior positions within BT Group 
from 1984 to 2001. 
External appointments 
Danuta is interim Chairman of Aldermore Group plc, a Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of PageGroup 
plc, a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee of Old Mutual plc, a Non-Executive Director of PaddyPower 
Betfair plc and a Non-Executive Member of the Defence Board of the  
UK Ministry of Defence. 
 
 
 
Jane Hanson,  
Independent NED 
(appointed December 2011)  
 
 
Biography 
Jane is Chair of the Board Risk Committee. She has extensive 
experience of risk management, corporate governance and internal 
control. She also has wide experience in developing and monitoring 
customer and conduct risk frameworks. 
She spent her early career with KPMG, working in the financial sector, 
later becoming responsible for delivering corporate governance, 
internal audit and risk-management services in the north of England. 
Jane has also held a number of executive roles, including Director of 
Audit, and Risk and Governance Director at Aviva’s UK Life business. 
She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England 
and Wales. 
External appointments 
Jane is Chair of Reclaim Fund Ltd and an Independent Member of the 
Fairness Committee at ReAssure Ltd. She has her own financial sector 
consulting business and is also a magistrate. 
 
 
Mike Holliday-Williams,
Managing Director, Personal Lines 
(appointed February 2017) 
 
Experience and qualifications 
Mike is Managing Director, Personal Lines. He joined Direct Line  
in 2014 and has over 10 years’ insurance industry experience. He 
was previously Chief Executive Officer of RSA Group’s Scandinavian 
businesses, Codan A/S and Trygg-Hansa, and before that UK 
Managing Director of Personal Lines at RSA, responsible for the 
MORETH>N, Partnerships and the Broker businesses. Before joining 
RSA, Mike had many general management, marketing and customer 
growth roles across several industries including the energy, telecoms 
and retail sectors. He started his career at WHSmith plc, before 
moving to various Centrica-owned businesses, including British Gas 
and Onetel.  
External appointments 
Mike is a member of the Association of British Insurers General 
Insurance Council. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 50
N R
C
A B C I
R
A
B
C
I
N
R  
  www.directlinegroup.com   51 
 
Sebastian James,  
Independent NED  
(appointed August 2014)  
 
 
 
Biography 
Sebastian is Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.  
He has extensive experience in retail and consumer practice at large 
groups; and has a detailed understanding of the UK consumer markets, 
products and brands. Sebastian was previously Chief Executive Officer  
of Synergy Insurance Services Limited and subsequently gained wide 
retail experience as Strategy Director responsible for developing and 
implementing the turnaround strategy at Mothercare.  
External appointments 
Sebastian is Group Chief Executive of Dixons Carphone plc and  
is also a trustee of the charities Save the Children and The DSG 
International Foundation.  
 
 
Andrew Palmer,  
Independent NED  
(appointed March 2011)  
 
 
 
Biography 
Andrew is Chair of the Audit Committee and Investment Committee 
and was Senior Independent Director until 18 January 2016. He has 
performed various senior roles in the financial services and insurance 
industries. Additionally, he has insight into corporate governance 
developments and best practice in financial reporting. In 2009, 
Andrew retired from Legal & General Group plc, where he was the 
Group Finance Director. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales. 
External appointments 
Andrew is a Non-Executive Director of Royal London Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited and Royal London Asset Management Limited.  
He is also a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel of  
the Financial Reporting Council, a Trustee of the Royal School of 
Needlework and a Trustee and Treasurer of Cancer Research UK. 
 
 
John Reizenstein, 
Chief Financial Officer  
(appointed December 2010) 
 
 
Biography 
John is Chief Financial Officer. He has extensive City and financial 
services experience, spending more than 20 years in investment 
banking with UBS and Goldman Sachs. 
John was previously an Executive Director at the Co-operative Insurance 
Society, CIS General Insurance and The Co-operative Bank. He was 
Chief Financial Officer of these organisations between 2003 and 2007, 
and subsequently Managing Director, Corporate and Markets.  
External appointments 
John is a Trustee and Director of Farm Africa. He is also an alternate 
representative of the Association of British Insurers on the Panel on 
Takeovers and Mergers. 
 
  
 
Clare Thompson,  
Independent NED  
(appointed September 2012)  
 
 
 
Biography 
Clare is Chair of the Remuneration Committee. She has extensive 
experience and knowledge of people and remuneration gained  
from her roles at PwC. These included People Partner for Assurance 
which focused on talent management and career development 
planning, as well as involvement in the design and operation of 
remuneration structures across PwC UK. She also has significant 
financial and audit experience. 
Clare was a partner at PwC from 1988 to 2011. During her 23 
years as a partner, she held several senior and high-profile roles, 
particularly in the insurance sector. She is a Fellow of the Institute  
of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. 
External appointments 
Clare is a Non-Executive Director of British United Provident 
Association (Bupa) and Retail Charity Bonds plc. She is also a  
Non-Executive member of the partnership board of Miller Insurance 
Services LLP, and Treasurer of the Disasters Emergency Committee. 
 
 
Dr Richard Ward, 
Independent NED and SID 
(appointed January 2016)  
 
 
 
Biography 
Dr Richard Ward is Senior Independent Director. He was Chief 
Executive of Lloyd’s of London, from 2006 to 2013. Richard 
previously worked for over ten years at the London-based International 
Petroleum Exchange, the second largest energy trading exchange,  
re-branded ICE Futures, as both Chief Executive Officer and Vice-
Chairman. He has extensive insurance industry experience and insight 
into prudential regulation. 
Prior to the International Petroleum Exchange, Richard held a range  
of senior positions at British Petroleum and was Head of Marketing & 
Business Development for energy derivatives worldwide at Tradition 
Financial Services. 
External appointments 
Richard is Executive Chairman of Cunningham Lindsey and  
Non-Executive Chairman of Brit Syndicates Ltd. He also serves  
as a member of the PRA Practitioner Panel, Bank of England. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
www.directlinegroup.com 51
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Male 7
Female 3
Gender diversity of Board of Directors 
C R A R
A B I N R
B N Executive Committee 
52   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   V9.2 
Paul Geddes chairs the Executive Committee. In addition to Paul Geddes, Mike Holliday-Williams and John Reizenstein, the committee comprises 
the following: 
 
Jonathan Greenwood, 
Managing Director of Commercial 
(joined 2000) 
 
 
Humphrey Tomlinson,
General Counsel  
(joined 2011) 
 
Experience and qualifications 
Jonathan has previously held roles at HBOS, MBNA and Pinnacle  
and has over 30 years’ insurance and financial services industry 
experience. He joined the Group as Product and Pricing Director for 
UK partnerships. After the Group acquired Churchill, Jonathan became 
Commercial Director and then Managing Director of the Group’s 
household and life businesses. Jonathan was appointed Managing 
Director of Commercial in 2009. 
Experience and qualifications 
Humphrey was previously Group Legal Director at RSA and is a 
solicitor with over 25 years’ experience. His experience includes 
advising on corporate and commercial matters, steering corporate 
transactions in the UK and internationally, managing legal risk, and 
dealing with corporate governance issues. Before joining RSA, he 
worked at the City law firm, Ashurst Morris Crisp. He is a graduate  
of the University of Oxford. 
 
Simon Linares,  
Group Human Resources Director 
(joined 2014) 
 
José Vazquez,  
Chief Risk Officer  
(joined 2012) 
 
Experience and qualifications 
Simon was previously Group HR Director for O2, and responsible for 
all of Telefonica global digital businesses. Before this, he held various 
senior global HR roles at Diageo, including responsibility for Spain, 
Africa and several UK-based leadership positions. Before moving into 
HR, Simon held several commercial business roles in the fast-moving 
consumer goods and financial services sectors. 
 
Experience and qualifications 
José was previously Global Chief Risk Officer and Group Chief 
Actuary at HSBC Insurance. Before joining HSBC, José worked for 
Zurich Insurance, first in its London Market Operations, then as Chief 
Actuary International Business Division (Asia, Latin America and Africa) 
and lastly as Chief Actuary in the UK. José is a Mathematics graduate 
from Brunel University and a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries. 
 
 
Steve Maddock,  
Chief Operating Officer  
(joined 2010) 
 
 
Experience and qualifications 
Steve was previously Director of Strategic and Technical Claims at 
RSA. He has over 20 years’ insurance industry experience, including 
roles as Director of Claims and Customer Service at Capita, and as 
Director of Operations at AMP. He became Chief Operating Officer 
in 2016, having previously been the Managing Director of Claims, 
Business Services and Technology Services. Steve holds an MBA  
from the University of Reading, and is Chairman of the Motor Insurers’ 
Bureau and Insurance Database Services Limited. 
 
 
 
 
 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 52
C Corporate governance report 
   www.directlinegroup.com  53 
This report explains the Board’s role and activities, and  
how corporate governance operates throughout the Group.  
The UK Corporate Governance Code 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc (the “Company”) has complied 
with all of the principles and provisions of the 2014 UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) throughout the 
financial year. 
The only exception is the recommendation contained in 
Provision E.1.1 of the Code that the Senior Independent 
Director (”SID”) should attend sufficient meetings with major 
shareholders to listen to their views. Throughout 2016, the 
Board received regular updates from the Company’s corporate 
brokers on the views of its institutional shareholders and, in 
addition, the Investor Relations team provided regular updates 
to the Board. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) 
and the Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) met with key 
shareholders following announcements of results and reported 
shareholders’ views back to the Board. On this basis the  
Board is satisfied that it understands the views of shareholders, 
and major shareholders have been invited to meet with the  
SID should they wish to do so. It is open to all shareholders to 
raise any issues they wish with the Chairman, the SID and the 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee. The Board has therefore 
concluded that it has complied with the main and supporting 
principles under section E.1 of the Code regarding dialogue 
with shareholders. 
Further details of how the Company applied the Code’s 
principles and complied with its provisions can be found  
on the following pages of this report and the Directors’ 
remuneration report: 
 Leadership – page 53 
 Effectiveness – page 56 
 Accountability – page 61 
 Remuneration – page 63 
 Relations with shareholders – page 63 
For more information about the Code, visit the Financial 
Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk 
Leadership 
The Board 
The Board has a collective objective of promoting the long-term 
success of the Company for its shareholders and provides 
leadership of the Company. The main role of the Board is to 
organise and direct the Group’s affairs in a way that is most 
likely to help it succeed in the long-term for the benefit of 
shareholders as a whole. The Board supervises the Group’s 
operations, with the objectives of ensuring that they are 
effectively managed, that prudent controls are in place,  
and that risks are assessed and managed appropriately.  
In addition, it also sets the Group’s strategy, and monitors 
management’s performance and progress against the  
strategic aims and objectives. The Board also develops and 
promotes the collective vision of the Group’s purpose, culture, 
values and behaviours. 
Board composition 
As at the date of this report, the Board comprised the 
Chairman, who was independent when appointed to the 
Board; the CEO; CFO; the Managing Director of Personal 
Lines; and six independent Non-Executive Directors (“NEDs”), 
including the SID. The current Directors served throughout  
all of 2016, except for Richard Ward, who was appointed  
on 18 January 2016 and Danuta Gray and Mike Holliday-
Williams who were appointed on 1 February 2017.  
Priscilla Vacassin retired from the Board on 1 March 2016.  
You can find the names of the current Directors of the 
Company as at the date of this report and their biographical 
information on pages 50 and 51.  
Meetings 
The Board held nine scheduled meetings in 2016.  
The Company Secretary attended all Board meetings.  
At its discretion, the Board invited senior executives and 
external advisers to attend Board meetings, and to present  
on business developments and governance matters. 
The table below sets out attendance at the scheduled meetings  
in 2016: 
 Scheduled   
 meetings
1
 
Percentage 
attendance
Chairman  
Mike Biggs 9 of 9  100%
Senior Independent Director  
Richard Ward 9 of 9  100%
Non-Executive Directors   
Jane Hanson 9 of 9  100%
Sebastian James 9 of 9  100%
Andrew Palmer 9 of 9  100%
Clare Thompson 9 of 9  100%
Priscilla Vacassin
1 
2 of 2  100%
Executive Directors   
Paul Geddes 9 of 9   100%
John Reizenstein 9 of 9  100%
Note: 
1. Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended out of 
the number of such meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend 
The Board also held seven additional meetings. The additional 
meetings were ad hoc or Board sub-committee meetings, 
including meetings to receive recommendations from the 
Nomination Committee on Board and Committee changes, 
and strategic matters. The Board also held an annual strategy 
day in June 2016. 
Structure of the Board 
The diagrams on the following page summarise the 
responsibilities of the Chairman, the CEO, the Board and the 
Board Committees. The Board has established six Committees 
to help discharge its responsibilities. Each Committee plays  
a vital role in helping to ensure the Board operates efficiently 
and considers matters appropriately. Further details on the roles 
and responsibilities of the Board Committees, along with the 
activities undertaken during the period, are contained in the 
Committee reports on pages 64 to 81.
www.directlinegroup.com 53
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance report continued 
54  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
 
The diagram below outlines the executive management structure. 
 
Biographical details of the Executive Directors and Executive Committee members are shown on pages 50 to 52. 
 
  
Board 
Mike Biggs, Chairman 
 Organises and directs the Group’s affairs in a way that is believed most likely to help it succeed in the long-term for the benefit of shareholders as a whole.  
 Supervises the Group’s operations, helping to ensure it is effectively managed, that prudent controls are in place, and that risks are assessed and managed 
appropriately.  
 Sets the Group’s strategy, and monitors management’s performance and progress against the strategic aims and objectives. 
 Approves the terms of reference for the Board Committees and, where appropriate, reviews and agrees their recommendations. 
Executive Committee 
Paul Geddes, Chief Executive Officer 
 Sets performance targets. 
 Implements the Board-determined Group strategy and direction. 
 Monitors key objectives and commercial plans to help achieve the Group’s targets. 
 Evaluates new business initiatives and opportunities. 
 Considers reports on operational matters that are material to the Group or have cross business implications. 
   
 
 
Audit Committee 
Andrew Palmer, 
Chair 
 
 Maintains the 
integrity of the 
Group’s financial 
statements. 
 Oversees and 
challenges the 
effectiveness of the 
Group’s systems of 
financial and other 
controls. 
 Monitors the work 
and effectiveness of 
the Group’s internal 
and external 
auditors and 
actuaries. 
 
Board Risk Committee 
Jane Hanson,  
Chair 
 
 Oversees and 
advises the Board 
on the Group’s 
current and potential 
future risk exposures, 
and its strategic 
approach to 
managing risk. 
 Recommends risk 
appetite and 
tolerance levels to 
the Board and 
supports the Board 
in promoting a risk-
aware culture across 
the Group. 
 
CSR Committee 
Sebastian James, 
Chair 
 
 Provides oversight 
and advice on how 
the Group conducts 
its business 
responsibly, 
including matters 
relating to 
environmental, 
employee 
engagement and 
wellbeing, 
community 
involvement, and 
ethics. 
Investment Committee 
Andrew Palmer, 
Chair 
 
 Provides oversight 
of how the Group 
develops its 
investment strategy. 
 Oversees the 
management and 
performance of the 
Group’s investment 
portfolio. 
Nomination 
Committee 
Mike Biggs, Chair 
 
 Reviews the Board’s 
structure, size, 
composition, and 
balance of skills, 
experience, 
independence and 
expertise. 
 Leads the process 
for Board 
appointments and 
makes 
recommendations to 
the Board. 
 Provides guidance 
to management on 
executive succession 
planning. 
 
Remuneration 
Committee  
Clare Thompson, 
Chair 
 Sets and oversees 
how the Group 
implements its 
remuneration policy.
 Oversees the level 
and structure of 
remuneration 
arrangements for 
senior executives, 
approves share 
incentive plans, and 
recommends them 
to the Board and 
shareholders. 
 
More details can be 
found on pages  
64 to 67. 
 
More details can be 
found on pages  
68 to 71. 
 
More details can be 
found on pages  
72 to 73. 
More details can be 
found on pages  
74 to 75. 
More details can be 
found on pages  
76 to 78. 
 
More details can be 
found on pages  
79 to 81.  
Managing Director 
Commercial 
Jon Greenwood 
 
Managing  
Director Personal  
Lines 
Mike Holliday-Williams 
 
Chief Operating  
Officer 
Steve Maddock 
Chief Risk Officer 
Jose Vazquez 
 
Chief Financial Officer 
John Reizenstein 
 
General Counsel 
Humphrey Tomlinson 
 
 
Group Human  
Resources Director 
Simon Linares 
 
 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 54  
   www.directlinegroup.com  55 
The Chief Executive Officer 
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Company’s success. The Board has, however, authorised Paul Geddes, the CEO,  
to manage the Group’s day-to-day operations and deliver its strategic objectives. 
In turn, Paul Geddes has delegated certain elements of his authority to Executive Committee members. This helps ensure that 
senior executives are accountable and responsible for managing their businesses and functions. Such delegation also involves 
ensuring the senior executives have the appropriate financial and other authorities needed to manage those business areas. 
Executive Committee 
The Executive Committee is the principal management committee that helps the CEO manage the Group’s operations. It helps 
him: set performance targets; implement the Board-determined Group strategy and direction; and monitor key objectives and 
commercial plans to help achieve the Group’s targets. It also helps him evaluate new business initiatives and opportunities,  
and considers reports on operational matters that are material to the Group or have cross business implications. 
Non-Executive Directors 
Each Director brings different skills, experience and knowledge to the Company, with the NEDs bringing additional independent 
thought and judgement. All NEDs must be able to spend sufficient time in their roles to discharge their duties and responsibilities 
effectively. The letters of appointment for the Chairman and NEDs set out the time the Group anticipates that they will commit to  
their roles. This is at least three days a week for the Chairman and an average of three days a month for the other NEDs depending 
on business needs. The Nomination Committee reviews this time commitment, and each NED’s other commitments, annually.  
An overview of the role and responsibilities of the Chairman, CEO, SID and the NEDs is set out in the table below: 
Role  Responsibilities   
Chairman: Responsible for maintaining, developing and leading 
an effective Board. Planning and managing the 
Board’s business, presiding at Board meetings and 
acting as figurehead for the Board. 
}
The Board has agreed individual role  
profiles for the Chairman, Mike Biggs, and 
the CEO, Paul Geddes. These clearly define 
their roles and responsibilities. This is to 
ensure no one person has unlimited powers 
of decision making. 
Chief Executive 
Officer: 
Responsible for managing the Group, and delivering 
the Group’s strategy and financial results. Certain 
elements of his authority have been delegated to 
Executive Committee members to help ensure that 
senior executives are accountable and responsible 
for managing their businesses and functions.  
Senior Independent 
Director: 
Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary. 
Available to shareholders if they have any concerns they cannot resolve through normal channels. Leads 
the Chairman’s performance evaluation annually. 
Non-Executive 
Directors: 
Responsible for objectively and constructively challenging management. Use their wider business 
experience to help develop the Group’s strategy. NEDs are initially appointed for a term of three years. 
The Nomination Committee recommends potential new NEDs to the Board for appointment. The Board 
then considers and approves each appointment. All Directors are subject to election or re-election annually 
at the Company’s AGM. You can find the standard terms and conditions of the NED appointments at 
www.directlinegroup.com. Further details of NEDs letters of appointment are on page 108 of the 
Directors’ remuneration report. 
Information and support  
All Directors can access assistance and advice from the Company Secretary. The Board is satisfied that it receives information  
of appropriate quality and in a timely manner, to enable the Directors to discharge their duties. Directors may seek external 
independent professional advice at the Company’s expense, if they need it to discharge their duties. The Company Secretary 
attends all Board meetings and he or his nominated deputy attends all Board Committee meetings.  
 
www.directlinegroup.com 55
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance report continued 
56  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Effectiveness 
Matters Reserved for the Board 
The Board recognises that to ensure the long-term success of the Company, certain specific matters should be reserved for the 
consideration and decision of the Board either alone or following review and recommendation by its Committees. Other matters 
are delegated by the Board to its Committees and to the Executive Directors. In addition to the Schedule of Matters Reserved, 
each Board Committee has written terms of reference defining its role and the authority delegated to it by the Board. The 
decisions specifically reserved for approval by the Board are set out in the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, and are 
summarised in the diagram below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Communication
 Ensuring satisfactory dialogue with 
shareholders. 
 Arrangements for Annual and other 
General Meetings. 
Strategy and management 
 Overall leadership of the Group and 
setting the Company’s values and 
standards. 
 Oversight of the Group’s operations. 
 The Group’s strategic aims and 
objectives. 
 Annual operating and capital 
expenditure budgets. 
 Material extension of the Group’s 
activities into new business or 
geographical areas. 
 Decisions to cease operation of any 
material part of the Group’s business. 
Structure and capital
 Changes to the Company’s capital 
structure and debt securities structure. 
 Major changes to the Group’s 
corporate structure, including material 
acquisitions and disposals of shares. 
 Changes to the Company’s listing or 
plc status. 
Corporate governance 
matters 
 The Group’s corporate governance 
and regulatory compliance 
frameworks. 
Matters Reserved 
for the Board  Contracts 
 Major capital projects, investments 
and contracts that are either 
materially strategic or above the 
CEO’s delegated authority. 
Delegation of authority
 Division of responsibilities between  
the Chairman and Chief Executive. 
 Delegated levels of authority to 
Executive Directors. 
 Establishment of Board Committees. 
Board membership and other 
appointments 
 Appointment and removal of Directors, 
SID, CEO, Company Secretary and 
Chief Risk Officer. 
 Selection of the Chairman. 
 Succession planning for the Board and 
senior executives. 
Internal controls & risk 
management  
 The internal controls and risk 
management system, including the 
Group’s Risk Appetite Statements. 
Remuneration 
 Chairman and NED remuneration.  
 Remuneration policy. 
 Introduction of new share incentive 
plans or major changes to existing 
plans, for approval by shareholders. 
Financial reporting and 
controls 
 Results announcements.  
 Dividend policy. 
 Accounting policies. 
 Reserving position. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 56  
   www.directlinegroup.com  57 
Board activities during 2016 
The activities undertaken by the Board in 2016 to promote  
the long-term success of the Company are focused on its role 
as the leadership and decision forum for the Group.  
Scheduled Board meeting discussions are focused on four 
main themes:  
Strategy & execution, including: setting the Group’s key 
strategic targets and monitoring the Group’s performance 
against those targets; reviewing customer experience and 
monitoring the Group performance against external brand 
metrics; reviewing and approving key projects aimed at 
developing the business or rationalising costs; reviewing the 
approach to mergers and acquisitions; and reviewing the 
individual strategy of key business lines.  
Financial performance and investor relations, including: 
setting financial plans, annual budgets and key performance 
indicators (“KPIs”), and monitoring the Group’s results against 
them; considering the Group’s reserving position; approving 
financial results for publication; agreeing the Group’s dividend 
policy; and reviewing broker reports on the Group alongside 
feedback from investor meetings.  
Risk management, regulatory and other related  
governance, including: reviewing and agreeing the Group’s 
Policies; setting risk appetites; approving the Own Risk & 
Solvency Assessment (“ORSA”); approving major changes  
to the Group’s internal model and seeking to ensure that the 
Group complies with all regulatory requirements. 
Board & Board Committee governance, including: receiving 
reports from the Board’s Committees; updating terms of 
references for the Committees; and implementing an annual 
review of Board and Committees’ effectiveness.  
The co-ordination of the Board meeting content is managed  
by the Chairman, supported by the CEO and Company 
Secretary, primarily using a forward agenda planner. 
In addition to routine business the Board considers and 
discusses key issues that impact on the business as they arise.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The chart below details some of the specific topics discussed 
during 2016: 
 
 
The CEO and CFO spend a considerable amount of time  
with the different business units ensuring that the Board’s aims 
are being correctly disseminated throughout the Group, and 
that colleagues’ views and opinions are reported back to the 
Board. In addition the NEDs meet with key management 
outside of the Board and Committee fora to get a wider view 
of the Group’s activities.  
  
January
 Review of Group’s 
response to recent 
flooding 
 Consideration of 
results of employee 
opinion survey 
 2015 Board 
Effectiveness Review
February 
 Review of Group 
strategy 
 Review of year-end 
reserves 
 ORSA 
 Dividend policy 
 
March
 Review of Motor 
strategy 
 Reviewed progress 
of IMAP application 
 Discussed talent 
management and 
succession planning
April
 Review of 
Commercial 
strategy 
 Approval of 
catastrophe 
reinsurance 
arrangements 
 Update on Group’s 
investment portfolio 
June
 Outputs from Board 
strategy day 
 Review of Solvency II 
Risk Appetite 
 Investor Relations 
update 
 
July 
 Compliance with 
Market Abuse 
Regulation 
 People strategy 
update 
 Solvency II capital 
generation 
 Half Year report 
September
 Update on 
implementation of 
the next generation 
of customer systems
 Update on CSR 
initiative regarding 
young drivers 
(Shotgun) 
 Modern Slavery Act
November 
 Preliminary financial 
plan 2016-2020 
 
December
 Personal Lines 
strategy update 
 Approval of  
Strategic Plan 
 Motor reinsurance 
renewal 
www.directlinegroup.com 57
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance report continued 
58  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Board induction, resources and training 
The Board is committed to training and developing all Directors 
and employees. The Company Secretary is responsible for 
helping the Chairman regularly review and organise training 
for the Directors. The Company Secretary also maintains an 
annual training agenda for the Board and its Committees. 
In order for our Directors, particularly the NEDs, to discharge 
their responsibilities, it is essential that they understand our 
business. The diagram below illustrates the various ways  
in which the Directors’ understanding and knowledge of the 
business and the regulatory environment in which it operates  
is enhanced. 
 
 
Richard Ward undertook a tailored induction programme 
during 2016 which was disclosed in the 2015 Annual Report 
and Accounts. 
A tailored induction programme has been prepared for Danuta 
Gray, a recently appointed NED. The programme will focus 
on the Group’s businesses, strategic and transformational 
priorities, regulatory and governance frameworks, capital and 
financial management, and risk framework. 
A similar programme has been put together for Mike Holliday-
Williams, MD Personal Lines, who has recently been 
appointed as an Executive Director. This programme will focus 
on his duties and responsibilities as a Director of the Company 
and corporate governance matters. 
The main Board training and development activities in the year 
under review included: 
 Training on topics including: Solvency II matters; the 
Group’s investment risk appetite; cyber risk and security; 
PPOs, complaints handling; and marketing and branding. 
 NED visits to operational business units to meet the 
management teams and better understand how the business 
operates. These included visits to Claims, Fraud and Legal 
Services teams in Leeds and Bromley, the Group’s UK 
Assistance Accident and Repair Centres in Manchester,  
to the offices of The Floow in Sheffield and the offices  
of EXL (the Group’s principal offshore business processing 
services provider). 
 Internal training workshops on: the Senior Insurance 
Managers Regime; anti-bribery and corruption and 
competition law; the Group’s IECM; and the application  
of the pricing actuarial basis for Personal Lines Motor.  
 Regular updates from the Company Secretary on  
corporate governance. 
 Quarterly industry and market updates from the Group’s 
brokers and financial advisers.  
 Regular reports from the Investor Relations team regarding 
institutional investors and analysts. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 58
Tailored 
induction
Deep dive 
sessions and 
management 
presentations
Divisional 
and functional 
reviews
Investor 
roadshow 
feedback
Regular brieﬁngs 
on governance, 
legal and 
regulatory 
matters
Strategy 
days
Board 
and Committee 
meetings
Site visits
Meeting 
our people
Getting 
to know 
the business  
   www.directlinegroup.com  59 
Board effectiveness review  
In accordance with the principles and provisions of the Code, the Board’s intended practice is to conduct a thorough review of the 
effectiveness of the performance of the Directors, the Board as a whole and its Committees on an annual basis, with the input of an 
external facilitator at least once every three years. The 2016 Board effectiveness review was facilitated by an external consultant, 
Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School, who is independent and has no other connection with the Company. 
The 2016 process commenced with the Nomination Committee planning the scope of the evaluation. The Committee considered 
a shortlist of external evaluators for approval by the Board. The selected evaluator discussed the process with the Chairman and 
the Company Secretary and agreed the questions to be put to Board members and a number of executives who regularly attend 
Board and/or Committee meetings.  
All of the Company’s Executive and Non-Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and the other respondents completed  
a questionnaire and then held one-to-one interviews with the facilitator. Professor Goffee discussed his report initially with the 
Chairman and Company Secretary and presented it to the Board in January 2017. 
The review focused on: 
Role & organisation The role of the Board, including Board and Committee structure and composition; the number  
and frequency of meetings; and Directors’ responsibilities. 
Agenda The relevance of agenda items; Directors’ ability to influence agenda content; and how much  
time is allocated to strategic issues and corporate performance. 
Corporate Governance Corporate governance matters relating to: Director appointments; the operation of the Board;  
and the guidance provided to Directors. 
Non-Executive &  
Executive Directors 
Directors’ expertise and experience; training; the behaviour of, and interaction between, the  
Non-Executive and Executive Directors; Non-Executive Directors’ time commitment; and access  
to key executives below Board level. 
Information The flow of information, including: the quality and sufficiency of reports; access to external  
advice; induction and understanding of the Group’s businesses; and volume and timeliness of 
paper submission. 
Group performance The Board’s contribution to the Group’s strategic direction; and the procedures for approving,  
and monitoring the Group’s performance against, the approved strategic objectives. 
Leadership & culture The Board’s environment and culture, including: working relationships; succession planning;  
and leadership of the Board, including Board meeting management. 
The findings of the effectiveness review were discussed by the Board as a whole in January 2017.  
Based on the responses to the questionnaire and resulting reports, the Directors are satisfied that the Board and its Committees 
operated effectively in 2016. The Directors are also satisfied that they made significant progress in areas for potential 
improvement identified in 2015. 
Whilst the findings of Professor Goffee’s report were positive, the Board will focus during 2017 on a number of areas with  
the objective of improving its, and its Committees’, effectiveness. These include: making better use of Non-Executive Directors’ 
expertise in the strategic planning cycle; refreshing the Board’s skills and experience through Board succession planning; and 
enhancing the Board’s approach to monitoring major business initiatives.  
  
www.directlinegroup.com 59
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance report continued 
60  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Governance framework and structure 
The Board is responsible for ensuring there is an appropriate 
system of governance in operation throughout the Group.  
This includes a robust system of internal controls and a sound 
risk management framework. The Board has established  
a risk management model that separates the Group’s risk 
management responsibilities into three lines of defence.  
The Group’s governance framework is detailed in the  
High Level Control and System of Governance Framework 
document. The Board reviews this document annually.  
The core elements of the Governance Framework are the: 
 Matters Reserved for the Board and the Board Committees’ 
Terms of Reference. 
 Regulatory Governance Map. 
 Risk Appetite Statements. 
 Enterprise Risk Management Strategy and Framework. This 
sets out the Group’s approach to setting risk strategy and for 
managing risks to the strategic objectives and day-to-day 
operations of the business. 
 Executive Governance Framework, which outlines how 
each business function is governed and details the authority 
delegated to Executive Committee members. 
 Group Policies. 
 Minimum Standards, which interpret the Group Policies into 
a set of operational requirements that can be implemented 
throughout the Group. 
 
The diagram below summarises the split of responsibilities for the different parts of the Group’s governance framework. 
Board approves 
High level governance framework, 
Risk Appetite, Group Policies and 
Regulatory Governance Map are  
set by the Board, following review 
by the Board Risk Committee. 
 
 
 
 
Board Risk  
Committee approves 
Enterprise Risk Management Strategy 
and Framework is approved by the 
Board Risk Committee, following 
review by the Risk Management 
Committee (a committee comprised 
of Executives). 
Business unit and operational area implementation 
High Level Control and System of  
Governance document 
Executive Governance Framework
Risk Appetite 
Regulatory 
Governance Map 
ERM Strategy and Framework 
Risk Management  
Committee approves  
The Executive Governance 
Framework is developed by 
Executives and approved by  
the Risk Management Committee. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Policy owner approves 
Minimum standards are approved 
by policy owners subject to  
non-objection from the Risk 
Management Committee. 
Group Policies and 
certain Minimum 
Standards 
Minimum Standards 
Matters Reserved for
the Board and Board 
Committees’  
Terms of Reference 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 60  
  www.directlinegroup.com  61 
Conflicts of interest 
The Company’s Articles of Association allow the Board  
to authorise matters where there is, or may be, a conflict 
between the Group’s interests and the direct or indirect  
interests of a Director, or between a Director’s duties to  
the Group and another person. This is in accordance with  
the Companies Act 2006. 
Each Director has a duty to avoid conflicts of interest. They 
must declare any conflict of interest that could interfere with 
their ability to act in the Group’s best interests.  
The Board has authorised certain potential conflicts of interest  
in this way. However, the Board still ensures that it will 
appropriately deal with any actual conflict of interest or duty that 
might arise. This usually would involve making sure a Director 
does not participate in a relevant Board or Committee discussion 
or decision. 
To do this, the Company Secretary maintains a register of 
conflicts, and any conflicts that the Board has authorised. The 
Board reviews this register at each scheduled Board meeting. 
Approach to diversity 
The Board carefully considers the diversity of its members  
from various perspectives. It also seeks to ensure that Directors 
have the relevant knowledge, skills, experience and, where 
necessary, independence to help the Group deliver its strategy. 
The Company believes in the benefits of diversity. At the date 
of this report, of the Board’s ten members, three are women. 
However, while the Board will strive to consider diversity when 
choosing new members, it is committed to appointing the most 
appropriate candidates.  
The Nomination Committee’s terms of reference state that it 
should duly regard the benefits of diversity, including gender 
diversity, when choosing Board candidates. You can find  
more information about the Board’s diversity policy in the 
Nomination Committee report on page 78.  
The CSR Committee considers diversity as part of its ‘Proud  
to be here’ work stream. This is to ensure the Group’s talent 
pipeline remains diverse to meet future requirements. The 
Group provides mentoring schemes and associated training 
and development programmes for high-potential candidates. 
You can find numerical data relating to the gender diversity of 
the Board, senior managers and employees in the CSR report 
on page 33.  
During the year, the Group signed up to the Women in 
Finance Charter. This Charter reflects the Government’s, as 
well as the Group’s aspiration, to see gender balance at all 
levels across financial services firms. 
Nomination Committee 
On behalf of the Board, the Nomination Committee assesses 
the NEDs’ independence, skills, knowledge and experience  
as part of its annual review of each Director’s performance. 
The Board concluded that every current NED was 
independent, continued to contribute effectively, and 
demonstrated they were committed to the role. Andrew Palmer 
has served on the Board since March 2011. At the 
Chairman’s request, he has agreed to continue to serve as  
a Director and a resolution for his re-election as a Director  
will be proposed to the 2017 AGM. In accordance with  
the Code, the extension of Mr Palmer’s term of appointment 
beyond six years has been the subject of a particularly rigorous 
review. The Board is satisfied that he remains independent, 
that he continues to make a significant contribution to the 
proceedings of the Board and its Committees and that the 
extension of his term of appointment will provide valuable 
continuity as work on refreshing the Board progresses. 
The Nomination Committee’s work during the year led to  
the appointment of Danuta Gray as an additional NED, and 
Mike Holliday Williams, MD Personal Lines, as an Executive 
Director, both with effect from 1 February 2017. You can  
find out more about these activities and the Nomination 
Committee’s work during the year on pages 76 to 78. 
Accountability 
An explanation of how the Board meets its responsibilities 
under the Code is set out below, except for the following 
matters, which are covered elsewhere in the Annual Report  
& Accounts: 
 How the Company seeks to generate value over the long-
term is explained in the business model on pages 8 and 9, 
and the strategy for delivering Company objectives is on 
pages 14 to 17. 
 How the Board has assessed the Group’s longer-term 
viability and the adoption of the going concern basis in  
the financial statements is set out in the Directors’ report  
on pages 112 and 113. 
 The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit 
Committee to oversee the management of the relationship 
with the Company’s External Auditor. You can find details 
of the Audit Committee’s role, activities and relationship 
with the External Auditor in the Committee report on pages 
64 to 67. 
Responsibility for preparing the Annual Report  
& Accounts 
The Board is responsible for giving shareholders a fair, 
balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s 
position and prospects. The Board is also responsible for 
maintaining adequate accounting records and ensuring 
compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations. 
You can find an explanation from the Directors about their 
responsibility for preparing the financial statements in the 
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities on page 113. The 
Company’s External Auditor explains its responsibilities  
on page 121. 
www.directlinegroup.com 61
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance report continued 
62  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
The Directors confirm that they consider that the Annual Report  
& Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable, and provides the information that shareholders 
and stakeholders need to assess the Group’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy. In arriving at this 
conclusion, the Board was supported by a number of processes, 
including the following: 
 Management drafted the Annual Report & Accounts to 
ensure consistency across sections, and a steering group 
comprising a team of cross-functional senior management 
provided overall governance and co-ordination. 
 A verification process, to ensure the content was  
factually accurate. 
 Members of the Executive Committee reviewed drafts  
of the Annual Report & Accounts. 
 The Company’s Disclosure Committee reviewed an 
advanced draft of the Annual Report & Accounts. 
 The Audit Committee reviewed the substantially final  
draft of the Annual Report & Accounts, before consideration 
by the Board. 
Risk management and internal control systems 
The Board is responsible for the Group’s risk management  
and internal control systems. It has complied with the Code by 
establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing the principal risks the Group faces. 
The Board has established a management structure with 
defined lines of responsibility and clear delegation of authority. 
This control framework cascades through the divisions and 
central functions, detailing clear responsibilities to ensure the 
Group’s operations have appropriate controls. This includes 
controls relating to the financial reporting process. 
The Group operates a Three Lines of Defence model.  
You can find out more about this in the Risk management 
section on pages 26 to 29. 
The Board, with the assistance of the BRC and the Audit 
Committee as appropriate, monitored the Company’s risk 
management and internal control systems that have been in 
place throughout the year under review, and reviewed their 
effectiveness. The monitoring and review covered all material 
controls, including financial, operational and compliance 
controls. The Board and its Committees are overseeing the 
ongoing work intended to improve the performance across the 
board of the Group’s IT systems, including focusing on risks 
relating to IT systems’ stability, cyber security and the internal 
control environment. 
The Board was also supported in its review of the annual 
Control Environment Certification process. As part of this,  
each directorate self-assessed its risks and whether its key 
controls were adequate and effective. The Risk and Group 
Audit functions reviewed and challenged these findings. The 
Group then combined the overall findings into a Group-level 
assessment, which the CEO approved. The system reported on 
the controls’ nature and effectiveness, and other management 
processes that manage these risks. 
The BRC regularly reviews significant risks and how they might 
affect the Group’s financial position; comparisons to agreed 
risk appetites; and what the Group does to manage risks 
outside its appetite. 
The Group Audit function supports the Board by providing an 
independent and objective assurance of the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the Group’s controls. It brings a systematic  
and disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the 
effectiveness of its risk management, control and governance 
frameworks, and processes. 
The Directors acknowledge that any internal control system  
can manage, but not eliminate, the risk of not achieving business 
objectives. It can only provide reasonable, not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement or financial loss. 
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee regularly reviews 
the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control systems. Its 
monitoring covers all material controls. Principally, it reviews 
and challenges reports from management, the Group Audit 
function and the External Auditor. This enables it to consider 
how to manage or mitigate risk in line with the Group’s  
risk strategy. 
Assessing principal risks 
The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent 
of the risks that it is willing to take to achieve its strategic 
objectives. The Directors confirm that they robustly assessed the 
principal risks facing the Company, including risks that would 
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or 
liquidity. You can find a description of these risks, and their 
management or mitigation, on pages 27 to 29. 
This confirmation is based on the Directors’ twice-yearly review 
and challenge of the Group’s Material Risk Assessment (“MRA”), 
and their review and approval of the Group’s risk appetite 
statements. The MRA identifies risks quantified as having a 
residual risk impact of £40 million or more based on a 1-in-200-
years likelihood period. The quantifications are produced through 
stress and scenario analysis, and the IECM. Each directorate’s 
bottom-up risk identification and assessment supplements the 
MRA. The MRA also plays a key role in developing the ORSA 
and assessing the Group’s strategic plan. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 62  
  www.directlinegroup.com  63 
Remuneration 
The Board has delegated responsibility to the Remuneration 
Committee for the remuneration arrangements of the Group’s 
Executive Directors and Chairman. It recommends and 
monitors the remuneration level and structure for senior 
executives. You can find out more about this in the Directors’ 
remuneration report starting on page 82. 
Relations with shareholders 
Engagement with shareholders 
The Board believes that engaging regularly with the 
Company’s shareholders is vital to the Group’s business. 
Communicating and engaging with investors means the Board 
can stay up to date on opinions. It also gives the Company  
the opportunity to answer questions and concerns. 
During 2016, the Board received regular updates from the 
Company’s corporate brokers on the views of its institutional 
shareholders and, in addition, the Investor Relations team 
provided regular updates to the Board. During the reporting 
period, the Company Secretary wrote to the Company’s  
major shareholders, to offer them opportunity to meet with  
the Chairman and/or the SID.  
As part of the development of a revised remuneration policy  
for Executive Directors, to be put before shareholders at the 
forthcoming AGM, the Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
led a wide ranging consultation with key stakeholders. Further 
details of this process can be reviewed on page 80 of this 
document and the resultant remuneration policy proposed  
is detailed on pages 100 to 109. 
The Executive Directors meet frequently with investors and 
inform the Board about shareholder views. This gives Directors 
the opportunity to discuss governance and strategy with 
shareholders. The Chairman, SID and NEDs are available  
to attend meetings with major shareholders at their request. 
The Investor Relations team helps Directors continue 
communicating with institutional investors, fund managers  
and analysts. The Board receives regular updates on investor 
relations, including feedback from analysts. The Company’s 
corporate brokers also regularly attend Board meetings to 
inform the Board of shareholder views. 
Annual General Meeting 
The Board sees the Company’s AGM as a good opportunity 
for private shareholders to talk directly with the Board. All 
shareholders can attend the AGM if they wish. All Directors 
attended the AGM in 2016. 
At the AGM, the CEO presents the Group’s financial results.  
The Chairman then invites shareholders to ask questions about 
the meeting’s business, before proposing the AGM’s formal 
business. All Directors will be put forward for re-election at the 
AGM. The Chairman, the Committee Chairs and the remaining 
Directors and members of the Executive Committee are also 
available to talk with shareholders at the end of the meeting.  
The outcome of the resolutions put to the AGM, including poll 
results detailing votes for, against and withheld, are published 
on the Company’s website once the AGM has concluded. 
 
www.directlinegroup.com 63
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports 
64  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Audit Committee report 
 
 
Areas of focus in the reporting period
 The Committee reviews and monitors the reserving 
process. The Committee challenged the key reserving 
assumptions and judgements, emerging trends, 
movements, and analysis of uncertainties underlying the 
Actuarial Best Estimate (“ABE”) and Management Best 
Estimate (“MBE”) of technical provisions. 
 The Committee provides oversight of the accounting 
estimates and judgements used in the preparation of the 
financial statements. A particular area of focus for 2016 
was the level of change and the impact on intangible 
asset carrying values. Following the annual review of 
the intangible assets, which was considered and 
challenged by the Committee, an impairment of 
intangible assets of £39.3 million was agreed. 
 As part of the Committee’s review of the Financial 
Reporting Control Framework (“FRCF”) it looked at the 
processes which are used to produce financial asset 
valuations. In 2016 the Committee asked for details of 
the processes that were followed to give it assurance 
that the valuations were appropriate. 
 The PRA approved the Group to use its PIM in  
June 2016. Following approval, the Group published 
its Solvency II own funds assessment. In addition, under 
Solvency II the Group is required to submit Quantitative 
Reporting Templates to the PRA. The Solvency II  
related information has been incorporated into the 
Group’s FRCF and the Committee monitors the integrity 
of the information. 
 During the year the Ministry of Justice published a 
consultation regarding the assessment of soft tissue injury 
for bodily injury claims. The Committee reviewed and 
challenged management’s assessment of the impact of 
the proposed new process on both claims experience 
and operating costs.  
 In relation to Group Audit, members of the Committee 
requested a presentation to explore, and provide an 
opportunity to challenge, how the function is developing 
its use of data analytics. In the light of a significant level 
of change within the Group Audit plans, the Committee 
also requested and received additional analysis to 
evidence that an appropriate breadth and depth of 
internal audit coverage was being maintained across 
the Group. 
  
Responsibilities of the Audit Committee 
The Committee is responsible for overseeing and challenging 
the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of financial and other 
controls. The Committee monitors the work and effectiveness  
of the Group’s internal and external auditors and actuaries. 
The Committee’s main responsibilities are to: 
 monitor the integrity of the Group’s financial statements  
and any other formal announcement relating to its  
financial performance. 
 review and monitor the reserving process and recommend 
the reserves to the Board. 
 continually review the adequacy and effectiveness of the 
Group’s internal financial controls and internal control 
systems, and the monitoring procedures. 
 monitor and evaluate the Group Audit function’s 
performance. 
 monitor and manage the relationship with the External 
Auditor, including agreeing the external audit fee, assessing 
its effectiveness, independence and managing any tender 
process for the audit services contract. 
The Audit Committee’s main role and responsibilities are  
set out in written terms of reference and are available at 
www.directlinegroup.co.uk/termsofreference 
Committee composition, skills and 
experience and meetings in the year 
The Committee comprises three independent NEDs: Andrew 
Palmer, Jane Hanson and Clare Thompson. You can find their 
biographical information on pages 50 and 51. In line with  
the 2016 amendments to the Code, the Audit Committee as a 
whole is deemed to have competence relevant to the insurance 
and financial services sectors in which the Group operates. 
All Committee members are members of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales. They also have recent and 
relevant financial experience, enabling them to contribute diverse 
expertise to the Committee’s proceedings. To keep their skills 
current and relevant, in addition to Board training, members of 
the Committee have received training during the period on 
matters including PPOs, reserving processes and the Solvency II 
balance sheet. 
The Audit Committee held five scheduled meetings in 2016. 
Two sub-committee meetings were also held to approve the 
Group’s trading updates for the first and third quarters of 2016. 
Three additional meetings were held to review drafts of the 
Solvency II narrative reports and to review the Group’s Solvency 
II balance sheet following receipt of internal model approval. 
The table below shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: 
 Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Andrew Palmer (Chair) 5 of 5  100%
Jane Hanson 5 of 5  100%
Clare Thompson 5 of 5  100%
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each scheduled 
Committee meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 64
Andrew Palmer
Chair of the 
Audit Committee Committee reports 
64  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Audit Committee report 
 
 
Areas of focus in the reporting period
 The Committee reviews and monitors the reserving 
process. The Committee challenged the key reserving 
assumptions and judgements, emerging trends, 
movements, and analysis of uncertainties underlying the 
Actuarial Best Estimate (“ABE”) and Management Best 
Estimate (“MBE”) of technical provisions. 
 The Committee provides oversight of the accounting 
estimates and judgements used in the preparation of the 
financial statements. A particular area of focus for 2016 
was the level of change and the impact on intangible 
asset carrying values. Following the annual review of 
the intangible assets, which was considered and 
challenged by the Committee, an impairment of 
intangible assets of £39.3 million was agreed. 
 As part of the Committee’s review of the Financial 
Reporting Control Framework (“FRCF”) it looked at the 
processes which are used to produce financial asset 
valuations. In 2016 the Committee asked for details of 
the processes that were followed to give it assurance 
that the valuations were appropriate. 
 The PRA approved the Group to use its PIM in  
June 2016. Following approval, the Group published 
its Solvency II own funds assessment. In addition, under 
Solvency II the Group is required to submit Quantitative 
Reporting Templates to the PRA. The Solvency II  
related information has been incorporated into the 
Group’s FRCF and the Committee monitors the integrity 
of the information. 
 During the year the Ministry of Justice published a 
consultation regarding the assessment of soft tissue injury 
for bodily injury claims. The Committee reviewed and 
challenged management’s assessment of the impact of 
the proposed new process on both claims experience 
and operating costs.  
 In relation to Group Audit, members of the Committee 
requested a presentation to explore, and provide an 
opportunity to challenge, how the function is developing 
its use of data analytics. In the light of a significant level 
of change within the Group Audit plans, the Committee 
also requested and received additional analysis to 
evidence that an appropriate breadth and depth of 
internal audit coverage was being maintained across 
the Group. 
  
Responsibilities of the Audit Committee 
The Committee is responsible for overseeing and challenging 
the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of financial and other 
controls. The Committee monitors the work and effectiveness  
of the Group’s internal and external auditors and actuaries. 
The Committee’s main responsibilities are to: 
 monitor the integrity of the Group’s financial statements  
and any other formal announcement relating to its  
financial performance. 
 review and monitor the reserving process and recommend 
the reserves to the Board. 
 continually review the adequacy and effectiveness of the 
Group’s internal financial controls and internal control 
systems, and the monitoring procedures. 
 monitor and evaluate the Group Audit function’s 
performance. 
 monitor and manage the relationship with the External 
Auditor, including agreeing the external audit fee, assessing 
its effectiveness, independence and managing any tender 
process for the audit services contract. 
The Audit Committee’s main role and responsibilities are  
set out in written terms of reference and are available at 
www.directlinegroup.co.uk/termsofreference 
Committee composition, skills and 
experience and meetings in the year 
The Committee comprises three independent NEDs: Andrew 
Palmer, Jane Hanson and Clare Thompson. You can find their 
biographical information on pages 50 and 51. In line with  
the 2016 amendments to the Code, the Audit Committee as a 
whole is deemed to have competence relevant to the insurance 
and financial services sectors in which the Group operates. 
All Committee members are members of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales. They also have recent and 
relevant financial experience, enabling them to contribute diverse 
expertise to the Committee’s proceedings. To keep their skills 
current and relevant, in addition to Board training, members of 
the Committee have received training during the period on 
matters including PPOs, reserving processes and the Solvency II 
balance sheet. 
The Audit Committee held five scheduled meetings in 2016. 
Two sub-committee meetings were also held to approve the 
Group’s trading updates for the first and third quarters of 2016. 
Three additional meetings were held to review drafts of the 
Solvency II narrative reports and to review the Group’s Solvency 
II balance sheet following receipt of internal model approval. 
The table below shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: 
 Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Andrew Palmer (Chair) 5 of 5  100%
Jane Hanson 5 of 5  100%
Clare Thompson 5 of 5  100%
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each scheduled 
Committee meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting. 
 
  www.directlinegroup.com  65 
Case study: Periodic Payment 
Orders 
The Committee requested an in depth review of PPO 
reserving methodology and in September 2016 the 
Committee met to discuss a report by management. The 
topics covered were: emerging experience; key judgements 
and assumptions; industry benchmarking; regulation  
and standards; and long-term financial projections. The 
Committee focused its efforts on the recommendations of the 
Group’s Chief Actuary in the ABE and in related reserve 
margins proposed by the CFO.  
The Committee reviewed trends in the claims experience 
versus industry experience to assess the Group’s performance 
in these complex cases. It concluded that the Group’s 
experience was broadly consistent with the market and that 
its claims handling approach to settling PPOs was 
appropriately reflected in reserving. It challenged, and was 
satisfied with, the data collection process and methods for 
ensuring accuracy.  
Recognising the need for significant expert judgement  
in such long-term cash flow projections the Committee 
challenged the assumptions, specifically: life expectations; 
inflation assumptions; discounting; and reinsurance.  
It discussed the sensitivities to alternative values and 
approaches, and considered the long-term economic 
assumptions including past data and the compatibility of 
assumptions for International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRS”) and Solvency II.  
It discussed the strength of the underlying assumptions with the 
Group’s External Auditor and independent external actuaries 
and concluded that, whilst the ABE appeared robust in the 
face of significant uncertainties about the long-term future, they 
were appropriate. It was satisfied that reserve margins held 
specifically for PPOs were proportionate and justified because 
not all risks could be captured in the actuarial analysis. The 
members sought and were given assurance that the additional 
costs of current and future PPOs from existing business cohorts 
were being recognised. 
The Committee requested a long-term projection of the 
Group’s balance sheet under different assumed reinsurance 
arrangements. This was presented by management and 
showed how liabilities to PPOs would gradually accumulate 
over time as expected and more slowly under lower 
retention levels. The Committee was satisfied that the long-
term trend in the Group’s balance sheet was reasonable 
and within risk appetite and that exposure to reinsurance 
bad debts was being appropriately captured.  
 
Main activities during the year 
At every scheduled Committee meeting, the Committee 
receives reports on financial reporting, reserves, internal 
controls and Group Audit. You can find out more about this  
in the following sections. 
Financial reporting 
The Committee monitors the integrity of the financial  
statements of the Group, and any other formal announcement 
relating to its financial performance. Solvency II related 
information has been incorporated into the Group’s financial 
reporting processes. 
During the year, the Committee reviewed the preliminary 
announcement of the Group’s 2015 financial results, the 
2015 Annual Report & Accounts, and the 2016 Half Year 
Report. The Committee then recommended them to the Board 
for approval. 
The review process focused on critical accounting policies  
and practices, emphasising those requiring a major element  
of judgement. The review also considered the going concern 
assumptions and viability statement, valuation of assets and 
impairment reviews, reserving provisions, unusual transactions, 
clarity of disclosures and significant audit adjustments. This 
included the Solvency II balance sheet and certain Quantitative 
Reporting Templates. 
The Committee also advised the Board whether the financial 
statements, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and 
understandable and provided sufficient information to enable 
the reader to assess the Group’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy. 
When considering the Annual Report & Accounts for 2016, the 
Committee focused on the significant risks and judgements which 
could be material to the financial statements. These included: 
Reserve valuation – The Committee reviewed the actuarial best 
estimates of the level of reserves, including the impact of the 
reduction in the Ogden discount rate from 2.5% to minus 
0.75% following the Lord Chancellor’s review of the discount 
rate for personal injury claims. External consultants participate 
independently in the annual review. Further information on 
reserves is provided in this report. 
Valuation of investments not held at fair value – The 
Committee considered reports on the judgements applied to the 
carrying value of the Group’s investments and the basis for the 
valuation. 
Change and IT – The Committee considered major change 
projects and IT controls. 
The Committee considered reports prepared by management 
on the significant estimates and judgements that were material 
to the financial statements and challenged the judgements 
being made, in particular in relation to the non-cash intangible 
asset impairment of £39.3 million. This relates to capitalised 
software development costs for ongoing IT projects primarily 
relating to the development of new systems. The Committee 
also discussed these matters with the External Auditor.  
www.directlinegroup.com 65
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports continued 
66  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Reserves 
The Committee reviews and challenges the key assumptions 
and judgements, emerging trends, movements, and analysis  
of uncertainties underlying the ABE of technical provisions.  
At the same time, the Committee considers and challenges  
the appropriateness of the CFO’s proposals for management’s 
best estimate of reserves. These are informed by actuarial 
analysis, wider commercial and risk management insights,  
and principles of consistency from period to period. 
The Committee approves annual plans for reviews of reserves, 
informed by emerging internal and external issues. 
It also considers an appropriate balance between internal and 
external actuarial review. Consultants appointed to provide 
actuarial reviews of reserves are subject to approval by the 
Committee. The external actuarial review of reserves requiring 
most judgement was carried out by PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP for the Directors of the Company and its relevant affiliates
1
. 
After reviewing the actuarial best estimate and management’s 
best estimate of reserves, the Committee recommends them to 
the Board. 
Internal control and Group Audit 
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the adequacy 
and effectiveness of the Group’s internal control systems. 
The Group’s FRCF is part of its wider internal controls system.  
It addresses financial reporting risks. The Board delegates 
supervision of the FRCF to the Audit Committee. The CFO  
is responsible for the FRCF on a day-to-day basis. 
During 2016, the Committee received regular reports on the 
FRCF and the testing of it. Part of those reports focused on 
control deficiencies and the mitigating actions taken. 
The Committee considered the Group’s internal controls and 
processes for identifying and responding to risks. 
The Committee provides oversight of Group Audit’s work and 
seeks to ensure it adopts industry best practice appropriately. 
The Group Head of Audit’s primary reporting line is to the 
Chair of the Committee. The secondary reporting line, for  
day-to-day administration, is to the CFO. Group Audit provides 
the Committee with independent and objective reports on the 
adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s governance, risk 
management and internal controls. The Committee approves 
Group Audit’s annual plan and receives quarterly reports 
detailing internal audit activity, key findings, management 
responses, and proposed action plans. Group Audit also 
monitors that these actions are completed. The Committee  
also approves the Group Audit Charter. 
During the year, the Committee assessed whether the  
Group Audit function was effective and concluded that it was. 
This included the Committee satisfying itself that the Group 
Audit function has the appropriate resources. 
Additional information 
The Committee has unrestricted access to management and 
external advisers to help discharge its duties. It is satisfied that 
in 2016 it received sufficient, reliable and timely information  
to perform its responsibilities effectively. 
The CEO, CFO, Chief Risk Officer (“CRO”), Group Financial 
Controller and Head of External Reporting are invited to attend 
Audit Committee meetings. The Actuarial Director, external 
actuarial advisers, External Auditor and Group Head of Audit 
are also invited to attend meetings and meet privately with the 
Audit Committee, in the absence of management. The Chief 
Operating Officer is also invited to attend appropriate sections 
of Audit Committee meetings. 
External audit 
The Committee is responsible for overseeing the External 
Auditor and agreeing the audit fee. This also involves 
approving the scope of the External Auditor’s annual plan. 
During the year, the Committee discussed the position on its 
external audit services contract and examined a number of 
options regarding the timing of tendering for the external audit, 
including the mandatory rotation of the Group’s audit firm,  
taking into account the Code and the reforms of the audit market 
by the Competition and Markets Authority and the EU. This 
included whether it was appropriate to tender the external audit 
contract for the year ending 31 December 2018. The Company 
has complied with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services 
for Large Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of 
Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee 
Responsibilities) Order 2014. 
A number of factors were taken into account, including 
anticipated business changes, regulatory developments such  
as the implementation of Solvency II and the approval of the 
Group’s use of its own Internal Model, the expected new 
insurance accounting standard for implementation in 2021  
and the appointment of a new audit partner by Deloitte LLP 
(“Deloitte”) during 2016, following the normal audit partner 
rotation process. The Committee concluded that it was not 
appropriate to tender the external audit contract for the 2018 
year end and, subject to continued effective performance  
by Deloitte, would review the position again early in 2017.  
At that point a decision will be made whether to tender the 
external audit contract for the year ended 31 December 2019 
or defer until a later date. The current audit partner is Colin 
Rawlings who was appointed in advance of the 2016 audit. 
Colin has had no interaction with the Financial Reporting 
Council’s Corporate Reporting Review team.  
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Company’s 
choice of external auditor and no auditor liability agreement 
has been entered into. Equally, any recommendation to 
reappoint Deloitte as auditor of the Company depends on 
continued satisfactory performance. 
 
Note: 
1. The relevant affiliates are U K Insurance Limited and Churchill Insurance Company Limited 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 66 Committee reports continued 
66  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Reserves 
The Committee reviews and challenges the key assumptions 
and judgements, emerging trends, movements, and analysis  
of uncertainties underlying the ABE of technical provisions.  
At the same time, the Committee considers and challenges  
the appropriateness of the CFO’s proposals for management’s 
best estimate of reserves. These are informed by actuarial 
analysis, wider commercial and risk management insights,  
and principles of consistency from period to period. 
The Committee approves annual plans for reviews of reserves, 
informed by emerging internal and external issues. 
It also considers an appropriate balance between internal and 
external actuarial review. Consultants appointed to provide 
actuarial reviews of reserves are subject to approval by the 
Committee. The external actuarial review of reserves requiring 
most judgement was carried out by PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP for the Directors of the Company and its relevant affiliates
1
. 
After reviewing the actuarial best estimate and management’s 
best estimate of reserves, the Committee recommends them to 
the Board. 
Internal control and Group Audit 
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the adequacy 
and effectiveness of the Group’s internal control systems. 
The Group’s FRCF is part of its wider internal controls system.  
It addresses financial reporting risks. The Board delegates 
supervision of the FRCF to the Audit Committee. The CFO  
is responsible for the FRCF on a day-to-day basis. 
During 2016, the Committee received regular reports on the 
FRCF and the testing of it. Part of those reports focused on 
control deficiencies and the mitigating actions taken. 
The Committee considered the Group’s internal controls and 
processes for identifying and responding to risks. 
The Committee provides oversight of Group Audit’s work and 
seeks to ensure it adopts industry best practice appropriately. 
The Group Head of Audit’s primary reporting line is to the 
Chair of the Committee. The secondary reporting line, for  
day-to-day administration, is to the CFO. Group Audit provides 
the Committee with independent and objective reports on the 
adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s governance, risk 
management and internal controls. The Committee approves 
Group Audit’s annual plan and receives quarterly reports 
detailing internal audit activity, key findings, management 
responses, and proposed action plans. Group Audit also 
monitors that these actions are completed. The Committee  
also approves the Group Audit Charter. 
During the year, the Committee assessed whether the  
Group Audit function was effective and concluded that it was. 
This included the Committee satisfying itself that the Group 
Audit function has the appropriate resources. 
Additional information 
The Committee has unrestricted access to management and 
external advisers to help discharge its duties. It is satisfied that 
in 2016 it received sufficient, reliable and timely information  
to perform its responsibilities effectively. 
The CEO, CFO, Chief Risk Officer (“CRO”), Group Financial 
Controller and Head of External Reporting are invited to attend 
Audit Committee meetings. The Actuarial Director, external 
actuarial advisers, External Auditor and Group Head of Audit 
are also invited to attend meetings and meet privately with the 
Audit Committee, in the absence of management. The Chief 
Operating Officer is also invited to attend appropriate sections 
of Audit Committee meetings. 
External audit 
The Committee is responsible for overseeing the External 
Auditor and agreeing the audit fee. This also involves 
approving the scope of the External Auditor’s annual plan. 
During the year, the Committee discussed the position on its 
external audit services contract and examined a number of 
options regarding the timing of tendering for the external audit, 
including the mandatory rotation of the Group’s audit firm,  
taking into account the Code and the reforms of the audit market 
by the Competition and Markets Authority and the EU. This 
included whether it was appropriate to tender the external audit 
contract for the year ending 31 December 2018. The Company 
has complied with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services 
for Large Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of 
Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee 
Responsibilities) Order 2014. 
A number of factors were taken into account, including 
anticipated business changes, regulatory developments such  
as the implementation of Solvency II and the approval of the 
Group’s use of its own Internal Model, the expected new 
insurance accounting standard for implementation in 2021  
and the appointment of a new audit partner by Deloitte LLP 
(“Deloitte”) during 2016, following the normal audit partner 
rotation process. The Committee concluded that it was not 
appropriate to tender the external audit contract for the 2018 
year end and, subject to continued effective performance  
by Deloitte, would review the position again early in 2017.  
At that point a decision will be made whether to tender the 
external audit contract for the year ended 31 December 2019 
or defer until a later date. The current audit partner is Colin 
Rawlings who was appointed in advance of the 2016 audit. 
Colin has had no interaction with the Financial Reporting 
Council’s Corporate Reporting Review team.  
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Company’s 
choice of external auditor and no auditor liability agreement 
has been entered into. Equally, any recommendation to 
reappoint Deloitte as auditor of the Company depends on 
continued satisfactory performance. 
 
Note: 
1. The relevant affiliates are U K Insurance Limited and Churchill Insurance Company Limited 
 
  www.directlinegroup.com  67 
Auditor independence and non-audit 
services policy 
The Group has an Independence of External Audit Minimum 
Standard. This establishes parameters for preventing or mitigating 
anything that compromises the External Auditor’s independence  
or objectivity, by virtue of it providing the Group with non-audit 
services. The Committee reviews and refreshes the standard 
annually to make sure it remains appropriate. The standard is 
compliant with the FRCs implementation of the EU Audit Regulation 
and Directive in adopting the list of prohibited non-audit services 
which cannot be provided to the Group. 
Before each financial year, the Committee formally approves a 
list of audit and non-audit services that the External Auditor will 
provide. This is in accordance with the Minimum Standard. 
The Group has delegated authority to the Audit Committee’s 
Chair to approve any non-audit services costing up to 
£100,000. Non-audit services costing over £100,000 
require the Committee’s approval. At least twice a year, the 
Committee receives and reviews a report on all consultancy 
spending, including non-audit services. 
During the year, the Committee approved fees of £0.4 million 
to Deloitte for services unrelated to audit work. The following  
is a breakdown of fees paid to Deloitte for the year ended  
31 December 2016. 
Fees 
£m Proportion
Audit fees
1
 1.8 81.8%
Non-audit fees 0.4 18.2%
Total fees for audit  
and other services 2.2 
The non-audit fee of £0.4 million related to audit assurance 
services and services provided in reviewing the Company’s 
remuneration policy, tax advisory services and an IT project. 
The Committee reviewed how the Group applied its Minimum 
Standard on audit and non-audit services in 2016. It is satisfied 
that the Group has adequate procedures to ensure that the 
External Auditors are independent and objective. 
Effectiveness of the external audit 
process and reappointing Deloitte  
as External Auditors 
In 2016, the Committee assessed the External Auditor’s 
effectiveness. This was in addition to regularly questioning the 
External Auditor during its meetings. The Committee assessed 
the External Auditor through: a detailed questionnaire 
completed by key stakeholders; discussing matters with the 
CFO; formally reviewing Deloitte’s independence; and 
assessing whether it fulfilled the agreed audit plan. 
The Committee, after taking into account all of the information 
available, concluded that Deloitte had performed its 
obligations effectively and appropriately as External Auditor  
to the Group. 
The Committee subsequently recommended to the Board  
that the Group reappoint Deloitte as External Auditor.  
The Group will put a resolution regarding this to shareholders 
at the 2017 AGM. 
The Audit Committee’s effectiveness 
A formal and rigorous annual evaluation of the Committee’s 
performance and effectiveness was undertaken during the 
year. Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School 
facilitated this effectiveness review, and prepared a report 
based on responses from Committee members and other 
stakeholders to a questionnaire and interview. After reviewing 
and discussing the report, the Committee concluded that it was 
operating effectively and has access to sufficient resources to 
perform its duties. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
6 March 2017. 
 
 
Andrew Palmer 
Chair of the Audit Committee 
 
Note: 
1. You can find further information in note 11 to the consolidated  
financial statements. 
www.directlinegroup.com 67
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports continued 
 
68  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Board Risk Committee report 
 
 
Areas of focus in the reporting period
 The Group received approval from the PRA for the use 
of its Group PIM in June 2016, successfully concluding 
a multi-year project. The case study on page 69 details 
how the Committee provided oversight to enable the 
Group to meet the challenges of complying with 
Solvency II and obtain internal model approval. 
 The Committee reviewed an assessment of risk 
behaviours and attitudes undertaken jointly by the  
Risk function and Group Audit, which covered areas 
including: tone from the top; decision making; and risk 
management. The Committee challenged the outputs of 
the assessment and ensured the appropriateness of the 
actions identified. The Committee commended the 
progress made to embed and to demonstrate positive 
culture and behaviours in risk management. 
 With cyber security becoming an increasingly important 
area of focus for companies, the Committee closely 
monitored and challenged activities in relation to IT 
risks, controls and resilience. The Committee reviewed 
the outputs from system penetration testing and reviews 
of risk management and information security, and 
challenged the first and second lines of defence on  
the adequacy of the remediation planning and the 
assessment of the materiality of the issues raised.  
The Committee was satisfied with progress made in the 
continuing development of the IT control environment 
and with the oversight of the IT risks and controls by the 
second line of defence. 
 The Committee scrutinised the Pricing Control 
Framework, and challenged the Group’s risk appetite 
for pricing events. The Committee reviewed the outputs 
of reviews undertaken by Group Audit and an external 
consultancy firm regarding the effectiveness and 
sustainability of controls within the Pricing function.  
The Committee ensured that management undertook 
sufficient root cause analysis and read across of the 
pricing events. The small number of pricing issues  
were non-material and not systemic and the Committee 
was satisfied with the robustness of the control 
environment within the Pricing function and the level  
of management focus. 
 
Responsibilities of the Board Risk 
Committee 
The Committee is responsible for oversight and challenge  
of the Group’s current and potential future risk exposures,  
and its strategic approach to managing risk. The Committee 
recommends risk appetite and tolerance levels to the Board, 
and supports the Board in promoting a risk-aware culture 
across the Group.  
The Committee’s main responsibilities are to: 
 consider and recommend the Group’s risk appetite, 
framework and tolerance to the Board for its approval.  
 review and approve the design and implementation of  
the ERMF, and the procedures for monitoring its adequacy 
and effectiveness. 
 consider the Group’s risk profile relative to current and 
future Group strategy, and to risk appetite. 
 approve the Risk and Compliance function  
operational plans and adequacy of resourcing. 
 review the governance of, and methodology and 
assumptions used in, the Group’s Internal Economic  
Capital Model, approve changes to the model and 
validation thereof. 
 review and recommend the ORSA process and report  
to the Board. 
 review the Group’s procedure for detecting internal  
and external fraud. 
The main role and responsibilities of the BRC are set  
out in written terms of reference and are available at 
www.directlinegroup.co.uk/termsofreference 
Committee composition, skills and 
experience and meetings in the year 
The Committee comprises three independent NEDs:  
Jane Hanson, Andrew Palmer and Richard Ward. You can 
find their biographical information on pages 50 and 51. 
The BRC held six scheduled meetings in 2016. Two 
additional meetings were held to consider IT controls and 
cyber risk; and a review of the Conduct Risk Management 
Framework. Additionally, the Committee held a strategy day 
which considered the Group’s approach to the management 
of risk, the risk oversight model and the operation of the  
Three Lines of Defence model. The table below shows 
attendance at the scheduled meetings: 
 Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Jane Hanson (Chair) 6 of 6 100%
Andrew Palmer 6 of 6 100%
Richard Ward
1,2 
3 of 4 75%
Clare Thompson
1 
1 of 1 100%
Priscilla Vacassin
1 
1 of 1 100%
Notes:  
1.  Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended  
out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend  
2. Dr. Ward was unable to attend one meeting due to an overseas business 
commitment that he had agreed before joining the Board 
 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 68
Jane Hanson
Chair of the Board 
Risk Committee Committee reports continued 
 
68  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Board Risk Committee report 
 
 
Areas of focus in the reporting period
 The Group received approval from the PRA for the use 
of its Group PIM in June 2016, successfully concluding 
a multi-year project. The case study on page 69 details 
how the Committee provided oversight to enable the 
Group to meet the challenges of complying with 
Solvency II and obtain internal model approval. 
 The Committee reviewed an assessment of risk 
behaviours and attitudes undertaken jointly by the  
Risk function and Group Audit, which covered areas 
including: tone from the top; decision making; and risk 
management. The Committee challenged the outputs of 
the assessment and ensured the appropriateness of the 
actions identified. The Committee commended the 
progress made to embed and to demonstrate positive 
culture and behaviours in risk management. 
 With cyber security becoming an increasingly important 
area of focus for companies, the Committee closely 
monitored and challenged activities in relation to IT 
risks, controls and resilience. The Committee reviewed 
the outputs from system penetration testing and reviews 
of risk management and information security, and 
challenged the first and second lines of defence on  
the adequacy of the remediation planning and the 
assessment of the materiality of the issues raised.  
The Committee was satisfied with progress made in the 
continuing development of the IT control environment 
and with the oversight of the IT risks and controls by the 
second line of defence. 
 The Committee scrutinised the Pricing Control 
Framework, and challenged the Group’s risk appetite 
for pricing events. The Committee reviewed the outputs 
of reviews undertaken by Group Audit and an external 
consultancy firm regarding the effectiveness and 
sustainability of controls within the Pricing function.  
The Committee ensured that management undertook 
sufficient root cause analysis and read across of the 
pricing events. The small number of pricing issues  
were non-material and not systemic and the Committee 
was satisfied with the robustness of the control 
environment within the Pricing function and the level  
of management focus. 
 
Responsibilities of the Board Risk 
Committee 
The Committee is responsible for oversight and challenge  
of the Group’s current and potential future risk exposures,  
and its strategic approach to managing risk. The Committee 
recommends risk appetite and tolerance levels to the Board, 
and supports the Board in promoting a risk-aware culture 
across the Group.  
The Committee’s main responsibilities are to: 
 consider and recommend the Group’s risk appetite, 
framework and tolerance to the Board for its approval.  
 review and approve the design and implementation of  
the ERMF, and the procedures for monitoring its adequacy 
and effectiveness. 
 consider the Group’s risk profile relative to current and 
future Group strategy, and to risk appetite. 
 approve the Risk and Compliance function  
operational plans and adequacy of resourcing. 
 review the governance of, and methodology and 
assumptions used in, the Group’s Internal Economic  
Capital Model, approve changes to the model and 
validation thereof. 
 review and recommend the ORSA process and report  
to the Board. 
 review the Group’s procedure for detecting internal  
and external fraud. 
The main role and responsibilities of the BRC are set  
out in written terms of reference and are available at 
www.directlinegroup.co.uk/termsofreference 
Committee composition, skills and 
experience and meetings in the year 
The Committee comprises three independent NEDs:  
Jane Hanson, Andrew Palmer and Richard Ward. You can 
find their biographical information on pages 50 and 51. 
The BRC held six scheduled meetings in 2016. Two 
additional meetings were held to consider IT controls and 
cyber risk; and a review of the Conduct Risk Management 
Framework. Additionally, the Committee held a strategy day 
which considered the Group’s approach to the management 
of risk, the risk oversight model and the operation of the  
Three Lines of Defence model. The table below shows 
attendance at the scheduled meetings: 
 Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Jane Hanson (Chair) 6 of 6 100%
Andrew Palmer 6 of 6 100%
Richard Ward
1,2 
3 of 4 75%
Clare Thompson
1 
1 of 1 100%
Priscilla Vacassin
1 
1 of 1 100%
Notes:  
1.  Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended  
out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend  
2. Dr. Ward was unable to attend one meeting due to an overseas business 
commitment that he had agreed before joining the Board 
 
 
 
   www.directlinegroup.com  69 
Case study: Solvency II  
Having spent 2015 preparing for the implementation of 
Solvency II, the Committee’s focus in 2016 was on providing 
oversight of the process leading up to the Group’s approval 
from the PRA for the use of its PIM and on the calculation  
of the SCR using the Group’s IECM. During the year, the 
Committee received detailed presentations from management 
on the underlying assumptions around the IECM and 
reviewed how the model had been constructed. The 
Committee challenged both the Group’s Solvency II and 
IECM submission, including: 
 IECM uses, particularly in relation to investment matters 
and the setting of the Group’s capital risk appetite under 
Solvency II. 
 The IECM change process and framework, particularly  
in relation to the aggregation of model changes. 
 The IECM validation framework, scope and process, 
including satisfying itself that independent validation was 
focused on the most appropriate areas and there was 
sufficient coverage in specific areas. 
 The Group’s SCR, including the key assumptions and 
dependencies within the calculation methodology such  
as diversification, expert judgements, parameterisation, 
sensitivity testing and the selection of the catastrophe 
model used in the IECM. 
 The method and governance for calculating the Standard 
Formula, and the justification of this capital requirement 
including a comparison to the IECM SCR. 
 The ongoing application of, and controls over, the  
IECM including the annual exercise to compare the  
IECM to the Material Risk Register. 
 
Main activities during the year 
Risk monitoring 
At each scheduled meeting, the Committee received a report 
from the CRO detailing the outputs of regular risk monitoring 
and providing details of specific issues to the Committee.  
The report was enhanced during the year to set out more 
clearly the Group’s current risk profile, the areas of 
management focus and the key activities being undertaken  
by the second line of defence to drive forward the embedding 
of risk management across the Group.  
The Committee received regular reports regarding the three 
strategic risk appetite statements: maintain capital adequacy; 
stable and efficient access to funding and liquidity; and 
maintain stakeholder confidence. The Committee monitored 
the Group’s exposure against these appetites and the lower 
level risk appetite statements, and assessed the drivers that 
affect its risk appetite status. The Committee reviewed and 
questioned the justification regarding the assessment of certain 
risks and the robustness of management action plans to 
address areas close to or outside tolerance. Having regard  
to the extent of change being executed by management,  
the Committee closely monitored change risk.  
The Committee monitored the Group’s risk management and 
internal control systems, and reviewed their effectiveness. This 
covered all material risks, including financial, operational and 
compliance; reviewing the net risk position after the operation 
of controls; and considered the effectiveness of any associated 
mitigating actions and compensating controls.  
The Committee assessed the principal risks facing the Group, 
which you can find listed on pages 27 to 29. The Committee 
achieved this by reviewing and challenging the Group’s 
Material Risk Register in the context of the Group’s risk 
appetite and through consideration of the risk assessment 
contained in the CRO’s report that was discussed at each 
scheduled meeting. 
On behalf of the Board, the Committee also monitored  
the Group’s risk management systems, and reviewed their 
effectiveness. The monitoring and review involved examining 
an assessment of the control environment and material controls 
at Group level, based on directorate-level risk and control self-
assessments. These assessments were subject to challenge  
by the Risk and Group Audit functions. 
Additionally, the Committee considered other subjects in more 
detail at each scheduled meeting. These related to: compliance 
and regulatory risk including oversight of the Group’s regulatory 
relationships; operational risk; financial risk, Solvency II and 
IECM; emerging risks and risk governance.  
  
www.directlinegroup.com 69
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports continued 
 
70  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Customer 
The Group puts the customer at the heart of its business,  
by endeavouring to deliver on its commitments and ensure  
that fairness is a natural outcome of what the Group does.  
The Committee reviewed and challenged reports relating to 
the Group’s conduct towards its customers, to try to ensure 
appropriate customer outcomes, the meeting of reasonable 
customer expectations and to determine that the Group was 
operating within its defined conduct risk appetite, as set  
by the Board. 
Conduct and regulatory risk 
During the year, the Committee considered the Group’s 
compliance with regulatory requirements including conduct  
and financial crime. In particular, the Committee reviewed  
and challenged the effectiveness and level of embedding of 
the Group’s Conduct Risk Management Framework and the 
Group’s approach to complaints reporting under the Financial 
Conduct Authority’s (“FCA”) new definitions. The Committee 
also reviewed the Group’s Regulatory Governance Map and 
received updates on regulatory interactions, particularly with 
the FCA and the PRA. 
The Committee monitored and challenged the outputs from 
reviews of the effectiveness and level of embeddedness of the 
Group’s Conduct Risk Management Framework, in particular 
the findings of the reviews undertaken by the Risk function, 
Group Audit and an external consultancy firm. Challenges 
from the Committee included a need for more emphasis on 
fostering good customer outcomes and greater ownership of 
risk management by the first line of defence. The Committee 
probed management on the activities undertaken and planned 
in relation to culture, and commended the activity being 
undertaken by the Customer Conduct Committee, which 
included a rolling regular monthly assessment against each  
of the FCA’s themes on culture. The Committee was satisfied 
that the Group’s Conduct Risk Management Framework was 
appropriate to enable the identification and escalation of 
conduct risks facing the Group, and to subsequently manage 
and mitigate those risks. 
Additionally, the Committee reviewed and challenged the 
outputs from conduct and compliance assurance reviews. 
Following feedback from the Committee, the assurance plan 
was revised to comprise a monitoring plan and a separate 
thematic assurance plan. The Committee also requested that  
the documentation underpinning the assurance reviews be 
sufficiently robust from a governance and regulatory perspective. 
The Committee received regular reports on the Group’s actions 
to prevent financial crime, including reviewing of the Annual 
Financial Crime Report and the Annual Anti-Bribery and 
Corruption Report. 
Operational risk 
The Committee continues to oversee the development of  
IT controls, including risks relating to IT systems’ stability, cyber 
security and the internal control environment. The Committee 
assessed the level of prevention, protection and detection in 
relation to cyber risk and the residual risk for each of the  
IT control areas, taking into account any compensating 
controls and/or mitigating actions. The Committee questioned 
the impact of system stability issues in relation to customer  
and conduct metrics, including call abandonment rates.  
The Committee also reviewed the proposed IT risk  
appetite statements.  
The Committee received regular updates on the Group’s  
major change programmes, including the next generation  
of customer systems for Personal Lines and Commercial.  
The Committee monitored and examined the oversight and 
challenge of major change initiatives by the Risk function  
and reviewed the outputs of the assurance work undertaken  
by the Risk function and Group Audit. 
The Committee considered the Group’s broader operational  
risk control environment and commissioned reviews by the Risk 
function on controls relating to major third party suppliers and  
the execution of pricing changes. The Committee reviewed the 
issues encountered with the Group’s third party suppliers, and 
challenged the depth and coverage of the assurance approach 
and whether the monitoring was appropriately robust in relation 
to the suppliers. 
Financial risk 
At each meeting, the Committee monitored the Group’s 
performance against capital risk appetite through the CRO’s 
report. Committee members considered risks in the strategic 
plan against risk appetite. During the year Committee 
members also reviewed and challenged the ORSA report  
and subsequently recommended the report for approval to the 
Board. Questions on the ORSA included those in relation to 
stress testing of the strategic plan, distribution risk, internal 
model validation activity and contingent management actions.  
The Committee reviewed and challenged the stress and 
scenario testing plan, and examined the outputs of the reverse 
stress tests undertaken in relation to climate change and  
change risk. 
Risk governance 
Every year, the Committee reviews and approves the  
ERMF, which includes the Group’s Policies and Minimum 
Standards, and the Regulatory Governance Map as part of 
the Group’s Solvency II requirements. The Committee reviewed 
and challenged each Group Policy and the Regulatory 
Governance Map and recommended them for approval by 
the Board. The Committee also considered the results from the 
annual Group assessment of the effectiveness of the internal 
control environment undertaken by each business directorate, 
as well as monitoring controls on an ongoing basis. 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 70 Committee reports continued 
 
70  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Customer 
The Group puts the customer at the heart of its business,  
by endeavouring to deliver on its commitments and ensure  
that fairness is a natural outcome of what the Group does.  
The Committee reviewed and challenged reports relating to 
the Group’s conduct towards its customers, to try to ensure 
appropriate customer outcomes, the meeting of reasonable 
customer expectations and to determine that the Group was 
operating within its defined conduct risk appetite, as set  
by the Board. 
Conduct and regulatory risk 
During the year, the Committee considered the Group’s 
compliance with regulatory requirements including conduct  
and financial crime. In particular, the Committee reviewed  
and challenged the effectiveness and level of embedding of 
the Group’s Conduct Risk Management Framework and the 
Group’s approach to complaints reporting under the Financial 
Conduct Authority’s (“FCA”) new definitions. The Committee 
also reviewed the Group’s Regulatory Governance Map and 
received updates on regulatory interactions, particularly with 
the FCA and the PRA. 
The Committee monitored and challenged the outputs from 
reviews of the effectiveness and level of embeddedness of the 
Group’s Conduct Risk Management Framework, in particular 
the findings of the reviews undertaken by the Risk function, 
Group Audit and an external consultancy firm. Challenges 
from the Committee included a need for more emphasis on 
fostering good customer outcomes and greater ownership of 
risk management by the first line of defence. The Committee 
probed management on the activities undertaken and planned 
in relation to culture, and commended the activity being 
undertaken by the Customer Conduct Committee, which 
included a rolling regular monthly assessment against each  
of the FCA’s themes on culture. The Committee was satisfied 
that the Group’s Conduct Risk Management Framework was 
appropriate to enable the identification and escalation of 
conduct risks facing the Group, and to subsequently manage 
and mitigate those risks. 
Additionally, the Committee reviewed and challenged the 
outputs from conduct and compliance assurance reviews. 
Following feedback from the Committee, the assurance plan 
was revised to comprise a monitoring plan and a separate 
thematic assurance plan. The Committee also requested that  
the documentation underpinning the assurance reviews be 
sufficiently robust from a governance and regulatory perspective. 
The Committee received regular reports on the Group’s actions 
to prevent financial crime, including reviewing of the Annual 
Financial Crime Report and the Annual Anti-Bribery and 
Corruption Report. 
Operational risk 
The Committee continues to oversee the development of  
IT controls, including risks relating to IT systems’ stability, cyber 
security and the internal control environment. The Committee 
assessed the level of prevention, protection and detection in 
relation to cyber risk and the residual risk for each of the  
IT control areas, taking into account any compensating 
controls and/or mitigating actions. The Committee questioned 
the impact of system stability issues in relation to customer  
and conduct metrics, including call abandonment rates.  
The Committee also reviewed the proposed IT risk  
appetite statements.  
The Committee received regular updates on the Group’s  
major change programmes, including the next generation  
of customer systems for Personal Lines and Commercial.  
The Committee monitored and examined the oversight and 
challenge of major change initiatives by the Risk function  
and reviewed the outputs of the assurance work undertaken  
by the Risk function and Group Audit. 
The Committee considered the Group’s broader operational  
risk control environment and commissioned reviews by the Risk 
function on controls relating to major third party suppliers and  
the execution of pricing changes. The Committee reviewed the 
issues encountered with the Group’s third party suppliers, and 
challenged the depth and coverage of the assurance approach 
and whether the monitoring was appropriately robust in relation 
to the suppliers. 
Financial risk 
At each meeting, the Committee monitored the Group’s 
performance against capital risk appetite through the CRO’s 
report. Committee members considered risks in the strategic 
plan against risk appetite. During the year Committee 
members also reviewed and challenged the ORSA report  
and subsequently recommended the report for approval to the 
Board. Questions on the ORSA included those in relation to 
stress testing of the strategic plan, distribution risk, internal 
model validation activity and contingent management actions.  
The Committee reviewed and challenged the stress and 
scenario testing plan, and examined the outputs of the reverse 
stress tests undertaken in relation to climate change and  
change risk. 
Risk governance 
Every year, the Committee reviews and approves the  
ERMF, which includes the Group’s Policies and Minimum 
Standards, and the Regulatory Governance Map as part of 
the Group’s Solvency II requirements. The Committee reviewed 
and challenged each Group Policy and the Regulatory 
Governance Map and recommended them for approval by 
the Board. The Committee also considered the results from the 
annual Group assessment of the effectiveness of the internal 
control environment undertaken by each business directorate, 
as well as monitoring controls on an ongoing basis. 
  
 
 
   www.directlinegroup.com  71 
The Committee considered, challenged and approved  
the Annual Risk and Compliance operational plan. It also 
reviewed the outputs of the assessment of risk behaviours  
and attitudes across the Group, which is part of an ongoing 
process to drive continued improvement in risk behaviours and 
attitudes by providing feedback on current state, highlighting 
areas of good practice and areas for focus. 
Whistleblowing 
The Committee reviews arrangements by which employees 
may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible 
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters 
(“Whistleblowing”). The Committee also reviews reports 
relating to Whistleblowing to ensure arrangements are in 
place for the proportionate and independent investigation  
of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.  
Group Audit undertook an audit in the first quarter of 2016 
which concluded that the Whistleblowing process was 
adequately designed, operating effectively and met the new 
regulatory requirements.  
Remuneration 
During the year, the Committee and the Remuneration 
Committee held a joint meeting. This was to ensure the 
Group’s remuneration arrangements were still appropriate in 
the light of regulatory developments and did not encourage 
excessive risk-taking. As part of this review, the joint 
Committee also considered the Group’s preparedness for 
Solvency II regulations regarding remuneration. This followed 
published requirements, including how the Group would 
assess the performance of individuals in control functions. 
Additional information 
To help discharge its duties, the Committee has unrestricted 
access to management and external advisers. It is satisfied  
that during 2016 it received sufficient, reliable and timely 
information to perform its responsibilities effectively. 
The CEO, CFO, CRO, Group Head of Audit, General 
Counsel and a representative from the External Auditor  
are invited to attend Committee meetings. In addition to 
regular one-to-one meetings with the Chair, the CRO also  
met privately with the Committee without management  
being present. 
The Committee also invites the Director of Group Regulatory 
Risk and Compliance, Director of Financial Risk and Enterprise 
Risk Director to appropriate sections of its meetings. 
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee 
meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting. 
The Board Risk Committee’s 
effectiveness 
A formal and rigorous annual evaluation of the Committee’s 
performance and effectiveness was undertaken during the 
year. Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School 
facilitated this effectiveness review, and prepared a report 
based on responses from Committee members and other 
stakeholders to a questionnaire and interview. After reviewing 
and discussing the report, the Committee concluded that it  
was operating effectively and has access to sufficient 
resources to perform its duties. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
6 March 2017. 
 
 
Jane Hanson 
Chair of the Board Risk Committee 
  
www.directlinegroup.com 71
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports continued 
 
72  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee report 
 
 
Areas of focus in the reporting period
 Overall, the Committee was keen this year to ensure 
that the Group’s CSR activity was as tightly focused  
as possible on those areas where the Group could  
be a real force for good, bring high levels of specific 
expertise and have an authentic voice. 
 As a result, the Committee’s principal focus was  
on “Shotgun”, the CSR initiative designed with the 
ambitious goal of reducing young driver deaths in their 
first 1,000 miles of driving to zero. The case study on 
page 73 shows the scrutiny and interest of the 
Committee in this initiative. 
 At the Committee’s request, the Group’s CSR Manager 
and Head of Investments met with a number of the 
Group’s external asset managers to understand their 
attitudes towards responsible investment. All were able 
to demonstrate clear evidence of their own CSR 
credentials as well as their approach to incorporating 
environmental, social and governance factors into their 
investment processes. 
 The Committee reviewed the Group’s response to  
the 2015 Modern Slavery Act and signed off the 
Group policy and approach to this issue both within  
the Company and with respect to outside suppliers.  
The Committee agreed with management’s assessment 
that the Group’s risk exposure to the requirements of  
the Modern Slavery Act was currently considered to  
be low but should be monitored on an ongoing basis. 
The Committee noted management’s procedures to 
mitigate the risk of a breach in the Group’s supply line.
 The Committee was delighted to note the continued 
strong performance in raising employee engagement 
scores across the Group as measured by the annual 
employee survey and continues to push for initiatives  
to further increase engagement.  
Responsibilities of the CSR Committee 
The CSR Committee oversees and advises on how the  
Group conducts its business responsibly. This includes matters 
relating to environmental, social, governance and ethics. 
The Committee also considers: diversity and inclusion in the 
workplace; employee engagement and wellbeing; community 
engagement activities; and environmental matters. 
The Committee’s main responsibilities are: 
 approving the Group’s CSR strategy and reviewing 
performance against the strategy. 
 reviewing the Group’s performance relating to CSR matters. 
 assessing the Group’s role in society and the Group’s 
external positioning on CSR matters. 
Committee composition, skills and 
experience and meetings in the year 
Sebastian James was appointed Chair of the CSR Committee 
as of 1 March 2016. This appointment was part of the 
changes to the Committees that were announced on 16 
February 2016. 
The Committee comprised two independent NEDs, Sebastian 
James and Jane Hanson, Paul Geddes, CEO, and Simon 
Linares, Group Human Resources Director. You can find their 
biographical information on pages 50 to 52. 
The CSR Committee held three scheduled meetings in 2016. 
This table shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: 
 Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Sebastian James (Chair) 3 of 3 100%
Paul Geddes 3 of 3 100%
Jane Hanson 3 of 3 100%
Simon Linares
12 
2 of 2 100%
Angela Morrison
12 
1 of 1 100%
Notes: 
1.  Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended  
out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend 
2.  Angela Morrison stepped down from the Committee prior to the meeting on 
28 July 2016. Simon Linares was appointed to the Committee at the start of 
the same meeting  
The Head of Public Affairs and Sustainability, and CSR 
Manager are invited to attend CSR Committee meetings.  
As executive sponsors of the strands of the CSR strategy, the 
Managing Director of Personal Lines, the Chief Operating 
Officer and the Managing Director of Commercial attend 
appropriate sections of Committee meetings. 
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee 
meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting. 
Main activities during the year 
The Committee monitors the implementation of the CSR 
strategy through regular updates on the different focus  
areas and challenges the robustness of and progress against 
the targets relating to each strand of the CSR strategy.  
The Committee also receives a report on CSR developments  
at each of its meetings. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 72
Sebastian James
Chair of the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee Committee reports continued 
 
72  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee report 
 
 
Areas of focus in the reporting period
 Overall, the Committee was keen this year to ensure 
that the Group’s CSR activity was as tightly focused  
as possible on those areas where the Group could  
be a real force for good, bring high levels of specific 
expertise and have an authentic voice. 
 As a result, the Committee’s principal focus was  
on “Shotgun”, the CSR initiative designed with the 
ambitious goal of reducing young driver deaths in their 
first 1,000 miles of driving to zero. The case study on 
page 73 shows the scrutiny and interest of the 
Committee in this initiative. 
 At the Committee’s request, the Group’s CSR Manager 
and Head of Investments met with a number of the 
Group’s external asset managers to understand their 
attitudes towards responsible investment. All were able 
to demonstrate clear evidence of their own CSR 
credentials as well as their approach to incorporating 
environmental, social and governance factors into their 
investment processes. 
 The Committee reviewed the Group’s response to  
the 2015 Modern Slavery Act and signed off the 
Group policy and approach to this issue both within  
the Company and with respect to outside suppliers.  
The Committee agreed with management’s assessment 
that the Group’s risk exposure to the requirements of  
the Modern Slavery Act was currently considered to  
be low but should be monitored on an ongoing basis. 
The Committee noted management’s procedures to 
mitigate the risk of a breach in the Group’s supply line.
 The Committee was delighted to note the continued 
strong performance in raising employee engagement 
scores across the Group as measured by the annual 
employee survey and continues to push for initiatives  
to further increase engagement.  
Responsibilities of the CSR Committee 
The CSR Committee oversees and advises on how the  
Group conducts its business responsibly. This includes matters 
relating to environmental, social, governance and ethics. 
The Committee also considers: diversity and inclusion in the 
workplace; employee engagement and wellbeing; community 
engagement activities; and environmental matters. 
The Committee’s main responsibilities are: 
 approving the Group’s CSR strategy and reviewing 
performance against the strategy. 
 reviewing the Group’s performance relating to CSR matters. 
 assessing the Group’s role in society and the Group’s 
external positioning on CSR matters. 
Committee composition, skills and 
experience and meetings in the year 
Sebastian James was appointed Chair of the CSR Committee 
as of 1 March 2016. This appointment was part of the 
changes to the Committees that were announced on 16 
February 2016. 
The Committee comprised two independent NEDs, Sebastian 
James and Jane Hanson, Paul Geddes, CEO, and Simon 
Linares, Group Human Resources Director. You can find their 
biographical information on pages 50 to 52. 
The CSR Committee held three scheduled meetings in 2016. 
This table shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: 
 Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Sebastian James (Chair) 3 of 3 100%
Paul Geddes 3 of 3 100%
Jane Hanson 3 of 3 100%
Simon Linares
12 
2 of 2 100%
Angela Morrison
12 
1 of 1 100%
Notes: 
1.  Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended  
out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend 
2.  Angela Morrison stepped down from the Committee prior to the meeting on 
28 July 2016. Simon Linares was appointed to the Committee at the start of 
the same meeting  
The Head of Public Affairs and Sustainability, and CSR 
Manager are invited to attend CSR Committee meetings.  
As executive sponsors of the strands of the CSR strategy, the 
Managing Director of Personal Lines, the Chief Operating 
Officer and the Managing Director of Commercial attend 
appropriate sections of Committee meetings. 
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee 
meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting. 
Main activities during the year 
The Committee monitors the implementation of the CSR 
strategy through regular updates on the different focus  
areas and challenges the robustness of and progress against 
the targets relating to each strand of the CSR strategy.  
The Committee also receives a report on CSR developments  
at each of its meetings. 
 
 
   www.directlinegroup.com  73 
Case study: Shotgun 
The Committee’s principal focus in the reporting period was 
on Shotgun, the CSR initiative developed by management 
with the goal of reaching ‘no young driver deaths in their 
first 1,000 miles of driving’. This is a goal across the UK 
irrespective of whether the young driver is insured with the 
Group or not.  
The Committee scrutinised the development of the  
initiative, the consumer research, the reward partners, the 
communications campaign and the design and build of the 
app. The Committee questioned the rationale for the name 
‘Shotgun’, and probed management on the designs and 
visual identity of the app. The Committee also requested 
that management implement controls to help ensure that  
the potential for negative behaviours was mitigated. 
The Committee examined the communications brief, 
particularly the advertising and use of social media.  
The Committee was especially interested in maximising  
the reach and power of the app, and in making sure that 
the marketing was appropriate and powerful and made  
use of all appropriate channels (focused on the digital  
and social channels).  
The Committee reviewed the evaluation framework and 
provided feedback on the effectiveness measures, including 
in relation to attitudes, behaviours and impacts. A key area 
of the Committee’s focus was to challenge the robustness  
of the development and testing to ensure the product was 
launched successfully and functioning as intended. 
CSR strategy 
The Group’s CSR strategy focuses on four areas. A member  
of the Executive Committee sponsors each area. They are: 
 Helping to make our society safer (Shotgun):  
Mike Holliday-Williams, MD Personal Lines. 
 Proud to be here: Simon Linares, Group Human Resources 
Director. 
 Being recognised as part of our communities:  
Jon Greenwood, MD Commercial. 
 Reduce, Reuse and Recycle: Steve Maddock,  
Chief Operating Officer. 
You can find out more about the Group’s CSR approach  
and priorities in the CSR report on pages 30 to 33. 
Helping to make our society safer 
During the year, the Committee received progress updates  
at each meeting on Shotgun. The Committee also received 
reports on the project to sponsor lollipop people for schools 
(Lollipoppers). You can find further details on the Shotgun 
manifesto in the CSR report on page 30.  
Proud to be here 
The primary objective of this strand was to improve  
employee engagement in order to support a key enabler  
of the Group’s 2016 strategy. The KPIs for this element  
are linked to the People Strategy and focus on employee 
engagement and wellbeing. 
Being recognised as part of our communities 
The Committee received reports about how the Group was 
strengthening the level of support provided to the network  
of Community and Social Committees operating at the  
Group’s main office locations. The Committee challenged  
the main targets which related to volunteering, fund raising, 
matched payroll giving and the Community Cashback scheme. 
The ‘One Day’ volunteering initiative and Community Cashback 
scheme continued to be considered the two areas with the 
greatest potential for impact. These arrangements encourage 
colleagues to take part and raise funds for local causes. 
Reduce, Reuse and Recycle 
This strand of the strategy considers energy use, waste 
management and resource use within the Group’s operations 
and environmental and social matters in the Group’s supply 
chain. The Committee reviewed the key objectives related to 
reducing greenhouse gas emissions, diverting waste from 
landfill, and challenged the targets, including the new targets 
for waste recycling across the Group’s accident and repair 
centres. The Committee encouraged management to pursue 
their proposed initiative relating to the use of reconditioned 
automotive parts in order to reduce embedded energy usage, 
waste and landfill. 
CSR activities 
The Committee was kept up to date with the Group’s external 
positioning, including the Group’s stakeholders and its 
approach to managing the external relationships, including 
use of the corporate website and the AGM. The Committee 
continues to challenge management’s approach to ensure that 
it is strategic and continues to focus on initiatives with the 
potential to add discernible value. 
The Committee monitored the Group’s performance against 
the targets set in relation to CSR KPIs. 
The Committee reviewed the CSR-related feedback received 
from proxy voting advisers following publication of the 
Company’s 2015 Annual Report & Accounts and the Notice 
of 2016 AGM and encouraged management to consider 
addressing the relevant feedback. 
The CSR Committee’s effectiveness 
A formal and rigorous annual evaluation of the Committee’s 
performance and effectiveness was undertaken during the 
year. Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School 
facilitated this effectiveness review, and prepared a report 
based on responses from Committee members and other 
stakeholders to a questionnaire and interview. After reviewing 
and discussing the report, the Committee concluded that it was 
operating effectively and has access to sufficient resources to 
perform its duties. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
6 March 2017. 
 
 
Sebastian James 
Chair of the CSR Committee  
www.directlinegroup.com 73
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports continued 
 
74  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Investment Committee report 
 
 
Areas of focus in the reporting period
 A slowing global economy, a “lower for longer”  
interest rate outlook and the EU Referendum shaped  
the Committee’s concerns when it met in January 2016. 
The case study on page 75 details how the Committee 
met the challenge of ensuring: the Company was 
prepared in advance of the EU Referendum vote; and  
the investment portfolio was appropriately positioned  
to respond to events after the vote to leave the EU.  
 The in-house Investment team undertook a material 
change of outsource arrangements during the year, 
moving custody, treasury banking, middle-office and 
collateral activities to a new provider. The Committee 
monitored delivery of key milestones and challenged 
reasons for changes to project plans. The project was 
executed successfully in 2016. 
 As part of management’s drive to deliver a cost-effective 
investment operating model, the Committee has 
scrutinised a proposal from management to bring  
certain UK investment grade credit assets in house.  
The Committee challenged whether the Investment team 
was in a position to manage in-house a wider range  
of holdings before approving this initiative.  
 With the compression in UK yields following the vote to 
leave the EU, the Committee was concerned to ensure 
investment discipline remained paramount within new 
asset classes still being invested to full allocations and 
investment income budgeting continued to be based on 
conservative assumptions. The Committee received a 
presentation from the external asset manager responsible 
for the CRE loans portfolio and reviewed the assumptions 
underpinning management’s projections of investment 
income over 2017-20. In both cases, the Committee 
was satisfied with responses received to questions  
raised at respective presentations. 
 Following the implementation of Solvency II, the 
Committee wanted to understand: (a) how well 
management was planning for, and resourcing, the 
additional reporting on assets and derivatives required 
under Pillar III; and (b) whether there was sufficient 
evidence of application of the Prudent Person Principle 
(“PPP”) to investment activities. Following review the 
Committee was satisfied that appropriate levels of 
delegation to management had been put in place; and 
that management were robustly reviewing investment and 
risk against the PPP guidelines. 
Responsibilities of the Investment 
Committee 
The Committee is responsible for the oversight of how  
the Group develops its investment strategy. It also oversees  
the management and performance of the Group’s  
investment portfolio. 
The Committee’s main responsibilities are to: 
 examine the rationale for, and the risks and financial 
implications of, any proposed changes to the Group’s 
investment strategy and, where agreed, recommend  
these changes to the Board. 
 consider and approve material changes to the risk 
framework that underpins investment activity, and any 
proposals to change the operating model. This typically 
relates to how outsource service providers are used. 
 review global financial market developments and  
changes to the regulatory environment, and consider  
the ongoing appropriateness of investment activities  
in light of such developments. 
 monitor the results from investment activities, namely 
adequacy of financial results delivered, compliance  
with agreed risk tolerances and external service provider 
performance. The Committee also ensures that any  
material breaches are reported to the BRC. 
Committee composition, skills and 
experience and meetings in the year 
The Committee comprises two independent NEDs:  
Andrew Palmer and Jane Hanson. You can find their 
biographical information on pages 50 and 51. 
Andrew Palmer was appointed Chair of the Committee as of 
1 March 2016. This appointment was part of the changes to 
the Committees that were announced on 16 February 2016. 
The Investment Committee held four scheduled meetings  
in 2016. The table below shows attendance at the  
scheduled meetings: 
 Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Andrew Palmer (Chair) 4 of 4 100 %
Jane Hanson 4 of 4 100 %
Clare Thompson
1 
1 of 1 100 %
Note:  
1.  Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended  
out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend 
The CEO, CFO, CRO, Director of Investment Management 
and Treasury, and Director of Financial Risk are invited to 
attend Committee meetings.  
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee 
meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting. 
 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 74
Andrew Palmer
Chair of the  
Investment Committee Committee reports continued 
 
74  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Investment Committee report 
 
 
Areas of focus in the reporting period
 A slowing global economy, a “lower for longer”  
interest rate outlook and the EU Referendum shaped  
the Committee’s concerns when it met in January 2016. 
The case study on page 75 details how the Committee 
met the challenge of ensuring: the Company was 
prepared in advance of the EU Referendum vote; and  
the investment portfolio was appropriately positioned  
to respond to events after the vote to leave the EU.  
 The in-house Investment team undertook a material 
change of outsource arrangements during the year, 
moving custody, treasury banking, middle-office and 
collateral activities to a new provider. The Committee 
monitored delivery of key milestones and challenged 
reasons for changes to project plans. The project was 
executed successfully in 2016. 
 As part of management’s drive to deliver a cost-effective 
investment operating model, the Committee has 
scrutinised a proposal from management to bring  
certain UK investment grade credit assets in house.  
The Committee challenged whether the Investment team 
was in a position to manage in-house a wider range  
of holdings before approving this initiative.  
 With the compression in UK yields following the vote to 
leave the EU, the Committee was concerned to ensure 
investment discipline remained paramount within new 
asset classes still being invested to full allocations and 
investment income budgeting continued to be based on 
conservative assumptions. The Committee received a 
presentation from the external asset manager responsible 
for the CRE loans portfolio and reviewed the assumptions 
underpinning management’s projections of investment 
income over 2017-20. In both cases, the Committee 
was satisfied with responses received to questions  
raised at respective presentations. 
 Following the implementation of Solvency II, the 
Committee wanted to understand: (a) how well 
management was planning for, and resourcing, the 
additional reporting on assets and derivatives required 
under Pillar III; and (b) whether there was sufficient 
evidence of application of the Prudent Person Principle 
(“PPP”) to investment activities. Following review the 
Committee was satisfied that appropriate levels of 
delegation to management had been put in place; and 
that management were robustly reviewing investment and 
risk against the PPP guidelines. 
Responsibilities of the Investment 
Committee 
The Committee is responsible for the oversight of how  
the Group develops its investment strategy. It also oversees  
the management and performance of the Group’s  
investment portfolio. 
The Committee’s main responsibilities are to: 
 examine the rationale for, and the risks and financial 
implications of, any proposed changes to the Group’s 
investment strategy and, where agreed, recommend  
these changes to the Board. 
 consider and approve material changes to the risk 
framework that underpins investment activity, and any 
proposals to change the operating model. This typically 
relates to how outsource service providers are used. 
 review global financial market developments and  
changes to the regulatory environment, and consider  
the ongoing appropriateness of investment activities  
in light of such developments. 
 monitor the results from investment activities, namely 
adequacy of financial results delivered, compliance  
with agreed risk tolerances and external service provider 
performance. The Committee also ensures that any  
material breaches are reported to the BRC. 
Committee composition, skills and 
experience and meetings in the year 
The Committee comprises two independent NEDs:  
Andrew Palmer and Jane Hanson. You can find their 
biographical information on pages 50 and 51. 
Andrew Palmer was appointed Chair of the Committee as of 
1 March 2016. This appointment was part of the changes to 
the Committees that were announced on 16 February 2016. 
The Investment Committee held four scheduled meetings  
in 2016. The table below shows attendance at the  
scheduled meetings: 
 Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Andrew Palmer (Chair) 4 of 4 100 %
Jane Hanson 4 of 4 100 %
Clare Thompson
1 
1 of 1 100 %
Note:  
1.  Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended  
out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend 
The CEO, CFO, CRO, Director of Investment Management 
and Treasury, and Director of Financial Risk are invited to 
attend Committee meetings.  
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee 
meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting. 
 
  
 
   www.directlinegroup.com  75 
Case study: EU referendum 
In preparation for the UK’s EU membership referendum, the 
Committee met economists from a major financial institution 
in April 2016 to obtain an independent third party view of 
the likely economic consequences of a vote to either remain 
in, or leave, the EU. In addition, the Committee requested 
an update from management regarding preparations  
in advance of the vote. The Committee concluded that 
preparations, including plans to ensure access to liquidity  
to meet customer payments, and to support collateral calls, 
were well developed. In the period following the vote, 
management updated both the Board and the Committee 
on market conditions, and in particular the impact of 
Sterling’s depreciation against both the US Dollar and  
the Euro on collateral calls for open foreign exchange 
forward positions. 
Concerned that the leave vote could lead to a period  
of recession in the UK, the Committee (at its meeting  
in July 2016) requested management to carry out a 
comprehensive study of all Sterling assets held in the 
portfolio, in addition to considering any appropriate wider 
stresses on the entire portfolio, and make recommendations 
as necessary to position the portfolio for a recession. The 
Committee reviewed the study conclusions at its subsequent 
meeting, noting that the portfolio was very well diversified 
and certain illiquid asset classes had been built defensively 
from the outset, given the Company was a long-term investor 
and thus expected to be subject to periods of market 
turbulence from time to time. Management advised the 
Committee of some minor sales within the portfolio designed 
to provide some further defensive positioning, which was  
in part, the result of examining a recessionary outlook. 
Main activities during the year 
At every scheduled meeting the Committee receives a market 
update from the Director of Investment Management and 
Treasury. This includes a report on the economic conditions  
in the UK, United States of America and the Eurozone; an 
update on commodity prices, credit markets and interest  
rates; and anything appropriate for the Committee to know. 
Investment strategy 
The Investment strategy was materially changed in 2015. 
Because of this, the Committee spent its time reviewing and 
challenging the new investments. The Committee focused on 
the three new asset mandates; two investing in global credit 
and subordinated financial credit, and one investing in Sterling 
CRE loans which was a new asset class in the Group’s 
investment portfolio. 
Risk framework and operating model 
As reported in the Annual Report & Accounts 2015, the 
Committee agreed to proposals to move custody and  
middle-office services to a new provider. The Committee 
ensured it received regular updates on the project, including 
implementation and the benefits achieved since the transfer. 
The final part of the transfer was completed successfully in 
November 2016.  
Monitoring investment activity and performance 
The Committee monitored the performance of investments 
every quarter. It also received reports from the Director of 
Investment Management and Treasury on various matters. 
These included: key market developments; financial results 
from investment activity; investment performance versus 
benchmark for internally and externally managed portfolios; 
operational performance by the custodian and other service 
providers; and compliance with risk limits and internal 
delegated authorities. The Committee also received 
presentations from external asset managers on their 
performance against benchmark. 
Solvency II 
The Committee examined progress on initiatives linked  
to preparing for Solvency II, notably: 
 preparing a liquidity plan and contingent management 
actions. 
 developing various asset and derivative reports to submit  
to the PRA and European Insurance and Occupational 
Pensions Authority. 
 restructuring the securitised credit portfolio to meet Solvency 
II requirements. 
The Investment Committee’s 
effectiveness 
A formal and rigorous annual evaluation of the Committee’s 
performance and effectiveness was undertaken during the 
year. Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School 
facilitated this effectiveness review, and prepared a report 
based on responses from Committee members and other 
stakeholders to a questionnaire and interview. After reviewing 
and discussing the report, the Committee concluded that it was 
operating effectively and has access to sufficient resources to 
perform its duties. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
6 March 2017. 
 
 
Andrew Palmer 
Chair of the Investment Committee 
  
www.directlinegroup.com 75
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports continued 
 
76  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Nomination Committee report 
 
Areas of focus in the reporting period
 An active Nomination Committee is vital for promoting 
effective Board and executive succession. During 2016, 
the majority of the Committee’s time was devoted to 
considering the composition of the Board. It ensured  
that the recruitment process for Non-Executive Directors 
identified the skills and experience that the Board needs 
to be able to challenge and support senior management 
in developing and executing the Group’s strategy. It 
also reviewed executive succession planning, to ensure 
that the Group’s future leadership will have the qualities 
needed for the strategic and cultural development  
of the business. The case study on page 77 details the 
activities undertaken by the Committee during 2016  
on succession planning for the Board and management.
 As part of its focus on executive succession planning, 
and to improve gender and other diversity in the 
Group’s senior management, the Committee 
encouraged management to develop its talent pipeline. 
This is being achieved by the systematic assessment of 
potential, bespoke personal coaching and development 
plans for high-potential employees. The Committee also 
encouraged the targeted recruitment of new senior 
executives to strengthen leadership and capability in 
disciplines including strategic development, change 
management, IT, claims management, data, finance 
and procurement. 
 During the reporting period, the Committee oversaw the 
appointments to the Board of: Richard Ward as Senior 
Independent Director; Danuta Gray as an independent 
Non-Executive Director; and Mike Holliday-Williams, 
MD Personal Lines, as an Executive Director. The 
Committee recommended changes to the membership 
of the Board’s Committees to make the best use of 
Directors’ experience and expertise. 
 The Committee agreed the choice of Egon Zehnder  
as search agent and the profile and criteria to be used 
in the search which culminated in the appointment of 
Danuta Gray. In view of the lead time for identifying 
candidates and obtaining regulatory approval in 
advance of their appointment, and with the aim of 
ensuring continuity and stability in the Board’s 
succession planning, the Committee has engaged  
Egon Zehnder in a search for further Non-Executive 
Director candidates.  
 
Responsibilities of the Nomination 
Committee 
The Committee is responsible for leading the process for 
Board appointments and making recommendations to the 
Board. It keeps the Board's structure, size, composition, and 
balance of skills, experience, independence and expertise 
under review. It also provides guidance to management on 
executive succession planning. 
The Committee’s main responsibilities are: 
 considering and recommending to the Board matters 
regarding appointment of Directors, membership and 
chairmanship of Board Committees. 
 succession planning for Directors and other senior 
executives, accounting for the skills and expertise the  
Group needs to deliver its strategy. 
 keeping under review the leadership needs of the Group. 
 reviewing the Non-Executive Directors’ continued 
independence. 
 considering and recommending to the Board the Directors’ 
annual re-election and reappointment at the end of their 
term in office. 
The Nomination Committee’s main role and responsibilities  
are set out in written terms of reference and are available at 
www.directlinegroup.co.uk/termsofreference 
Committee composition, skills and 
experience, and meetings in the year 
The Committee comprises the Chairman, Mike Biggs, and  
two independent Non-Executive Directors: Andrew Palmer and 
Richard Ward. You can find their biographical information on 
pages 50 to 51. 
The Committee held three scheduled meetings in 2016.  
It also held eight additional meetings to consider succession 
planning and to deal with: the appointment of Richard Ward 
as Senior Independent Director; membership of the Board’s 
Committees; searching and appointing Danuta Gray as a 
Non-Executive Director; appointing Mike Holliday-Williams  
as an Executive Director; and appointing an external board 
effectiveness facilitator.  
This table shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: 
 Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Mike Biggs (Chair) 3 of 3 100%
Andrew Palmer 3 of 3 100%
Priscilla Vacassin
1
 1 of 1 100%
Richard Ward
1 
2 of 2 100%
Note: 
1. Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended  
out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend 
The CEO and the Group Human Resources Director are 
invited to attend Committee meetings.  
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee 
meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting. 
 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 76
Mike Biggs
Chair of the  
Nomination  
Committee Committee reports continued 
 
76  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Nomination Committee report 
 
Areas of focus in the reporting period
 An active Nomination Committee is vital for promoting 
effective Board and executive succession. During 2016, 
the majority of the Committee’s time was devoted to 
considering the composition of the Board. It ensured  
that the recruitment process for Non-Executive Directors 
identified the skills and experience that the Board needs 
to be able to challenge and support senior management 
in developing and executing the Group’s strategy. It 
also reviewed executive succession planning, to ensure 
that the Group’s future leadership will have the qualities 
needed for the strategic and cultural development  
of the business. The case study on page 77 details the 
activities undertaken by the Committee during 2016  
on succession planning for the Board and management.
 As part of its focus on executive succession planning, 
and to improve gender and other diversity in the 
Group’s senior management, the Committee 
encouraged management to develop its talent pipeline. 
This is being achieved by the systematic assessment of 
potential, bespoke personal coaching and development 
plans for high-potential employees. The Committee also 
encouraged the targeted recruitment of new senior 
executives to strengthen leadership and capability in 
disciplines including strategic development, change 
management, IT, claims management, data, finance 
and procurement. 
 During the reporting period, the Committee oversaw the 
appointments to the Board of: Richard Ward as Senior 
Independent Director; Danuta Gray as an independent 
Non-Executive Director; and Mike Holliday-Williams, 
MD Personal Lines, as an Executive Director. The 
Committee recommended changes to the membership 
of the Board’s Committees to make the best use of 
Directors’ experience and expertise. 
 The Committee agreed the choice of Egon Zehnder  
as search agent and the profile and criteria to be used 
in the search which culminated in the appointment of 
Danuta Gray. In view of the lead time for identifying 
candidates and obtaining regulatory approval in 
advance of their appointment, and with the aim of 
ensuring continuity and stability in the Board’s 
succession planning, the Committee has engaged  
Egon Zehnder in a search for further Non-Executive 
Director candidates.  
 
Responsibilities of the Nomination 
Committee 
The Committee is responsible for leading the process for 
Board appointments and making recommendations to the 
Board. It keeps the Board's structure, size, composition, and 
balance of skills, experience, independence and expertise 
under review. It also provides guidance to management on 
executive succession planning. 
The Committee’s main responsibilities are: 
 considering and recommending to the Board matters 
regarding appointment of Directors, membership and 
chairmanship of Board Committees. 
 succession planning for Directors and other senior 
executives, accounting for the skills and expertise the  
Group needs to deliver its strategy. 
 keeping under review the leadership needs of the Group. 
 reviewing the Non-Executive Directors’ continued 
independence. 
 considering and recommending to the Board the Directors’ 
annual re-election and reappointment at the end of their 
term in office. 
The Nomination Committee’s main role and responsibilities  
are set out in written terms of reference and are available at 
www.directlinegroup.co.uk/termsofreference 
Committee composition, skills and 
experience, and meetings in the year 
The Committee comprises the Chairman, Mike Biggs, and  
two independent Non-Executive Directors: Andrew Palmer and 
Richard Ward. You can find their biographical information on 
pages 50 to 51. 
The Committee held three scheduled meetings in 2016.  
It also held eight additional meetings to consider succession 
planning and to deal with: the appointment of Richard Ward 
as Senior Independent Director; membership of the Board’s 
Committees; searching and appointing Danuta Gray as a 
Non-Executive Director; appointing Mike Holliday-Williams  
as an Executive Director; and appointing an external board 
effectiveness facilitator.  
This table shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: 
 Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Mike Biggs (Chair) 3 of 3 100%
Andrew Palmer 3 of 3 100%
Priscilla Vacassin
1
 1 of 1 100%
Richard Ward
1 
2 of 2 100%
Note: 
1. Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended  
out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend 
The CEO and the Group Human Resources Director are 
invited to attend Committee meetings.  
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee 
meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting. 
 
 
 
   www.directlinegroup.com  77 
Case study: succession planning 
Your Board needs a balance of experience, expertise and 
diversity, to support the quality of the Board’s debate and 
to be able to encourage and challenge senior management 
to develop and execute a sustainable strategy. In addition 
to its three scheduled formal meetings, the Committee 
convened a further eight meetings throughout 2016 to 
pursue its succession planning agenda. The Committee 
oversaw the process of recruiting a new Non-Executive 
Director following Priscilla Vacassin’s retirement from the 
Board in March 2016. With the objective of staggering 
Non-Executive Directors’ terms of appointment to ensure 
continuity and stability, the Committee also launched a 
search for a further two Non-Executive Directors in the last 
quarter of the year. Since the year end, Danuta Gray has 
been appointed as a Non-Executive Director and Mike 
Holliday-Williams, MD Personal Lines, has been appointed 
as an Executive Director.  
The Committee has actively supported the management 
team in generating and maintaining a pipeline of 
potential future leaders who reflect the Group’s diversity 
and cultural values and who contribute to and develop  
the capability to evolve the business and drive good 
outcomes for all our customers and stakeholders.  
The Committee has encouraged management to identify 
and develop high potential individuals, and create a 
working environment in which our talented women can also 
rise to senior management positions. The Committee will 
monitor progress in achieving the targets committed to by 
the Group in subscribing to the Women in Finance Charter. 
Main activities during the year 
Succession planning 
The Committee places great importance on Board and executive 
succession planning and monitors its progress as a standing 
agenda item at each of its scheduled meetings. The Committee 
guides management in executive succession planning. 
Board composition 
During the year, the Committee: considered the Board’s skills 
and experience; reviewed the structure, size and composition 
of the Board; reviewed the membership and chairmanship  
of the Board’s Committees; and reviewed Non-Executive 
Directors’ letters of appointment, terms of appointment and 
time commitment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Board changes 
The Company appointed Richard Ward as Senior 
Independent Director on 18 January 2016. Priscilla Vacassin 
stepped down from the Board on 1 March 2016 and the 
Committee recommended to the Board a number of changes 
to the chairmanship and membership of the Board’s 
Committees, which the Board subsequently approved and 
were announced on 16 February 2016. The Committee also 
recommended the appointment of Richard Ward as a member 
of the BRC, which the Board subsequently approved. 
Following a recommendation from the Committee, the Board 
appointed Danuta Gray as a Non-Executive Director, and 
Mike Holliday-Williams, Managing Director Personal Lines,  
as an Executive Director on 1 February 2017. Following  
a further recommendation from the Committee, the Board 
approved the appointment of Danuta Gray as a member  
of the Remuneration Committee on 6 March 2017. 
Board appointment and reappointment process 
The Committee oversaw the process to appoint Danuta Gray 
as a Non-Executive Director. The Committee reviewed the 
Board members’ expertise and experience. It then produced  
a detailed brief and engaged external search consultants, 
Egon Zehnder, to find suitable candidates. Egon Zehnder  
is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for executive 
search firms. It is not connected in any way to the Company. 
Egon Zehnder prepared a long list of candidates of appropriate 
merit from diverse backgrounds. The Committee agreed a 
shortlist and interviewed candidates. It then approached the PRA 
and FCA for approval, and recommended appointing Danuta 
Gray as a Non-Executive Director to the Board. The Committee 
recommended the appointment of Mike Holliday-Williams to the 
Board in recognition of his leadership of the Personal Lines 
business and to leverage his expertise for the benefit of all of the 
Group’s businesses.  
As Danuta Gray and Mike Holliday-Williams were appointed 
since the last AGM, they will submit themselves for election  
at the Company’s 2017 AGM. Danuta Gray is considered 
independent within the Code’s meaning.  
Electing and re-electing Directors 
Before recommending the proposed election and re-election  
of Directors at the 2016 AGM, the Committee reviewed the 
independence of Non-Executive Directors. It concluded that  
Jane Hanson, Sebastian James, Andrew Palmer, Clare 
Thompson and Richard Ward were all independent within  
the Code’s meaning. Andrew Palmer has served on the Board 
since March 2011, and his performance and independence 
were subject to a particularly rigorous review by the Committee 
pursuant to the requirements of the Code. The Board is satisfied 
that he remains independent, continues to make a significant 
contribution to the Board and its Committees, and provides 
valuable continuity to the Board. Mike Biggs was independent 
when appointed as Chairman. The Committee recommended  
to the Board and shareholders to elect and re-elect all serving 
Directors at the Company’s 2016 AGM. 
www.directlinegroup.com 77
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports continued 
 
78  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Diversity 
The Group celebrates the diversity of its workforce. It seeks  
to recruit the best candidates for all positions throughout the 
business. At the date of this report, three of the Group’s 10 
Directors are women, which equates to 30% of the Board. 
This exceeds the target set in Lord Davies’ Women on Boards 
Review Five Year Summary published in October 2015,  
to be achieved by 2020. The Board also acknowledges  
the benefits of diversity. 
You can find out more about the Group’s approach to  
diversity in the CSR report on pages 32 and 33. 
Board Effectiveness Review 
In the three-year cycle recommended by the Code, 2016  
was the year in which the Company should appoint  
an external facilitator to run the Board and Committee 
effectiveness review. The Nomination Committee scrutinised  
a list of potential external facilitators drawn up by the 
Company Secretary and recommended the appointment  
of Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School, whose 
field of expertise is organisational behaviour and leadership 
development. The Board subsequently approved his 
appointment as the external facilitator. 
The Nomination Committee’s effectiveness 
A formal and rigorous annual evaluation of the Committee’s 
performance and effectiveness was undertaken during the 
year. Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School 
facilitated this effectiveness review, and prepared a report 
based on responses from Committee members and other 
stakeholders to a questionnaire and interview. After reviewing 
and discussing the report, the Committee concluded that it  
was operating effectively and has access to sufficient 
resources to perform its duties. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
6 March 2017. 
 
 
Michael N Biggs 
Chair of the Nomination Committee 
 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 78 Committee reports continued 
 
78  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Diversity 
The Group celebrates the diversity of its workforce. It seeks  
to recruit the best candidates for all positions throughout the 
business. At the date of this report, three of the Group’s 10 
Directors are women, which equates to 30% of the Board. 
This exceeds the target set in Lord Davies’ Women on Boards 
Review Five Year Summary published in October 2015,  
to be achieved by 2020. The Board also acknowledges  
the benefits of diversity. 
You can find out more about the Group’s approach to  
diversity in the CSR report on pages 32 and 33. 
Board Effectiveness Review 
In the three-year cycle recommended by the Code, 2016  
was the year in which the Company should appoint  
an external facilitator to run the Board and Committee 
effectiveness review. The Nomination Committee scrutinised  
a list of potential external facilitators drawn up by the 
Company Secretary and recommended the appointment  
of Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School, whose 
field of expertise is organisational behaviour and leadership 
development. The Board subsequently approved his 
appointment as the external facilitator. 
The Nomination Committee’s effectiveness 
A formal and rigorous annual evaluation of the Committee’s 
performance and effectiveness was undertaken during the 
year. Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School 
facilitated this effectiveness review, and prepared a report 
based on responses from Committee members and other 
stakeholders to a questionnaire and interview. After reviewing 
and discussing the report, the Committee concluded that it  
was operating effectively and has access to sufficient 
resources to perform its duties. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
6 March 2017. 
 
 
Michael N Biggs 
Chair of the Nomination Committee 
 
  
 
 
   www.directlinegroup.com  79 
Remuneration Committee report 
 
Areas of focus in the reporting period
 The Directors’ remuneration policy was approved at the 
Company’s 2014 AGM, and the Company is required 
to submit a new remuneration policy for shareholder 
approval at the 2017 AGM. The case study on  
page 80 explains how the Committee: reviewed  
the remuneration policy; challenged how Directors’ 
reward structures were aligned to the Group’s strategic 
objectives; and participated in the consultation process 
with major shareholders and governance agencies.  
 During the year the Committee agreed a customer  
and people measure for the 2017 AIP. The Committee 
considered the most appropriate mix of customer and 
people targets, taking into account that the Company 
had joined the HM Treasury initiative, Women in 
Finance. This initiative connected certain aspects of 
remuneration to appropriate targets. To ensure that the 
targets were challenging, a member of the Committee 
considered the supporting documentation and 
underlying processes. The Committee then discussed  
the targets before approving them. 
 Prior to any awards vesting under the LTIP and deferred 
AIP schemes the Committee considered whether the 
financial and risk underpins had been met. It received 
confirmation from the Chair of the BRC that there had 
been no material risk failings, regulatory or reputational 
concerns. The Chair of the Audit Committee confirmed 
that there had been no circumstances regarding the 
adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
financial controls and internal control systems that  
would affect the vesting. The Committee approved the 
vesting of awards. 
 The Committee considered whether the performance 
targets of RoTE and TSR remain appropriate and in line 
with the Group’s strategic objectives. When considering 
awards under the LTIP scheme the Committee 
considered the appropriate targets to ensure that they 
remain challenging in the context of the Group’s 
planned performance.  
 The Committee reviewed the submission of the 
Remuneration Policy Statement to the PRA, which was 
a new Solvency II requirement. The statement contained 
details of the remuneration policy that applied 
throughout the Group as well as particular requirements 
for Solvency II identified staff. 
Responsibilities of the Remuneration 
Committee 
The Committee is responsible for setting and providing 
oversight of how the Group implements its remuneration 
policy. The Committee oversees the level and structure of 
remuneration arrangements for senior executives. It also 
approves share incentive plans, and recommends them to the 
Board and shareholders. Where applicable, it also oversees 
share plan changes that need shareholder approval. 
The Committee’s main responsibilities are: 
 setting the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors 
and Board Chairman and monitoring its operation. 
 recommending and monitoring the level and structure  
of remuneration for senior executives and Solvency II 
identified staff. 
 considering how the Group’s strategy or performance  
might affect its remuneration policy. 
 approving the Group’s remuneration governance 
framework. This includes approving the design and  
targets of any performance-related pay arrangements,  
and liaising with the Board Risk and Audit Committees 
where appropriate. 
The Remuneration Committee’s main role and responsibilities 
are set out in written terms of reference and are available at 
www.directlinegroup.co.uk/termsofreference 
Committee composition, skills and 
experience and meetings in the year 
The Committee comprised three independent NEDs in 2016: 
Clare Thompson, Sebastian James and Andrew Palmer, and 
the Chairman of the Board, Mike Biggs. Danuta Gray was 
appointed a member of the Committee on 6 March 2017. 
You can find their biographical information on pages 50  
and 51. 
The Remuneration Committee held five scheduled meetings  
in 2016. Two sub-committee meetings were also held to 
approve the LTIP vesting and grants. Two additional meetings 
were held to discuss the remuneration policy. This table shows 
attendance at the scheduled meetings: 
 Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Clare Thompson
1
 (Chair) 3 of 3 100%
Mike Biggs 5 of 5 100%
Sebastian James 5 of 5 100%
Andrew Palmer 5 of 5 100%
Priscilla Vacassin
1 
2 of 2 100%
Note:  
1. Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended  
out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend  
The CEO, Group Human Resources Director and senior 
representatives of the Human Resources function are invited to 
attend Committee meetings. FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP 
(“FIT”), who act as independent advisers to the Committee, 
also attend Committee meetings. The Chair reports on matters 
dealt with at each Committee meeting to the subsequent 
scheduled Board meeting. 
www.directlinegroup.com 79
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Clare Thompson
Chair of the  
Remuneration  
Committee Committee reports continued 
 
80  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Main activities during the year 
Review of remuneration policy 
As we approached the end of the first three-year cycle since 
the introduction of the new remuneration reporting regulations, 
the current Directors’ remuneration policy, that was approved 
at the Company’s 2014 AGM, is due for review. The new 
remuneration policy will be submitted to shareholders’ binding 
vote at the 2017 AGM and will be expected to remain in 
place for the next three years. 
Annual incentive plan 
During the year, the Committee monitored the operation of 
the AIP. For the 2015 financial year, this involved reviewing 
the Group’s financial performance and assessing the Group’s 
performance against the targets that the Committee set at the 
start of the year. It also received reports from the Chairs of  
the Audit Committee and BRC about whether the Group  
had achieved the required performance within risk appetite. 
The Committee concluded that no clawback of awards was 
required in 2016. 
For the 2016 financial year, the Committee approved the 
performance metrics and monitored performance against 
them. The Committee also discussed and challenged the 
performance metrics for the 2017 AIP and, subsequently 
approved the metrics. The Committee discussed proposed 
new customer and people measures and was satisfied that 
the proposed measures were sufficiently challenging. The 
Committee scrutinised the new approach to performance 
management that was introduced for 2016 and commended 
management on simplifying the appraisal process. 
Long-term incentives 
During 2016, the Committee reviewed and approved the level 
of vesting of the 2013 awards made under the Company’s 
LTIP against the performance criteria. These awards had two 
performance metrics based on RoTE and TSR. After assessing 
performance against these metrics, the awards vested at a level 
of 96.4%. Before vesting, the Committee considered the LTIP’s 
financial and risk underpins. The Committee also determined 
the quantum of awards made in 2016 under the LTIP in view  
of business and individual performance. 
Directors and other senior executives 
During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved  
the level and structure of the pay and incentives of the 
Executive Directors and other senior executives. Additionally, 
it reviewed remuneration for the strategic leadership team.  
As part of this review, the Committee considered the Share 
Ownership Guidelines for the Executive Directors and 
Executive Committee members.  
  
Case study: Directors’  
remuneration policy 
Review: Initially the Committee undertook a fundamental 
review of remuneration arrangements for the strategic 
leadership team (including Executive Directors and Executive 
Committee members). The Committee was supported in the 
review by management and FIT. The structure of the review 
team was designed to minimise any conflicts of interest 
when analysing current remuneration arrangements.  
The review included interviews with members of the 
Remuneration Committee and Executive Committee in order 
to capture views on the current remuneration structures, test 
the appropriateness of the remuneration arrangements and 
to consider how they furthered the Group’s strategy and 
long-term interests. A report was then produced by FIT on 
their findings for the Committee’s strategy day.  
Consider: At the strategy day the Committee reviewed the 
current remuneration policy, and considered alternatives in 
the light of the Group’s objectives, regulatory and market 
landscape and highlighted areas in which it considered 
changes could be made so that formal proposals could  
be put forward to the Committee. The Committee also 
considered areas which were not currently in the 
remuneration policy and could be added. 
The proposed changes to the Directors’ remuneration  
policy were then considered against: the Group’s strategic 
objectives; statutory and regulatory requirements; and 
investors published guidance. Following the review the 
Committee identified a number of changes to the 
remuneration policy and wrote to major shareholders and  
a number of governance agencies advising them of the 
proposals and asking for their views on them.  
Consult: The Committee continued to consider the proposals  
in the light of subsequent guidance issued from August 2016 
to 31 December 2016 by organisations such as the 
Investment Association, the Executive Remuneration Working 
Group, the General Counsel and Company Secretaries of 
FTSE 100 companies (“GC100”) and Legal & General 
Investment Management’s principles. The Committee 
concluded its consultation with major shareholders, the investor 
community and governance agencies in January 2017. 
The proposals were generally well received and based  
on the responses adjustments were made to the proposed 
remuneration policy. You can find out more about the 
Directors’ remuneration policy to be voted on by 
shareholders at the 2017 AGM on pages 100 to 109. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 80 Committee reports continued 
 
80  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Main activities during the year 
Review of remuneration policy 
As we approached the end of the first three-year cycle since 
the introduction of the new remuneration reporting regulations, 
the current Directors’ remuneration policy, that was approved 
at the Company’s 2014 AGM, is due for review. The new 
remuneration policy will be submitted to shareholders’ binding 
vote at the 2017 AGM and will be expected to remain in 
place for the next three years. 
Annual incentive plan 
During the year, the Committee monitored the operation of 
the AIP. For the 2015 financial year, this involved reviewing 
the Group’s financial performance and assessing the Group’s 
performance against the targets that the Committee set at the 
start of the year. It also received reports from the Chairs of  
the Audit Committee and BRC about whether the Group  
had achieved the required performance within risk appetite. 
The Committee concluded that no clawback of awards was 
required in 2016. 
For the 2016 financial year, the Committee approved the 
performance metrics and monitored performance against 
them. The Committee also discussed and challenged the 
performance metrics for the 2017 AIP and, subsequently 
approved the metrics. The Committee discussed proposed 
new customer and people measures and was satisfied that 
the proposed measures were sufficiently challenging. The 
Committee scrutinised the new approach to performance 
management that was introduced for 2016 and commended 
management on simplifying the appraisal process. 
Long-term incentives 
During 2016, the Committee reviewed and approved the level 
of vesting of the 2013 awards made under the Company’s 
LTIP against the performance criteria. These awards had two 
performance metrics based on RoTE and TSR. After assessing 
performance against these metrics, the awards vested at a level 
of 96.4%. Before vesting, the Committee considered the LTIP’s 
financial and risk underpins. The Committee also determined 
the quantum of awards made in 2016 under the LTIP in view  
of business and individual performance. 
Directors and other senior executives 
During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved  
the level and structure of the pay and incentives of the 
Executive Directors and other senior executives. Additionally, 
it reviewed remuneration for the strategic leadership team.  
As part of this review, the Committee considered the Share 
Ownership Guidelines for the Executive Directors and 
Executive Committee members.  
  
Case study: Directors’  
remuneration policy 
Review: Initially the Committee undertook a fundamental 
review of remuneration arrangements for the strategic 
leadership team (including Executive Directors and Executive 
Committee members). The Committee was supported in the 
review by management and FIT. The structure of the review 
team was designed to minimise any conflicts of interest 
when analysing current remuneration arrangements.  
The review included interviews with members of the 
Remuneration Committee and Executive Committee in order 
to capture views on the current remuneration structures, test 
the appropriateness of the remuneration arrangements and 
to consider how they furthered the Group’s strategy and 
long-term interests. A report was then produced by FIT on 
their findings for the Committee’s strategy day.  
Consider: At the strategy day the Committee reviewed the 
current remuneration policy, and considered alternatives in 
the light of the Group’s objectives, regulatory and market 
landscape and highlighted areas in which it considered 
changes could be made so that formal proposals could  
be put forward to the Committee. The Committee also 
considered areas which were not currently in the 
remuneration policy and could be added. 
The proposed changes to the Directors’ remuneration  
policy were then considered against: the Group’s strategic 
objectives; statutory and regulatory requirements; and 
investors published guidance. Following the review the 
Committee identified a number of changes to the 
remuneration policy and wrote to major shareholders and  
a number of governance agencies advising them of the 
proposals and asking for their views on them.  
Consult: The Committee continued to consider the proposals  
in the light of subsequent guidance issued from August 2016 
to 31 December 2016 by organisations such as the 
Investment Association, the Executive Remuneration Working 
Group, the General Counsel and Company Secretaries of 
FTSE 100 companies (“GC100”) and Legal & General 
Investment Management’s principles. The Committee 
concluded its consultation with major shareholders, the investor 
community and governance agencies in January 2017. 
The proposals were generally well received and based  
on the responses adjustments were made to the proposed 
remuneration policy. You can find out more about the 
Directors’ remuneration policy to be voted on by 
shareholders at the 2017 AGM on pages 100 to 109. 
 
 
   www.directlinegroup.com  81 
Solvency II identified staff 
The Committee reviewed and approved the staff who, for the 
purposes of Solvency II, were identified as Solvency II staff.  
The Committee’s remit was extended to include oversight of the 
remuneration of Solvency II identified staff. The Committee also 
reviewed and approved a remuneration policy statement for 
submission to the PRA. The Committee considered and examined 
the current remuneration structure for control functions, which are 
Corporate Actuarial, Compliance, Group Audit and Risk. The 
Committee is satisfied that the remuneration arrangements for 
control functions are appropriate but will continue to review 
developments in this area. 
Remuneration strategy 
In addition to the scheduled Committee meetings, the 
Committee held an additional meeting to review the 
remuneration framework and ensure that it was aligned  
to the Group strategy, and to set future priorities. 
Regulatory developments in Remuneration 
During the year, a joint meeting was held with the BRC to 
review regulatory developments in relation to remuneration 
and to ensure remuneration arrangements remain appropriate. 
The Committees also examined the assurance processes in 
connection with incentive arrangements. You can find out 
more about this in the Board Risk Committee report on pages 
68 to 71. 
Additional information 
The Committee also interacts with the Audit Committee and 
BRC when considering setting targets and pay-outs. As part  
of this, the Committee receives reports from the Chairs of  
those Committees at least twice a year. The Chair of the  
Audit Committee is a member of the Committee. The Chair  
of the Board Risk Committee attended Committee meetings  
on three occasions.  
The Remuneration Committee’s 
effectiveness 
A formal and rigorous annual evaluation of the Committee’s 
performance and effectiveness was undertaken during the 
year. Professor Rob Goffee of London Business School 
facilitated this effectiveness review and prepared a report 
based on responses from Committee members and other 
stakeholders to a questionnaire and interview. After reviewing 
and discussing the report, the Committee concluded it was 
operating effectively and has access to sufficient resources  
to perform its duties. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
6 March 2017. 
 
 
Clare Thompson 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
 
 
www.directlinegroup.com 81
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report  
 
82  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Dear shareholders 
As the Chair of the Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”),  
I am pleased to introduce our report on Directors’ remuneration 
for the 2016 financial year, including our proposed Directors’ 
remuneration policy.  
We have set out this report in the following sections: 
Section Pages
Executive remuneration snapshot – summarising the 
remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors 84 to 86
Annual report on remuneration – detailing pay 
outcomes for 2016 and covering how the Group 
will implement its remuneration policy in 2017 87 to 99
Policy report for shareholder approval 100 to 109
The Directors’ remuneration policy for 
shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM 
Our Directors’ remuneration policy was approved at the 
Company’s AGM on 13 May 2014 by a significant majority 
of shareholders (97.5% voted in favour). In accordance with 
the legislation, we must submit a new policy for shareholder 
approval at the 2017 AGM. As stated in the 2015 Directors’ 
remuneration report, the Committee reviewed the current policy 
during 2016. The Committee concluded that the policy had 
supported the business effectively and operated well over the 
last three years.  
The policy provides a clear and simple framework for 
remunerating the Company’s Directors, and aligning the 
Executive Directors’ variable pay opportunity to the business 
strategy and the Company’s demonstrable success. 
Shareholders may be aware that the design of executive  
pay arrangements for UK-listed companies continues to face 
considerable external commentary. As part of the review the 
Committee considered alternative approaches to remuneration 
arrangements, particularly those outlined in the Executive 
Remuneration Working Group’s final report. The Committee 
considers that the existing arrangements work well, and that 
the mix of Annual Incentive Plan (“AIP” or annual bonus) and 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) provides a balanced way  
of incentivising executives to deliver for shareholders in the 
short and longer terms. We consider the LTIP measures of  
RoTE and relative TSR to be relatively simple to set, aligned 
with wider strategy and reward consistent delivery for 
shareholders. The Committee will closely monitor regulatory, 
market and best practice developments over the coming years, 
including any guidance from the PRA regarding the design  
of pay arrangements. 
The Committee therefore intends to continue with the current 
policy which will remain largely unchanged. Reflecting 
developments in best practice, the Committee has introduced 
a ‘holding period’ for Executive Directors. LTIP awards granted 
from August 2017 onwards will be subject to an additional 
two-year holding period following the end of the three-year 
performance period.  
The LTIP rules will be amended to reflect the introduction of a 
holding period. 
Shareholder consultation 
The Committee consulted with our key shareholders and the 
major institutional voting agencies between October 2016 
and January 2017. This engagement was well received and 
we have had good feedback on our proposal.  
New Executive Director 
Following the year end, Mike Holliday-Williams, MD Personal 
Lines, joined the Board. He did not receive an increase in his 
salary as a result of being promoted to the Board (beyond  
the average salary increase for employees across the rest  
of the organisation explained below) and his AIP and LTIP 
opportunity from 2017 onwards were set at the same level  
as those of the CFO. 
He initially joined the Group as an executive in 2014 and  
has participated in the Company’s remuneration arrangements 
on a similar basis to the Executive Directors since then.  
He received an award on joining to buy-out shares forfeited 
on leaving his previous employer with the last tranche (worth 
c.£107,000 at grant) vesting in May 2017. The award  
was not affected by his promotion to the Board.  
Approach to pay in 2017  
In addition to the proposed introduction of a post-vesting 
holding period as described above, we set out below our 
approach to pay for Executive Directors in 2017: 
 The salaries of all three Executive Directors will increase by 
2% in April 2017. This is the same as the average salary 
increase for employees across the rest of the organisation. 
 No change will be made to either the weighting or the 
approach to assessment of the financial metric under the 
AIP. Consistent with regulatory best practice, we measure 
performance across a balanced scorecard of measures  
to ensure that management maintain an appropriate focus 
on continuing to deliver an excellent customer experience. 
However, given the good progress that has been made on 
the customer experience and the importance of the people 
agenda, the strategic element will now encompass both 
people and customer targets under the overall 25% 
weighting assigned to this element. 
 We are not proposing any changes to the performance 
conditions for the 2017 awards under the LTIP. However 
we will be increasing the level of RoTE required for the 
March 2017 awards to vest from the current range of 
14.5% to 17.5% to a range of 15.0% to 18.0%. This will 
ensure that awards to Executive Directors will only vest in 
full if significant value has been delivered to shareholders. 
Due to the level of uncertainty around the Ogden discount 
rate review, the Remuneration Committee will further 
consider the RoTE target to be applied to the August 2017 
grant and the outcome of the Committee’s considerations 
will be confirmed at grant in August 2017.  
The Company continues to operate a Buy-As-You-Earn Share 
Incentive Plan (“SIP”) which is available to all eligible staff as a 
means of purchasing Company shares in an easy and tax 
efficient manner. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 82    www.directlinegroup.com  83 
Pay outcomes for 2016 
By focusing on the value, service and brand propositions  
we offer to our customers, and maintaining underwriting 
discipline, 2016 was another strong year for the Group. 
Before the reduction in the Ogden discount rate announced  
on 27 February 2017 (being two months following the year 
end), PBT was £570.3m (up 12.4% on 2015). This would 
have likely delivered a maximum payment of 55% of the  
AIP linked to this measure. This post-year-end announcement 
led to the Board adjusting the PBT, which reduced to 
£353.0m as explained in the Chairman’s introduction to this 
report and accounts.  
In determining pay-out levels, the Committee carefully considered 
performance in its assessment of over or underperformance of 
the target. It applied overall judgement in light of the year-end 
corporate performance and decided an out-turn of 10% (out  
of the 55% available for PBT) was appropriate and should be 
payable under this element. The Committee concluded that 
given the strong profit progress absent the Ogden discount 
rate change, a small level of vesting recognised both the 
exceptional timing of this announcement and, therefore, the 
impossibility of management taking any mitigating steps and 
the need to align with the experience of shareholders. 
The Committee understands that the Government is considering 
a further review of the approach to setting the Ogden discount 
rate which may or may not lead to a further change to the 
Ogden discount rate. In these exceptional circumstances and, 
given that the impact of the post-year-end announcement was 
to reduce this element from paying out at the likely full 55%  
to 10%, the Committee will keep the out-turn under the 2016 
AIP assessment under review until the end of 2017. If, during 
2017, in connection with the consultation the Ogden discount 
rate is raised from minus 0.75%, the Committee will recalculate 
the out-turn for this element and adjust it accordingly; the 
impact of such a subsequent change in the Ogden discount 
rate would be excluded from the 2017 AIP.  
Accordingly, the incentive outcomes for our Executive Directors 
were as follows: 
 We awarded bonuses of 43% of the maximum to the  
Chief Executive Officer and to the Chief Financial Officer 
for 2016. We have detailed the bonus determination 
process for 2016 on pages 88 and 89. 
 Awards under the LTIP granted in March and August 2013 
vested during 2016. They were subject to TSR performance 
over the three-year vesting period, and RoTE performance 
in 2013, 2014 and 2015. As disclosed last year, the 
Group achieved an average RoTE of 17.6% over the three-
year performance period. This resulted in 94% of the 
maximum potential vesting of the RoTE element (56.4% of 
the total award). The TSR element comprises the other 40% 
of the total award. For the March 2013 and August 2013 
awards, the Company’s TSR was positioned above upper 
quintile against its comparator group. This resulted in 100% 
of the maximum potential vesting under the TSR element. 
Overall, 96.4% of the total awards vested in March 2016 
and August 2016. You can find details of this on page 90. 
 Awards under the LTIP granted in March and August 2014 
are due to vest during 2017. This is subject to the 
Committee’s satisfaction that the financial and risk 
underpins have been met at the end of the vesting period. 
The RoTE performance period for these awards ended  
on 31 December 2016. The three-year average RoTE 
performance for 2014, 2015 and 2016 was 16.2% 
against a maximum target of 17.0%. Awards under the 
RoTE element are due to vest at 76% of the maximum 
potential, again reflecting the returns delivered to 
shareholders. The Committee’s practice has not been to 
moderate the LTIP outcome for exceptional events and, 
therefore, the formulaic result was approved with no 
adjustment. Consistent with the regulations, the TSR element 
of the awards due to vest during 2017 will be reported 
separately next year. We have included these RoTE vesting 
outcomes plus the TSR vestings from the 2013 awards in 
the single remuneration figure for the CEO and the CFO. 
You can find details of this on pages 87 and 90. 
Voting on the annual remuneration report  
and the policy report  
We will put the policy report and annual report on 
remuneration to a vote of shareholders at the AGM on  
11 May 2017.  
I hope you will support the resolutions. 
 
 
Clare Thompson 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
www.directlinegroup.com 83
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
84  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Executive remuneration snapshot 
The information for 2017 in this section relates to the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), the Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) and 
the Managing Director of Personal Lines (“MD Personal Lines”). Information relating to pay decisions for 2016 relates to the  
CEO and the CFO only.  
Implementing the remuneration policy in 2017 
Key elements  
Key operation features 
(For more information, see the policy report on pages 100 to 109) Implementation in 2017 
Base salary 
 Reviewed annually with any increases taking effect on  
1 April 
 The Committee considers a range of factors when 
determining salaries, including pay increases throughout 
the Group, individual performance and market data 
 2% salary increase for the CEO  
to £810,492 
 2% salary increase for the CFO to 
£490,518 
 2% salary increase for the MD Personal Lines 
to £548,862 
Pensions 
 CEO and CFO contribution rate of 25% of salary 
 MD Personal Lines contribution rate of 15% of salary 
 No change 
AIP 
 Maximum opportunity level remains at 175% of salary 
for the CEO and 150% for the CFO (with the MD 
Personal Lines aligned at this level) 
 40% of the award is deferred into shares, typically 
vesting after three years  
 At least 50% of bonus is based on financial measures. 
The Committee considers various non-financial and 
strategic performance measures. It bases its judgement 
over the payment outcome at the end of the 
performance period on its assessment of the level of 
stretch inherent in targets  
 Any payment is subject to an additional gateway 
assessment, including assessing risk factors 
 Malus and clawback conditions apply 
 No change to the weighting of measures  
used for 2016. 55% of the bonus is based  
on financial performance with 25% based on 
strategic measures and 20% based on shared 
strategic objectives 
 For 2017 the strategic measures will 
encompass a broader range of measures 
covering both customer and people targets  
LTIP 
 Awards typically granted as nil-cost options 
 Awards typically granted every six months at half the 
annual level 
 The Plan allows for awards with a maximum value  
of 200% of base salary per financial year 
 Performance is measured over three years and 
determined by RoTE and relative TSR measures 
 Awards vest subject to financial underpin and  
payment gateway 
 Malus and clawback conditions apply 
 No change to maximum annual award 
granted to the CEO, CFO and MD  
Personal Lines 
 Nil-cost options will continue to be used for 
the grants 
 The current 60% RoTE and 40% TSR mix  
will continue to apply 
 Increase to the level of RoTE required for  
the March 2017 awards to vest from the 
current range of 14.5% to 17.5% to a  
range of 15.0% to 18.0% (with the range  
for the August 2017 awards to be confirmed 
at grant)  
 Awards granted from August 2017 onwards 
will be subject to an additional two-year 
holding period following the end of the three-
year performance period 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 84    www.directlinegroup.com  85 
2016 pay decisions reflect performance achieved during the year  
Aligning performance and reward 
The Committee has considered performance over 2016, as demonstrated by achieving key performance indicators on pages  
24 and 25. As a result of this performance, the Remuneration Committee has approved the following incentive outcomes for the 
Executive Directors. 
Achievement under the Annual Incentive Plan  
The actual amounts earned from the AIP this year reflect performance in 2016. 60% of this amount will be payable in  
March 2017 and 40% will be deferred into shares for three years and generally be contingent on continued employment.  
  
  
Maximum 
(% of salary)
Target
(% of salary)
Actual 
(% of salary) 
Actual 
(£’000)
CEO 175% 105% 75% £594
CFO 150% 90% 65% £308
Further details of performance against targets set is set out on pages 88 to 89. 
Release of value under the Long-Term Incentive Plan 
The March and August 2013 awards under the LTIP vested in March and August 2016. The total value of the awards vesting  
at the end of the three-year performance period in March and August 2016, including shares vesting under the RoTE and  
TSR elements, was £3,294,930 to the CEO and £1,994,284 to the CFO. This compares with an increase of approximately 
£2 billion in the Company’s value plus £1.6 billion returned to shareholders as dividends over the period of March 2013 to 
August 2016. 
 
 
Notes: 
1.  The headline vesting level was 96.4% and the above chart shows the impact of both dividend roll-up and share price appreciation  
2.  The difference in shares held at grant reflects the impact of the share consolidation on 30 June 2015 in which 12 existing Ordinary Shares 
were replaced by 11 new Ordinary Shares, meaning the aggregate number of Ordinary Shares in issue was reduced  
  
www.directlinegroup.com 85
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
15% 47% 38%
Release of value under the LTIP
(£)
Chief 
Executive 
Ofﬁcer
Grant
Vesting
Grant
Vesting
Chief
Financial 
Ofﬁcer
£0m £0.5m £1.0m £1.5m £2.0m £2.5m £3.0m £3.5m
 Shares under award       Reinvested dividend      Share price growth Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
86  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Executive Directors’ shareholdings at year end 
The interests of shareholders and Executive Directors are closely aligned as they are required to hold Company shares at multiples of 
salary levels and at the share ownership guidelines of 200% of salary. They continue to build on these shareholdings and hold above 
these guidelines, as illustrated below. As at 31 December 2016, the number of shares beneficially held by the CEO and the CFO 
represented 266% and 529% of their salaries, respectively.  
 
Note:  
1. For the purposes of this chart, holdings include all vested but unexercised awards which are valued on a basis that is net of applicable 
personal taxes 
Executive Directors’ total pay 
This chart illustrates the total remuneration components received in 2015 and 2016. This is explained further in the single figure 
table on page 87.  
 
 
 Salary: Salaries increased by 2.5% in 2016.  
 Annual bonus: The annual bonus amounts for 2016 were 43% of the maximum potential of 175% and 150% of salary for  
the CEO and CFO respectively.  
 2013 LTIP awards: As disclosed in the 2015 remuneration report, the single figure of remuneration for 2015 included the 
RoTE vesting outcomes of the March and August 2013 LTIP awards. This has now been updated to reflect the actual number 
of dividends accrued on this portion of the award on vesting and the share price on the relevant vesting dates.  
 2014 LTIP awards: Similarly, the 2016 figures reflect the expected vesting outcome figure for the RoTE portion of the awards 
granted under the LTIP in 2014 and expected to vest in March and August 2017 and the actual vesting under the TSR 
element of awards granted under the LTIP in March and August 2013.  
You can find more information on these outcomes in the implementation report. 
Statutory Remuneration Report 
Introduction 
We have prepared this remuneration report in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended) (the “Regulations”). The report also 
meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, and describes how the Board has complied with 
the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to remuneration matters. Remuneration tables subject to 
audit in accordance with the relevant statutory requirements are contained in the annual remuneration report and stated to be audited. 
Unless otherwise stated, the information within this Directors’ remuneration report is unaudited.   
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 86
 Guideline       2015       2016
15% 47% 38%
Executive Directors’ shareholding at year end
(Number of shares)
Chief 
Financial 
Ofﬁcer
Chief
Executive 
Ofﬁcer
0m 0.2m 0.1m 0.3m 0.4m 0.5m 0.6m 0.7m 0.8m
 Salary          
    Annual bonus
    Pension and Beneﬁts (including all employee share plans)  
 LTIP
31%
Executive Directors’ total pay
(£’000)
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
2015 2016
1,000
2015 2016
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
0
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer    www.directlinegroup.com  87 
Annual remuneration report 
Remuneration Committee members and governance 
The following list details members of the Remuneration Committee during 2016. You can find information about each member’s 
attendance at meetings in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 79 to 81. You can find their biographies on pages  
50 and 51. 
Committee Chair 
Clare Thompson
1
 
Non-Executive Directors 
Mike Biggs 
Sebastian James 
Andrew Palmer 
Priscilla Vacassin
2
 
Notes:  
1.  Appointed as Committee Chair with effect from 1 March 2016 having previously been a member of the Committee from September 2012 to September 2014 
2.  Committee Chair until she stepped down from the Board with effect from 1 March 2016 
Advisers to the Committee 
The Committee consults with the Chief Executive Officer, the Human Resources Director, and senior representatives of the HR,  
Risk and Finance functions on matters relating to the appropriateness of all remuneration elements for Executive Directors and 
Executive Committee members. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and the Human Resources Director are not present  
when their remuneration is discussed. The Committee works closely with the Chairs of the Board Risk Committee and the Audit 
Committee, including receiving reports from those Chairs regarding setting targets and pay-outs under incentive plans, and 
whether it is appropriate to operate malus and clawback. The Chair of the Audit Committee is a member of the Remuneration 
Committee; and the Chair of the Board Risk Committee attended Remuneration Committee meetings on three occasions.  
The Remuneration and Board Risk Committees also hold a joint meeting at least annually to consider matters of common interest. 
The Committee retains FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP (“FIT”) as its independent adviser. FIT is a signatory to the Remuneration 
Consultants Group’s Code of Conduct. The Committee appointed FIT when preparing for the IPO and after considering the firm’s 
experience in this sector.  
During the year, FIT advised on market practice, corporate governance, incentive plan design and target setting, regulations,  
and other matters that the Committee was considering. FIT does not provide the Company with other services. The Committee  
is satisfied that the advice FIT provides is objective and independent. 
FIT’s total fees for remuneration related advice in 2016 were £162,171 exclusive of VAT. FIT charged its fees based on its 
standard terms of business for providing advice. 
Allen & Overy LLP, one of the Group’s legal advisers, also provided legal advice relating to the Group’s executive remuneration 
arrangements. It also provided the Group with other legal services.  
Implementing policy and pay outcomes relating to 2016 performance 
Single figure table (Audited) 
 Salary
1
 Benefits
2
 Annual bonus
3
 
Long-term 
incentives
4,5,6
 
All employee 
share plans
7
 Pension  Total 
£’000  2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
Paul Geddes 790 771 19 18 594 1,120 2,466 2,693   197 193 4,066 4,795
John Reizenstein 478 467 10 15 308 602 1,492 1,630 1 1 119 117 2,408 2,832
Notes: 
1. Salary – The Company operates a flexible benefits policy, and salary is reported before any personal elections are made 
2. Benefits – Benefits include a company car or allowance; private medical and income protection insurance 
3. Annual bonus – Includes amounts earned for performance during the year, but deferred for three years under the DAIP. For more information, see page 95.  
These deferred awards are not subject to any conditions, except continuous employment. However, awards remain available for malus and clawback 
4. 2013 LTIP awards RoTE – The expected vesting outcome figures for the RoTE portion of the awards granted under the LTIP in 2013 and reported in 2015 have been 
updated. These updates are based on the actual vesting of the RoTE portion of the awards and a share price of £3.716 and £3.634 on 29 March 2016 and  
30 August 2016 respectively, compared to the three-month average share price of £3.9728 used in reporting this figure in the 2015 remuneration report. The revised 
figures reflect the actual number of dividends accrued on this portion of the award at vesting. This results in an adjusted reportable decrease of approximately £19,277  
for Paul Geddes and £11,670 for John Reizenstein, with a corresponding decrease of the single figure for 2015 reflected in the table above 
5. 2014 LTIP awards RoTE – the expected levels of vesting are set out on page 90. The corresponding values under long-term incentives, including the estimated 
value of dividends accrued to 31 December 2016, are £1,098,472 for Paul Geddes and £664,864 for John Reizenstein, based on a three-month average 
Company share price to 31 December 2016 of £3.55686. Any shares vesting under the LTIP granted in 2014 will not be delivered until the end of the 
applicable vesting periods in March and August 2017 
6. 2013 LTIP awards TSR – the level of vesting is set out on page 90. The corresponding values under long-term incentives, including the value of dividends on 
vesting, are £1,367,191 for Paul Geddes and £827,504 for John Reizenstein, using the share prices on 29 March 2016 and 30 August 2016 of £3.716  
and £3.634 respectively 
7.  SIP – Includes the value of matching shares under the SIP  
www.directlinegroup.com 87
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
88  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Each Executive Director has confirmed they have not received any other items in the nature of remuneration, other than those 
already disclosed in the single figure table. 
AIP outcomes for 2016  
The Committee established target performance levels at the start of the year. The Committee’s approach to setting and assessing  
PBT targets under the AIP is to set a target level of profit performance and then, at the year end, to assess over or underperformance  
by judging overall corporate performance both on an absolute and relative basis. While the Committee does not set a formal 
threshold to maximum profit range against which performance is formulaically assessed the original intent was, following the year end, 
to reset an indicative range against which performance could be assessed, as occurred in 2015. However, as the potential results 
were then impacted by the Lord Chancellor announcing a plan to review the Ogden discount rate, the Committee felt that the position 
was too uncertain to set a meaningful range for modelling and therefore awaited the outcome of the Ogden review. In determining 
pay-out levels, the Committee carefully considered performance relative to the targets in its assessment of over or underperformance  
of the target. It applied overall judgement in light of the year-end corporate performance and decided an out-turn of 10% (out of the 
55% available for PBT) was appropriate and should be payable under this element.  
In the table below, we have disclosed the target set for PBT performance. We have expanded our description of the  
performance achieved against the non-financial measures to improve transparency for shareholders although some metrics  
remain commercially sensitive.  
The bar chart illustrates the Committee’s assessment of the level of achievement under the AIP. The outcomes reflect continuing 
strong performance during the year as discussed in the Group highlights and Chairman’s statement on pages 2 to 3 and 10 to 
11 respectively.  
(Audited)  
The Committee also considered performance against the “gateway” criteria outlined on page 98 and determined that it was 
appropriate to pay a bonus and that it was not necessary to reduce the payment in light of performance against these criteria. 
Financial element (55% weighting) 
As discussed above, there is no pre-set scale around the PBT target for the 2016 financial year and, in accordance with the  
AIP terms, the Committee determined the appropriate pay-out for the performance achieved.  
Throughout 2016 our PBT performance was positive, driven by our continued investment in brand differentiation, propositions 
and trading capabilities, and we ended the year significantly ahead of target. Motor and Home Own Brands, Green Flag  
and Direct Line for Business have all continued to grow within a competitive market. They are all significantly favourable to target 
and grew year-on-year. Overall, before the reduction in the discount rate, profit before tax would have increased £62.8m to 
£570.3m (2015: £507.5m) reflecting improved operating profits. This would most likely have achieved a maximum pay-out  
for this element. Reported PBT for 2016, including impact of the reduction in the Ogden discount rate, is £353.0m. Given the 
strong profit progress absent the Ogden rate change and the Group’s resilience as the Group already reserved at a more 
conservative discount rate of 1.5% (compared to the actual 2.5% rate), shareholders have been protected to some extent from the 
effects of the reduction to the Ogden discount rate. The Committee, having considered that the Group made strong profits before 
the reduction and had a good capital position, determined that it was fair and reasonable that 10% (out of the 55% for PBT) 
should be payable. 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 88
Financial Profit before tax 55% 415.4 353.0 Below target
Strategic A basket of measures of ten key customer metrics 25% See narrative Above target
Personal
Including objective shared among all 
Executive Committee members
Paul Geddes 20% See narrative Below target
John Reizenstein 20% See narrative Below target
Measures
Weight  
(as a % of 
max award)
Achievement against  
performance measures
Target 
performance 
(£m)
Performance 
Assessment
Actual 
performance 
(£m)
Achievement under the 2016 AIP Executive Director
0%  
Vesting
Target  
60%  
Vesting
Maximum 
100%  
Vesting
92%
50%
50%
18%
Paul Geddes 43% of maximum
John Reizenstein 43% of maximum    www.directlinegroup.com  89 
The Committee understands that the Lord Chancellor, while announcing a discount rate of minus 0.75%, is launching a further 
consultation regarding the approach to setting the Ogden discount rate which may or may not lead to a change to the Ogden 
discount rate. In these exceptional circumstances, and given that the impact of the post-year-end announcement was to reduce 
this element from paying out at the likely full 55% to 10%, the Committee will keep the out-turn under the 2016 AIP assessment 
under review until the end of 2017. If, during 2017, in connection with the consultation, the Ogden discount rate is raised from 
minus 0.75%, the Committee will recalculate the out-turn for this element and adjust it accordingly; the impact of such a 
subsequent change in the Ogden discount rate would be excluded from the 2017 AIP.  
Strategic element (25% weighting) 
The Group’s strategy is to make insurance much easier and better value for our customers. It aims to deliver on its commitments  
in this area and ensure that fairness is a natural outcome of what the Group does. Overall, performance on the customer agenda 
against our ten key customer metrics remains very strong and, in 2016, we introduced new metrics to monitor and assess 
conduct performance and complaints.  
Through the year there was a strong focus on removing the reasons for customer problems with multiple initiatives delivering 
tangible improvement. One such initiative was the roll-out of focused investment in customer training to our front-line staff across 
Home and Motor Claims which has had a positive impact on NPS and NetEase scores. Our new approach to problem handling 
and recording has driven an improved customer experience and reductions in reportable complaint volumes.  
Persistency and retention remained strong with some of our brands consistently outperforming the market, and we have achieved 
a good commercial and customer experience balance. The Committee considered that the Company has made good progress 
over the past couple of years in improving the customer experience in the context that it is now becoming more challenging to 
improve on or maintain an already strong performance. Having considered performance against targets and an assessment of 
the quality of performance achieved, the Committee agreed that the level of out-turn of 92% under this element was appropriate 
in order to reflect the continued strong performance in trading and customer satisfaction despite competitive market conditions. 
Personal element (20% weighting) 
This element relates to an objective that is shared with other Executive Committee members and set by the Committee. The 
Committee considers the performance against this element together with the Executive’s personal performance and leadership 
over the year.  
The Group remains focused on improving its digital offering, customer experience and operational efficiency. A key focus of 
management was the level of change the Group has been making to its IT infrastructure. It remains focused on adopting the  
right capabilities and will take the time necessary seeking to do so. While progress has been made in each of the three areas, 
implementation and integration of a range of new IT systems is inherently complex and challenging. The Group has made 
progress improving the performance and security of the core infrastructure during the year, supporting its people in performing 
their roles more reliably. However, the Committee noted that there was less progress on delivering against the Group’s IT plans 
than had been envisaged. The team has reflected on the experience over the past year and will apply key learnings as it 
continues on this change journey in 2017.  
Taking performance against each Executive Directors’ individual performance and the above challenges into account, the 
Committee determined that Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein should each receive awards of 50% respectively of the maximum 
available under this element. 
Consequently, the annual incentive awards for Executive Directors for the financial year ended 31 December 2016 were  
as follows: 
(Audited) 
Maximum
(% of salary)
Target
(% of salary)
Actual 
(% of salary) 
Actual £’000
(including cash and 
deferred elements)
Paul Geddes, CEO 175% 105% 75% 594
John Reizenstein, CFO 150% 90% 65% 308
   
www.directlinegroup.com 89
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
90  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
LTIP outcomes for 2016 (Audited) 
The following summarises the outcome against performance targets set for the 2013 and 2014 LTIP awards: 
 
Awards under the LTIP granted in March and August 2013 vested during 2016. They were subject to TSR performance over the 
three-year vesting period, and RoTE performance in 2013, 2014 and 2015. The Group achieved an average RoTE of 17.6% 
over the three-year performance period. This resulted in 94% of the maximum potential vesting of the RoTE element (56.4% of  
the total award). The TSR element comprises the other 40% of the total award. For the March 2013 and August 2013 awards, 
the Company’s TSR was positioned above upper quintile against its comparator group. This resulted in 100% of the maximum 
potential vesting under the TSR element. Overall, 96.4% of the total awards vested in March 2016 and August 2016 as the 
Committee was satisfied that the financial and risk underpins were met at the end of the vesting period.  
Awards under the LTIP granted in March and August 2014 are due to vest during 2017. The RoTE performance period for these 
awards ended on 31 December 2016. This is subject to the Committee’s satisfaction that the financial and risk underpins have 
been met at the end of the vesting period. The three-year average RoTE performance for 2014, 2015 and 2016 was 16.2% 
against a maximum target of 17.0%. Awards under the RoTE element are due to vest at 76.0% of the maximum potential, again 
reflecting the returns delivered to shareholders. We have included these RoTE vesting outcomes plus the TSR vestings from the 
2013 awards in the single remuneration figure for the CEO and the CFO. You can find details of this on page 87. Performance 
under the relative TSR measure will be assessed at the end of the vesting period in March and August as appropriate. 
  
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
90  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
LTIP outcomes for 2016 (Audited) 
The following summarises the outcome against performance targets set for the 2013 and 2014 LTIP awards: 
 
Awards under the LTIP granted in March and August 2013 vested during 2016. They were subject to TSR performance over the 
three-year vesting period, and RoTE performance in 2013, 2014 and 2015. The Group achieved an average RoTE of 17.6% 
over the three-year performance period. This resulted in 94% of the maximum potential vesting of the RoTE element (56.4% of  
the total award). The TSR element comprises the other 40% of the total award. For the March 2013 and August 2013 awards, 
the Company’s TSR was positioned above upper quintile against its comparator group. This resulted in 100% of the maximum 
potential vesting under the TSR element. Overall, 96.4% of the total awards vested in March 2016 and August 2016 as the 
Committee was satisfied that the financial and risk underpins were met at the end of the vesting period.  
Awards under the LTIP granted in March and August 2014 are due to vest during 2017. The RoTE performance period for these 
awards ended on 31 December 2016. This is subject to the Committee’s satisfaction that the financial and risk underpins have 
been met at the end of the vesting period. The three-year average RoTE performance for 2014, 2015 and 2016 was 16.2% 
against a maximum target of 17.0%. Awards under the RoTE element are due to vest at 76.0% of the maximum potential, again 
reflecting the returns delivered to shareholders. We have included these RoTE vesting outcomes plus the TSR vestings from the 
2013 awards in the single remuneration figure for the CEO and the CFO. You can find details of this on page 87. Performance 
under the relative TSR measure will be assessed at the end of the vesting period in March and August as appropriate. 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 90
Year included 
in single ﬁgure
2015 – updated
2016 – ﬁnal
2016 – ﬁnal
Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2016 Dec 2017
March 2013 award
RoTE test – average of 17 .6% for 2013, 2014 and 2015 – 94.0% vesting
Relative TSR test – upper quintile – 100% vesting
2015 – updated
2017
2016 – estimated
2017
2016 – estimated
August 2013 award
RoTE test – average of 17 .6% for 2013, 2014 and 2015 – 94.0% vesting
Relative TSR test – upper quintile – 100% vesting
March 2014 award
August 2014 award
RoTE test – average of 16.2% for 2014, 2015 and 2016 – 76.0% vesting
RoTE test – average of 16.2% for 2014, 2015 and 2016 – 76.0% vesting
Relative TSR test – To be tested based on performance to 26 March 2017
Relative TSR test – To be tested based on performance to 29 August 2017    www.directlinegroup.com  91 
Non-Executive Directors (Audited) 
Fees were the only remuneration paid to Non-Executive Directors in 2015 and 2016. Non-Executive Directors may also claim for 
reasonable travel and subsistence expenses, in accordance with the Group’s travel and expenses policy, and, where these are 
classified as taxable by HMRC, they are shown under ‘Benefits’ below. The Non-Executive Directors receive no other benefits. 
Director 
2016 Fees
1
£’000 
2016 Benefits
2
£‘000 
Total 2016
£’000
2015 Fees
£‘000
2015 Benefits 
£‘000 
Total 2015
£’000
Michael Biggs 400 3 403 400 4 404
Jane Hanson 115 9 124 115 22 137
Sebastian James
3
 89  89 85  85
Andrew Palmer
4
 126  126 144  144
Clare Thompson
5
 108  108 100  100
Priscilla Vacassin
6
 20  20 113  113
Richard Ward
7
 106  106   
Notes: 
1. Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Group’s bonus or share incentive schemes or to join any Group pension scheme 
2. The values shown under ‘Benefits’ above comprise the value of taxable travel and subsistence expenses reimbursed by the Company (including any potential 
gross-up for tax and National Insurance Contributions due) 
3. Sebastian James was appointed as Chair of the CSR Committee from 1 March 2016 
4. Andrew Palmer was appointed as Chair of the Investment Committee from 1 March 2016 and was the Senior Independent Director during 2015 and until  
18 January 2016 
5. Clare Thompson was appointed as Chair of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 March 2016, and stepped down as Chair of the CSR Committee 
and Investment Committee and as a member of the Board Risk Committee. She remained a member of the Audit Committee 
6. Priscilla Vacassin stepped down from the Board on 1 March 2016 
7. Richard Ward was appointed to the Board as the Senior Independent Director from 18 January 2016. He was appointed as a member of the Nomination 
Committee with effect from 25 February 2016 and was appointed to the Board Risk Committee with effect from 9 May 2016 
Percentage change in Chief Executive Officer’s pay for 2015 to 2016 
The table below shows the Chief Executive’s year-on-year percentage change in salary, taxable benefits and bonus, compared  
to the average pay for all other UK employees. 
 Salary
1
Benefits
2
 
Bonus (including 
 deferred amount)
3
Chief Executive Officer 2.5% 3%  (47)% 
All employees (average) 4.5% 3%  (3)% 
Notes: 
1. Based on the change in average pay for UK employees employed in the year ended 31 December 2016 and the year ended 31 December 2015. Salaries are 
not adjusted for the number of working hours; therefore the increase partly reflects the increase in working hours for some employees during the year 
2. There were no changes in benefits provision between 2015 and 2016  
3. Includes average amounts earned under the AIP; and for employees other than the Chief Executive Officer, other variable incentive schemes, including monthly 
and quarterly incentive schemes operated in certain parts of the Group 
Distribution statement 
This chart shows the overall pay expenditure across all Group employees compared with the total dividend value paid to 
shareholders for 2015 and 2016. A special dividend payment was made in 2015 in relation to the sale of the International 
division. The total dividend value paid to shareholders in 2015 has been calculated including and excluding this special 
dividend for comparison. 
  
 
Note: 
There have been no share buy-backs since the IPO. The overall expenditure on pay has been taken from note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. Therefore, 
consistent with market practice, it has not been calculated in a manner consistent with the single figure in this report 
www.directlinegroup.com 91
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
% change:
16y 15y
408.7
428.2
Overall expenditure on pay (£m), 
excluding the International division 
4.8%
% change:
Dividend (£m), 
including 2015 special dividend 
relating to the sale of the 
International division 
-32.3%
16y 15y
666.0
450.6
% change:
Dividend (£m), 
excluding 2015 special dividend 
relating to the sale of the 
International division
77.1%
16y 15y
254.5
450.6 Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
92  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Historical performance of TSR  
This graph shows the Company’s TSR since its shares began trading on the London Stock Exchange in October 2012, against 
the FTSE 350 Index (excluding investment trusts) over the same period. This peer group is the same used for measuring relative 
TSR under the LTIP.  
 
 
The table below shows historical levels of the Chief Executive Officer’s pay between 2012 and 2016. It also shows vesting of 
annual and long-term incentive pay awards as a percentage of the maximum available opportunity. 
Chief Executive Officer 
Single figure of 
total remuneration 
£’000 
Annual bonus 
payout 
(% of maximum) 
Long-term
incentive vesting  
(% of maximum)
1
2016
2
 4,066 43% 86%
2015
3
 4,795 83% 96%
2014 5,356 75% 88%
2013 2,536 63% 55%
2012 1,908 65% 30%
Notes: 
1. Based on actual vesting under the 2010, 2011 and 2012 RBS Group LTIP. The value included in the single figures in respect of these awards is £205,000  
in 2012, £728,000 in 2013 and £2,437,428 in 2014 
2. The 2016 single figure reflects the estimated vesting of the RoTE portion of the LTIP granted in March and August 2014. Any shares under the LTIP granted in 
2014 will not be delivered until the end of the applicable vesting periods in March and August 2017. However they have been included in the single figure,  
as the performance period in respect of the RoTE portion has now been completed 
3. The 2015 single figure has been revised to reflect the actual vesting of the 2013 awards under the LTIP, a decrease of £19,277 
 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 92
Total Shareholder Return
16 October 2012
180
220
140
100
260
300
31 December 2012 31 December 2013 31 December 2014 31 December 2015
Direct Line Group FTSE 350 (excluding investment trusts)
 31 December 2016    www.directlinegroup.com  93 
AGM voting outcomes 
The table shows the percentage of shareholders voting for or against, and the percentage of votes withheld relating to the 
resolution to approve the Directors’ annual remuneration report, which was put to the 2016 AGM; and the resolution to approve 
the Directors’ remuneration policy, which was put to the 2014 AGM. 
 
For Against Number of  
votes withheld 
(abstentions) 
Percentage of 
votes withheld
(abstentions) Number Percentage Number Percentage 
Approval of Directors’ 
remuneration report (2016 AGM) 990,481,636 97.75% 22,775,906 2.25% 6,090,605 0.6%
Approval of Directors’ 
remuneration policy (2014 AGM) 1,064,002,114 97.5% 26,743,783 2.5% 1,945,618 0.2%
Note: 
The percentages of votes for and against are expressed as a percentage of votes cast, excluding votes withheld. The percentage of votes 
withheld is expressed as a percentage of total votes cast, including votes withheld 
The Committee is grateful for the strong vote in favour of the Directors’ annual remuneration report in 2016. The Committee 
continues to communicate with investors on developments in the remuneration aspects of corporate governance generally, and,  
in particular, changes to the Company’s executive pay arrangements.  
Shareholdings 
This table sets out the share ownership guidelines and share ownership levels: 
Position 
Share ownership  
 guideline
1
 
(% of salary)  
Value of  
shares held at  
31 December 2016
2
(% of salary) 
Chief Executive Officer 200%  266%
Chief Financial Officer 200%  529%
Notes: 
1. Executive Directors are expected to retain all the Ordinary Shares they obtain from any of the Company’s share incentive plans until they achieve a shareholding 
level that is equal to 200% of base salary. This is calculated after any disposals necessary to pay personal taxes on acquiring such Ordinary Shares 
2. For these purposes, holdings of Ordinary Shares will be treated as including all vested but unexercised awards, valued on a basis that is net of applicable 
personal taxes 
  
www.directlinegroup.com 93
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
94  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Using shares 
In receiving an award under the LTIP or DAIP, Executive Directors agree not to hedge their exposure to outstanding awards under 
these plans or in respect of shares they are reporting to the Company as within their ownership for the purposes of any Share 
Ownership Guidelines. They also agree not to pledge as collateral their participation under any of the plans or any shares which 
they are required to hold in the Company for any purposes, including for Share Ownership Guidelines. 
This table shows each Executive Director’s total share interests. 
 
Share plan  
 awards  
 subject to  
 performance  
conditions
1
 
Share plan 
 awards not 
 subject to 
performance 
conditions
2
Share plan interests at  
31 December 2016 Beneficial share interests 
Director 
Share plan 
interests 
vested but 
unexercised
Share plan  
interests  
exercised or 
 released during  
the year
3
Total at     
31 December     
 2016
4,5
 
Total at
31 December 2015
Paul Geddes 1,380,145  356,293 997 962,948 572,468    474,255
John Reizenstein 835,338  184,986 929,283 0 195,602    183,496
Notes: 
1. This relates to awards under the Direct Line Group LTIP. As described on page 90, 76.0% of awards made under the Direct Line Group LTIP in March and August 
2014 that are subject to the RoTE performance condition measured to 31 December 2016 are expected to vest. These shares will be delivered to Executive 
Directors in March and August 2017 
2. Includes matching shares held under the SIP which are subject to forfeiture and deferred shares under the Direct Line Group DAIP. For more information, see pages 95 and 
97 
3. On 30 August 2016, Paul Geddes exercised a DAIP award granted on 28 March 2013 and LTIP awards granted on 28 March 2013 and 28 August 2013. 
Following this exercise, 997 DAIP shares remain vested but unexercised 
4. Includes holdings of connected persons, as defined in section 96B(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, and free and partnership shares held under 
the SIP which are not subject to forfeiture and considered beneficially owned 
5. Beneficial share interests include partnership shares John Reizenstein purchased under the SIP and free shares held by the CEO and the CFO under the SIP.  
At 6 March 2017, the number of shares beneficially held by John Reizenstein has increased to 195,733. There was no change to the number of shares held  
by Paul Geddes 
The table shows the Non-Executive Directors’ beneficial interests in the Company’s shares. 
Director 
Shares held at     
31 December     
 2016
1,2
 
Shares held at
31 December 
2015
Mike Biggs     
Jane Hanson 26,190    26,190
Andrew Palmer 10,475    10,475
Clare Thompson 38,378    35,220
Priscilla Vacassin
3
 35,220    35,220
Sebastian James     
Richard Ward
4
    
Notes: 
1. There were no changes to the number of shares held by Directors between the year end and the date of this report 
2. Includes holdings of connected persons, as defined in section 96B(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
3. Priscilla Vacassin stepped down from the Board on 1 March 2016 and this represents her holding at that date 
4. Richard Ward was appointed to the Board as the Senior Independent Director from 18 January 2016  
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 94    www.directlinegroup.com  95 
Direct Line Group share awards 
Direct Line Group Deferred Annual Incentive Plan (“DAIP”) awards (Audited) 
This table details the awards made to all Executive Directors under the Direct Line Group DAIP  
Grant date 
Three-day 
average 
share price 
for grant of 
awards  
£ 
Face value of 
award  
£ 
No. of share 
options as at 
1 January 
2016 
No. of share 
 options 
 granted 
 during the 
 year
1
No. of 
 share 
 options 
vested  
during the 
year
2
No. of 
dividend 
shares 
acquired at 
vesting
No. of 
dividend 
shares added 
post vesting
No. of share  
 options  
 exercised
3
 
No. of share 
options  
held at  
31 December 
2016  Vesting date
Paul Geddes      
28-Mar-13 2.0157 380,004 34,562 – 34,562 13,028 1,880 48,473  997 1-Jun-13 to 
28-Mar-16
26-Mar-14 2.433667 333,999 125,804 – – – – –  125,804 26-Mar-17
25-Mar-15 3.3007 400,000 111,087 – – – – –  111,087 25-Mar-18
29-Mar-16 3.752 447,996 – 119,402 – – – –  119,402 29-Mar-19
   271,453 119,402 34,562 13,028 1,880 48,473  357,290 
John Reizenstein      
28-Mar-13 2.0157 137,999 62,756 – 62,756 23,657 3,415 –  89,828 28-Mar-16
26-Mar-14 2.433667 166,000 62,525 – – – – –  62,525 26-Mar-17
25-Mar-15 3.3007 207,200 57,542 – – – – –  57,542 25-Mar-18
29-Mar-16 3.752 240,800 – 64,179 – – – –  64,179 29-Mar-19
   182,823 64,179 62,756 23,657 3,415 –  247,074  
Mike Holliday-Williams
4
     
25-Mar-15 3.3007 239,997 66,651 – – – – –  66,651 25-Mar-18
29-Mar-16 3.752 270,797 – 72,174 – – – –  72,174 29-Mar-19
   66,651 72,174 – – – –  138,825 
Notes: 
1. Awards are granted as nil-cost options 
2. The terms on which Paul Geddes’ 2012 bonus outcome was deferred meant that 60% of the outcome was deferred, with deferral split broadly evenly between 
deferral into deferred cash and deferred shares, with phased vestings of the deferred amounts over the three-year deferral period 
3. Exercised on 30 August 2016 at £3.63, resulting in an aggregate gain of £175,957 
4.  Although not required in order to comply with statutory requirements, we have provided the detail for Mike Holliday-Williams for completeness 
  
www.directlinegroup.com 95
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
96  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Direct Line Group LTIP awards (Audited) 
This table details the Directors’ interests in the Company’s LTIP. For all LTIP awards, 20% of the awards granted would vest if the 
minimum performance was achieved. 
Grant date 
Three-day 
average share 
price for grant  
of awards  
£ 
Face value 
of award 
£ 
No. of  
 options at  
 1 January   
2016
1
 
No. of 
 options 
 granted 
 during 
 the year
2
No. of 
 options 
 vested 
 during 
 the year
3
No. of options 
 lapsed for 
 performance
4
No. of dividend 
shares acquired 
at vesting
No. of 
 dividend 
 shares added 
 post vesting
5
No. of options 
exercised 
No. of 
options 
held at 
31 December 
2016 Vesting date
Paul Geddes             
Options held 
arising from 
vesting in 
previous periods – – –  – – – – – – – 09-Nov-15
28-Mar-13 2.0157 760,000 345,620  – 333,177 12,443 125,601 18,132 476,910 – 28-Mar-16
28-Aug-13 2.1564 759,999 323,069  – 306,728 16,341 130,837 – 437,565 – 28-Aug-16
26-Mar-14 2.433667 759,998 286,261  – – – – – 286,261 26-Mar-17
29-Aug-14 2.9020 759,999 240,064  – – – – – – 240,064 29-Aug-17
25-Mar-15 3.3007 760,000 211,066  – – – – – – 211,066 25-Mar-18
26-Aug-15 3.517 775,200 220,415  – – – – – – 220,415 26-Aug-18
29-Mar-16 3.752 775,197 –  206,609 – – – – – 206,609 29-Mar-19
30-Aug-16 3.6833 794,598 –  215,730 – – – – – 215,730 30-Aug-19
 1,626,495  422,339  639,905  28,784  256,438 18,132 914,475 1,380,145   
John Reizenstein     
Options held 
arising from 
vesting in 
previous periods – – 261,941  – – – – 24,020
 
 
– 
285,961 09-Nov-15
28-Mar-13 2.0157 459,999 209,190  – 201,659 7,531 76,020 10,975 – 288,654 28-Mar-16
28-Aug-13 2.1564 459,999 195,541  – 185,650 9,891 79,190 – – 264,840 28-Aug-16
26-Mar-14 2.433667 460,000 173,263  – – – – – – 173,263 26-Mar-17
29-Aug-14 2.9020 459,999 145,301  – – – – – – 145,301 29-Aug-17
25-Mar-15 3.3007 460,000 127,750  – – – – – – 127,750 25-Mar-18
26-Aug-15 3.5170 469,200 133,409  – – – – – – 133,409 26-Aug-18
29-Mar-16 3.752 469,199 –  125,053 – – – – – 125,053 29-Mar-19
30-Aug-16 3.6833 480,899 –  130,562 – – – – – 130,562 30-Aug-19
   1,246,395  255,615  387,309  17,422  155,210 34,995 – 1,674,793  
Mike Holliday-
Williams            
29-Aug-14 2.9020 787,498 248,750  –  – – – – – 248,750 29-Aug-17
25-Mar-15 3.3007 393,747 109,351  –  – – – – – 109,351 25-Mar-18
26-Aug-15 3.5170 393,749 111,956  –  – – – – – 111,956 26-Aug-18
29-Mar-16 3.752 393,750 –   104,944 – – – – – 104,944 29-Mar-19
30-Aug-16 3.6833 403,572 –   109,568 – – – – – 109,568 30-Aug-19
    470,057  214,512 – – – – – 684,569
Notes: 
The Company’s share price on 31 December 2016 was £3.694, and the range of prices in the year was £3.333 to £4.096 
1. These awards take the form of nil-cost options over the Company’s shares and are subject to performance conditions to be assessed by the Committee. Awards 
granted before 2014 accrue dividend entitlements until the date of transfer of shares. Awards granted from 2014 accrue dividend entitlement from the grant date 
to the date on which an award vests 
2. The RoTE targets for awards granted in 2016, applying to 60% of the award, were 14.5% for 20% vesting, 15.5% for 40% vesting and 17.5% for full vesting.  
A straight-line interpolation occurs from threshold to target, and then from target to maximum performance. The remaining 40% of each award is based on TSR 
performance conditions, which are the same as noted on page 99 
3. The closing market price on the dates of the vesting of the awards were £3.716 on 29 March 2016 and £3.634 on 30 August 2016 
4. Awards under the LTIP vested at 96.4% of the maximum potential on 29 March 2016 and 30 August 2016 
5. Dividends added post-vesting are shown to 31 December 2016, although these are not realised until exercise 
6. Although not required in order to comply with statutory requirements we have provided the detail for Mike Holliday-Williams for completeness  
The Company’s policy is to grant awards twice a year, after the Group announces its full and half-year results. The value of  
each grant of awards is set at 50% of the normal annual policy level. This means the total combined face value of awards to  
the CEO and CFO during the year equates to 200% of their base salary paid in the year. 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 96    www.directlinegroup.com  97 
Direct Line Group Restricted Shares Plan (“RSP”) Awards (Audited) 
This table details the last tranche of the award made to Mike Holliday-Williams under the Direct Line Group RSP that is due to  
vest this year. This award was made to the MD Personal Lines on recruitment in May 2014 as compensation for the forfeiture of 
legacy awards granted by his previous employer. Executive Directors do not participate in the RSP and Mike Holliday-Williams 
will not receive any subsequent grants under this plan. 
Grant date 
Three-day 
average share 
price for grant of 
awards 
£
Face value of 
award  
£ 
No. of share 
options as at 
1 January 2016
No. of dividend 
shares acquired 
at vesting
No. of dividend 
shares added 
post vesting
No. of share 
 options 
 exercised 
No. of share 
options  
held at  
31 December 
2016  Vesting date
Mike Holliday-
Williams    
27-May-14 2.430333 £106,667 40,231 – – –  40,231 1-May-17
Direct Line Group 2012 SIP (Audited) 
During 2016, all employees, including Executive Directors, were eligible to invest from £10 to £150 a month from their pre-tax 
pay into the SIP, and receive one matching share for every two shares they purchased. This table details the number of shares held 
by John Reizenstein under the SIP. Paul Geddes does not participate in the plan. 
Director  
Matching shares 
granted during 
the year
Matching shares 
cancelled during 
the year
Value of matching  
 shares granted¹ 
£  
Balance of
matching shares at
31 December 2016
John Reizenstein 250 – 903  741
Note: 
1. The accumulated market value of matching shares at the time of each award. Purchase of the matching shares takes place within 30 days of the contributions 
being deducted from salary 
Executive Directors were eligible to participate in the award of £265 worth of free Company shares in March 2016. However, 
all Executive Directors waived their eligibility to this award.  
Dilution 
The Company complies with the dilution levels that the Investment Association guidelines recommend. These levels are 10% in 10 
years for all share plans and 5% in 10 years for discretionary plans. This is consistent with the rules of the Company’s share plans.  
Statement of policy implementation in 2017 
Executive Directors’ salaries in 2017 
The salary increase awarded to the Executive Directors, effective 1 April 2017, reflects the average increase awarded to  
UK employees. 
Director Position 
2017 base salary
£’000
2016 base salary 
£’000 
Annual change 
in base salary
Paul Geddes Chief Executive Officer 810 795 2%
John Reizenstein Chief Financial Officer 491 481 2%
Mike Holliday-Williams MD Personal Lines 549 538 2%
AIP 2017 
The maximum annual incentive awards which may be paid to Executive Directors have not changed since the IPO. 
Director Position 
Maximum annual incentive award for 
2017 (% base salary) 
Deferred under the DAIP 
(% bonus)
Paul Geddes Chief Executive Officer 175% 40%
John Reizenstein Chief Financial Officer 150% 40%
Mike Holliday-Williams MD Personal Lines 150% 40%
During 2016, the Committee reviewed the AIP performance measures’ weightings and composition. It also reviewed the overall 
framework’s operation to make sure it is still fit for purpose. The review concluded that the framework successfully linked Executive 
Directors’ variable pay with the Group’s performance and a scorecard ensured that management are incentivised both to deliver 
superior financial returns and excellent customer service. Therefore, the AIP continues to provide the most appropriate incentive. 
However, to further align the Executive Directors’ interests with those of shareholders and the objectives of the business in 2017, 
the Committee decided to broaden the measures under the strategic element to encompass both customer and people targets 
given the good progress that has been made on customer experience, the importance of the people agenda and the fact that the 
Company has signed up to HM Treasury’s Women in Finance Charter. The overall weighting of 25% assigned to this element 
has not changed. Please see pages 24 and 25 for a complete list of our key performance indicators and how these relate to 
Executive Directors’ remuneration.  
www.directlinegroup.com 97
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
98  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
 Measures  Weighting for 2017 Weighting for 2016
Financial Profit before tax 55% 55%
Strategic Based on a basket of customer measures only, including  
Net Promoter Score and complaints 0% 25%
Strategic Based on a basket of: 
 customer measures, including Net Promoter Score and 
complaints; and 
 people measures, including measures of gender diversity 
and engagement 
25% 0%
Personal  Objectives for each Executive Director, including shared 
objectives across the Executive Committee 20% 20%
Like previous years, all AIP outcomes will be determined after the Committee determines a payment gateway. To do this, the 
Committee must be satisfied that it is appropriate to permit a bonus award at all, or at a given level. The gateway involves some 
subjectivity about performance. This may result in positive or negative moderation of each AIP performance measure or the overall 
bonus outcome.  
The list below sets out the gateway criteria for the AIP for 2017. 
Gateway criteria for the AIP for 2017 – outcomes for Executive Directors 
 Year-on-year changes in profit before tax 
 Quality and sustainability of earnings, referring to reserving, gross written premium, costs and loss ratio, and relevant  
lead indicators 
 Additional customer context, for example, conduct, experience, brand and franchise health 
 Capital strength and affordability 
 Risk management within risk appetite 
 The Group’s relative performance to that of its peers 
 The wider economic environment 
 Exceptional events, such as abnormal weather 
 Any regulatory breaches and/or reputational damage to the Group 
 Committee satisfaction that paying the bonus does not cause major reputational concerns 
The Committee may also use its discretion to account for additional factors. These include the quality of financial results;  
the ’direction of travel’ of all measures; more widely considering reputation, risk, and audit. 
In considering such factors, and whether to adjust the overall pay-outs and/or operate malus and clawback, the Committee 
receives appropriate input from the Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee through receiving reports from, and 
discussion with, the Chairs of those Committees. 
Performance conditions for LTIP awards 
LTIP awards to be granted in 2017 will continue to be subject to performance against these performance conditions: 
 60% based on RoTE over a three-year performance period (2017, 2018 and 2019) 
 40% based on relative TSR performance against the constituents of the FTSE 350 (excluding investment trusts) over a three-year 
performance period, starting on the date of grant. The starting and closing TSR will be averaged over a three-month period 
For these purposes, we use the Group’s standard definition for RoTE, subject to such other adjustments as the Committee may 
consider appropriate. To find out more about how we calculate RoTE, see page 190. 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 98    www.directlinegroup.com  99 
The Committee reviewed the performance targets and, in line with its commitment to ensure that awards to Executive Directors 
would only be payable if significant value has been created for shareholders, decided to increase the RoTE target range  
as follows: 
Performance 
measure 
Vesting for 
threshold 
performance 
Performance required for threshold vesting Performance required for maximum vesting 
Awards in  
March 2017 
Awards in 2015
 and 2016
Awards in 
2014
Awards in 
March 2017
Awards in 2015  
and 2016 
Awards in 
2014
RoTE 20% of this 
element  
of the award 
Average annual 
RoTE 
performance of 
15.0% 
Average annual
RoTE 
performance of 
14.5%
Average annual
RoTE 
performance of 
14.0%
Average annual
RoTE 
performance of 
18.0%
Average annual 
RoTE 
performance of 
17.5% 
Average annual
RoTE 
performance of 
17.0%
Relative TSR 20% of this 
element  
of the award Median Upper quintile 
For the TSR element, there is a straight-line interpolation between threshold and maximum performance on a ranked basis.  
For the RoTE element, 20% of the award will vest for threshold RoTE and 40% for a ROTE of 16.0% for awards to be made in 
March 2017. Otherwise, vesting is similar to TSR: a straight-line interpolation occurs from threshold to target, then from target  
to maximum performance. 
The LTIP awards will also vest only to the extent that the Committee is satisfied that the outcome of the TSR and RoTE performance 
conditions reflects the Group’s underlying financial performance from the date of grant until vesting. When considering these 
matters, the Committee will also consider whether there have been any material risk failings. 
Pension and benefits 
A pension contribution of 25% of base salary will continue to be paid to the CEO and CFO in 2017. Before his promotion to 
the Board the MD Personal Lines received a pension contribution of 15% of base salary and the level of contribution has not 
been changed following his appointment to the Board.  
Benefits comprise providing a company car or car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance, income protection and 
health screening. Like all employees, the Executive Directors are also eligible for certain discounted Group products. 
Non-Executive Directors’ fees  
The current fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors were set in 2012 and have not been changed since then.  
Position 
 Fees for 2017
£’000
Board Chairman fee 400
Basic Non-Executive Director fee 70
Additional fees 
Senior Independent Director fee 30
Chair of Audit, Board Risk and Remuneration Committees 30
Chair of CSR Committee 10
Member of Board Committee (Audit, Board Risk or Remuneration) 10
Member of Board Committee (CSR or Nomination) 5
No additional fees are paid for membership or chairmanship of the Investment Committee.  
External directorships 
Paul Geddes was appointed as a non-Executive Director for Channel 4 on 5 December 2016 for which he receives an annual 
fee of £22,177. Total fees received from Channel 4 in 2016 were £1,848. John Reizenstein is a trustee and Director of Farm 
Africa, for which he receives no fees. Otherwise, the Executive Directors do not currently hold any further external directorships. 
  
www.directlinegroup.com 99
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
100  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Policy report 
The following sets out our proposed Directors’ remuneration policy. This policy will be put forward for shareholder approval  
at the 2017 AGM on 11 May 2017 and, if approved, will apply to payments made from that date. Until this time, the policy 
approved on 13 May 2014 will continue to apply. The main changes in this policy from the 2014 policy have been 
summarised in the Remuneration Committee Chair’s letter above and in the notes to the policy tables.  
You can find further details regarding the policy’s operation for 2017 on page 103.  
Policy table 
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation 
Base 
salary 
 This is the core element 
of pay that reflects the 
individual’s role and 
position within the 
Group. It is payable for 
doing the expected 
day-to-day job 
 Staying competitive in 
the market allows us to 
attract, retain and 
motivate high-calibre 
executives with the 
skills to achieve our key 
aims while managing 
costs 
 Base salaries are typically reviewed annually and set in April of each year, although the Committee 
may undertake an out-of-cycle review if it determines this to be appropriate 
 When reviewing base salaries, the Committee typically takes the following into account: 
 level of skill, experience and scope of responsibilities, individual and business performance, 
economic climate, and market conditions; 
 the median market pay in the context of companies of a similar size, particularly FTSE 31-100 
companies, as they are considered to reflect the size and complexity of the Group; 
 the practice of insurance peers such as Admiral Group, Aviva, esure Group, Hastings Group,  
Legal & General, Old Mutual, Phoenix Group, Prudential, RSA Insurance Group, Standard Life  
and companies of a similar size to DLG as appropriate; and 
 general base salary movements across the Group 
 The Committee does not follow market data strictly. However, it uses it as a reference point in 
considering, in its judgement, the appropriate salary level, while regarding other relevant factors, 
including corporate and individual performance, and any changes in an individual’s role and 
responsibilities 
 The principles for setting base salary are similar to those applied to other employees in the Group. 
However, the specific benchmarking groups used to review external market relativities may differ 
across employee groups 
 Base salary is typically paid monthly
AIP 
 To motivate executives 
and incentivise delivery 
of performance over a 
one-year operating 
cycle, focusing on the 
short to medium-term 
elements of our 
strategic aims 
 For Executive Directors, at least 40% of the award is deferred into shares under the Deferred Annual 
Incentive Plan (the “DAIP”). This typically vests three years after grant (with deferred awards also 
capable of being settled in cash at the discretion of the Committee, for example, when it gives rise to 
legal difficulties to settle in shares). The remainder of the award is paid in cash following the year end 
 The Committee will keep the percentage deferred and terms of deferral under review. This will ensure 
levels are in line with regulatory requirements and best practice and may be changed in future years 
but will not, in the Committee’s view, be changed to be less onerous overall 
 Malus and clawback provisions apply to the cash and deferred elements. These are explained in the 
notes to the policy table 
LTIP 
 Aligning executives’ 
interests with those of 
shareholders to 
motivate and 
incentivise delivering 
sustained business 
performance over the 
long term  
 To aid retaining  
key executive talent 
long term 
 Awards will typically be made in the form of nil-cost options or conditional share awards, which vest to 
the extent performance conditions are satisfied over a period of at least three years. Under the Plan 
rules, awards may also be settled in cash at the discretion of the Committee. This may be appropriate, 
for example, if legal difficulties arise with settling in shares 
 Vested options will remain exercisable for up to the tenth anniversary of grant 
 Malus and clawback provisions apply to the LTIP. These are explained in the notes to the policy table 
 Awards under the LTIP may be made at various times during the financial year. While the Committee 
reserves the right to do otherwise, the Committee’s practice has been to make awards twice in each 
financial year, following the announcement of the Group’s annual and half-year results 
 For awards made after adopting the new policy at the 2017 AGM, Executive Directors will be subject 
to an additional two-year holding period following the three-year vesting period, during which time 
awards may not normally be exercised or released. During the additional holding period the awards 
will continue to accrue dividends. Following the holding period awards will cease to accrue dividends 
if not exercised  
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 100    www.directlinegroup.com  101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Maximum opportunity Performance measures 
 When determining salary 
increases, the Committee will 
consider the factors outlined in this 
table under ‘Operation’. In any 
event, no increase will be made if 
it would take an Executive 
Director’s salary above 
£850,000 (the current median 
level of salaries for CEOs in the 
FTSE 100), as further increased 
by UK RPI from the date of 
approving this policy 
 Not applicable 
 Maximum and target bonus levels 
for Executive Directors are set by 
taking into account annual bonus 
practice throughout the 
organisation and referring to 
practice at other insurance and 
general market comparators 
 The maximum bonus opportunity 
under the AIP is 175% of base 
salary per annum. The current 
maximum bonus opportunity 
applying for each individual 
Executive Director is shown in the 
statement of implementation of 
policy. This is in the 2016 section 
of the annual remuneration report 
 Performance over the financial year is assessed against performance measures which the Committee 
considers to be appropriate 
 These may be financial, non-financial (Group, divisional or business line) and individual. Each year, at 
least 50% of the bonus is based on financial measures. The remainder of the bonus may be based on 
a combination of strategic, shared and individual performance measures 
 The Committee sets targets at the beginning of each financial year 
 No more than 10% of the bonus is paid for threshold performance (30% of the bonus for the individual 
performance element). No more than 60% of the maximum opportunity pays out for target 
performance. However, the Committee retains flexibility to amend the pay-out level at different levels  
of performance for future bonus cycles. This is based on its assessment of the level of stretch inherent  
in the set targets, and the Committee will disclose any such determinations appropriately 
 Before any payment can be made, the Committee will perform an additional gateway assessment 
(including in respect of any risk concerns). This will determine whether the amount of any bonus is 
appropriate in view of facts or circumstances which the Committee considers relevant. This assessment 
may result in moderating (positively or negatively) each AIP performance measure, subject to the 
individual maximum bonus levels 
 The AIP remains a discretionary arrangement. The Committee reserves discretion to adjust the out-turn 
(from zero to the cap), should it consider it appropriate 
 The maximum LTIP award in 
normal circumstances is 200%  
of salary  
 Awards of up to 300% of  
base salary are permitted in 
exceptional circumstances, 
relating to recruiting or retaining 
an employee, as determined by 
the Committee 
 
 The Committee will determine the performance conditions for each award made under the LTIP, 
measuring performance over a period of at least three years with no provision to retest 
 Performance is measured against targets set at the beginning of the performance period, which may 
be set by referring to the time of grant or financial year 
 Awards vest based on performance against financial and/or such other (including share return) 
measures, as set by the Committee, to be aligned with the Group’s long-term strategic objectives 
 For awards to be granted in 2017, vesting will continue to be determined based on two measures: 
RoTE and relative TSR performance against the FTSE 350 (excluding investment trusts). The Committee 
may apply different performance measures and targets for future awards, provided not less than 50% 
of the award shall be subject to one or more financial measures, and not less than 25% shall be 
subject to a relative TSR measure 
 Awards will be subject to a payment gateway, such that the Committee must be satisfied that there are 
no material risk failings, reputational concerns or regulatory issues 
 Additionally, there is a financial underpin relating to the Committee’s view of the Group’s underlying 
financial performance for the TSR and RoTE (and any other) elements, 20% of the award vests for 
threshold performance, with 100% vesting for maximum performance. The Committee reserves the right 
in respect of future awards to lengthen (but not reduce) any performance period and/or amend the 
terms of any holding period; however, there is no intention to reduce the length of the holding period 
  
www.directlinegroup.com 101
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
102  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation 
Pension 
 To remain competitive within  
the market place 
 To encourage retirement 
planning and retain flexibility  
for individuals 
 Pension contributions are paid only in respect of base salary 
 Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the defined contribution pension 
arrangement or alternatively they may choose to receive a cash allowance in lieu  
of pension 
Benefits 
 A comprehensive and flexible 
benefits package is offered, 
emphasising individuals being 
able to choose the combination 
of cash and benefits that  
suits them 
 Executive Directors receive a benefits package generally set by reference to market 
practice in companies of a similar size and complexity, particularly FTSE 31-100 
companies. Benefits currently provided include a company car or car allowance, private 
medical insurance, life insurance, health screening, and income protection 
 The Committee may periodically amend the benefits available to some or all employees. 
The Executive Directors are eligible to receive such additional benefits as the Committee 
considers appropriate having regard to market norms 
 In line with our approach to all employees, certain Group products are offered to 
Executive Directors at a discount 
 Executive Directors are eligible to participate in any of the employee share plans 
operated by the Company, in line with HMRC guidelines (where relevant) and on the 
same basis as other eligible employees. Currently, this includes the Share Incentive Plan 
(“SIP”), which has been used to provide an award of free shares to all employees 
(including Executive Directors), and permit employees to purchase shares with a 
corresponding matching award  
 Where an Executive Director is required to relocate to perform their role, they may be 
offered appropriate relocation benefits. The level of such benefits would be determined 
based on the circumstances of the individual and typical market practice  
Share 
ownership 
guidelines 
 To align the interests of 
Executive Directors with those  
of shareholders 
 Executive Directors are expected to retain all the ordinary shares vesting under any of  
the Company’s share incentive plans, after any disposals for paying applicable taxes, 
until they have achieved the required shareholding level; unless such earlier sale, in 
exceptional circumstances, is permitted by the Chairman 
Notes to the policy table 
Malus and clawback 
Malus (reducing or forfeiting unvested awards) and clawback (the Company’s ability to claim repayment of paid amounts)  
provisions apply to the AIP (cash and deferred element) and LTIP if, in the Committee’s opinion, any of the following has occurred: 
 There has been a material misstatement of the Company’s financial results, which has led to an overpayment 
 The assessment of performance targets is based on an error, or inaccurate or misleading information or assumptions 
 Circumstances warranting summary dismissal in the relevant period 
 A material failure of risk management 
 An event during the relevant period which has, in the view of the Committee, sufficiently and significantly impacted the 
Company’s reputation as to justify such action 
Amounts in respect of awards under both plans (LTIP and DAIP) may be subject to clawback for up to three years post payment  
or vesting (with such period lengthened if there is an investigation as to whether relevant circumstances exist) as appropriate. 
Consistent with developments in the market generally, the provisions clarify that any recoupment is out of the post-tax amount, 
except to the extent that the participant recovers tax from the relevant tax authority. 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 102    www.directlinegroup.com  103 
Maximum opportunity Performance measures 
 The maximum pension contributions is set at 25% of base salary  
per annum 
 
 Not performance related 
 The costs of benefits provided may fluctuate from year to year, even  
if the level of provision has remained unchanged. An annual limit of 
10% of base salary per Executive Director has been set for the duration 
of this policy (plus an additional amount of up to 100% of salary in 
respect of relocation expenses). The Committee will monitor the costs  
in practice and ensure the overall costs do not increase by more than 
the Committee considers to be appropriate in all the circumstances 
 Additionally, the limit for any employee share plans in which the 
Executive Directors participate will be in line with the caps permitted 
by HMRC from time to time 
 The Executive Directors may be entitled to retain fees received for 
any directorships held outside the Group 
 Similarly, while not benefits in the normal usage of that term,  
certain other items such as hospitality or retirement gifts may also  
be provided 
 Not performance related 
 200% of salary for all Executive Directors 
 The Committee reserves the discretion to amend these levels in  
future years 
 Not applicable 
Changes from 2014 policy 
The main changes from the 2014 policy are summarised below. To aid the administration and clarity of its operation, other  
minor changes have also been made to the policy: 
 For LTIP awards made after adopting the new policy at the 2017 AGM, Executive Directors will be subject to an additional 
two-year holding period following the three-year vesting period, during which time awards may not normally be exercised  
or released 
 Consistent with GC100 guidance, the cap to base salary has been re-expressed as a fixed monetary amount. Please note  
that this is simply to align with reporting guidance and the cap does not represent any form of aspiration 
 Adding a cap on providing relocation benefits 
Exercise of discretion 
In line with market practice, the Committee retains discretion relating to operating and administering the AIP, DAIP and LTIP.  
This discretion includes, but is not limited to: 
 the timing of awards and payments; 
 the size of awards, within the overall limits disclosed in the policy table; 
 the determination of vesting; 
 the treatment of awards in the case of change of control or restructuring; 
 the treatment of leavers within the rules of the plan, and the termination policy shown on page 107; and 
 adjustments needed in certain circumstances, for example, a rights issue, corporate restructuring or special interim dividend. 
While performance conditions will generally remain unchanged once set, the Committee has the usual discretions to amend the 
measures, weightings and targets in exceptional circumstances (such as a major transaction) where the original conditions would 
cease to operate as intended. Any such changes would be explained in the subsequent annual remuneration report and, if 
appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Company’s major shareholders. Consistent with best practice, the LTIP rules 
also provide that any such amendment must not make, in the view of the Committee, the amended condition materially less 
difficult to satisfy than the original condition was intended to be before such event occurred. 
  
www.directlinegroup.com 103
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
104  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Adjusting the number of shares under deferred bonus and LTIP 
The number of shares subject to deferred bonus and LTIP awards may be increased to reflect the value of dividends that would 
have been paid in respect of any dates falling between the grant of awards and the date of vesting (or, if later, the expiry of  
any holding period) of awards (legacy awards made before 2014 accrue dividends to exercise). 
The terms of incentive plan awards may be adjusted in the event of a variation of the Company’s share capital, demerger  
or a similar event that materially affects the price of the shares, or otherwise in accordance with the plan rules. 
Remuneration payments agreed before appointment to the Board 
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office (including, where relevant, 
exercising any discretions available to it connected with such payments) notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy 
set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed (i) before 13 May 2014 (the date the original shareholder approved 
policy came into effect);(ii) provided the terms of the payment were consistent with any shareholder-approved Directors’ 
remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed; (iii) at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual 
becoming a Director of the Company. For these purposes, ‘payments’ include pension arrangements and the Committee 
satisfying awards of variable remuneration. Relating to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are ‘agreed’ at the time 
the award is granted. 
Selecting performance measures 
Annual Incentive Plan 
The Committee has selected the AIP performance measures to incentivise Executive Directors to achieve financial targets for the 
year, and specific strategic, shared and personal objectives. These measures are aligned with the key performance indicators  
we use as a business to monitor performance against our strategic priorities, as shown on pages 24 and 25. 
The relevant targets are set at or following the start of each year to ensure the Executive Directors focus appropriately on the  
key objectives for the next twelve months. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan 
The goal of our strategy is to provide long-term sustainable returns for our shareholders. Therefore, for 2017 (as in prior years), 
awards under the LTIP will continue to be subject to performance against RoTE (an important KPI to the business) and relative TSR 
targets. The Committee believes this combination provides a balanced approach to measuring Group performance over the 
longer term by using a stated financial KPI that incentivises individuals to keep growing the business efficiently, and a measure 
based on relative shareholder return. This combination of measures appropriately balances absolute and relative returns. 
As set out in the policy table, different performance measures may apply for awards granted in future years. 
Differences in remuneration policy from broader employee population 
To ensure that the arrangements in place remain appropriate, when determining Executive Directors’ remuneration, the Committee 
accounts for pay throughout the Group. 
The Group has one consistent reward policy for all levels of employees. Therefore, the same reward principles guide reward 
decisions for all Group employees, including Executive Directors. However, remuneration packages differ to account for 
appropriate factors in different areas of the business: 
 AIP – approximately 3,600 employees participate in the AIP. The corporate performance measures for all employees are 
consistent with those used for Executive Directors, although the weighting attributable to those factors may differ. The Group’s 
strategic leaders (approximately 60 employees) also receive part of their bonus in Company shares deferred for three years 
 Incentive awards – approximately 3,800 employees, excluding Executive Directors, participate in a function or team specific 
incentive plan which assesses personal performance over a monthly period. These incentive awards may pay out monthly or 
quarterly 
 LTIP – our strategic leaders participate in the LTIP, currently based on the same performance conditions as those for  
Executive Directors  
 RSP – RSP awards are used on a limited basis across the Company to help recruit and retain critical staff, and for talent 
management. Executive Directors do not receive grants under the RSP 
 All employee share plans – the Committee considers it important for all employees to have the opportunity to become 
shareholders in the Company. The HMRC-approved SIP has operated since 2013, and, in addition, the Company has made 
periodic awards of free shares. At year-end, approximately 3,000 employees throughout the Group had signed up to these 
schemes with 9,500 holding free shares in the Company 
 Pension and benefits – depending on employee grade, the Company contributes between 9-25% to the defined contribution 
pension scheme without any requirement for an employee contribution. Employees may also opt for a proportion or all of this 
to be paid as cash rather than into the pension scheme 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 104    www.directlinegroup.com  105 
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors 
Element Purpose and link to strategy Approach to setting fees and cap Other items 
Chairman and 
Non-Executive 
Directors’ fees 
To enable the 
Company to recruit 
and retain Non-
Executive Directors of 
the highest calibre, at 
an appropriate cost 
 Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic annual fee. 
Additional fees may be paid to Non-Executive Directors 
who chair a Board Committee, sit on a Board 
Committee, and for the Senior Independent Director  
to reflect additional responsibilities, as appropriate.  
The level of fees for 2017 is shown in the annual 
remuneration section 
 The fees paid to the Chairman include all Board and 
Committee membership fees, and are determined by  
the Remuneration Committee 
 Non-Executive Directors may receive certain expenses, 
including the reimbursement of travel expenses and 
accommodation or similar which, consistent with general 
market practice, will be grossed-up for any tax arising on 
such expenses. It is the Committee’s view that expenses 
(which are deemed to be benefits) are covered under the 
aggregate cap set by the Articles of Association and that 
this cap is not restricted to fees only 
 Similarly, while not benefits in the normal usage of that 
term, certain other items such as hospitality or retirement 
gifts may also be provided 
 Fee levels for Non-Executive Directors are reviewed and 
may be increased at appropriate intervals by the Board, 
with affected individual Directors absenting themselves 
from deliberations 
 In setting the level of fees, the Company accounts for 
the role’s expected time commitment, and fees at other 
companies of a similar size, sector and/or complexity 
to the Group 
 Fees (including expenses which are deemed to be 
benefits) for Non-Executive Directors are subject to an 
aggregate cap in the Articles of Association (currently 
£2,000,000 per annum). The Company reserves the 
right to change how the elements and weightings within 
the overall fees are paid, and to pay a proportion of the 
fees in shares within this limit 
The Non-Executive 
Directors are not entitled 
to receive any 
compensation for loss  
of office, other than fees 
for their notice period. 
They do not participate 
in the Group’s bonus, 
employee share plans or 
pension arrangements, 
and do not receive any 
employee benefits 
Recruitment remuneration policy 
To strengthen the management team and secure the skills to deliver the Group’s strategic aims, the recruitment remuneration policy 
aims to give the Committee sufficient flexibility to secure the appointment and promotion of high-calibre executives. 
Principles for recruitment remuneration 
1. In terms of the principles for setting a package for a new Executive Director, the starting point for the Committee will be to  
look to the policy for Executive Directors as set out in the policy table, and structure a package in accordance with that policy. 
Consistent with the Regulations, the caps contained in the policy table for fixed pay do not apply to new recruits, although the 
Committee would not envisage exceeding these caps in practice 
2. The Company would normally disclose clearly the terms of any recruitment package on announcing the appointment of any 
new Executive Director 
3. For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may either continue on its original 
terms or be adjusted to reflect the new appointment, as appropriate 
4. For external and internal appointments (including a major change in role), the Committee may agree that the Company will 
meet certain relocation expenses, legal and other fees involved in negotiating any recruitment, or pay expatriate benefits in 
line with the policy table, as appropriate 
 
  
www.directlinegroup.com 105
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
106  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Buy-out awards 
5. Where it is necessary to make a recruitment-related pay award to an external candidate, the Company will not pay more than 
necessary, in the view of the Committee, and will in all cases seek to deliver any such awards under the terms of the existing 
incentive pay structure 
6. All such awards for external appointments, whether under the AIP, LTIP or otherwise, to compensate for awards forfeited on 
leaving their previous employer will be determined taking into account the commercial value of the amount forfeited, and the 
nature, time horizons and performance requirements of those awards. In particular, the Committee’s starting point will be to 
ensure that any awards being forfeited which remain subject to outstanding performance requirements (other than where 
substantially complete) are bought out with replacement requirements, and any awards with service requirements are bought 
out with similar terms. However, exceptionally, the Committee may relax those obligations where it considers it to be in the 
interests of shareholders and those factors are, in the Committee’s view, equally reflected in some other way, for example 
through a significant discount to the face value of the awards forfeited  
The elements of any package for a new recruit, including the maximum level of variable pay, but excluding buy-outs, will be  
consistent with the Executive Directors’ remuneration policy described in this report, as modified by the above statement of principles 
where appropriate. The Committee reserves the right to avail itself of the current Listing Rule 9.4.2 (being the rule which permits 
exceptional recruitment awards on terms different from any shareholder approved ongoing plans) if needed to facilitate, in exceptional 
circumstances, recruiting an Executive Director. Awards granted under this provision will only be used for buy-out awards. 
Any commitments made before promotion to the Board (except when made in connection with the appointment to the Board)  
can continue to be honoured under the policy, even if they are not consistent with the policy prevailing when the commitment  
is fulfilled. 
In exceptional circumstances, the initial notice period may be longer than the Company’s 12-month policy up to a maximum  
of 24 months. However, this will reduce by one month for every month served, until it has reduced to 12 months in line with the 
Company’s policy position. 
The remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors as set out earlier in this report will apply relating to any 
recruitments to those positions. 
Service contracts 
Subject to the discretion noted above for new recruits, it is the Company’s policy to set notice periods for Executive Directors of 
no more than 12 months (both by the Director or Company). The Executive Directors’ service agreements summary is as follows: 
Director Effective date of contract 
Notice period (by 
Director or Company) Exit payment policy 
Paul Geddes 1 September 2012 12 months Base salary only for unexpired portion of notice period to be paid 
in a lump sum or monthly instalments, in which case, instalments 
are subject to mitigation if an alternative role is found. 
John Reizenstein 1 September 2012 12 months Base salary only for unexpired portion of notice period to be paid 
in a lump sum or monthly instalments, in which case, instalments 
are subject to mitigation if an alternative role is found. 
Mike Holliday-
Williams 
30 January 2014 12 months Base salary only for unexpired portion of notice period to be paid 
in a lump sum or monthly instalments, in which case, instalments 
are subject to mitigation if an alternative role is found. 
There are no further obligations which could give rise to a remuneration or loss of office payment other than those set out in the 
remuneration policy table and the termination policy overleaf.  
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 106    www.directlinegroup.com  107 
Termination policy 
It is appropriate for the Committee to retain discretion to consider the termination terms of any Executive Director, having regard 
to all the relevant facts and circumstances available to them at the time. A Director is deemed a ‘good leaver’ if the following 
circumstances are met: 
 AIP and LTIP – death, injury, ill-health, redundancy, retirement, the sale of the individual’s employing company or business out 
of the Group, or in such other circumstances as the Committee determines 
 DAIP – for any reason other than summary dismissal or resignation. However, the Committee may determine that, in the case 
of resignation only, awards may be retained 
The table below sets out the general position. However, it should be noted that the Committee, consistent with most other 
companies, has reserved a broad discretion to determine whether an Executive Director should be categorised as a ‘good 
leaver’, and that discretion forms part of the approved policy. 
Incentives 
If a leaver is a ‘bad leaver’,  
for example leaving through  
resignation or summary dismissal 
If a leaver is deemed to be 
a ‘good leaver’ 
Other events, for example,  
change in control of Company 
Annual Incentive Plan No awards made Bonus based on performance, 
paid at the normal time and  
on a time pro-rata basis, unless 
the Committee determines 
otherwise 
Bonus determined on such basis 
as the Committee considers 
appropriate and paid on a  
time pro-rata basis, unless the 
Committee determines otherwise 
Deferred Annual  
Incentive Plan 
All awards will lapse Deferred shares typically vest  
on the normal vesting date, 
although the Committee reserves 
discretion to accelerate vesting. 
In the case of the participant’s 
death or other exceptional 
circumstances, awards may vest 
immediately 
Awards will vest in full 
In the event of a demerger or 
similar event, the Committee may 
determine that awards vest on the 
same basis 
Long-Term Incentive Plan 
 
 
All unvested awards will lapse 
During the holding period, 
awards cease to be contingent 
on employment and, therefore, 
will not lapse (except on 
dismissal for cause) but may 
be subject to malus 
Awards will vest on the normal 
vesting date (plus any 
applicable holding period, 
unless the Committee 
determines otherwise) subject 
to performance and, unless  
the Committee determines 
otherwise, time pro-rating. In 
exceptional circumstances, as 
determined by the Committee, 
for example, in the case of the 
participant’s death, awards 
may vest immediately  
Awards will vest subject 
to applying the performance 
conditions and, unless the 
Committee determines otherwise, 
time pro-rating. The Committee 
may determine that such awards 
shall not vest early and, instead, 
be rolled over into replacement 
awards granted on a similar basis, 
but over shares in the acquirer or 
another company or settled in cash 
or other securities.  
In the event of a demerger or 
similar event, the Committee may 
determine that awards vest on the 
same basis 
Service agreements for all Executive Directors provide that they are not eligible to receive any enhanced redundancy terms  
which may be offered by the Group from time to time. Their rights to a statutory redundancy payment are not affected. 
Depending on the circumstances of departure, an Executive Director may have additional claims under relevant employment 
protection laws, and the Company may contribute to any legal fees involved in agreeing a termination. It may also agree to incur 
certain other expenses such as providing outplacement services. Any such fees would be disclosed as part of the detail of any 
termination arrangements. The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments connected with a Director’s cessation  
of office or employment, where the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation (or by way of 
damages for breach of such an obligation) or by way of a compromise or settlement of any claim arising connected with the 
cessation of a Director’s office or employment. 
  
www.directlinegroup.com 107
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
108  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Non-Executive Director letters of appointment 
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three-year term which may be extended by mutual agreement. In common with the 
Executive Directors, all Non-Executives are subject to annual re-election by shareholders. 
The Directors may appoint additional members to join the Board during the year. Directors appointed in this way will be subject 
to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment. In subsequent years, the Directors must submit themselves for 
re-election at each AGM. 
Terms and conditions of appointment of all the Directors are available for anyone to inspect at the Company’s registered office 
and AGM. 
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have notice periods of three months from either party which do not apply in the case 
of a Director not being re-elected by shareholders or retiring from office under the Articles of Association. Other than fees for this 
notice period, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any compensation on exit. 
External directorships 
The Company encourages Executive Directors to accept, subject to the Chairman’s approval, an invitation to join the board  
of another company outside the Group in a non-executive capacity, recognising the value of such wider experience. In these 
circumstances, they are permitted to retain any remuneration from the non-executive appointment. Executive Directors are 
generally limited to accepting one external directorship, but may accept more with the Chairman’s prior approval. 
Considering employment conditions elsewhere in the Group 
As explained elsewhere in the Directors’ remuneration report, the Committee reviews the overall pay and bonus decisions in 
aggregate for the wider Group, and, therefore, takes into account pay and conditions in the wider Group in determining the 
Directors’ remuneration policy and the remuneration payable to Directors. Through the Chief Executive Officer, Paul Geddes,  
and other senior management, the Committee may receive input from employee groups in the Group, such as the Employee 
Representative Body, as required. 
In accordance with prevailing commercial practice, the Committee did not consult with employees in preparing the Directors’ 
remuneration policy. 
Considering shareholders’ views 
The Committee accounts for the approval levels of remuneration related matters at the AGM in determining whether the current 
Directors’ remuneration policy remains appropriate. 
When setting the remuneration policy, the Committee, consistent with its approach of operating within the highest standards of 
corporate governance, takes significant account of guidelines issued by the leading shareholder and proxy agencies. 
The Committee also seeks to build an active and productive dialogue with investors on developments in the remuneration aspects 
of corporate governance generally, and particularly, any changes to the Company’s executive pay arrangements. 
The Committee is satisfied that no element of the Directors’ remuneration policy conflicts with the Group’s approach to 
environmental, social or corporate governance matters. 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 108    www.directlinegroup.com  109 
Performance scenarios 
The Directors’ remuneration policy has been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of total remuneration is delivered  
as variable pay and, therefore, depends on performance against our strategic objectives. 
The Committee has considered the level of remuneration that may be paid under different performance scenarios to ensure it 
would be appropriate in each situation, in the context of the performance delivered and the value created for shareholders.  
The following charts show the potential remuneration which Executive Directors may earn under three performance scenarios 
(assuming the adoption of the proposed Policy) as set out below. These exclude share price appreciation and dividends which 
could have a significant impact on the final outcome.  
 
The elements of remuneration included in each scenario are as follows: 
Minimum Consists of fixed remuneration only (that is, base salary, benefits and pension): 
  Base salary is the salary to be paid from 1 April 2017  
 Benefits measured as benefits paid in 2016 as set out in the single figure table on page 87, including  
the value of matching shares under the SIP where relevant  
 Pension measured as the defined contribution or cash allowance in lieu of Company contributions,  
as a percentage of salary (25% of base salary for the CEO and CFO, and 15% of salary for the MD 
Personal Lines) 
On-target Based on what the Director would receive if performance was on-target (excluding share price appreciation 
and dividends): 
  Fixed remuneration as above  
 AIP – consists of the on-target bonus of 60% of maximum bonus opportunity  
 LTIP – consists of the threshold level of vesting (20% vesting) 
Maximum Based on the maximum remuneration receivable (excluding share price appreciation and dividends): 
  Fixed remuneration as above  
 AIP – consists of the maximum bonus (175% of base salary for the CEO and 150% for the CFO and the 
MD Personal Lines)  
 LTIP – consists of the face value of awards (200% of base salary for all Executive Directors) 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on 6 March 2017. 
 
 
Clare Thompson 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
www.directlinegroup.com 109
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 Total ﬁxed pay  Short term Incentives Long term Incentives
15% 2,207
100% 1,032
47%
25%
38%
35% 40% 4,071
CEO – Paul Geddes 
(£’000)
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
£0m £1m £2m £3m £4m
 Total ﬁxed pay  Short term Incentives Long term Incentives
16% 1,261
100% 624
49%
27%
35%
31% 42% 2,341
CFO – John Reizenstein 
(£’000)
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
£0m £1m £2m £3m £4m
 Total ﬁxed pay  Short term Incentives Long term Incentives
16% 1,360
100% 647
48%
25%
36%
32% 43% 2,568
MD Personal Lines – Mike Holliday-Williams 
(£’000)
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
£0m £1m £2m £3m £4m Directors’ report 
110  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016    
The Directors present their report for the financial year ended 
31 December 2016. 
You can find the forward-looking statements disclaimer on 
page 195. 
Strategic report 
The Company’s Strategic report is on pages 1 to 47. It includes 
the following information that would otherwise need to be 
disclosed in this Directors’ report: 
Subject Pages
Use of financial instruments 44 and 45
Likely future developments  
in the business 
34 to 37 and 47
Employee involvement 13, 17 and 32 to 33
Corporate governance statement 
The FCA’s Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules 
require a corporate governance statement in the Directors’ 
report to include certain information. You can find information 
that fulfils the corporate governance statement’s requirements  
in this Directors’ report; the Corporate Governance report;  
the Committee reports; and the Directors’ remuneration report,  
on pages 48 to 109. This information is incorporated in the 
Directors’ report by reference. 
Disclosure of information under Listing Rule 
9.8.4R 
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.4C, the table below sets 
out the location of the information required to be disclosed, 
where applicable. 
Subject Page
Interest capitalised by the Group None
Unaudited financial information None
Long-term incentive plan involving one 
Director only 
97
Directors’ waivers of emoluments  97
Directors’ waivers of future emoluments  Not applicable
Non pro-rata allotments for cash (issuer) Not applicable 
Non pro-rata allotments for cash (major 
subsidiaries) 
None
Listed company is a subsidiary of another 
company 
Not applicable
Contracts of significance involving a director  Not applicable
Contracts of significance involving a 
controlling shareholder 
Not applicable
Details of shareholder dividend waivers 111
Controlling shareholder agreements Not applicable
Post-balance sheet events 
The Group has made an adjustment to its consolidated 
financial statements following the announcement on  
27 February 2017 by the Lord Chancellor of a reduction  
in the Ogden discount rate to minus 0.75%.  
Dividends 
The Group aims to generate long-term sustainable value  
for shareholders, while balancing operational, regulatory, 
rating agency and policyholder requirements. The Board  
has a progressive dividend policy for the Company.  
This aims to increase the dividend annually in real terms to 
reflect the Company’s cash-flow generation and long-term 
earnings potential. 
The Group expects that one-third of the annual dividend will 
generally be paid in the third quarter as an interim dividend, 
and two-thirds will be paid as a final dividend in the second 
quarter of the following year. The Board may revise the 
dividend policy from time to time. 
Additionally, if the Board believes the Group has capital 
surplus to its view of its solvency capital requirements,  
it is intended that such excess capital will be returned to 
shareholders alongside the full-year results. The Company  
may consider a special dividend and/or a repurchase of  
its own shares to distribute surplus capital to shareholders.  
The Board recommends a final dividend of 9.7 pence per 
share to shareholders. Subject to shareholder approval at  
the Company’s 2017 AGM, this will become payable on  
18 May 2017 to all holders of Ordinary Shares on the 
Register of members at close of business on 17 March 2017.  
The final dividend resolution provides that the Board may 
cancel the dividend and, therefore, payment of the dividend  
at any time before payment, if it considers it necessary to do 
so for regulatory capital purposes. You can find detailed 
explanations about this in the Notice of AGM. 
You can find further details regarding dividends paid during 
2015 and 2016 in the Finance review on page 38 and in 
note 15 to the financial statements on page 159. You can 
also find information on dividends and capital management in 
the Finance review on page 45. 
Directors 
You can find the current Directors’ biographies on pages 50  
to 51. All Directors will retire and be submitted for election  
and re-election at the 2017 AGM. This is in accordance  
with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Articles of 
Association of the Company, which govern appointing and 
replacing Directors. The Directors listed on pages 50 and 51 
were the Directors of the Company throughout the year apart 
from Dr Richard Ward, who was appointed as a Director on 
18 January 2016, Priscilla Vacassin, who resigned as a 
Director on 1 March 2016 and Danuta Gray and Mike 
Holliday-Williams who were appointed as Directors of the 
Company on 1 February 2017. 
The Company’s Articles of Association set out the Directors’ 
powers. You can view these on the Company’s website at 
www.directlinegroup.com. The Directors’ powers are also 
subject to relevant legislation and, in certain circumstances, 
authority from the Company’s shareholders. You can find 
details of the Directors’ remuneration, service contracts, 
employment contracts and interests in the shares of the 
Company in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages  
82 to 109. 
The Articles of Association of the Company permit it to 
indemnify the Company’s officers, and officers of any 
associated company, against liabilities arising from conducting 
Company business, to the extent permitted by law. As such, 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 110 Directors’ report 
110  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016    
The Directors present their report for the financial year ended 
31 December 2016. 
You can find the forward-looking statements disclaimer on 
page 195. 
Strategic report 
The Company’s Strategic report is on pages 1 to 47. It includes 
the following information that would otherwise need to be 
disclosed in this Directors’ report: 
Subject Pages
Use of financial instruments 44 and 45
Likely future developments  
in the business 
34 to 37 and 47
Employee involvement 13, 17 and 32 to 33
Corporate governance statement 
The FCA’s Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules 
require a corporate governance statement in the Directors’ 
report to include certain information. You can find information 
that fulfils the corporate governance statement’s requirements  
in this Directors’ report; the Corporate Governance report;  
the Committee reports; and the Directors’ remuneration report,  
on pages 48 to 109. This information is incorporated in the 
Directors’ report by reference. 
Disclosure of information under Listing Rule 
9.8.4R 
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.4C, the table below sets 
out the location of the information required to be disclosed, 
where applicable. 
Subject Page
Interest capitalised by the Group None
Unaudited financial information None
Long-term incentive plan involving one 
Director only 
97
Directors’ waivers of emoluments  97
Directors’ waivers of future emoluments  Not applicable
Non pro-rata allotments for cash (issuer) Not applicable 
Non pro-rata allotments for cash (major 
subsidiaries) 
None
Listed company is a subsidiary of another 
company 
Not applicable
Contracts of significance involving a director  Not applicable
Contracts of significance involving a 
controlling shareholder 
Not applicable
Details of shareholder dividend waivers 111
Controlling shareholder agreements Not applicable
Post-balance sheet events 
The Group has made an adjustment to its consolidated 
financial statements following the announcement on  
27 February 2017 by the Lord Chancellor of a reduction  
in the Ogden discount rate to minus 0.75%.  
Dividends 
The Group aims to generate long-term sustainable value  
for shareholders, while balancing operational, regulatory, 
rating agency and policyholder requirements. The Board  
has a progressive dividend policy for the Company.  
This aims to increase the dividend annually in real terms to 
reflect the Company’s cash-flow generation and long-term 
earnings potential. 
The Group expects that one-third of the annual dividend will 
generally be paid in the third quarter as an interim dividend, 
and two-thirds will be paid as a final dividend in the second 
quarter of the following year. The Board may revise the 
dividend policy from time to time. 
Additionally, if the Board believes the Group has capital 
surplus to its view of its solvency capital requirements,  
it is intended that such excess capital will be returned to 
shareholders alongside the full-year results. The Company  
may consider a special dividend and/or a repurchase of  
its own shares to distribute surplus capital to shareholders.  
The Board recommends a final dividend of 9.7 pence per 
share to shareholders. Subject to shareholder approval at  
the Company’s 2017 AGM, this will become payable on  
18 May 2017 to all holders of Ordinary Shares on the 
Register of members at close of business on 17 March 2017.  
The final dividend resolution provides that the Board may 
cancel the dividend and, therefore, payment of the dividend  
at any time before payment, if it considers it necessary to do 
so for regulatory capital purposes. You can find detailed 
explanations about this in the Notice of AGM. 
You can find further details regarding dividends paid during 
2015 and 2016 in the Finance review on page 38 and in 
note 15 to the financial statements on page 159. You can 
also find information on dividends and capital management in 
the Finance review on page 45. 
Directors 
You can find the current Directors’ biographies on pages 50  
to 51. All Directors will retire and be submitted for election  
and re-election at the 2017 AGM. This is in accordance  
with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Articles of 
Association of the Company, which govern appointing and 
replacing Directors. The Directors listed on pages 50 and 51 
were the Directors of the Company throughout the year apart 
from Dr Richard Ward, who was appointed as a Director on 
18 January 2016, Priscilla Vacassin, who resigned as a 
Director on 1 March 2016 and Danuta Gray and Mike 
Holliday-Williams who were appointed as Directors of the 
Company on 1 February 2017. 
The Company’s Articles of Association set out the Directors’ 
powers. You can view these on the Company’s website at 
www.directlinegroup.com. The Directors’ powers are also 
subject to relevant legislation and, in certain circumstances, 
authority from the Company’s shareholders. You can find 
details of the Directors’ remuneration, service contracts, 
employment contracts and interests in the shares of the 
Company in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages  
82 to 109. 
The Articles of Association of the Company permit it to 
indemnify the Company’s officers, and officers of any 
associated company, against liabilities arising from conducting 
Company business, to the extent permitted by law. As such, 
   www.directlinegroup.com  111 
the Company has executed deeds of indemnity for each 
Director’s benefit, regarding liabilities that may attach  
to them in their capacity as Directors of the Company or 
associated companies. These indemnities are qualifying third-
party indemnities as defined by section 234 of the Companies 
Act 2006. No amount was paid under any of these 
indemnities during the year. The Company maintains directors’ 
and officers’ liability insurance. This provides appropriate 
cover for legal actions brought against its Directors. The 
Company has also provided the directors of DLG Pension 
Trustee Limited with qualifying pension scheme indemnities. 
This is in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 
2006. DLG Pension Trustee Limited acts as trustee for two of 
the Company’s occupational pension schemes. 
Secretary 
Roger Clifton is the Company Secretary of Direct Line Insurance 
Group plc. He can be contacted at the Company’s Registered 
Office, details of which are on page 196. 
Share capital 
The Company has a premium listing on the London Stock 
Exchange. As at 31 December 2016, the Company’s share 
capital comprised 1,375,000,000 fully paid Ordinary Shares 
of 10 10/11 pence each. 
At the Company’s 2016 AGM, the Directors were  
authorised to: 
 allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe  
for, or convert, any security into shares up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £50,000,000;  
 allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£100,000,000, for the purpose of a rights issue;  
 allot shares having a normal amount not exceeding in 
aggregate £15,000,000 for cash without offering the 
shares first to existing shareholders in proportion to their 
holdings; and 
 make market purchases of up to 137,500,000 shares in 
the Company, representing 10% of the Company’s issued 
share capital at the time. 
To date, the Directors have not used these authorities. At the 
2017 AGM, shareholders will be asked to renew these 
authorities and vote on some additional resolutions in relation 
to the disapplication of pre-emption rights and the issue of 
Solvency II Tier 1 Instruments in line with the most recent 
institutional investors’ guidelines. The Company has not held 
any shares in treasury during the period under review. You can 
find out more about the Company’s share capital and shares 
under option at 31 December 2016 in notes 29 and 35 to 
the consolidated financial statements. 
Under the Company’s Share Incentive Plan, Trustees hold 
shares on behalf of employee participants. The Trustees will 
only vote on those shares and receive dividends that a 
participant beneficially owns, in accordance with the 
participant’s wishes. An Employee Benefit Trust also operates. 
The Trustee of this has discretion to vote on any shares it holds 
as it sees fit, except any shares participants own beneficially; 
in which case, the Trustee will only vote on such shares as per 
the participant’s instructions.  
The Trustee of this Trust has waived its right to dividends on  
all shares within the Trust. You can find out more about the 
number of shares held by the employee share plan trusts in 
note 29 on page 166. The Company is only aware of the 
dividend waivers and voting restrictions mentioned above. 
Shareholder voting rights and restrictions  
on transfer of shares 
All the Company’s issued Ordinary Shares rank equally in all 
respects. The Company’s Articles of Association set out the 
rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s Ordinary 
Shares.  
Employees in the Company and Directors must conform with 
the EU Market Abuse Regulation and the Company’s share 
dealing rules. These rules restrict particular employees’ and 
Directors’ ability to deal in the Company’s shares at certain 
times, and require the employee or Director to obtain 
permission to deal before doing so. Some of the Company’s 
employee share plans also include restrictions on transferring 
shares while the shares are held within the plans. 
Each general meeting notice will specify the time for 
determining a shareholder’s entitlement to attend and vote at 
the meeting. This will not be more than 48 hours before the 
time fixed for the meeting. To be valid, all proxy appointments 
must be filed at least 48 hours before the time of the general 
meeting. In calculating this time period, no account shall be 
taken of any part of a day that is not a working day. 
Where the Company has issued a notice under section 793  
of the Companies Act 2006, which is in default for at least  
14 days, the person(s) interested in those shares shall not be 
entitled to attend or vote at any general meeting until the 
default has been corrected or the shares sold. 
There is no arrangement or understanding with any 
shareholder, customer or supplier, or any other external party, 
which provides the right to appoint a Director or a member of 
the Executive Committee, or any other special rights regarding 
control of the Company. 
Articles of Association  
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of 
Association, they may only be amended by a special resolution 
of the Company’s shareholders at a general meeting. 
Significant agreements affected by a change 
of control 
A number of agreements may take effect, alter or terminate 
upon a change of control of the Company. None of these 
agreements are considered significant in terms of their impact 
on the Group’s business as a whole.  
All the Company’s employee share incentive plans contain 
provisions relating to a change of control. Outstanding  
awards would typically vest and become exercisable.  
This is subject to satisfying any performance conditions, and 
normally with an additional time-based pro-rata reduction 
where performance conditions apply, and approval from  
the Remuneration Committee. 
  
www.directlinegroup.com 111
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ report continued 
112  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016    
Substantial shareholdings 
In accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of the FCA’s 
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, the Company 
has been notified of the following indirect interests in the 
Company’s voting rights. The Company has not been notified 
of any direct interests. Information provided by the Company 
pursuant to the FCA’s Disclosure Guidance and Transparency 
Rules is publicly available via the regulatory information 
services and on the Company’s website. 
31 December 
2016 
15 March
2017
BlackRock, Inc.  5.08% 8.43%
Political donations 
The Group made no political donations during the year 
(2015: nil). 
Employees with disabilities 
The Group is committed to promoting diversity and inclusion 
across every area of the business through initiatives such as  
the Diversity Network Alliance. At recruitment, we adjust and 
enhance our application and selection process, and guide and 
provide additional training for interviewers, where necessary. 
Our Diversity Network Alliance focuses on a number of strands 
including employees with disabilities. It identifies areas where 
we can improve and help people continue working for us.  
We reasonably adjust employees’ working environments and 
equipment, and roles and role requirements. We also ensure 
that everyone can access the same opportunities. 
Greenhouse gas emissions 
In order to comply with the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013, the Group has 
followed the 2013 UK Government environmental reporting 
guidance for GHG emissions; used the UK Government’s 
greenhouse gas conversion factors; and adopted the financial 
control approach to setting the organisational boundaries of 
responsibilities for GHG emissions. In applying the GHG 
Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard 
(revised edition) we have calculated emissions associated with 
electricity consumption solely using the location-based scope 2 
calculation method. GHG emissions are classified as direct  
or indirect, and divided into scope 1 and scope 2 emissions. 
Direct GHG emissions are those from sources that the Group 
owns or controls. Indirect GHG emissions are those that are  
a consequence of the Group’s activities, but occur at sources 
owned or controlled by another organisation. The Group has 
considered the six main GHGs, reported in tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent (“CO2e”), and set 2013 as the base year. 
The Group has not included emissions from the International 
division, which was sold in May 2015, nor has it included 
emissions associated with its investment portfolio. 
Scope 1 – direct emissions including fuels used in office 
buildings, accident repair centres, and owned vehicles 
Scope 2 – indirect emissions resulting from generating electricity 
purchased for office buildings and accident repair centres 
Total GHG emissions for continuing operations for 2016  
were 19,315 tonnes (2015: 22,611 tonnes), as set out  
in the table below. This primarily comprised emissions from 
purchased electricity and natural gas, diesel fuel, and 
refrigerant gas used. In addition to total emissions, the Group 
also monitors emissions per £ million of net earned premium.  
In 2016, this was 6.4 tonnes CO2e per £ million of net 
earned premium for continuing operations (2015: 8.0 tonnes). 
This is a measure of how efficiently insurance products are 
provided. It allows us to compare our year-on-year 
performance and performance against other insurance 
companies. Ecometrica has externally verified the GHG 
emissions data. You can find verification statements on the 
Group’s website at www.directlinegroup.com. 
You can find further information on the Group’s approach to 
energy and the environment in the CSR section on page 32. 
Year on Year 
comparison 
Direct Line Continuing 
Operations Emissions 
from: 
Tonnes of CO2e 
2013
 (Baseline) 2015 2016
Percentage 
change 
(2013 to 
2016)
Scope 1  8,429 7,643 7,383 -12%
Scope 2  21,480 14,968 11,932 -44%
Total  29,909 22,611 19,315 -35%
Intensity metric: 
tonnes CO2e/ 
million GBP net 
earned premium 8.5 8 6.4 -24%
Going concern  
The Group has sufficient financial resources to meet its 
financial needs, including managing a mature portfolio  
of insurance risk. The Directors believe the Group is well 
positioned to manage its business risks successfully in the 
current economic environment. 
The Finance review on pages 45 and 46 describes the 
Group’s capital management strategy, which covers how  
it measures its regulatory and economic capital needs,  
and deploys capital. 
The Group’s financial position is also covered in that section, 
including a commentary on cash and investment levels, 
reserves, currency management, insurance liability 
management, liquidity, and borrowings. Additionally, note 3 
to the consolidated financial statements describes capital 
management needs and policies. The note also covers 
insurance, market, liquidity and credit risks which may affect 
the Group’s financial position. 
Having made due enquiries, the Directors reasonably expect 
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for at least 12 months from 
the date of approval of the financial statements. Accordingly, 
the Directors have adopted the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements. 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 112 Directors’ report continued 
112  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016    
Substantial shareholdings 
In accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of the FCA’s 
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, the Company 
has been notified of the following indirect interests in the 
Company’s voting rights. The Company has not been notified 
of any direct interests. Information provided by the Company 
pursuant to the FCA’s Disclosure Guidance and Transparency 
Rules is publicly available via the regulatory information 
services and on the Company’s website. 
31 December 
2016 
15 March
2017
BlackRock, Inc.  5.08% 8.43%
Political donations 
The Group made no political donations during the year 
(2015: nil). 
Employees with disabilities 
The Group is committed to promoting diversity and inclusion 
across every area of the business through initiatives such as  
the Diversity Network Alliance. At recruitment, we adjust and 
enhance our application and selection process, and guide and 
provide additional training for interviewers, where necessary. 
Our Diversity Network Alliance focuses on a number of strands 
including employees with disabilities. It identifies areas where 
we can improve and help people continue working for us.  
We reasonably adjust employees’ working environments and 
equipment, and roles and role requirements. We also ensure 
that everyone can access the same opportunities. 
Greenhouse gas emissions 
In order to comply with the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013, the Group has 
followed the 2013 UK Government environmental reporting 
guidance for GHG emissions; used the UK Government’s 
greenhouse gas conversion factors; and adopted the financial 
control approach to setting the organisational boundaries of 
responsibilities for GHG emissions. In applying the GHG 
Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard 
(revised edition) we have calculated emissions associated with 
electricity consumption solely using the location-based scope 2 
calculation method. GHG emissions are classified as direct  
or indirect, and divided into scope 1 and scope 2 emissions. 
Direct GHG emissions are those from sources that the Group 
owns or controls. Indirect GHG emissions are those that are  
a consequence of the Group’s activities, but occur at sources 
owned or controlled by another organisation. The Group has 
considered the six main GHGs, reported in tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent (“CO2e”), and set 2013 as the base year. 
The Group has not included emissions from the International 
division, which was sold in May 2015, nor has it included 
emissions associated with its investment portfolio. 
Scope 1 – direct emissions including fuels used in office 
buildings, accident repair centres, and owned vehicles 
Scope 2 – indirect emissions resulting from generating electricity 
purchased for office buildings and accident repair centres 
Total GHG emissions for continuing operations for 2016  
were 19,315 tonnes (2015: 22,611 tonnes), as set out  
in the table below. This primarily comprised emissions from 
purchased electricity and natural gas, diesel fuel, and 
refrigerant gas used. In addition to total emissions, the Group 
also monitors emissions per £ million of net earned premium.  
In 2016, this was 6.4 tonnes CO2e per £ million of net 
earned premium for continuing operations (2015: 8.0 tonnes). 
This is a measure of how efficiently insurance products are 
provided. It allows us to compare our year-on-year 
performance and performance against other insurance 
companies. Ecometrica has externally verified the GHG 
emissions data. You can find verification statements on the 
Group’s website at www.directlinegroup.com. 
You can find further information on the Group’s approach to 
energy and the environment in the CSR section on page 32. 
Year on Year 
comparison 
Direct Line Continuing 
Operations Emissions 
from: 
Tonnes of CO2e 
2013
 (Baseline) 2015 2016
Percentage 
change 
(2013 to 
2016)
Scope 1  8,429 7,643 7,383 -12%
Scope 2  21,480 14,968 11,932 -44%
Total  29,909 22,611 19,315 -35%
Intensity metric: 
tonnes CO2e/ 
million GBP net 
earned premium 8.5 8 6.4 -24%
Going concern  
The Group has sufficient financial resources to meet its 
financial needs, including managing a mature portfolio  
of insurance risk. The Directors believe the Group is well 
positioned to manage its business risks successfully in the 
current economic environment. 
The Finance review on pages 45 and 46 describes the 
Group’s capital management strategy, which covers how  
it measures its regulatory and economic capital needs,  
and deploys capital. 
The Group’s financial position is also covered in that section, 
including a commentary on cash and investment levels, 
reserves, currency management, insurance liability 
management, liquidity, and borrowings. Additionally, note 3 
to the consolidated financial statements describes capital 
management needs and policies. The note also covers 
insurance, market, liquidity and credit risks which may affect 
the Group’s financial position. 
Having made due enquiries, the Directors reasonably expect 
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for at least 12 months from 
the date of approval of the financial statements. Accordingly, 
the Directors have adopted the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements. 
  
   www.directlinegroup.com  113 
Viability statement 
The Strategic report, on pages 1 to 47, sets out the Group’s 
financial performance, business environment, outlook and 
financial management strategies. It covers how the Group 
measures its regulatory and economic capital needs, and 
deploys capital. You can find discussion about the Group’s 
principal risks and risk management on pages 26 to 29.  
Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements starts on page 
136 and sets out financial disclosures relating to the Group’s 
principal risks. This covers insurance, market and credit risk; 
and the Group’s approach to monitoring, managing and 
mitigating exposures to these risks. 
Every year, the Board considers a five-year strategic plan for  
the Group. The plan makes certain assumptions in respect of  
the competitive markets in which the Group operates, and the 
delivery and implementation of the next generation of customer 
systems. Appropriate aspects of the strategic plan are stress-tested 
to understand and help set capital and other requirements. 
When reviewing the strategic plan, the Board considered  
the Group’s prospects over the five-year period that the plan 
covered. This review included reviews of solvency, liquidity, 
assessment of principal risks, and risk management. The one-
year planning period has greater certainty, so it was used  
to set detailed budgets across the Group. Outcomes for the 
four-year period are less certain. However, the plan provides  
a robust planning tool for strategic decisions. The Board 
recognises that, in a strategic plan, uncertainty increases over 
time and, therefore, future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or 
accurately predicted. 
Considering the Group’s current capital and trading position, 
its principal risks, and the remaining four years of the strategic 
plan, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the 
Company and the Group can continue in operation, and 
provide the appropriate degree of protection to those who  
are, or may become, policyholders or claimants in the period 
to 31 December 2020. 
Disclosing information to the Auditor 
Each Director at the date of approving this Annual Report & 
Accounts confirms that: as far as they are aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which Deloitte LLP, the Company’s 
External Auditor, is unaware; and they have taken all the steps 
they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves 
aware of any relevant audit information, and establish that 
Deloitte LLP is aware of that information. 
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the 
Companies Act 2006. 
Auditor 
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office 
as the External Auditor. A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP 
will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM. You can find an 
assessment of the effectiveness and recommendation for 
reappointing Deloitte LLP in the Audit Committee report on 
page 67. 
Directors’ responsibility statement 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law, the 
Directors must prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU and Article 4 of 
the International Accounting Standard (“IAS”) regulation. The 
Directors have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company 
financial statements under IFRS, as adopted by the EU. Under 
company law, the Directors must not approve the accounts 
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the Company’s state of affairs and profit or loss for that period. 
In preparing these financial statements, IAS 1 requires that 
Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies; 
present information, including accounting policies, in a  
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; provide additional disclosures 
when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is 
insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of 
particular transactions, other events and conditions on the 
entity’s financial position and financial performance; and 
assess the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate  
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain  
the Company’s transactions and disclose, with reasonable 
accuracy, the Company’s financial position at any time; and 
enable them to ensure the financial statements comply with  
the Companies Act 2006. Additionally, the Directors are 
responsible for safeguarding the Company’s assets and, 
hence, taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud 
and other irregularities. The Directors are responsible for 
maintaining and ensuring the integrity of the corporate and 
financial information included on the Company’s website at 
www.directlinegroup.com. Legislation in the UK governing 
preparing and disseminating financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:  
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position, and profit or loss of the Company, and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; 
and the Strategic report (on pages 1 to 47) and Directors’ 
report (on pages 110 to 113) include a fair review of the 
business's development and performance; and the position  
of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description  
of the principal risks and uncertainties they face. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
6 March 2017. 
By order of the Board 
 
 
Roger C. Clifton 
Company Secretary  
 
www.directlinegroup.com 113
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 114
Contents 
114  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Financial statements 
Independent Auditor’s report 115
Consolidated financial statements 
Consolidated income statement 122
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 123
Consolidated balance sheet 124
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 125
Consolidated cash flow statement 126
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
1. Accounting policies 127
2. Critical accounting estimates and judgements 134
3. Risk management 136
4. Segmental analysis 149
5. Discontinued operations and disposal group 152
6. Net earned premium 154
7. Investment return 154
8. Other operating income 155
9. Net insurance claims 155
10. Commission expenses 155
11. Operating expenses 155
12. Finance costs 157
13. Tax charge 157
14. Current and deferred tax 158
15. Dividends 159
16. Earnings per share 159
17. Net assets per share and return on equity 160
18. Goodwill and other intangible assets 161
19. Property, plant and equipment 163
20. Investment property 163
21. Subsidiaries  164
22. Reinsurance assets 164
23. Deferred acquisition costs 164
24. Insurance and other receivables 164
25. Derivative financial instruments 165
26. Financial investments 165
27. Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings 166
28. Assets held for sale 166
29. Share capital 166
30. Other reserves 167
 
 
 
 
31. Subordinated liabilities 167
32. Insurance liabilities 168
33. Unearned premium reserve 169
34. Retirement benefit obligations 170
35. Share-based payments 172
36. Trade and other payables including  
insurance payables 
174
37. Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 175
38. Contingent liabilities 175
39. Commitments 176
40. Fair value 176
41. Related parties 178
42. Post balance sheet event 178
Parent Company financial statements 
Parent Company balance sheet 179
Parent Company statement of comprehensive income 180
Parent Company statement of changes in equity 180
Parent Company cash flow statement 181
Notes to the Parent Company 
financial statements 
1. Accounting policies 182
2. Investment in subsidiary undertakings 182
3. Other receivables  183
4. Current and deferred tax 184
5. Derivative financial instruments  184
6. Financial investments  184
7. Cash and cash equivalents  184
8. Share capital and capital reserves 184
9. Subordinated liabilities  185
10. Trade and other payables  185
11. Dividends  185
12. Cash generated from operations 185
13. Related parties  186
14. Share-based payments  186
15. Risk management  186
16. Directors and key management remuneration  186
  www.directlinegroup.com 115
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report to the shareholders of Direct Line Insurance Group plc 
  www.directlinegroup.com  115 
Opinion on the financial statements  
of Direct Line Insurance Group plc 
In our opinion: 
 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the  
state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs  
as at 31 December 2016 and of the Group’s and Parent 
Company’s profit for the year then ended; 
 the financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
and 
 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and,  
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of  
the IAS Regulation. 
The financial statements, including within the Annual Report  
and Accounts, comprise: 
 the Consolidated Income Statement; 
 the Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of 
Comprehensive Income; 
 the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets; 
 the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow 
Statements; 
 the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of 
Changes in Equity; and 
 the related notes 1 to 42 on the consolidated financial 
statements, and the related notes 1 to 16 on the Parent 
Company financial statements. 
The financial reporting framework has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union. 
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs  
as issued by the IASB 
As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial 
statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation  
to apply IFRSs as adopted by the EU, the Group has also 
applied IFRSs as issued by the IASB. 
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with 
IFRSs as issued by the IASB. 
Independence 
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting 
Council’s Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm  
that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those 
standards. We also confirm we have not provided any of the 
prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards. 
Going concern and the Directors’ assessment 
of the principal risks that would threaten the 
solvency or liquidity of the Group 
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the 
Directors’ statement on pages 61 and 62 regarding the 
appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting  
to the financial statements and the Directors’ statement on the 
longer-term viability of the Group. We have nothing material  
to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
 the Directors’ confirmation on pages 61 and 62 that they 
have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks 
facing the Group, including those that would threaten its 
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity; 
 the disclosures on pages 27 to 28 that describe those risks 
and explain how they are being managed or mitigated; 
 the Directors’ statement on page 112 to the financial 
statements about whether they considered it appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing 
them and their identification of any material uncertainties to 
the Group’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at 
least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial 
statements; and 
 the Director’s explanation on pages 112 to 113 as to how 
they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what 
period they have done so and why they consider that 
period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether 
they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be 
able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they 
fall due over the period of their assessment, including any 
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary 
qualifications or assumptions. 
We agreed with the Directors’ adoption of the going concern 
basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material 
uncertainties. However, because not all future events or 
conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee 
as to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
Our assessment of risks of material 
misstatement 
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below 
are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy,  
the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts 
of the engagement team. The procedures described in our 
response to each risk are not exhaustive and we have focused 
on those procedures that we consider address areas of 
judgement or subjectivity; see overleaf. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 116
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Direct Line Insurance Group plc continued 
116  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
Insurance reserves valuation 
Refer to page 65 (Audit Committee Report), page 129 (accounting policies) and page 168 (financial disclosures). 
The Group’s insurance reserves total £4.7bn (2015: £4.5bn). The determination of the value of the insurance reserves  
requires significant judgment in the selection of key methodologies and assumptions. Small changes in these methodologies  
or assumptions can materially impact the valuation of these liabilities. We have identified the following two key areas of  
focus for our audit: 
1) The frequency and severity of excess bodily injury claims; and 
2) The propensity, severity and discount rate assumptions for valuing PPOs. 
 
1) We have identified the estimation of the ultimate number  
of large bodily injury claims as being inherently uncertain. 
Management also exercises significant judgement in assessing 
the impact of market factors which could materially impact  
the valuation of excess bodily injury claims and hence the 
insurance reserves. On 27 February 2017 the Lord Chancellor 
announced a reduction in the Ogden discount rate used to 
value lump sum injury claim settlements from 2.5% to  
minus 0.75%. This change in discount rate has a significant 
impact on the valuation of large bodily injury claims, as 
detailed on page 137.  
 
 
We have gained a detailed understanding of the end to  
end reserving process, including the process for adjusting  
the reserves as a result of the change in the Ogden discount 
rate and assessed the design and implementation of selected 
controls. We have tested the operating effectiveness for 
actuarial data reconciliations and key management review 
controls over the reserving process. Our work included 
attendance at the December Loss Ratio Committee and  
January Reserve Review Committee. 
We have tested the completeness and accuracy of the 
underlying data used in the Company’s actuarial calculations 
and the actuarial data used by our Deloitte actuarial specialists 
in performing their audit through performing reconciliations on 
the data back to the financial ledger. 
Having done this, we worked with those specialists to: 
 challenge the suitability of the methodology and 
assumptions used in estimating the ultimate number of large 
bodily injury claims by comparing it to industry benchmarks; 
 challenge the approach to and the assumptions used in 
adjusting reserves for the change in the Ogden discount rate; 
 assess whether the reserving methodology has been 
applied consistently across periods;  
 evaluate prior year reserve releases and emerging trends  
for consistency with management’s calculations. 
Key observations: 
We have determined that the estimate for the ultimate value  
of large bodily claims to be within a reasonable range.  
We observed that the frequency and severity assumptions  
were set towards the prudent end of a reasonable range. 
   www.directlinegroup.com 117
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
  www.directlinegroup.com  117 
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
2) The Group is required to settle a proportion of large  
bodily injury claims as PPOs rather than lump sum payments.  
The valuation of PPOs has a material impact on the financial 
statements, with these liabilities totalling £983m (2015: £991m) 
on a discounted gross basis as detailed in note 2. PPO liabilities 
are sensitive to the choice of the propensity, severity and discount 
rate assumptions used. These assumptions require significant 
management judgement which increases the susceptibility  
of the balance to material misstatement. 
In addition, the Lord Chancellor’s announcement of a  
reduction in the Ogden discount rate is likely to impact  
the propensity of a claim becoming a PPO going forward  
which increases the level of uncertainty in the setting of  
this assumption at year end.  
 
 
We have assessed the design and implementation of  
controls surrounding the propensity of a claim to become  
a PPO, the discount rate used and the severity assumption 
applied. In addition we tested the operating effectiveness  
of a direct and precise business control, performed weekly, 
over the completeness of the PPO listing; this is a key data 
input which has a material impact on the PPO assumptions  
and hence the valuation.   
We have worked with our actuarial specialists to: 
 challenge management’s assumptions by performing market 
benchmarking, sensitivity analysis and reviewing historical 
trends to assess the reasonableness of long term future 
expectations, including consideration of the change in the 
Ogden discount rate;  
 assess whether the assumptions were consistent in the 
period or, based on emerging market data, that the 
assumptions needed to be reconsidered; 
 consider the suitability of the methodology and model used 
in estimating the propensity, severity and discount rate; and  
 test the model of a sample of individual PPO’s through  
re-performance using a Deloitte developed model. 
Key observations: 
We have determined that key assumptions used in the calculation 
of the PPO claims reserve are within a reasonable range. We 
observed that the investment yield component of the discount rate 
was towards the optimistic end of a reasonable range, but that 
the propensity and severity assumptions were set towards the 
prudent end of a reasonable range. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 118
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Direct Line Insurance Group plc continued 
118  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
 
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
Change and IT 
Refer to page 65 (Audit Committee Report), page 129 (accounting policies) and page 161 (financial disclosures). 
A number of projects are ongoing across DLG aimed at 
improving the customer experience and enhancing operational 
efficiency. Certain costs relating to these projects are capitalised 
on the balance sheet, with the carrying amount of intangible 
assets at year-end totalling £298m (2015: £314m). We have 
identified a key risk that costs relating to these projects are 
incorrectly capitalised or that the impairment charge recognised 
in the year of £39m (2015: £4m) has not been accurately 
determined in line with IAS 36. Significant judgements and 
estimates have been made in calculating the future economic 
benefit of these assets, including the expected future cash flows 
and the discount rate used.  
In addition, we have identified a risk that the transformation 
programme, which includes the outsourcing and offshoring of 
finance and operations, could impact the financial reporting 
control environment, in particular where processes and controls 
have changed operation and location. There is a risk that these 
changes will cause management stretch which could impact on 
the effectiveness of existing financial reporting internal controls, 
particularly in relation to adequate segregation of duties.  
We have assessed the design and implementation and  
tested the operating effectiveness of key controls over the 
capitalisation of costs and the impairment of intangible 
assets. These included senior management approval for  
costs to be capitalised against projects having analysed the 
detailed business plan and assessed feasibility. We have 
tested the capitalisation criteria of key projects by assessing 
the inputs and noting whether these are applicable expenses 
in accordance with IAS 38. We have tested the impairment 
charge by performing the following: 
 testing the completeness and accuracy of the data used  
in the model; 
 testing the accuracy and mechanics of the model and 
assessing whether this was compliant with IAS 38; 
 challenging management’s expected future cash flows  
by performing benchmarking analysis and engaging  
our IT consultants to assess the IT architecture; and 
 engaging our valuation specialists to assess the 
appropriateness of the discount rate applied to the asset. 
We have assessed the design and implementation and  
tested the operating effectiveness of key business processes 
that have been subject to change. For example, we have 
tested the operating effectiveness of controls at a number  
of outsourced locations, involving site visits by the audit  
team. When testing the controls that had been impacted  
by the transformation programme our testing focussed on 
determining that there remained an appropriate level of 
review and segregation of duties. 
Key observations: 
We completed our procedures on the impairment of  
the intangibles and have not identified any additional 
impairment. We have observed that the discount rate used 
was in the middle of a reasonable range and that the 
expected future cash flows were reasonable. In addition,  
we completed our controls testing and did not identify any 
significant control weaknesses.  
   www.directlinegroup.com 119
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
  www.directlinegroup.com  119 
 
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
Investments not held at fair value 
Refer to page 65 (Audit Committee Report), page 130 (accounting policies) and page 165 (financial disclosures). 
We have identified a key risk for investments relating to the 
valuation of loan portfolios that are not held at fair value totalling 
£502m (2015: £388m) as detailed in note 40. During 2016 
the Group has invested in a new commercial real estate loan 
portfolio and has increased investment in its private placement 
bond portfolio, with investment in infrastructure debt remaining 
stable at £337m (2015: £330m). These debt instruments are 
carried at amortised cost and represent a higher credit risk 
relative to the majority of DLG’s investment portfolio. As a result, 
there is a risk that the Group does not recognise an impairment 
provision on these loans when required by IAS 39.  
 
We have assessed the design and implementation and 
tested the operating effectiveness of the key controls that 
mitigate the risk over the valuation of investments not held  
at fair value. Our work included attendance at the year-end 
impairment review meeting in order to assess the operation 
of a key management review control.  
We have consulted with our credit and valuation specialists 
to challenge the methodology used in the assessment of 
credit risk within the investment portfolios that are held at 
amortised cost against best practice. In addition we 
performed the following: 
 independently calculated the fair value for a sample  
of assets to identify any significant decreases in fair  
value below book cost; 
 traced a sample of interest payments to bank during  
the year to test for default or delinquency in interest 
payments; and 
 challenged management on loans of interest where 
indicators could point to issuer financial difficulty, 
obtaining evidence to assess whether the position  
taken by management is reasonable. 
Key observations: 
We completed our procedures and did not note any 
indicators of material impairment within the loan portfolios.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 120
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Direct Line Insurance Group plc continued 
120  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016   
Last year our report included risks relating to the reinsurance 
asset valuation and the Group’s IT control environment. From 
performing our detailed risk assessment for the 2016 audit,  
we concluded that these no longer represented key risks of 
material misstatement. The reinsurance bad debt methodology 
has remained consistent with prior year and is deemed 
appropriate. Similarly, the IT infrastructure fully transitioned in 
2015 to an independently hosted data centre. In addition, this 
year we have not reported on our presumed risk over revenue 
recognition. We concluded that this risk does not exhibit the 
same level of complexity or management judgement as the 
risks we have disclosed above.  
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit  
of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion  
on these matters. 
Our application of materiality 
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the 
financial statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be 
changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning 
the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results  
of our work. 
We have determined that the critical benchmark for the  
Group was average profit before tax from Ongoing 
operations. This measure uses a three-year average of profit 
before tax, excluding the impact of discontinued activities, 
transformation costs and the impact of the Ogden discount rate 
change to exclude the effect of year on year volatility. With the 
exception of Ogden, this is consistent with the approach we 
adopted last year. We determined materiality for the Group to 
be £28m (2015: £28m), which is below 5.6% (2015: 5.9%) 
of average profit before tax from Ongoing operations. 
Our assessment of materiality was made prior to the 
announcement of the change in the Ogden discount rate, the 
impact of which has been disclosed in note 3 on page 137. 
We have considered whether materiality should be revised  
for both the Group audit and the audit of the insurance 
subsidiaries and have concluded that the levels of materiality 
remain appropriate as the scale and nature of the underlying 
businesses have not changed. We have performed focused 
procedures on the impact of the Ogden rate change as 
reported in the significant risk section of this report.  
We also considered this measure to be suitable having 
compared to other benchmarks: our materiality equates to 
7.9% (pre-Ogden change: 4.9%, 2015: 5.5%) of statutory 
profit before tax, 0.9% (pre Ogden change: 0.9%, 2015: 
0.9%) of gross earned premium and 1.1% (pre-Ogden 
change: 1.0%, 2015: 1.1%) of equity. 
Group materiality is used for setting audit scope and the 
assessment of uncorrected misstatements. Materiality is set  
for each significant component in line with the components 
proportion of the chosen benchmark. This is capped at the 
lower of 90% of Group materiality and the component 
materiality determined for a standalone audit. The main UK 
insurance trading entity, which makes up 100% of Group 
gross earned premium and 89% of Group statutory profit 
before tax, is scoped to a component materiality of £25.2m 
(2015: £24.8m). 
We determine performance materiality at a level lower than 
materiality to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, 
uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceed materiality 
for the financial statements as a whole. We have set Group 
performance materiality at £19.6m (2015: £19.6m) and the 
audit testing for U K Insurance Limited is carried out to a 
performance materiality of £17.6m (2015: £17.4m). 
Following us reassessing the levels at which we would report 
to the Audit Committee, and as discussed and agreed with the 
Committee, we report to them all audit differences in excess  
of £1.4m (2015: £0.6m), as well as differences below that 
threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative 
grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure 
matters that we identified when assessing the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. 
An overview of the scope of our audit 
The scope of our Group audit was determined by obtaining  
an understanding of the Group and its environment, including 
Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material 
misstatement at the Group level.  
Similarly to prior year, our Group audit scope has focused  
on the UK as this is the Group’s single trading location. In 
addition, we perform site visits at the Group’s key outsourcers. 
This resulted in two entities being subject to a full scope audit, 
a further two were subject to an audit of specified account 
balances where the extent of our testing was based on our 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the 
materiality of the Group’s operations. 
These four entities represent the principal business units and 
account for 99% (2015: 99%) of the Group’s net assets, 
100% (2015: 92%) of the Group’s gross earned premium and 
98% (2015: 93%) of the Group’s profit before tax. They were 
also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking 
audit work to address the risks of material misstatement 
identified above. 
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation 
process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm  
our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material 
misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the 
remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified 
account balances. The Group audit team also performs the 
audit of the in scope UK entities.  
The Group audit team was responsible for both the UK 
location and Group audit. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed  
by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course  
of the audit: 
 the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006;  
 the information given in the Strategic report and the 
Directors’ report for the financial year for which the   www.directlinegroup.com 121
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
  www.directlinegroup.com  121 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements; and 
 the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report have been 
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements. 
Matters on which we are required to report  
by exception 
Adequacy of explanations received and 
accounting records 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report  
to you if, in our opinion: 
 we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit; or 
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have  
not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
 the Parent Company financial statements are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns. 
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters. 
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required  
to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors’ 
remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors’ 
remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns. We have nothing to report 
arising from these matters. 
Corporate governance statement 
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the  
part of the corporate governance statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with certain provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report 
arising from our review. 
Our duty to read other information in the  
Annual Report 
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), 
we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information 
in the Annual Report is: 
 materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or 
 apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired  
in the course of performing our audit; or 
 otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we  
have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge 
acquired during the audit and the Directors’ statement that  
they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately 
discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit 
Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. 
We confirm that we have not identified any such 
inconsistencies or misleading statements. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors  
and Auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities 
statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland). We also comply with International Standard on 
Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology 
and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are 
effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and 
systems include our dedicated professional standards review 
team and independent partner reviews. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as  
a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the Company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by 
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a 
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions  
we have formed. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies 
are appropriate to the Group’s and the Parent Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read 
all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual 
Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report. 
 
 
Colin Rawlings FCA (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
London, United Kingdom 
6 March 2017  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 122
Consolidated income statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2016 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 122
Notes 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Continuing operations   
Gross earned premium 6 3,202.8 3,110.1
Reinsurance premium 6 (202.2) (189.2)
Net earned premium 6 3,000.6 2,920.9
Investment return 7 171.5 198.1
Instalment income  107.1 100.1
Other operating income 8 58.2 50.7
Total income  3,337.4 3,269.8
Insurance claims 9 (2,179.0) (1,829.3)
Insurance claims recoverable from reinsurers 9 375.2 162.4
Net insurance claims 9 (1,803.8) (1,666.9)
Commission expenses 10 (344.0) (319.3)
Operating expenses 11 (799.4) (738.5)
Total expenses  (1,143.4) (1,057.8)
Operating profit  390.2 545.1
Finance costs 12 (37.2) (37.6)
Profit before tax  353.0 507.5
Tax charge 13 (74.2) (108.3)
Profit from continuing operations, net of tax  278.8 399.2
Profit from discontinued operations, net of tax 5A – 181.2
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company  278.8 580.4
   
Earnings per share:   
Continuing operations:   
Basic (pence) 16 20.4 27.9
Diluted (pence) 16 20.2 27.6
Continuing and discontinued operations:   
Basic (pence) 16 20.4 40.6
Diluted (pence) 16 20.2 40.1
The attached notes on pages 127 to 178 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  www.directlinegroup.com 123
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
For the year ended 31 December 2016 
www.directlinegroup.com 123
Notes 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Profit for the year  278.8 580.4
Other comprehensive income / (loss)   
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to the income statement:   
Actuarial (loss) / gain on defined benefit pension scheme 34 (4.4) 6.7
Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified 14 0.7 (1.6)
  (3.7) 5.1
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement:   
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations  0.1 14.4 
Cash flow hedges  1.4 (1.4)
Fair value gain / (loss) on AFS investments 30 119.6 (100.5)
Less: realised net gains on AFS investments included in income statement 30 (15.3) (44.3)
Tax relating to items that may be reclassified 30 (17.6) 34.6 
  88.2 (97.2)
Other comprehensive income / (loss) for the year net of tax  84.5 (92.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to owners of the Company  363.3 488.3
The attached notes on pages 127 to 178 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 124
Consolidated balance sheet 
As at 31 December 2016 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 124
Notes 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Assets   
Goodwill and other intangible assets 18 508.9 524.8
Property, plant and equipment 19 180.9 186.3
Investment property 20 329.0 347.4
Reinsurance assets 22 1,371.8 1,011.4
Current tax assets 14 0.1 0.1
Deferred acquisition costs 23 203.1 203.8
Insurance and other receivables 24 988.3 955.8
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets  131.0 110.9
Derivative financial instruments 25 79.7 19.6
Retirement benefit asset 34 12.0 13.1
Financial investments 26 5,147.0 5,614.6
Cash and cash equivalents 27 1,166.1 963.7
Assets held for sale 28 3.8 5.1
Total assets  10,121.7 9,956.6
   
Equity  2,521.5 2,630.0
   
Liabilities   
Subordinated liabilities 31 539.6 521.1
Insurance liabilities 32 4,666.6 4,524.5
Unearned premium reserve 33 1,547.9 1,476.6
Borrowings 27 55.3 61.3
Derivative financial instruments 25 45.1 46.4
Trade and other payables including insurance payables 36 699.2 656.5
Deferred tax liabilities 14 46.0 29.9
Current tax liabilities 14 0.5 10.3
Total liabilities  7,600.2 7,326.6
Total equity and liabilities  10,121.7 9,956.6
The attached notes on pages 127 to 178 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 6 March 2017. They were signed 
on its behalf by: 
 
 
John Reizenstein 
Chief Financial Officer www.directlinegroup.com 125
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2016 
www.directlinegroup.com 125
Notes 
Share
 capital
 (Note 29)
£m
Employee
 trust
shares
£m
Capital
 reserves
 (Note 30)
 £m
AFS
 revaluation
 reserve
 (Note 30)
 £m
Non-
distributable
 reserve
 (Note 30)
 £m
Foreign 
 exchange 
 translation 
 reserve 
 £m 
Retained
 earnings
£m
Total
shareholders’
 equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2015  150.0 (13.6)1,450.0 115.6 124.9 (13.1) 996.7 2,810.5
Profit for the year  – – – – – – 580.4 580.4
Other comprehensive loss  – – – (110.2) – 13.0 5.1 (92.1)
Dividends 15 – – – – – – (666.0) (666.0)
Transfer to non-distributable 
reserve 30 – – – – 28.0 – (28.0) –
Shares acquired by employee 
trusts  – (17.8) – – – – – (17.8)
Credit to equity for equity-settled 
share-based payments 35 – – – – – – 12.1 12.1
Shares distributed by employee 
trusts  – 11.0 – – – – (11.0) –
Tax on share-based payments   – – – – – – 2.9 2.9
Balance at 31 December 2015  150.0 (20.4)1,450.0 5.4 152.9 (0.1) 892.2 2,630.0
Profit for the year  – – – – – – 278.8 278.8
Other comprehensive income  – – – 86.7 – 1.5 (3.7) 84.5
Dividends 15 – – – – – – (450.6) (450.6) 
Transfer from non-distributable 
reserve 30 – – – – (152.9) – 152.9 –
Shares acquired by employee 
trusts  – (39.5) – – – – – (39.5)
Credit to equity for equity-settled 
share-based payments 35 – – – – – – 16.8 16.8
Shares distributed by employee 
trusts  – 25.6 – – – – (25.6) –
Tax on share-based payments   – – – – – – 1.5 1.5
Balance at 31 December 2016  150.0 (34.3) 1,450.0 92.1 – 1.4 862.3 2,521.5
The attached notes on pages 127 to 178 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 126
Consolidated cash flow statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2016 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 126
Notes 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Net cash generated from operating activities before investment of insurance assets 37 35.0 42.1
Cash generated from investment of insurance assets 37 827.4 503.1
Net cash generated from operating activities  862.4 545.2
Cash flows from investing activities   
Purchases of property, plant and equipment  (49.9) (67.9)
Purchases of intangible assets  (80.8) (75.5)
Proceeds on disposals of assets held for sale  5.1 7.1
Net cash flows from disposal of subsidiaries  – 327.1
Net cash (used by) / generated from investing activities  (125.6) 190.8
Cash flows from financing activities   
Dividends paid 15 (450.6) (666.0)
Finance costs   (38.3) (38.2)
Purchase of employee trust shares  (39.5) (17.8)
Net cash used by financing activities  (528.4) (722.0)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  208.4 14.0
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year  902.4 898.2
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  – (9.8)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 27 1,110.8 902.4
The attached notes on pages 127 to 178 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  www.directlinegroup.com 127
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
www.directlinegroup.com 
 
127
Corporate information 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc is a public limited company 
registered in England and Wales (company number 
02280426). The address of the registered office is Churchill 
Court, Westmoreland Road, Bromley, BR11DP, England. 
1. Accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
As required by the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the 
EU IAS Regulation, the consolidated financial statements are 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs issued by the IASB as 
adopted by the EU. The Company’s financial statements have 
been prepared in accordance with and full compliance with 
IFRSs as issued by the IASB. 
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the 
historical cost basis except for AFS financial assets, investment 
property and derivative financial instruments, which are 
measured at fair value. 
The Company’s financial statements and the consolidated 
financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the 
functional currency of the Company. 
The International segment was classified as a discontinued 
operation until disposed of in 2015. 
Adoption of new and revised standards 
The Group has adopted the following new amendments to 
IFRSs and the IASs that became effective for the Group for  
the first time during 2016, however these have had no impact 
on the consolidated financial statements, performance and / 
or disclosure. 
Amendments to IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’, 
IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’ and IAS 28 
‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’ – Investment 
Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception – the 
amendments address issues that have arisen in applying  
the investment entities exception under IFRS 10. 
IFRS 11 (amended) ‘Joint Arrangements’ Accounting for 
Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations – the amendments 
require an entity to apply the principles of IFRS 3 ‘Business 
Combinations’ when it acquires an interest in a joint operation 
which constitutes a ‘business’ as defined by IFRS 3. 
IAS 1 (amended) ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ 
Disclosure Initiative – the amendments are intended to assist 
entities in applying judgement when meeting the presentation 
and disclosure requirements in IFRS, providing clarity to the 
materiality requirement in IAS 1, that specific line items in  
the income statement, other comprehensive income and 
balance sheet may be disaggregated. The amendments clarify 
that an entity’s share of the other comprehensive income of 
associates and joint ventures accounted using the equity 
method should be presented separately from those arising  
from the Group. The amendment also addresses that entities 
have flexibility as to the order in which they present the notes 
to the financial statements. 
IAS 16 (amended) ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’ and IAS 38 
(amended) ‘Intangible Assets’ – Classification of Acceptable 
Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation – the amendments 
state that revenue-based amortisation models are explicitly 
prohibited for property, plant and equipment and may only be 
used in very limited circumstances to amortise intangible assets. 
IAS 27 (amended) ‘Separate Financial Statements’, Equity 
Method in Separate Financial Statements – the amendments 
allow an entity to use the equity method for its investments  
in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in its separate 
financial statements. 
Annual Improvements 2012-2014 Cycle – these improvements 
include: 
IFRS 5 (amended) ‘Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations’ – assets are generally disposed of 
either through sale or through a distribution to owners. The 
amendment clarifies that changing from one disposal method 
to another is a continuation of the original plan of disposal. 
IFRS 7 (amended) ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ – 
provides additional guidance to clarify whether a servicing 
contract that includes a fee can constitute continuing 
involvement in a financial asset for the purpose of the 
disclosures required in relation to transferred assets. 
IAS 19 (amended) ‘Employee Benefits’ – a further amendment 
has been made to IAS 19 to clarify that the high quality 
corporate bonds used to estimate the discount rate for post-
employment benefits should be issued in the same currency  
as the benefits to be paid. 
1.1 Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 
statements of the Company and the entities that are controlled 
by the Group at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 
2015. Control exists when the Group is exposed, or has 
rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity 
and has the ability to affect those returns through its power  
over the entity. In assessing if the Group controls another entity, 
the existence and effect of the potential voting rights that are 
currently exercisable or convertible are considered. 
Where necessary, adjustments have been made to the 
financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting 
policies used into line with those used by the Group.  
The policies set out below have been applied consistently 
throughout the years ended 31 December 2016 and  
31 December 2015 to items considered material to the 
consolidated financial statements. 
A subsidiary acquired is included in the consolidated financial 
statements from the date it is controlled by the Group until  
the date the Group ceases to control it. On acquisition of  
a subsidiary, its identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities are included in the consolidated financial statements 
at fair value. 
All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses 
between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.  
1.2 Foreign currencies 
The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented  
in Sterling which is the presentational currency of the Group. 
Group entities record transactions in the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which they operate (their 
functional currency), translated at the foreign exchange rate 
ruling at the date of the transaction.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 128
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 128
1. Accounting policies continued 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are translated into the relevant functional currency at the foreign 
exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Foreign 
exchange differences arising on the settlement of foreign currency 
transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and 
liabilities are reported in the income statement. 
Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are 
stated at fair value are translated into the relevant functional 
currency at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the 
values are determined. Translation differences arising on non-
monetary items measured at fair value are recognised in the 
income statement except for differences arising on AFS non-
monetary financial assets, which are recognised in other 
comprehensive income. 
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill 
and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated 
into Sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance 
sheet date. Income and expenses of foreign operations are 
translated into Sterling at average exchange rates unless these 
do not approximate the foreign exchange rates ruling at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange differences arising 
on the translation of a foreign operation are recognised in the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income. The amount 
accumulated in equity is reclassified from equity to the 
consolidated income statement on disposal or partial disposal 
of a foreign operation. 
1.3 Contract classification 
Insurance contracts are those contracts where the Group  
(the insurer) has accepted significant insurance risk from 
another party (the policyholder) by agreeing to compensate  
the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event  
(the insured event) adversely affects the policyholder. 
Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, 
it remains an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, 
even if the insurance risk reduces significantly during this 
period, unless all rights and obligations are extinguished. 
1.4 Revenue recognition 
Premiums earned 
Insurance and reinsurance premiums comprise the total 
premiums receivable for the whole period of cover provided  
by contracts incepted during the financial year, adjusted by an 
unearned premium provision, which represents the proportion 
of the premiums incepted in the year or prior periods that relate 
to periods of insurance cover after the balance sheet date. 
Unearned premiums are calculated over the period of exposure 
under the policy, on a daily basis, 24ths basis or allowing for 
the estimated incidence of exposure under policies. 
Premiums collected by intermediaries or other parties,  
but not yet received, are assessed based on estimates from 
underwriting or past experience, and are included in insurance 
premiums. Insurance premiums exclude insurance premium  
tax or equivalent local taxes and are shown gross of any 
commission payable to intermediaries or other parties. 
Cash back payments to policyholders under motor telematics 
policies represent a reduction in earned premiums. 
Investment return 
Interest income on financial assets is determined using the 
effective interest rate method. The effective interest rate method 
is a way of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset 
(or group of financial assets) and of allocating the interest 
income over the expected life of the asset.  
Rental income from investment property is recognised in the 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of  
the contract. Any gains or losses arising from a change in  
fair value are recognised in the income statement. 
Instalment income 
Instalment income comprises the interest income earned on 
policyholder receivables, where outstanding premiums are settled 
by a series of instalment payments. Interest is earned using  
an effective interest rate method over the term of the policy. 
Other operating income 
Vehicle replacement referral income 
Vehicle replacement referral income comprises fees in respect 
of referral income received when a customer or a non-fault 
policyholder (claimant) of another insurer has been provided 
with a hire vehicle from a preferred supplier. 
Income is recognised immediately when the customer or 
claimant is provided with the hire vehicle. 
Revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services 
Fees in respect of services for vehicle recovery are recognised 
as the right to consideration, and accrue through the provision 
of the service to the customer. The arrangements are generally 
contractual and the cost of providing the service is incurred  
as the service is rendered. The price is usually fixed and 
always determinable. 
The Group’s income also comprises vehicle repair services 
provided to other third-party customers. Income in respect  
of repairs to vehicles is recognised upon completion of the 
service. The price is determined using market rates for the 
services and materials used after discounts have been 
deducted where applicable. 
Other income 
Commission fee income in respect of services is recognised 
when a policy has been placed and incepted. Income is 
stated excluding applicable sales taxes. 
Legal services revenue represents the amount charged to clients 
for professional services provided during the year including 
recovery of expenses but excluding value added tax. Revenue 
is only recognised once services have been provided and 
certainty exists as to the outcome of the respective cases.  
1.5 Insurance claims 
Insurance claims are recognised in the accounting period in 
which the loss occurs. Provision is made for the full cost of 
settling outstanding claims at the balance sheet date, including 
claims incurred but not yet reported at that date, net of salvage 
and subrogation recoveries. Outstanding claims provisions are 
not discounted for the time value of money except for claims  
to be settled by PPOs established under the Courts Act 2003. 
A court can award damages for future pecuniary loss in 
respect of personal injury or for other damages in respect of 
personal injury and may order that the damages are wholly  
or partly to take the form of PPOs. These are covered in more  www.directlinegroup.com 129
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 129
detail in note 2.1. Costs for both direct and indirect claims 
handling expenses are also included. 
Provisions are determined by management based on 
experience of claims settled and on statistical models which 
require certain assumptions to be made regarding the 
incidence, timing and amount of claims and any specific 
factors such as adverse weather conditions. When calculating 
the total provision required, the historical development of 
claims is analysed using statistical methodology to extrapolate, 
within acceptable probability parameters, the value of 
outstanding claims (gross and net) at the balance sheet date. 
Also included in the estimation of outstanding claims are 
factors such as the potential for judicial or legislative inflation.  
Provisions for more recent claims make use of techniques that 
incorporate expected loss ratios and average claims cost 
(adjusted for inflation) and frequency methods. As claims 
mature, the provisions are increasingly driven by methods 
based on actual claims experience. The approach adopted 
takes into account the nature, type and significance of the 
business and the type of data available, with large claims 
generally being assessed separately. The data used for 
statistical modelling purposes is generated internally and 
reconciled to the accounting data. 
The calculation is particularly sensitive to the estimation of  
the ultimate cost of claims for the particular classes of business 
at gross and net levels and the estimation of future claims 
handling costs. Actual claims experience may differ from the 
historical pattern on which the actuarial best estimate is based 
and the cost of settling individual claims may exceed that 
assumed. As a result, the Group sets provisions at a margin 
above the actuarial best estimate. This amount is recorded 
within claims provisions. 
A liability adequacy provision is made for unexpired risks 
arising where the expected value of claims and expenses 
attributable to the unexpired periods of policies in force at the 
balance sheet date exceeds the unearned premium reserve in 
relation to such policies after the deduction of any acquisition 
costs deferred and other prepaid amounts (for example, 
reinsurance). The expected value is determined by reference  
to recent experience and allowing for changes to the premium 
rates. The provision for unexpired risks is calculated separately 
by reference to classes of business that are managed together 
after taking account of relevant investment returns.  
1.6 Reinsurance 
The Group has reinsurance treaties and other reinsurance 
contracts that transfer significant insurance risk. 
The Group cedes insurance risk by reinsurance in the normal 
course of business, with the arrangement and retention limits 
varying by product line. Outward reinsurance premiums are 
generally accounted for in the same accounting period as  
the premiums for the related direct business being reinsured. 
Outward reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same 
accounting period as the direct claims to which they relate. 
Reinsurance assets include balances due from reinsurance 
companies for ceded insurance liabilities. Amounts recoverable 
from reinsurers are estimated in a consistent manner with the 
outstanding claims provisions or settled claims associated with 
the reinsured policies and in accordance with the relevant 
reinsurance contract. Recoveries in respect of PPOs are 
discounted for the time value of money. 
A reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed in respect of 
reinsurance debtors, to allow for the risk that the reinsurance 
asset may not be collected or where the reinsurer’s credit rating 
has been downgraded significantly and this is taken as an 
indication of a reinsurer’s difficulty in meeting its obligations 
under the reinsurance contracts. This also includes an 
assessment in respect of the ceded part of claims provisions  
to reflect the counterparty default risk exposure to long-term 
reinsurance assets particularly in relation to periodical 
payments. Increases in this provision affect the Group by 
reducing the carrying value of the asset and the impairment 
loss is recognised in the income statement. 
1.7 Deferred acquisition costs 
Acquisition costs relating to new and renewing insurance policies 
are matched with the earning of the premiums to which they 
relate. A proportion of acquisition costs incurred during the year  
is therefore deferred to the subsequent accounting period to 
match the extent to which premiums written during the year are 
unearned at the balance sheet date. 
The principal acquisition costs deferred are direct advertising 
expenditure, directly attributable administration costs, 
commission paid and costs associated with telesales and 
underwriting staff. 
1.8 Goodwill and other intangible assets 
Acquired goodwill, being the excess of the cost of an 
acquisition over the Group’s interest in the net fair value  
of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities  
of the subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired, is  
initially recognised at cost and subsequently at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill arising on the 
acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures is 
included in the balance sheet category ‘goodwill and other 
intangible assets’. The gain or loss on the disposal of a 
subsidiary, associate or joint venture includes the carrying 
value of any related goodwill. 
Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated  
at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement over the 
assets’ economic lives using methods that best reflect the 
pattern of economic benefits and is included in operating 
expenses. The estimated useful economic lives are as follows: 
Software development costs Up to 10 years 
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is 
written off as incurred. Direct costs relating to the development 
of internal-use computer software and associated business 
processes are capitalised once technical feasibility and 
economic viability have been established. These costs include 
payroll costs, the costs of materials and services and directly 
attributable overheads. Capitalisation of costs ceases when the 
software is capable of operating as intended. During and after 
development, accumulated costs are reviewed for impairment 
against the projected benefits that the software is expected to 
generate. Costs incurred prior to the establishment of technical 
feasibility and economic viability are expensed as incurred,  
as are all training costs and general overheads. 
1.9 Property, plant and equipment 
Items of property, plant and equipment (except investment 
property – note 1.11) are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses. Where an item of   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 130
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 130
1. Accounting policies continued 
property, plant and equipment comprises major components 
having different useful lives, they are accounted for separately. 
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-
line basis so as to write off the depreciable amount of property, 
plant and equipment over their estimated useful lives. The 
depreciable amount is the cost of an asset less its residual value. 
Land is not depreciated. Estimated useful lives are as follows: 
Freehold and leasehold 
buildings 
50 years or the period  
of the lease if shorter 
Vehicles 3 years 
Computer equipment Up to 5 years 
Other equipment, including 
property adaptation costs 
2 to 15 years 
The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of 
property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference 
between the disposal proceeds, if any, and the carrying 
amount of the item. 
1.10 Impairment of intangible assets, goodwill and property, 
plant and equipment 
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is 
any indication that its intangible assets, goodwill or property, 
plant and equipment are impaired. If any such indication 
exists, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the  
asset and the impairment loss, if any. Goodwill is tested for 
impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes  
in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired. If an asset 
does not generate cash flows that are independent of those  
of other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount  
is determined for the cash-generating unit (“CGU”) to which  
the asset belongs. The recoverable amount of an asset is the 
higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. 
Value in use is the present value of future cash flows from the 
asset or CGU, discounted at a rate that reflects market interest 
rates, adjusted for risks specific to the asset or CGU that have 
not been reflected in the estimation of future cash flows. 
If the recoverable amount of an intangible or a tangible asset 
is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognised 
immediately in the income statement and the carrying value of 
the asset is reduced by the amount of the impairment loss. 
A reversal of an impairment loss on intangible assets or 
property, plant and equipment is recognised as it arises 
provided the increased carrying value does not exceed the 
carrying amount that would have been determined had no 
impairment loss been recognised. Impairment losses on 
goodwill are not reversed. 
1.11 Investment property 
Investment property comprises freehold and leasehold 
properties that are held to earn rentals or for capital 
appreciation or both. Investment property is not depreciated, 
but is stated at fair value based on valuations by independent 
registered valuers. Fair value is based on current prices for 
similar properties adjusted for the specific characteristics of 
each property. Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair 
value is recognised in the income statement. 
Investment property is derecognised when it has been either 
disposed of or permanently withdrawn from use and no future 
economic benefit is expected from disposal. Any gains or 
losses on the retirement or disposal of investment property  
are recognised in the income statement in the year of 
retirement or disposal. 
1.12 Financial assets 
Financial assets are classified as AFS, held-to-maturity (“HTM”), 
designated at fair value through profit or loss, or loans  
and receivables.  
Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery  
of assets within a time frame established by regulation or 
convention in the market place are recognised on the date  
that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. 
AFS 
Financial assets can be designated as AFS on initial recognition. 
AFS financial assets are initially recognised at fair value  
plus directly related transaction costs. They are subsequently 
measured at fair value. Impairment losses and exchange 
differences resulting from translating the amortised cost of foreign 
currency monetary AFS financial assets are recognised in the 
income statement, together with interest calculated using the 
effective interest rate method. Other changes in the fair value  
of AFS financial assets are reported in a separate component  
of shareholders’ equity until disposal, when the cumulative gain 
or loss is recognised in the income statement. 
A financial asset is regarded as quoted in an active market  
if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an 
exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or 
regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and 
regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length 
basis. The appropriate quoted market price for an asset held  
is usually the current bid price. When current bid prices are 
unavailable, the price of the most recent transaction provides 
evidence of the current fair value as long as there has not been 
a significant change in economic circumstances since the time 
of the transaction. If conditions have changed since the time of 
the transaction (for example, a change in the risk-free interest 
rate following the most recent price quote for a corporate 
bond), the fair value reflects the change in conditions by 
reference to current prices or rates for similar financial 
instruments, as appropriate. The valuation methodology 
described above uses observable market data. 
If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group 
establishes the fair value by using a valuation technique. 
Valuation techniques include using recent arm’s length market 
transactions between knowledgeable and willing parties  
(if available), reference to the current fair value of another 
instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow 
analysis and option pricing models. If there is a valuation 
technique commonly used by market participants to price  
the instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to 
provide reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market 
transactions, the Group uses that technique. 
HTM 
Non-derivative financial assets not designated as AFS or loans 
and receivables with fixed or determinable payments and fixed 
maturity where the intention and ability to hold them to maturity 
exists are classified as HTM.  www.directlinegroup.com 131
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 131
Subsequent to initial recognition, HTM financial assets are 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate 
method less any impairment losses. 
Loans and receivables 
Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable 
repayments that are not quoted in an active market are 
classified as loans and receivables, except those that are 
classified as AFS or HTM. Loans and receivables are initially 
recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs 
and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate method less any impairment losses. 
Impairment of financial assets 
Insurance receivables 
At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether  
there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or  
group of financial assets classified as AFS, HTM or loans  
and receivables is impaired. A financial asset or portfolio of 
financial assets is impaired and an impairment loss incurred  
if there is objective evidence that an event or events since 
initial recognition of the asset have adversely affected the 
amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset. 
AFS 
When a decline in the fair value of a financial asset classified 
as AFS has been recognised directly in equity and there is 
objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative 
loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income 
statement. The loss is measured as the difference between the 
amortised cost of the financial asset and its current fair value. 
Impairment losses on AFS equity instruments are not reversed 
through profit or loss, but those on AFS debt instruments are 
reversed, if there is an increase in fair value that is objectively 
related to a subsequent event.  
HTM and loans and receivables 
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a 
financial asset or group of financial assets classified as HTM or 
loans and receivables has been incurred, the Group measures 
the amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying 
amount of the asset or group of assets and the present value  
of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets, 
discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at 
initial recognition. 
Impairment losses are assessed individually where significant 
or collectively for assets that are not individually significant. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement and 
the carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial 
assets is reduced by establishing an allowance for the 
impairment losses. If in a subsequent period the amount of the 
impairment loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to 
an event after the impairment was recognised, the previously 
recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance. 
Insurance receivables 
Insurance receivables comprise outstanding insurance premiums 
where the policyholders have elected to pay in instalments, or 
amounts due from third parties where they have collected or are 
due to collect the money from the policyholder. 
Receivables also include amounts due in respect of the 
provision of legal services. 
For amounts due from policyholders, the bad debt provision is 
calculated based upon prior loss experience. For all balances 
outstanding in excess of three months, a bad debt provision  
is made. Where a policy is subsequently cancelled, the 
outstanding debt that is overdue is charged to the income 
statement and the bad debt provision is released back to the 
income statement. 
Derivatives and hedging 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially, and 
subsequently measured, at fair value. Derivative fair values  
are determined from quoted prices in active markets where 
available. Where there is no active market for an instrument, 
fair value is derived from prices for the derivative’s components 
using appropriate pricing or valuation models. 
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of a 
derivative are recognised as they arise in the income statement 
unless the derivative is the hedging instrument in a qualifying 
hedge. The Group enters into fair value hedge relationships 
and a small amount of cash flow hedges. 
Hedge relationships are formally documented at inception.  
The documentation identifies the hedged item and the hedging 
instrument and details the risk that is being hedged and the way 
in which effectiveness will be assessed at inception and during 
the period of the hedge. If the hedge is not highly effective  
in offsetting changes in cash flows and fair values attributable  
to the hedged risk, consistent with the documented risk 
management strategy, or if the hedging instrument expires or is 
sold, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting is discontinued. 
In a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or  
loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity. 
Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement. 
In a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument is recognised in the income statement. The gain  
or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is 
recognised in the income statement and, where the hedged 
item is measured at amortised cost, adjusts the carrying  
amount of the hedged item. 
Derecognition of financial assets 
A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive  
the cash flows from that asset have expired or when the Group 
has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset 
and has transferred substantially all the risk and rewards of 
ownership of the asset. 
1.13 Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and 
demand deposits with banks together with short-term highly 
liquid investments that are readily convertible to known 
amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of change  
in value. 
Borrowings, comprising bank overdrafts, are measured  
at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. 
1.14 Financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value net of 
transaction costs incurred. Other than derivatives which are 
recognised and measured at fair value, all other financial 
liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest rate method.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 132
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 132
1. Accounting policies continued 
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under 
the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires. 
1.15 Subordinated liabilities 
Subordinated liabilities comprise subordinated guaranteed 
dated notes which are initially measured at the consideration 
received less related transaction costs. Subsequently, 
subordinated liabilities are measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest rate method. 
1.16 Provisions 
The Group recognises a provision for a present legal or 
constructive obligation from a past event when it is more likely 
than not that it will be required to transfer economic benefits to 
settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. 
The Group makes provision for all insurance industry levies, 
such as the Financial Services Compensation Scheme and 
Motor Insurance Bureau. 
When the Group has an onerous contract, it recognises  
the present obligation under the contract as a provision.  
A contract is onerous when the unavoidable costs of meeting 
the contractual obligations exceed the expected future 
economic benefit. In respect of leasehold properties, a 
provision is recognised when the Group has a detailed formal 
plan to vacate the leasehold property, or significantly reduce 
its level of occupancy, the plan has been communicated to 
those affected and the future property costs under the lease 
exceed future economic benefits. 
Restructuring provisions are made, including redundancy costs, 
when the Group has a constructive obligation to restructure.  
An obligation exists when the Group has a detailed formal 
plan and has communicated the plan to those affected. 
1.17 Leases 
Payments made under operating leases are charged to  
the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term  
of the lease. 
1.18 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 
The Group provides post-retirement benefits in the form  
of pensions and healthcare plans to eligible employees. 
Contributions to the Group’s defined contribution pension 
scheme are recognised in the income statement when payable. 
The Group’s defined benefit pension scheme, as described in 
note 34, was closed in 2003. Scheme liabilities are measured 
on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method, 
and discounted at a rate that reflects the current rate of return 
on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent term and 
currency to the scheme liabilities. 
Scheme assets are measured at their fair value. Any surplus  
or deficit of scheme assets over liabilities is recognised in  
the balance sheet as an asset (surplus) or liability (deficit).  
The current service cost and any past service costs, together 
with the net interest on net pension liability or asset, is charged 
or credited to operating expenses. Actuarial gains and losses 
are recognised in full in the period in which they occur outside 
the income statement and presented in other comprehensive 
income under ‘Items that will not be reclassified subsequently  
to the income statement’. 
1.19 Taxation 
The tax charge or credit represents the sum of the tax currently 
payable or receivable and deferred tax. 
The current tax charge is based on the taxable profits for the 
year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax 
legislation, after any adjustments in respect of prior years. 
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income 
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that 
are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes 
items that are never taxable or deductible. 
Provision for taxation is calculated using tax rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet 
date, and is allocated over profits before taxation and amounts 
charged or credited to components of other comprehensive 
income and equity, as appropriate. 
Deferred taxation is accounted for in full using the balance 
sheet liability method on all temporary differences between the 
carrying amount of an asset or liability for accounting purposes 
and its carrying amount for tax purposes. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary timing differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits 
will be available against which deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised. 
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date 
and reduced to the extent that it is probable that they will not 
be recovered. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates 
expected to apply when the assets are realised or liabilities  
are settled based on laws and rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax  
is charged or credited in the income statement, except when  
it relates to items charged or credited to other comprehensive 
income or equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt 
with in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a 
legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes 
levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends  
to settle its current assets and liabilities on a net basis. 
1.20 Share-based payments 
The Group operates a number of share-based compensation 
plans under which it awards Ordinary Shares and share 
options to its employees. Such awards are generally subject  
to vesting conditions that vary the amount of cash or shares  
to which an employee is entitled. 
Vesting conditions include service conditions (requiring the 
employee to complete a specified period of service) and 
performance conditions (requiring the Group to meet specified 
performance targets). 
The fair value of options granted is estimated using valuation 
techniques which incorporate exercise price, term, risk-free 
interest rates, the current share price and its expected volatility. 
 
  www.directlinegroup.com 133
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 133
The cost of employee services received in exchange for an 
award of shares or share options granted is measured by 
reference to the fair value of the shares or share options on the 
date the award is granted and takes into account non-vesting 
conditions and market performance conditions (conditions 
related to the market price of the Company’s Ordinary Shares). 
The cost is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period (the period during which all the specified vesting 
conditions must be satisfied) with a corresponding increase in 
equity in an equity-settled award, or a corresponding liability 
in a cash-settled award. The cost is adjusted for vesting 
conditions (other than market performance conditions) so as to 
reflect the number of shares or share options that actually vest. 
The cancellation of an award through failure to meet non-
vesting conditions triggers an immediate expense for any 
unrecognised element of the cost of an award. 
1.21 Capital instruments 
The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a 
financial liability or an equity instrument in accordance with  
the substance of the contractual arrangement. An instrument is 
classified as a liability if it is a contractual obligation to deliver 
cash or another financial asset, or to exchange financial assets 
or financial liabilities on potentially unfavourable terms, or as 
equity if it evidences a residual interest in the assets of the 
Group after the deduction of liabilities. 
The consideration for any Ordinary Share of the Company 
purchased by the Group for the benefit of the employee trusts 
is deducted from equity.  
1.22 Dividends 
Interim dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised in  
equity in the period in which they are paid. Final dividends  
on Ordinary Shares are recognised when they have been 
approved at the AGM. 
1.23 Accounting developments 
New IFRSs and amendments that are issued, but not yet 
effective for the 31 December 2016 reporting periods and 
have not been early adopted by the Group are disclosed 
below. The Group intends to adopt these standards, if 
applicable, when they become effective, except for IFRS 9  
as explained below. 
In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 
‘Financial Instruments’ that replaces IAS 39 ‘Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ and all previous 
versions of IFRS 9 which was endorsed by the EU in 2016. 
IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and 
derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, 
introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new 
impairment model for financial assets and is effective for 
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. 
In 2016 the Group conducted a high-level assessment of  
the three aspects of IFRS 9 and based on current available 
information expects no significant impact on its balance sheet 
and equity, except for the impact of applying the expected loss 
model for the first time and this impact is currently immaterial. 
The Group plans to defer the application of IFRS 9 until the 
effective date of the new insurance contracts standard IFRS 17 
of 1 January 2021, applying the temporary exemption from 
applying IFRS 9 as introduced by the amendments to IFRS 4 
‘Insurance Contracts’, detailed below. 
In September 2016, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 4  
to address issues arising from the different effective dates of 
IFRS 9 and the upcoming new insurance contracts standard 
(IFRS 17). The amendment to IFRS 4 is expected to be 
endorsed by the EU before the effective date of IFRS 9. 
The amendments introduce two alternative options, the overlay 
approach and the temporary exemption from IFRS 9. The 
overlay approach allows an entity applying IFRS 9 to reclassify 
between the income statement and other comprehensive income 
an amount that results in the income statement at the end of the 
reporting period for the designated financial assets being the 
same as if an entity had applied IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments – 
Recognition and Measurement’ to these designated financial 
assets. The temporary exemption from IFRS 9 allows entities  
to defer the implementation date of IFRS 9 for annual periods 
beginning before 1 January 2021, if it has not applied any 
version of IFRS 9 previously and its activities are predominantly 
connected with insurance on its annual reporting date that 
immediately precedes 1 April 2016. 
During 2016 the Group performed an assessment of the 
temporary exemption from IFRS 9 criteria and concluded  
that the carrying amount of its liabilities connected with 
insurance relative to the carrying amount of all its liabilities  
as at 31 December 2015 is greater than 90% and therefore 
satisfies the exemption criteria. 
In May 2014 the IASB issued IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from 
Contracts with Customers’ to establish a single comprehensive 
model to use in accounting for revenue recognition and 
measurement. The standard provides guidance on when and 
how combined contracts should be unbundled and when a 
contract price includes a variable consideration element.  
IFRS 15 was endorsed by the EU in 2016 and either a full 
retrospective application or a modified retrospective application 
is required for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 
2018. The Group expects to apply IFRS 15 fully retrospectively. 
Insurance contracts are out of the scope of IFRS 15 and therefore 
the Group does not expect the impact on other operating 
income to be material. 
In January 2016 the IASB issued IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ to replace 
the existing standard IAS 17, which subject to endorsement 
from the EU will be effective from 1 January 2019. IFRS 16 
sets out the principles for recognition, measurement, 
presentation and disclosure of leases and requires lessees to 
account for all leases under a single on-balance sheet model 
similar to the accounting for finance leases under IAS 17. 
There are two exemptions for leases of a low value and for 
leases of short-term nature of 12 months or less. At the start  
of a lease, a lessee will recognise a liability for the lease 
payments and an asset representing the right to use the asset 
during the lease term. Lessees will be required to separately 
recognise the interest expense on the lease liability and the 
depreciation expense on the right-of-use asset. Lessor 
accounting under IFRS 16 is substantially unchanged from  
the current approach under IAS 17. 
In 2017, the Group will assess the potential effect of IFRS 16 
on its consolidated financial statements, the undiscounted value 
of the Group’s lease obligations are disclosed in note 39.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 134
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 134
1. Accounting policies continued 
The following amendments to IFRSs and IASs have been issued during 2016 that are expected to be endorsed by the EU  
during 2017. The Group does not expect the amendments to have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group  
in future periods. 
The IASB amended IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’ – Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses to clarify the accounting  
for deferred tax assets where an asset is measured at fair value and that fair value is below the asset’s tax base for accounting; 
the amendment is effective from 1 January 2017. 
Amendments to IAS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’ was issued as part of the IASB’s Disclosure Initiative to require entities to explain 
changes in their liabilities arising from financing activities; the amendment is effective from 1 January 2017. 
The IASB amended IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payments’ – Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions, to 
address three main areas: the effects of vesting conditions on the measurement of a cash-settled share-based payment transaction; 
the classification of a share-based payment transaction with net settlement features for withholding tax obligations; and 
accounting where a modification to the terms and conditions of a share-based payment transaction changes its classification from 
cash-settled to equity-settled; the amendments are effective from 1 January 2018. 
2. Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation 
of its financial information. The Group’s principal accounting policies are set out on pages 127 to 134. Company law and IFRSs 
require the Directors, in preparing the Group’s financial statements, to select suitable accounting policies, apply them consistently 
and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.  
In the absence of an applicable standard or interpretation, IAS 8, ‘Accounting policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates  
and Errors’, requires management to develop and apply an accounting policy that results in relevant and reliable information  
in the light of the requirements and guidance in IFRS dealing with similar and related issues and the IASB’s Framework for the 
Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements. The judgements and assumptions involved in the Group’s accounting 
policies that are considered by the Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial condition are discussed below. 
The use of estimates, assumptions or models that differ from those adopted by the Group would affect its reported results. 
2.1 General insurance: outstanding claims provisions and related reinsurance recoveries 
The Group makes provision for the full cost of outstanding claims from its general insurance business at the balance sheet date, 
including claims estimated to have been incurred but not yet reported at that date and claims handling. Outstanding claims 
provisions net of related reinsurance recoveries at 31 December 2016 amounted to £3,388.3 million (2015: £3,602.6 million). 
Claims reserves are assessed separately for large and attritional claims, typically using standard actuarial methods of projection. 
Key sources of estimation uncertainty include those arising from the selection of specific methods as well as assumptions for claims 
frequency and severity through the review of historical claims and emerging trends.  
The corresponding reinsurance recoveries and impairment provision are calculated on an equivalent basis, with similar estimation 
uncertainty, as discussed in note 1.6. The reinsurance bad debt provision is mainly for expected recoveries against future  
PPO payments. 
The most common method of settling bodily injury claims is by a lump sum paid to the claimant and, in the cases where this 
includes an element of indemnity for recurring costs such as loss of earnings or ongoing medical care, settlement normally occurs 
using a standardised Ogden annuity factor at a discount rate of 2.5% in 2016 (2015: 2.5%). This is normally referred to as the 
Ogden discount rate. Other estimates are also required for case management expenses, loss of pension, court protection fees, 
alterations to accommodation and transportation fees. 
On 27 February 2017, the Ministry of Justice announced a new Ogden discount rate of minus 0.75% to become effective  
from 20 March 2017 and a review of the framework under which the rate is set with consultation to start before Easter 2017. 
The Group expects to fully participate in this consultation. 
The Group will continue to exercise judgement around the Ogden rate used in its reserves allowing for the possibility for it to 
change in the future. The Lord Chancellor’s statement bases the choice of the rate on a 3-year average of yields on index-linked 
government securities which will be sensitive to future movements in these instruments. It is not yet clear how often the Lord 
Chancellor plans to review the rate and the coming consultation is proposed to look at the wider framework for setting the rate 
and compensation. The Group considers the risks to the rate in future as being significant but broadly balanced and therefore 
provisions at the current proposed rate of minus 0.75% with no additional allowance for further movements. Details of the 
sensitivity analysis to the assumed Ogden discount rate are shown in note 3.3.1. 
The Group settles some large bodily injury claims as PPOs rather than lump sum payments. 
   www.directlinegroup.com 135
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 135
The table below analyses the outstanding PPO claims provisions on a discounted and an undiscounted basis at 31 December 2016 
and 31 December 2015. These represent the total cost of PPOs rather than any costs in excess of purely Ogden-based settlement. 
At 31 December 
Discounted 
2016
£m
Undiscounted 
2016 
£m 
Discounted 
2015 
£m 
Undiscounted 
2015
£m
Gross claims   
Approved PPO claims provisions 489.0 1,388.0 452.3 1,315.7
Anticipated PPOs 494.0 1,509.9 538.3 1,660.8
Total 983.0 2,897.9 990.6 2,976.5
Reinsurance   
Approved PPO claims provisions (248.6) (754.4) (231.1) (721.5)
Anticipated PPOs (263.1) (875.4) (227.8) (818.4)
Total (511.7) (1,629.8) (458.9) (1,539.9)
Net of reinsurance   
Approved PPO claims provisions 240.4 633.6 221.2 594.2
Anticipated PPOs 230.9 634.5 310.5 842.4
Total 471.3 1,268.1 531.7 1,436.6
The provisions for PPOs have been categorised as either claims which have already been determined by the courts as PPOs 
(approved PPO claims provisions) or those expected to settle as PPOs in the future (anticipated PPOs). The Group is subject to 
estimation uncertainty on the propensity of large bodily claims to move from Ogden settled values to PPOs. The recent change in 
the Ogden discount rate is expected to reduce PPO propensity and these effects are recognised in the Group’s separate Ogden 
provisions. The estimates in the table above are based on historically observed propensity and therefore do not allow for any 
future changes in PPO propensity. Anticipated PPOs consist of both existing large loss case reserves including allowances for 
development and claims yet to be reported to the Group. Reinsurance is applied at claim level and the net cash flows are 
discounted for the time value of money. The discount rate is consistent with the long duration of the claims payments and the 
assumed future indexation of the claims payments. 
In the majority of cases, the inflation agreed in the settlement is the Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings SOC 6115 inflation 
published by the Office for National Statistics, for which the long-term rate is assumed to be 4.0% (2015: 4.0%). The rate of 
interest used for the calculation of present values is 4.0% (2015: 4.0%), which results in a real discount rate of 0.0% (2015: 
0.0%). Prior to 20 March 2017 lump sum payments were calculated using a real discount rate of 2.5% (2015: 2.5%) meaning 
that the PPOs reserved cost was greater than that of lump sum settlements. This will reverse when the new discount rate of minus 
0.75% becomes effective. 
Details of sensitivity analysis to the discount rate applied to PPO claims are shown in note 3.3.1. 
2.2 Impairment provisions – financial assets 
The Group determines that financial assets are impaired when there is objective evidence that an event or events since initial 
recognition of the assets have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset. The determination  
of which events could have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset requires judgement. In 
making this judgement, the Group evaluates, among other factors, the normal price volatility of the financial asset, the financial 
health of the investee, industry and sector performance, changes in technology and operational and financing cash flow or 
whether there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost. Impairment may be 
appropriate when there is evidence of deterioration in these factors. 
On a quarterly basis, the Group reviews whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired based on  
the following criteria: 
 actual, or imminent, default on coupon interest or nominal; 
 adverse movements in the credit rating for the investee / borrower; or 
 price performance of a particular AFS debt security, or group of AFS debt securities, demonstrating an adverse trend compared 
to the market as a whole. 
There was no impairment of the Group’s financial assets in the year ended 31 December 2016 (2015: £nil). 
Had all the declines in AFS asset values met the criteria above at 31 December 2016, the Group would suffer a loss of 
£12.6 million (2015: £48.7 million), being the transfer of the total AFS reserve for unrealised losses to the income statement. 
These movements represent mark-to-market movements and where there is no objective evidence of any loss events that could 
affect future cash flows, no impairments are recorded for these movements. 
 
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 136
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 136
2. Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued 
2.3 Fair value 
The Group has made the judgement that level 1 of the Group’s fair value hierarchy set out in note 40 will include only sovereign 
debt securities issued by members of the G1O group of countries within the Group’s AFS debt securities portfolio, with all other 
financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value included in level 2 as they are not considered to be quoted in a deeply  
liquid market. 
The Group has also made the judgement that investment properties fall within level 3 of the Group’s fair value hierarchy (note 40) 
as the valuation model is driven predominantly by unobservable inputs, as although in part the valuations are compared to recent 
market transactions, they are adjusted for specific characteristics of each property including the size, location and condition by 
reference to the benchmark property transactions. 
2.4 Goodwill and other intangible assets 
Goodwill impairment testing inherently involves estimation uncertainty in a number of areas including: the preparation of the  
five-year strategic plan and the extrapolation of cash flow forecasts beyond the normal requirements of management reporting; 
the assessment of the discount rate appropriate to the CGUs; estimation of market values of CGUs; and the valuation of the 
separable assets of each business whose goodwill is being reviewed. Details of a sensitivity analysis on the recoverable amount 
in excess of carrying value are shown in note 18. 
Impairment testing of software development costs involves estimation uncertainty in a number of areas including: the projection of 
the economic benefits associated with each asset; subsequent re-measurement of these benefits through the development cycle and 
into use; and the projected ultimate cost of each asset at each point through the development cycle due to specification changes. 
3. Risk management 
3.1 Enterprise Risk Management Strategy and Framework 
The ERMF sets out, at a high level, our approach and processes for managing risks. Further information can be found in the  
Risk management section of the Strategic report on page 27. 
3.2 Risk and capital management modelling 
The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Group has sufficient funds to meet its liabilities as they fall due.  
The Group carries out detailed modelling of its assets, liabilities and the key risks to which these are exposed. This modelling 
includes the Group’s own assessment of its SCR. In 2015, this SCR assessment was submitted to the PRA as part of the Group’s 
application for IMAP for which approval was subsequently granted in June 2016. The SCR quantifies the insurance, market, 
credit and operational risks that the regulated entities are undertaking. 
The Board is closely involved in the SCR process and reviews, challenges and approves its assumptions and results. 
3.3 Principal risks from insurance activities and use of financial instruments 
The Risk management section of the Strategic report sets out all the risks assessed by the Group as principal risks. Detailed below 
is the Group’s risk exposure arising from its insurance activities and use of financial instruments specifically in respect of insurance 
risk, market risk and credit risk. 
3.3.1 Insurance risk 
The Group is exposed to insurance risk as a primary consequence of its business. Key insurance risks focus on the risk of loss due to 
fluctuations in the timings, amount, frequency and severity of an insured event relative to the expectations at the time of underwriting. 
The Group is mainly exposed to the following Insurance risks: 
Reserve risk 
Reserve risk relates to both premiums and claims. This is the risk of understatement of reserves arising from: 
 the uncertain nature of claims; 
 data issues and changes to the claims reporting process; 
 operational failures; 
 failure to recognise claims trends in the market; and 
 changes in underwriting and business written so that past trends are not necessarily a predictor of the future. 
Understatement of reserves may result in not being able to pay claims when they fall due. Alternatively, overstatement of reserves 
can lead to a surplus of funds being retained resulting in opportunity cost for example lost investment return or insufficient resource 
to pursue strategic projects and develop the business. 
Reserve risk is controlled through a range of processes: 
 regular reviews of the claims, premiums and an assessment of the requirement for a liability adequacy provision for the main 
classes of business by the internal actuarial team;  www.directlinegroup.com 137
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 137
 the use of external actuaries to review periodically the actuarial best estimate reserves produced internally, either through peer 
review or through provision of independent reserve estimates; 
 accompanying all reserve reviews with actuarial assessment of the uncertainties through a variety of techniques including 
bootstrapping and scenario analysis; 
 oversight of the reserving process by relevant senior management and the Board; 
 regular reconciliation of the data used in the actuarial reviews against general ledger data and reconciliation of the claims 
data history against the equivalent data from prior reviews; and 
 regular assessment of the uncertainty in the reserves to help the Board set management best estimate reserves. 
The Group’s reserves are subject to the risk of retrospective changes in judicial conditions such as the change in the Ogden 
discount rate announced on the 27 February 2017. This is the discount rate set by the Lord Chancellor and used by courts to 
calculate lump sum awards in bodily injury cases. The rate has been 2.5% since 2001 and will change to minus 0.75% from  
20 March 2017. The Group has calculated its estimated reserves based on the new rate which itself is uncertain depending  
on the outcome of the Government’s proposed consultation on the framework for setting the rate and on the frequency and  
timing of future changes. 
Uncertainty in claims reserves estimation is larger for claims such as PPOs for which annually indexed payments are made 
typically over the lifetime of the injured party. Claims reserves for PPOs are held on a discounted basis and are sensitive  
to a change in the assumed real discount rate. 
The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions  
left unchanged. Other potential risks beyond the ones described could have an additional financial impact on the Group. 
 
Increase / (decrease) in profit 
before tax and equity
3 
At 31 December 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
PPOs
1
  
Impact of an increase in the discount rate used in the calculation of present values of 100 basis points 68.2 76.0
Impact of a decrease in the discount rate used in the calculation of present values of 100 basis points (97.9) (109.4)
Ogden
2 
as at 31 December 2016  
Impact of the Group reserving at a discount rate of 0% compared to minus 0.75% at  
31 December 2016 102.1 –
Impact of the Group reserving at a discount rate of minus 1.5% compared to minus 0.75% at  
31 December 2016 (156.4) –
Ogden
 
as at 31 December 2015  
Impact of the Group reserving at a discount rate of 2.5% compared to 1.5% at 31 December 2015 – 131.9
Impact of the Group reserving at a discount rate of 0.5% compared to 1.5% at 31 December 2015 – (190.0)
Notes:  
1. The sensitivities relating to an increase or decrease in the real discount rate used for PPOs illustrate a movement in the time value of money from the assumed level  
of 0.0%.  
2. As at 31 December 2016 the Group has reserved at a discount rate of minus 0.75% (2015: 1.5%). With effect from 20 March 2017, the Ogden discount rate 
will be minus 0.75% (2015: 2.5%). 
3. These sensitivities exclude the impact of taxation.  
4. These sensitivities reflect one-off impacts at 31 December and should not be interpreted as a prediction. 
In addition, there is the risk that claims are reserved or paid inappropriately, including the timing of such activity. However, there 
are claims management controls in place to mitigate this risk, as outlined below: 
 Claims are managed utilising a range of IT system-driven controls coupled with manual processes outlined in detailed policies 
and procedures to ensure claims are handled in an appropriate, timely and accurate manner. 
 Each member of staff has a specified handling authority, with controls preventing them handling or paying claims outside their 
authority, as well as controls to mitigate the risk of paying invalid claims. In addition, there are various outsourced claims 
handling arrangements, all of which are monitored closely by management, with similar principles applying in terms of the 
controls and procedures. 
 Loss adjustors are used in certain circumstances to handle claims to conclusion. This involves liaison with the policyholder, third 
parties, suppliers and the claims function. 
 Specialist bodily injury claims teams are responsible for handling these types of losses with the nature of handling dependent 
on the level and type of claim. Claims exceeding a certain threshold are referred to the technical and large loss teams who 
also deal with all other claim types above defined limits or within specific criteria. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 138
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 138
3. Risk management continued 
 A process is in place to deal with major weather and other catastrophic events, known as the ‘Surge Demand Plan’. A surge  
is the collective name given to an incident which significantly increases the volume of claims reported to the Group’s claims 
functions. The plan covers surge demand triggers, stages of incident, operational impact, communication and management 
information monitoring of the plan. 
Underwriting risk 
This is the risk that future claims experience on business written is materially different from the results expected, resulting in  
current year losses. The Group predominantly underwrites personal lines insurance including motor, residential property, roadside 
assistance, creditor, travel and pet business. The Group also underwrites commercial risks primarily for low-to-medium risk trades 
within the SME market. Contracts are typically issued on an annual basis which means that the Group’s liability usually extends 
for a 12 month period, after which the Group is entitled to decline to renew or can impose renewal terms by amending the 
premium or other policy terms and conditions such as the excess as appropriate. 
Underwriting risk includes catastrophe risk, the risk of loss, or of adverse change in the value of the insurance liabilities resulting 
from significant uncertainty of pricing, underwriting and provisioning assumptions related to extreme or exceptional circumstances. 
When underwriting policies, the Group is subject to concentration risk in a variety of forms, including: 
 Geographic concentration risk – the Group purchases a catastrophe reinsurance programme to protect against a modelled  
one in 200-year loss. The retained deductible is £150 million at 31 December 2016 (2015: £150 million); 
 Product concentration risk – the Group’s business is heavily concentrated in the UK general insurance market. However,  
the Group offers a diversified portfolio of products and a variety of brands sold through a range of distribution channels to  
its customers; and 
 Sector concentration risk – the concentration of the Group to any given industry sector is monitored and analysed in respect  
of commercial customers. 
It is important to note that none of these risk categories is independent of the others and that giving due consideration to the 
relationship between these risks is an important aspect of the effective management of insurance risk. 
Distribution risk 
This is the risk that material change in the volume of policies written, may result in losses or reduced profitability. 
Pricing risk 
This is the risk of economic loss arising from policies being incorrectly priced or accepted to achieve desired volume and profitability. 
Reinsurance risk 
This is the risk of inappropriate selection and / or placement of a reinsurance arrangement, with either individual or multiple 
reinsurers which renders the transfer of insurance risk to the reinsurer(s) inappropriate and / or ineffective. Other risks include: 
 Reinsurance concentration risk – the concentration credit exposure to any given counterparty; 
 Reinsurance capacity being reduced and / or withdrawn; 
 Underwriting risk appetite and reinsurance contract terms not being aligned; 
 Reinsurance contract terms being inappropriate or ineffective resulting in classes or types of business not being  
appropriately reinsured; 
 Non-adherence to the reinsurance policy terms and conditions, in terms of both policy management and claims not being 
handled within the reinsurance contract terms and conditions or paid on an ex-gratia basis resulting in reinsurance recoveries 
not being made in full;  
 Inappropriate or inaccurate management information and / or modelling being used to determine the value for money and 
purchasing of reinsurance (including aggregate modelling); and  
 Changes in the external legal, regulatory, social or economic environment altering the definition and application of reinsurance 
policy wordings or the effectiveness or value for money of reinsurance.  
The Group uses reinsurance to: 
 protect the underwriting result against low-frequency, high-severity losses through the transfer of catastrophe claims volatility  
to reinsurers; 
 protect the underwriting result against unforeseen volumes of, or adverse trends in, large individual claims in order to reduce 
volatility and to improve stability of earnings; 
 reduce the Group’s capital requirements; and / or 
 transfer risk that is not within the Group’s current risk appetite. 
   www.directlinegroup.com 139
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 139
Using reinsurance, the Group cedes insurance risk to reinsurers but, in return, assumes counterparty default risk against which  
a reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed. The financial security of the Group’s panel of reinsurers is therefore important  
and both the quality and amount of the assumed counterparty default risk are subject to an approval process whereby 
reinsurance is only purchased from reinsurers that hold a credit rating of at least A- at the time cover is purchased. The Group’s 
leading counterparty exposures are reviewed on a monthly basis by the Head of Reinsurance and Corporate Insurance. The 
Group aims to contract with a diverse range of reinsurers on its contracts to mitigate the credit and / or non-payment risks 
associated with its reinsurance exposures. 
Certain reinsurance contracts have long durations as a result of bodily injury and PPO claims, and insurance reserves therefore 
include provisions beyond the levels created for shorter-term reinsurance bad debt. 
3.3.2 Market risk 
Market risk is the risk of loss resulting from fluctuations in the level and in the volatility of market prices of assets, liabilities and 
financial instruments. 
The Group is mainly exposed to the following market risk factors: 
 Spread risk; 
 Interest rate risk; 
 Property risk; and 
 Foreign currency risk. 
The Group has policies and limits approved by the Investment Committee for managing the market risk exposure. These set out 
the principles that the business should adhere to for managing market risk and establishing the maximum limits the Group is 
willing to accept having considered strategy, risk appetite and capital resources. 
The Group monitors its market risk exposure on a monthly basis and has established an aggregate exposure limit consistent  
with its risk objective to maintain capital adequacy. Interdependencies across risk types have also been considered within  
the aggregate exposure limit. The allocation of the Group’s investments across asset classes has been approved at the  
Investment Committee. 
The strategic asset allocation within the investment portfolio is reviewed by the Investment Committee, which makes recommendations 
to the Board for its investment strategy approval. The Investment Committee determines policy and controls, covering such areas  
as risk, liquidity and performance. The Investment Committee meets at least three times a year to evaluate risk exposure, the current 
strategy, associated policies and investment guidelines and to consider investment recommendations submitted to it. Oversight of  
the implementation of decisions taken by the Investment Committee is via the 1st and 2nd Lines of Defence. 
The investment management objectives are to: 
 Maintain the safety of the portfolio’s principal both in economic terms and from a capital, accounting and reporting perspective; 
 Maintain sufficient liquidity to provide cash requirements for operations, including in the event of a catastrophe; and 
 Maximise the portfolio’s total return within the constraints of the other objectives and the limits defined by the investment 
guidelines and capital allocation.  
The Group has a property portfolio and an infrastructure debt portfolio in order to improve matching to the longer duration PPOs.  
The Group uses its internal economic capital model to determine its capital requirements and market risk limits, and monitors its 
market risk exposure based on a 99.5% value-at-risk measure. The Group also applies market risk stressed scenarios testing for 
the economic impact of specific severe market conditions. The results of this analysis are used to enhance the understanding of 
market risk. The asset liability matching and investment management minimum standard explicitly prohibits the use of derivatives 
for speculative or gearing purposes. However, the Group is able to and does use derivatives for hedging its currency risk and 
interest rate risk exposures. 
Spread risk 
This is the risk of loss from the sensitivity of the value of assets and investments to changes in the level or in the volatility of credit 
spreads over the risk-free interest rate term structure. The level of spread is the difference between the risk-free rate and actual  
rate paid on the asset, with larger spreads being associated with higher risk assets. The Group is exposed to spread risk through 
its investments in bonds. 
Interest rate risk 
This is the risk of loss from all assets and liabilities for which the net asset value is sensitive to changes in the term structure of 
interest rates or interest rate volatility. The Group’s interest rate risk arises mainly from its debt, floating interest rate investments  
and assets and liabilities exposed to fixed interest rates. 
The fixed interest rate up to 27 April 2022 on the Group’s 30-year maturity £500 million of subordinated guaranteed dated 
notes has been exchanged for a floating rate of interest (note 31).  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 140
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 140
3. Risk management continued 
The Group also invests in floating rate debt securities, whose investment income is influenced by the movement of the  
short-term interest rate. A movement of the short-term interest rate will affect the expected return on these investments. 
The market value of the Group’s financial investments with fixed coupons is affected by the movement of interest rates.  
For the majority of investments in US Dollar corporate bonds, excluding £432.0 million of short duration high yield bonds  
(2015: £336.9 million), the Group hedges the exposure of this portfolio to the US Dollar interest rate risk using swaps.  
These derivatives reduce the duration of the portfolio to close to zero. 
Property risk 
This is the risk of loss as a result of sensitivity of assets and financial investment to the level or volatility of market prices  
of property. At 31 December 2016, the value of these property investments was £329.0 million (2015: £347.4 million).  
The property investments are located in the UK. 
Foreign currency risk 
The exposure to currency risk is generated by the Group’s investments in US Dollar and Euro denominated corporate bonds. 
The Group maintains exposure to US Dollar securities through £2,107.1 million (2015: £1,876.3 million) of investments in  
US Dollar corporate bonds and Euro securities through £91.8 million (2015: £nil) of Euro corporate bonds. The foreign currency 
exposure of these investments is hedged by foreign currency forward contracts, maintaining a minimal unhedged currency 
exposure on these portfolios, as well as a low basis currency risk on the hedging. 
Sensitivity analysis 
The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions  
left unchanged. Other potential risks beyond the ones described in the table could have an additional financial impact on  
the Group. 
Increase / (decrease)  
in profit before tax 
Increase / (decrease) 
in total equity
5
 at 
31 December
2016
£m
2015 
£m 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Spread   
Impact of a 100 basis points increase in spreads on financial  
investments
1,2,4.
 – – (183.1) (183.5)
Interest rate   
Impact of a 100 basis points increase in interest rates on financial 
investments and derivatives
1,2,3,4.
 21.5 22.1 (101.5) (119.9)
Investment property
 
  
Impact of a 15% decrease in property markets  (49.4) (52.1) (49.4) (52.1)
Notes: 
1. The income statement impact on financial investments is limited to floating rate instruments and interest rate derivatives used to hedge a portion of the portfolio.  
The income statement is not impacted in relation to fixed rate instruments, in particular AFS debt securities, where the coupon return is not impacted by a change  
in prevailing market rates, as the accounting treatment for AFS debt securities means that only the coupon received is processed through the income statement with 
fair value movements being recognised through total equity. 
2. The increase or decrease in total equity does not reflect any fair value movement in infrastructure debt, HTM debt securities and commercial real estate loans  
that would not be recorded in the financial statements under IFRSs as they are classified as loans and receivables and HTM respectively, which are carried  
at amortised cost. It is estimated that a fair value reduction in these asset categories resulting from a 100 basis point increase in spreads would have been  
£34.4 million (2015: £29.5 million) and a 100 basis point increase in interest rate would have been £4.8 million (2015:£0.1 million). 
3. The sensitivities set out above reflect one-off impacts at 31 December with the exception of the income statement interest rate sensitivity on financial investments 
and derivatives, which projects a movement in a full year’s interest charge as a result of the increase in the interest rate applied to these assets or liabilities on 
those positions held at 31 December. 
4. The subordinated liabilities and associated interest rate swap are excluded from the sensitivity analysis. 
5. These sensitivities exclude the impact of taxation. 
6. The sensitivities set out above have not considered the impact of the general market changes on the value of the Group’s insurance liabilities or retirement  
benefit obligations. They reflect one off impacts at 31 December and should not be interpreted as a prediction. 
   www.directlinegroup.com 141
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 141
The Group has a number of open interest rate and foreign exchange derivative positions. Collateral management arrangements 
are in place for significant counterparty exposures. At 31 December 2016, the Group has pledged £23.7 million in cash  
(2015: £12.3 million) and £3.4 million in UK Treasury Bills (2015; £nil) to cover initial margins and out-of-the-money derivative 
positions. At 31 December 2016, counterparties have pledged £19.1 million in cash and £39.4 million in UK Gilts (2015: 
£19.7 million in UK Gilts) to the Group to cover in-the-money derivative positions. 
The terms and conditions of collateral pledged for both assets and liabilities are market standard. When securities are pledged 
they are required to be readily convertible to cash, and as such no policy has been established for the disposal of assets not 
readily convertible into cash. 
3.3.3 Credit risk 
This is the risk of loss resulting from default on cash inflows and / or changes in market value of issuers of securities, 
counterparties and any debtors to which the Group is exposed. The Group is mainly exposed to the following credit risk factors: 
 Counterparty default risk; and 
 Concentration risk. 
Counterparty default risk 
This is the risk of loss from unexpected default of the counterparties and debtors of Group undertakings. This risk is primarily 
managed by the 1st Line of Defence and monitored by three forums: the Investment risk forum monitors credit spreads as 
indicators of potential losses on investments incurred but not yet realised, the Credit risk forum monitors reinsurance and corporate 
insurance counterparty default risk; and the NIG credit committee is responsible for monitoring broker credit risk. The main 
responsibility of these fora is to ensure that all material aspects of counterparty default risk within the Group are identified, 
monitored and measured. 
The main sources of counterparty default risk for the Group are: 
 Investments – this arises from the investment of funds in a range of investment vehicles permitted by the investment policy; and 
 Reinsurance recoveries – counterparty exposure to reinsurance counterparties arises in respect of reinsurance claims against 
which a reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed. PPOs have the potential to increase the ultimate value of a claim and,  
by their very nature, to significantly increase the length of time to reach final payment. This can increase reinsurance 
counterparty default risk in terms of both amount and longevity. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 142
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 142
3. Risk management continued 
The following tables analyse the carrying value of financial and insurance assets that bear counterparty default risk between those 
assets that have not been impaired by age in relation to due date, and those that have been impaired. 
At 31 December 2016 
Neither 
past due nor 
impaired
£m
Past due 
1 – 90 days
£m
Past due  
more than  
90 days 
£m 
Assets that  
have been 
impaired 
£m 
Carrying value 
in the balance 
sheet
£m
Reinsurance assets  1,371.8 – – – 1,371.8
Insurance and other receivables 937.8 38.0 12.5 – 988.3
Derivative assets  79.7 – – – 79.7
Debt securities 4,730.3 – – – 4,730.3
Infrastructure debt 337.0 – – – 337.0
Commercial real estate loans 79.7 – – – 79.7
Cash and cash equivalents
1
 1,166.1 – – – 1,166.1
Total 8,702.4 38.0 12.5 – 8,752.9
 
At 31 December 2015 
Neither 
past due nor 
impaired
£m
Past due 
1 – 90 days
£m
Past due  
more than  
90 days 
£m 
Assets that  
have been 
impaired 
£m 
Carrying value 
in the balance 
sheet
£m
Reinsurance assets 1,011.4 – – – 1,011.4
Insurance and other receivables 917.3 32.4 6.1 – 955.8
Derivative assets 19.6 – – – 19.6
Debt securities 5,240.1 – – – 5,240.1
Deposits with credit institutions with maturities > three months  44.9 – – – 44.9
Infrastructure debt 329.6 – – – 329.6
Cash and cash equivalents
1
 963.7 – – – 963.7
Total 8,526.6 32.4 6.1 – 8,565.1
Notes: 
1. This represents money market funds with no notice period for withdrawal and cash at bank and in hand. 
Within the analysis of debt securities above are bank debt securities at 31 December 2016 of £1,199.5 million  
(2015: £1,305.1 million), that can be further analysed as: secured £62.2 million (2015: £86.4 million); unsecured  
£973.8 million (2015: £1,059.6 million); and subordinated £163.5 million (2015: £159.1 million). 
   www.directlinegroup.com 143
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 143
Concentration risk 
This is the risk of exposure to increased losses associated with inadequately diversified portfolios of assets and / or obligations, 
in particular: 
 large exposures to individual credits (either bond issuers or deposit-taking institutions); 
 large exposures to different credits where movements in values and ratings are closely correlated. 
Concentration risk on investments arises through excessive exposure to particular industry sectors, groups of business undertakings 
or similar activities. The Group may suffer significant losses in its investment portfolio as a result of over exposure to particular 
sectors engaged in similar activities or similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations  
to be similarly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions. 
The table below analyses the distribution of debt securities, by geographical area (commercial real estate loans and infrastructure 
debt are all within the UK). 
At 31 December 2016 
Corporate
£m
Local
 government
£m
Sovereign 
£m 
 
Supranational 
£m 
Debt 
securities
 total
£m
Australia 100.2 – – – 100.2
Belgium 59.7 – 9.7 – 69.4
Canada 33.3 – – – 33.3
Cayman Islands 17.5 – – – 17.5
Denmark 15.6 – – – 15.6
France 226.2 3.6 – – 229.8
Germany 277.0 – – – 277.0
Hong Kong 11.8 – – – 11.8
Ireland 2.1 – – – 2.1
Italy 25.9 – 4.2 – 30.1
Japan 42.9 – – – 42.9
Luxembourg 6.2 – – – 6.2
Mexico 11.8 – – – 11.8
Netherlands 166.2 – – – 166.2
New Zealand 7.0 – – – 7.0
Norway 27.6 – – – 27.6
Portugal 1.1 – – – 1.1
Singapore 25.6 – – – 25.6
South Korea 8.4 9.4 – – 17.8
Spain 38.0 – – – 38.0
Sweden 74.2 8.7 – – 82.9
Switzerland 92.1 – – – 92.1
UK 1,093.3 – 324.9 – 1,418.2
USA 1,905.1 – 2.4 – 1,907.5
Supranational – – – 98.6 98.6
Total 4,268.8 21.7 341.2 98.6 4,730.3
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 144
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 144
3. Risk management continued 
The table below analyses the distribution of debt securities by geographical area (infrastructure debt is all within the UK). 
At 31 December 2015 
Corporate
£m
Local
 government
£m
Sovereign
£m
Securitised 
 credit 
£m 
Supranational 
£m 
Debt 
securities
 total
£m
Australia 107.6 – – – – 107.6
Austria 6.3 – – – – 6.3
Belgium 42.9 – 10.9 – – 53.8
Canada 47.5 11.4 – – – 58.9
Cayman Islands 22.1 – – 95.3 – 117.4
China 4.5 – – – – 4.5
Denmark 7.9 8.5 – – – 16.4
Finland – 13.7 – – – 13.7
France 235.5 25.4 – – – 260.9
Germany 325.4 16.4 – – – 341.8
Hong Kong 8.2 – – – – 8.2
Ireland 0.8 – – – – 0.8
Italy 10.1 – 4.2 – – 14.3
Japan 47.8 – – – – 47.8
Luxembourg 5.3 – – – – 5.3
Mexico 9.1 – – – – 9.1
Netherlands 170.7 – – – – 170.7
New Zealand 5.3 – – – – 5.3
Norway 18.3 10.0 – – – 28.3
Portugal 1.1 – – – – 1.1
Singapore 24.7 – – – – 24.7
South Korea 8.0 8.7 – – – 16.7
Spain 32.5 – – – – 32.5
Sweden 80.7 11.2 – – – 91.9
Switzerland 83.9 – – – – 83.9
UK 1,250.7 – 427.6 177.3 – 1,855.6
USA 1,639.0 – – 83.5 – 1,722.5
Supranational – – – – 140.1 140.1
Total 4,195.9 105.3 442.7 356.1 140.1 5,240.1
 
   www.directlinegroup.com 145
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 145
The table below analyses the distribution of debt securities by industry sector classifications. 
2016 2015
At 31 December £m % £m %
Basic materials 132.6 3% 102.9 2%
Communications 234.1 5% 237.2 4%
Consumer, cyclical 349.1 7% 298.3 6%
Consumer, non-cyclical 520.7 11% 432.5 8%
Diversified 57.3 1% 52.8 1%
Energy 310.8 7% 243.6 5%
Financial 1,776.9 38% 1,896.6 36%
Industrial 215.3 4% 250.4 5%
Mortgage and other asset backed securities – – 356.1 7%
Sovereign, supranational and local government 461.5 10% 688.1 13%
Technology 137.6 3% 115.8 2%
Transport 10.1 0% – –
Utilities 524.3 11% 565.8 11%
Total 4,730.3 100% 5,240.1 100%
The table below analyses the distribution of infrastructure debt by industry sector classifications. 
2016 2015
At 31 December  £m % £m %
Social, of which:   
Education 145.5 43% 132.3 40%
Healthcare 96.0 29% 98.1 30%
Other 57.6 17% 58.8 18%
Transport 37.9 11% 40.4 12%
Total 337.0 100% 329.6 100%
The tables below analyse the credit quality of debt securities that are neither past due nor impaired. 
At 31 December 2016 
AAA
£m
AA+ to AA–
£m
A+ to A–
£m
BBB+ to BBB– 
£m 
BB+ and below 
£m 
Total 
£m
Corporate 192.3 524.1 2,135.9 1,006.6 409.9 4,268.8
Supranational 94.0 4.6 – – – 98.6
Local government – 21.7 – – – 21.7
Sovereign 2.4 334.6 – 4.2 – 341.2
Total 288.7 885.0 2,135.9 1,010.8 409.9 4,730.3
 
At 31 December 2015 
AAA
£m
AA+ to AA–
£m
A+ to A–
£m
BBB+ to BBB– 
£m 
BB+ and below 
£m 
Total 
£m
Corporate 266.3 604.5 1,976.2 1,019.2 329.7 4,195.9
Supranational 123.9 16.2 – – – 140.1
Local government 36.9 59.0 9.4 – – 105.3
Sovereign – 438.5 – 4.2 – 442.7
Securitised credit
1
 331.2 24.9 – – – 356.1
Total 758.3 1,143.1 1,985.6 1,023.4 329.7 5,240.1
Note: 
1. Securitised credit consisted of prime mortgage backed securities, collateralised loan obligations, securitised student loans and commercial mortgage backed 
securities. Following a strategic decision, the Group decided to exit this asset class during August and September 2016. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 146
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 146
3. Risk management continued 
The tables below analyse the credit quality of financial and insurance assets that are neither past due nor impaired (excluding 
debt securities analysed above). The tables include reinsurance exposure, after provision. Note 3.3.1 details the Group’s 
approach to reinsurance counterparty default risk management. 
At 31 December 2016 
AAA 
£m 
AA+ to AA−
£m
A+ to A−
£m
BBB+ to BBB–
£m
BB+ and below 
£m 
Not rated 
£m 
Total
£m
Reinsurance assets – 993.8 371.4 5.6 – 1.0 1,371.8
Insurance and other receivables
1
– 19.3 13.7 9.4 – 895.4 937.8
Derivative assets – 6.6 32.8 40.3 – – 79.7
Infrastructure debt – – 83.7 220.5 32.8 – 337.0
Commercial real estate loans 13.8 20.4 41.1 4.4 – – 79.7
Cash and cash equivalents
2
 999.5 0.4 88.9 77.3 – – 1,166.1
Total 1,013.3 1,040.5 631.6 357.5 32.8 896.4 3,972.1
 
At 31 December 2015 
AAA 
£m 
AA+ to AA−
£m
A+ to A−
£m
BBB+ to BBB–
£m
BB+ and below 
£m 
Not rated 
£m 
Total
£m
Reinsurance assets – 778.2 225.7 3.2 – 4.3 1,011.4
Insurance and other receivables
1
– 12.4 23.2 25.8 0.4 855.5 917.3
Derivative assets – 0.1 0.4 19.1 – – 19.6
Deposits with credit institutions 
with maturities > three months – 5.0 34.9 5.0 – – 44.9
Infrastructure debt – – 86.1 227.8 15.7 – 329.6
Cash and cash equivalents
2
 831.9 – 60.8 71.0 – – 963.7
Total 831.9 795.7 431.1 351.9 16.1 859.8 3,286.5
Notes: 
1. Includes receivables due from policyholders, agents, brokers and intermediaries which generally do not have a credit rating.  
2. This represents money market funds with no notice period for withdrawal and cash at bank and in hand. 
3.3.4 Operational risk 
This is the risk of loss due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems or from external events. Sources of 
operational risk for the Group include: 
Change risk 
This is the risk of failing to manage the Group’s change portfolio resulting in conflicting priorities and failure to deliver strategic 
outcomes to time, cost or quality. 
Technology and infrastructure risk 
This is the risk that the IT infrastructure is insufficient to deliver the Group’s strategy. 
Outsourcing risk 
This is the risk of failing to implement a robust framework for the sourcing, appointment and ongoing contract management  
of external suppliers, outsourced service providers and intragroup relationships. This includes both domestic and offshore 
outsourcing activities. 
Information Security Risk 
This is the risk of loss, corruption to Group or customer data or intellectual property, resulting in lost reputation, regulatory censure, 
supervision and fines or loss of competitive advantage.  
The Group has in place agreed policies and standards to establish key controls relating to operational risk. 
3.3.5 Liquidity risk 
This is the risk of being unable to realise investments in order to settle financial obligations when they fall due.  
The measurement and management of liquidity risk within the Group is undertaken within the limits and other policy parameters  
of the Group’s liquidity risk appetite and is detailed within the liquidity risk minimum standard. As part of this process the 
Investment and Treasury team are required to put in place a liquidity plan which must consider expected and stressed scenarios 
for cash in-flows and out-flows that is reviewed at least annually by the Investment risk forum. Compliance is monitored in respect 
of both the minimum standard and the regulatory requirements of the PRA.    www.directlinegroup.com 147
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 147
The tables below analyse the maturity of the Group’s derivative assets and liabilities. 
 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value
At 31 December 2016 £m
Less than 
1 year
£m
1 – 5 years 
£m 
Over  
5 years 
£m 
Total 
£m
Derivative assets   
At fair value through the income statement:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 1,110.0 21.4 – – 21.4
Designated as hedging instruments:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 14.8 1.6 0.1 – 1.7
Interest rate swaps 1,902.0 (1.1) 3.0 54.7 56.6
Total 3,026.8 21.9 3.1 54.7 79.7
 
 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value
At 31 December 2016 £m
Less than 
1 year
£m
1 – 5 years 
£m 
Over  
5 years 
£m 
Total 
£m
Derivative liabilities   
At fair value through the income statement:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 2,589.6 43.5 – – 43.5
Designated as hedging instruments:   
Interest rate swaps 634.8 1.1 – 0.5 1.6
Total 3,224.4 44.6 – 0.5 45.1
 
 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value
At 31 December 2015 £m
Less than 
1 year
£m
1 – 5 years 
£m 
Over  
5 years 
£m 
Total 
£m
Derivative assets   
At fair value through the income statement:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 27.1 0.4 – – 0.4
Designated as hedging instruments:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 5.0 0.3 – – 0.3
Interest rate swaps 678.4 1.1 0.2 17.6 18.9
Total 710.5 1.8 0.2 17.6 19.6
 
 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value
At 31 December 2015 £m
Less than 
1 year
£m
1 – 5 years 
£m 
Over  
5 years 
£m 
Total 
£m
Derivative liabilities   
At fair value through the income statement:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 1,876.3 42.2 – – 42.2
Designated as hedging instruments:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 0.7 0.1 – – 0.1
Interest rate swaps 1,241.9 3.0 (0.5) 1.6 4.1
Total 3,118.9 45.3 (0.5) 1.6 46.4
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 148
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 148
3. Risk management continued 
The tables below analyse financial investments, cash and cash equivalents, insurance and financial liabilities by remaining 
duration, in proportion to the cash flows expected to arise during that period, for each category. 
At 31 December 2016 
Total
£m
Within
1 year
£m
1 – 3 years
£m
3 – 5 years 
£m 
5 – 10 years 
£m 
Over 
10 years
£m
Debt securities 4,730.3 588.3 1,001.0 1,172.5 1,676.3 292.2
Infrastructure debt 337.0 13.1 24.6 28.0 87.0 184.3
Commercial real estate loans 79.7 1.3 32.6 45.8 – –
Cash and cash equivalents
1
 1,166.11,166.1 – – – –
Total 6,313.1 1,768.8 1,058.2 1,246.3 1,763.3 476.5
 
At 31 December 2016 
Total
£m
Within
1 year
£m
1 – 3 years
£m
3 – 5 years 
£m 
5 – 10 years 
£m 
Over 
10 years
£m
Subordinated liabilities 539.6 8.3 – – 531.3 –
Insurance liabilities
2
 4,666.6 1,283.6 1,139.5 621.6 666.4 955.5
Borrowings 55.3 55.3 – – – –
Trade and other payables including insurance 
payables 699.2 688.9 9.8 0.2 0.3 –
Total 5,960.7 2,036.1 1,149.3 621.8 1,198.0 955.5
 
At 31 December 2015 
Total
£m
Within
1 year
£m
1 – 3 years
£m
3 – 5 years 
£m 
5 – 10 years 
£m 
Over 
10 years
£m
Debt securities 5,240.1 269.2 1,628.4 1,203.9 1,657.4 481.2
Deposits with credit institutions with  
maturities in excess of three months
 
44.9 44.9 – – – –
Infrastructure debt 329.6 11.6 22.0 23.9 78.4 193.7
Cash and cash equivalents
1
 963.7 963.7 – – – –
Total 6,578.3 1,289.4 1,650.4 1,227.8 1,735.8 674.9
 
At 31 December 2015 
Total
£m
Within 
1 year
£m
1 – 3 years
£m
3 – 5 years 
£m 
5 – 10 years 
£m 
Over 
10 years
£m
Subordinated liabilities 521.1 8.3 – – 512.8 –
Insurance liabilities
2
 4,524.5 1,349.8 1,043.3 564.2 575.1 992.1
Borrowings 61.3 60.8 0.5 – – –
Trade and other payables including insurance 
payables 656.5 652.9 3.0 0.2 0.3 0.1
Total 5,763.4 2,071.8 1,046.8 564.4 1,088.2 992.2
Notes: 
1. This represents money market funds with no notice period for withdrawal and cash at bank and in hand.  
2. Insurance liabilities exclude unearned premium reserves as there are no liquidity risks inherent in them. 
   www.directlinegroup.com 149
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 149
3.4 Capital adequacy (unaudited) 
Capital is managed in accordance with the Group’s capital management minimum standard, the objectives of which are  
to manage capital efficiently and maintain an appropriate level of capitalisation and solvency. The Group determines the 
appropriate level of capital on the basis of a number of criteria, including economic, regulatory and rating agency capital 
requirements. The Group seeks to hold capital resources consistent with an ‘A’ range credit rating. 
From 1 January 2016, the Group’s regulatory capital position has been assessed against the Solvency II framework. From 1 July 
2016, the Group was approved to assess its SCR using a partial internal model, including a full internal economic capital model 
for the UKI underwriting entity. The model is calibrated to a 99.5% confidence interval and consider business written to date and 
one year of future business, in line with Solvency II requirements. 
Using the Group’s partial internal model, there is a capital surplus of approximately £0.9 billion above a solvency capital 
requirement of £1.4 billion at 31 December 2016. On 1 January 2016, this surplus was £0.6 billion above a solvency capital 
requirement of £1.8 billion calculated using the standard formula approach. The Group’s capital requirements and solvency 
position are produced and presented to the Board on a regular basis. 
4. Segmental analysis 
The Directors manage the Group primarily by product type and present the segmental analysis on that basis. The segments reflect 
the management structure whereby a member of the Executive Committee is accountable to the Chief Executive Officer for each 
of the operating segments: 
Motor 
This segment consists of personal motor insurance together with the associated legal protection cover. The Group sells motor 
insurance through its own brands, Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and through partnership brands. 
Home 
This segment consists of home insurance together with associated legal protection cover. The Group sells home insurance through 
its own brands, Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and through partnership brands. 
Rescue and other personal lines 
This segment consists of rescue products sold through the Group’s own brand, Green Flag, and other personal lines insurance, 
including travel, pet and creditor sold through its own brands, Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and through partnership brands. 
Commercial 
This segment consists of commercial insurance for small and medium-size entities sold through NIG, Direct Line for Business, 
Churchill for Business and through partnership brands. 
Certain income and charges are not allocated to the specific operating segments above as they are considered by management 
to be outside underlying business activities by virtue of their one-off incidence, size or nature. Such income and charges are 
categorised as either run-off or restructuring and other one-off costs, described below. 
Run-off 
The segment consists of two principal lines, policies previously written through the personal lines broker channel and Tesco 
business. These residual businesses are now in run-off. 
Restructuring and other one-off costs 
Restructuring costs are costs incurred in respect of the business activities where the Group has a constructive obligation to 
restructure its activities. One-off costs were costs that were non-recurring in nature. 
No inter-segment transactions occurred in the year ended 31 December 2016 (2015: £nil). If any transaction were to occur, 
transfer prices between operating segments would be set on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third 
parties. Segment income, expenses and results will include those transfers between business segments which will then be 
eliminated on consolidation. 
For each operating segment, there is no individual policyholder or customer that represents 10% or more of the Group’s total revenue. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 150
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 150
4. Segmental analysis continued 
The table below analyses the Group’s revenue and results by reportable segment for the year ended 31 December 2016. 
 
Motor
£m
Home
£m
Rescue and 
other
 personal lines
£m
Commercial
£m
Total  
Ongoing 
£m 
Run-off
£m
Total
£m
Gross written premium 1,539.1 834.4 400.8 499.8 3,274.1 – 3,274.1
Gross earned premium 1,461.3 851.0 396.1 494.4 3,202.8 – 3,202.8
Reinsurance premium  (124.2) (34.7) (1.7) (41.6) (202.2) – (202.2)
Net earned premium 1,337.1 816.3 394.4 452.8 3,000.6 – 3,000.6
Investment return 116.9 19.9 3.9 27.4 168.1 3.4 171.5
Instalment income 76.1 23.5 1.9 5.6 107.1 – 107.1
Other operating income 40.9 0.8 13.5 3.0 58.2 – 58.2
Total income 1,571.0 860.5 413.7 488.8 3,334.0 3.4 3,337.4
Insurance claims (1,297.3) (332.1) (243.0) (297.7) (2,170.1) (8.9) (2,179.0)
Insurance claims recoverable from reinsurers 295.6 0.1 – 47.2 342.9 32.3 375.2
Net insurance claims (1,001.7) (332.0) (243.0) (250.5) (1,827.2) 23.4 (1,803.8)
Commission expenses  (42.9) (184.4) (28.4) (88.3) (344.0) – (344.0)
Operating expenses (377.3) (177.4) (96.4) (108.2) (759.3) (0.2) (759.5)
Total expenses (420.2) (361.8) (124.8) (196.5) (1,103.3) (0.2) (1,103.5)
Operating profit before restructuring 149.1 166.7 45.9 41.8 403.5 26.6 430.1
Restructuring costs  (39.9)
Operating profit  390.2
Finance costs  (37.2)
Profit before tax  353.0
Underwriting (loss) / profit (84.8) 122.5 26.6 5.8 70.1 
Loss ratio 74.9% 40.7% 61.6% 55.3% 60.9% 
Commission ratio 3.2% 22.6% 7.2% 19.5% 11.5% 
Expense ratio 28.2% 21.7% 24.5% 23.9% 25.3% 
COR 106.3% 85.0% 93.3% 98.7% 97.7% 
The table below analyses the Group’s assets and liabilities by reportable segment at 31 December 2016. 
 
Motor
£m
Home
£m
Rescue and
 other 
personal lines
£m
Commercial 
£m 
Run-off 
£m 
Total 
£m
Goodwill 126.7 45.8 28.7 10.1 – 211.3
Other segment assets 6,748.9 660.5 160.4 1,587.4 753.2 9,910.4
Segment liabilities (5,131.7) (502.2) (122.0) (1,207.0) (637.3) (7,600.2)
Segment net assets 1,743.9 204.1 67.1 390.5 115.9 2,521.5
The segmental analysis of assets and liabilities is prepared using a combination of asset and liability balances directly attributable 
to each operating segment and an apportionment of assets and liabilities managed at a Group wide level. 
   www.directlinegroup.com 151
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 151
The table below analyses the Group’s revenue and results for continuing operations by reportable segment for the year ended 
31 December 2015. Discontinued operations are detailed in note 5. 
 
Motor
£m
Home
£m
Rescue and 
other
personal lines
£m
Commercial
£m
Total  
Ongoing 
£m 
Run-off
 
£m
Continuing 
operations
£m
Gross written premium 1,406.7 866.3 394.1 485.33,152.4 0.13,152.5
Gross earned premium 1,358.7 880.3 388.0 483.03,110.0 0.13,110.1
Reinsurance premium  (109.4) (35.3) (1.6) (42.9)(189.2) –(189.2)
Net earned premium 1,249.3 845.0 386.4 440.12,920.8 0.12,920.9
Investment return 138.9 20.5 3.8 31.5 194.7 3.4 198.1
Instalment income 69.7 23.3 1.7 5.4 100.1 – 100.1
Other operating income 33.9 0.5 12.6 3.7 50.7 – 50.7
Total income 1,491.8 889.3 404.5 480.73,266.3 3.53,269.8
Insurance claims (956.7) (434.8) (231.6) (304.5)(1,927.6) 98.3(1,829.3)
Insurance claims recoverable from reinsurers 161.9 (0.3) – 28.7 190.3 (27.9) 162.4
Net insurance claims (794.8) (435.1) (231.6) (275.8)(1,737.3) 70.4(1,666.9)
Commission expenses (31.9) (176.7) (24.5) (86.1) (319.2) (0.1) (319.3)
Operating expenses (327.1) (167.6) (96.4) (98.0) (689.1) (0.7) (689.8)
Total expenses (359.0) (344.3) (120.9) (184.1)(1,008.3) (0.8)(1,009.1)
Operating profit before restructuring and other 
one-off costs 338.0 109.9 52.0 20.8 520.7 73.1 593.8
Restructuring and other one-off costs  (48.7)
Operating profit  545.1
Finance costs  (37.6)
Profit before tax  507.5
Underwriting profit / (loss) 95.5 65.6 33.9 (19.8) 175.2 
Loss ratio 63.6% 51.5% 59.9% 62.7% 59.5% 
Commission ratio 2.6% 20.9% 6.4% 19.6% 10.9% 
Expense ratio 26.2% 19.8% 24.9% 22.2% 23.6% 
COR 92.4% 92.2% 91.2% 104.5% 94.0% 
The table below analyses the Group’s assets and liabilities by reportable segment at 31 December 2015. 
 
Motor
£m
Home
£m
Rescue and 
other 
personal lines
£m
Commercial 
£m 
Run-off
£m
Total 
£m
Goodwill 126.4 45.8 28.7 10.1 – 211.0
Other segment assets 6,303.4 872.2 177.9 1,573.9 818.2 9,745.6
Other segment liabilities (4,701.9) (650.6) (132.7) (1,174.0) (667.4) (7,326.6)
Segment net assets 1,727.9 267.4 73.9 410.0 150.8 2,630.0
All continuing operations are in the UK. The reportable segment net assets do not represent the Group’s view of the capital 
requirements for its operating segments. 
The segmental analysis of assets and liabilities is prepared using a combination of asset and liability balances directly attributable 
to each operating segment and an apportionment of assets and liabilities managed at a Group wide level.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 152
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 152
5. Discontinued operations and disposal group  
The Group completed the disposal of its Italian and German subsidiaries (represented by Direct Line Insurance S.p.A and  
Direct Line Versicherung AG respectively) on 29 May 2015, which was treated as discontinued operations, generating a gain 
on disposal of £167.1 million. 
A) Discontinued operations 
The following table analyses performance relating to the discontinued operations for the period from 1 January to disposal on  
29 May 2015. 
 
2015
£m
Gross written premium 261.1
Gross earned premium 207.2
Reinsurance premium (78.8)
Net earned premium 128.4
Investment return
1
 37.1
Instalment income 1.4
Other operating income 0.1
Total income 167.0
Insurance claims (156.2)
Insurance claims recoverable from reinsurers 60.9
Net insurance claims (95.3)
Commission expenses (28.0)
Operating expenses (10.2)
Total expenses (38.2)
Operating profit from discontinued operations 33.5
Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 167.1
Profit before tax from discontinued operations 200.6
Tax charge (19.4)
Profit after tax from discontinued operations 181.2
Underwriting loss (5.1)
Loss ratio 74.2%
Commission ratio 21.8%
Expense ratio 8.0%
COR 104.0%
Note: 
1. Realised net gains on AFS investments in 2015 included £29.9 million of gains reclassified through the income statement, on disposal of International.  
The following table analyses the other comprehensive loss relating to discontinued operations, included in the consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income for the period from 1 January to disposal on 29 May 2015. 
 
2015
£m
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement: 
Exchange differences on the translation of foreign operations 14.4 
Cash flow hedge (1.2)
Fair value gain on AFS investments 0.6 
Less: realised net gains on AFS investments included in income statement (31.8)
Tax relating to items that may be reclassified 10.1 
Other comprehensive loss for the year net of tax (7.9)
 
   www.directlinegroup.com 153
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 153
The following table analyses the cash flows relating to the discontinued operations included in the consolidated cash flow 
statement for the period 1 January to disposal on 29 May 2015. 
 
2015
£m
Net cash generated from operating activities 19.1
Net cash used by investing activities (1.5)
Net cash generated from the disposal of discontinued operations
1 
327.1
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (9.8)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 334.9
Note: 
1. The net cash generated from the disposal of discontinued operations comprises the net cash consideration of £422.5 million less the cash held by the German 
and Italian subsidiaries at the point of sale of £95.4 million. 
B) Disposal group 
The following table analyses the gain on disposal of discontinued operations during the year including the assets and liabilities 
held for sale in the disposal group immediately prior to the disposal on 29 May 2015. 
 
29 May 
2015
£m
Assets 
Intangible assets 5.4
Property, plant and equipment 5.2
Reinsurance assets 171.0
Deferred tax assets 41.9
Current tax assets –
Deferred acquisition costs 105.5
Insurance and other receivables 152.3
Prepayments and accrued income  3.1
Financial investments 665.5
Cash and cash equivalents 95.4
Total assets 1,245.3
Liabilities 
Insurance liabilities 504.5
Unearned premium reserve 355.0
Trade and other payables including insurance payables 125.3
Deferred tax liabilities 32.0
Current tax liabilities 4.0
Total liabilities 1,020.8
Net assets 224.5
Cash consideration received
1
 438.1
Transaction costs (15.6)
Net cash consideration 422.5
Net assets disposed (224.5)
Currency translation reserve reclassified to the income statement (30.9)
Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 167.1
Note: 
1. The Group entered into a foreign currency hedge converting Euro into Sterling in September 2014 for the disposal proceeds. The foreign currency hedge gain of 
£34.0 million and other sale-related consideration are included in cash consideration received. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 154
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 154
6. Net earned premium 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
1
£m 
Gross earned premium:  
Gross written premium 3,274.1 3,152.5
Movement in unearned premium reserve (71.3) (42.4)
 3,202.8 3,110.1
Reinsurance premium:  
Premium payable (206.2) (191.7)
Movement in reinsurance unearned premium reserve 4.0 2.5
 (202.2) (189.2)
Total 3,000.6 2,920.9
Note: 
1. Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are based on continuing operations and exclude discontinued operations. 
7. Investment return 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
1
£m 
Investment income:  
Interest income from debt securities 136.5 140.1
Cash and cash equivalent interest income 4.2 6.7
Interest income from infrastructure debt 7.8 4.4
Interest income from commercial real estate loans 1.0 –
Interest income 149.5 151.2
Rental income from investment property 18.4 17.9
 167.9 169.1
Net realised gains / (losses):  
AFS debt securities 15.3 12.4
Derivatives (282.3) (56.5)
Investment property (note 20) 1.3 –
 (265.7) (44.1)
Net unrealised gains:  
Derivatives 265.2 48.9
Investment property (note 20) 4.1 24.2
 269.3 73.1
Total 171.5 198.1
Note: 
1. Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are based on continuing operations and exclude discontinued operations. 
The table below analyses the realised and unrealised gains and losses on derivative instruments included in investment return. 
 Realised Unrealised Realised Unrealised
 
2016
£m
2016 
£m  
2015
1
 
£m   
2015
1
£m  
Derivative (losses) / gains:   
Foreign exchange forward contracts
2 
(425.7) 19.1 (82.4) (19.1)
Associated foreign exchange risk 151.0 253.0 44.9 61.9
Net (losses) / gains on foreign exchange forward contracts (274.7) 272.1 (37.5) 42.8
Interest rate swaps
2 
(16.9) 20.7 (28.7) 1.2
Associated interest rate risk on hedged items 9.3 (27.6) 9.7 4.9
Net (losses) / gains on interest rate derivatives (7.6) (6.9) (19.0) 6.1
Total (282.3) 265.2 (56.5) 48.9
Notes: 
1. Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are based on continuing operations and exclude discontinued operations. 
2. Foreign exchange forward contracts are at fair value through the income statement and interest rate swaps are designated as hedging instruments.  
   www.directlinegroup.com 155
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 155
8. Other operating income 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
1
£m 
Vehicle replacement referral income 14.1 12.5 
Revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services 19.3 15.5 
Other income
2 
24.8 22.7 
Total 58.2 50.7 
Notes: 
1. Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are based on continuing operations and exclude discontinued operations. 
2. Other income includes legal services revenue, salvage income and fee income from insurance intermediary services. 
9. Net insurance claims 
 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross  Reinsurance Net 
 
2016
£m
2016
£m
2016
£m
2015
1
 
£m  
2015
1
 
£m  
2015
1
£m 
Current accident year claims paid 1,131.7 – 1,131.7 1,037.0  –  1,037.0 
Prior accident year claims paid 905.2 (18.8) 886.4 941.9  (15.9)  926.0 
Increase / (decrease) in insurance liabilities 142.1 (356.4) (214.3) (149.6)  (146.5)  (296.1) 
Total 2,179.0 (375.2) 1,803.8 1,829.3  (162.4)  1,666.9 
Note: 
1. Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are based on continuing operations and exclude discontinued operations. 
The table below analyses the claims handling expenses included in the net insurance claims. 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
1
£m 
Ongoing operations 164.4 195.6 
Run-off 1.2 4.8 
Total 165.6 200.4 
Note: 
1. Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are based on continuing operations and exclude discontinued operations. 
10. Commission expenses 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
1
£m 
Commission expenses 246.8 253.2 
Expenses incurred under profit participations 97.2 66.1 
Total 344.0 319.3 
Note: 
1. Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are based on continuing operations and exclude discontinued operations. 
11. Operating expenses 
  Total Ongoing
Restructuring 
costs Run-off Total Group
  
2016
£m
2016 
£m 
2016 
£m 
2016
£m
Staff costs
1
 269.0 16.0 – 285.0
Other operating expenses
1,2,3
 250.9 23.9 0.2 275.0
Marketing 112.6 – – 112.6
Amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets 96.7 – – 96.7
Depreciation 30.1 – – 30.1
Total 759.3 39.9 0.2 799.4
Notes: 
1. Staff costs and other operating expenses attributable to claims handling activities are allocated to the cost of insurance claims. 
2. Other operating expenses include IT costs, insurance levies, professional fees and property costs. 
3. A property site in Bristol comprising of freehold property and fixtures and fittings was transferred from freehold property to assets held for sale in 2016. The 
property with a carrying value of £23.5 million was remeasured on transfer to its fair value of £3.8 million resulting in a charge to other operating expenses in 
Restructuring of £19.7 million. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 156
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 156
11. Operating expenses continued 
  Total Ongoing 
Restructuring 
and other 
one-off costs Run-off  Total Group 
  
2015
1
£m 
2015
1
 
£m  
2015
1
 
£m  
2015
1
£m 
Staff costs
2
 254.2 18.7  0.4  273.3 
Other operating expenses
2,3,4
 219.0 30.0  0.2  249.2 
Marketing 117.8 –  0.1  117.9 
Amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets 67.4 –  –  67.4 
Depreciation 30.7 –  –  30.7 
Total 689.1 48.7  0.7  738.5 
Notes: 
1. Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are based on continuing operations and exclude discontinued operations. 
2. Staff costs and other operating expenses attributable to claims handling activities are allocated to the cost of insurance claims. 
3. Other operating expenses include IT costs, insurance levies, professional fees and property costs. 
4. The Pudsey sites were transferred from property, plant and equipment to assets held for sales in 2015. The sites with a carrying value of £22.1 million were 
remeasured on transfer to their fair value of £5.1 million resulting in a charge to other operating expenses in Restructuring of £17.0 million. 
The table below analyses the number of people employed by the Group’s operations. 
 At 31 December Average for the year 
 2016 2015 2016 2015
1
Operations 9,692 9,531 9,546 9,564 
Support 1,285 1,190 1,353 1,257 
Total 10,977 10,721 10,899 10,821 
Notes: 
1. Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are based on continuing operations and exclude discontinued operations. 
2. The increase in 2016 headcount relates to the acquisition of additional UK accident repair centres and recruitment of additional DLG Legal Services Limited 
employees. 
The aggregate remuneration of those employed by the Group’s operations comprised: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
1
£m 
Wages and salaries 348.1 335.4 
Social security costs 38.9 37.8 
Pension costs 24.4 23.4 
Share-based payments 16.8 12.1 
Total 428.2 408.7 
Note: 
1. Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are based on continuing operations and exclude discontinued operations. 
The table below analyses auditor’s remuneration in respect of the Group’s operations. 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
1
£m 
Fees payable for the audit of:  
The Company’s annual accounts  0.3 0.3 
The Company’s subsidiaries  1.5 1.6 
Total audit fees 1.8 1.9 
Fees payable for non-audit services:  
Audit-related assurance services 0.2 0.3 
Other services 0.2 0.6 
Total non-audit services 0.4 0.9 
Total 2.2 2.8 
Note: 
1. Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are based on continuing operations and exclude discontinued operations. 
   www.directlinegroup.com 157
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 157
Aggregate Directors’ emoluments 
The table below analyses the total amount of Directors’ remuneration, all of which is in relation to continuing operations, 
in accordance with Schedule 5 to the Accounting Regulations. 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Salaries, fees, bonuses and benefits in kind 3.1 3.5
Gains on exercise of share options  3.5 4.9
Defined contribution pension scheme contributions – 0.1
Total  6.6 8.5
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
At 31 December 2016, one Director (2015: one) had retirement benefits accruing under the defined contribution pension 
scheme in respect of qualifying service. During the year ended 31 December 2016, one Director exercised share options 
(2015: two). 
12. Finance costs 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
1
£m 
Interest expense on subordinated liabilities 46.3 46.3 
Net interest received on designated hedging
 
instrument
2
 (8.0) (8.0) 
Unrealised (gain) / loss on designated hedging instrument
2
 (19.6) 4.5 
Unrealised loss / (gain) on associated interest rate risk on hedged item
2 
17.8 (5.9) 
Amortisation of arrangement costs and discount on issue of subordinated liabilities 0.7 0.7 
Total 37.2 37.6 
Notes: 
1. Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are based on continuing operations and exclude discontinued operations. 
2. As described in note 31, on 27 April 2012 the Group issued subordinated guaranteed dated notes with a nominal value of £500 million at a fixed rate of 
9.25%. On the same date, the Group also entered into a 10-year designated hedging instrument to exchange the fixed rate of interest on the notes for a floating 
rate of three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 706 basis points, which increased to 707 basis points with effect from 29 July 2013. 
13. Tax charge 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
1
£m 
Current taxation:  
Charge for the year 84.4 103.5 
Over provision in respect of prior year
2 
(7.7) (4.6) 
 76.7 98.9 
Deferred taxation (note 14):  
(Credit) / charge for the year (5.1) 6.4 
Under provision in respect of prior year 2.6 3.0 
 (2.5) 9.4 
Current taxation 76.7 98.9 
Deferred taxation (note 14) (2.5) 9.4 
Tax charge for the year 74.2 108.3 
Notes: 
1. Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are based on continuing operations and exclude discontinued operations. 
2. The prior year current tax credit for the year ended 31 December 2016 includes £5.6 million relating to retrospective claims for research and development  
tax relief. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 158
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 158
13. Tax charge continued 
The following table analyses the difference between the actual income tax charge and the expected income tax charge 
computed by applying the standard rate of corporation tax of 20.0%
1
 (2015: 20.25%). 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
2
£m 
Profit before tax 353.0 507.5 
Expected tax charge 70.6 102.8 
Effects of:  
Disallowable expenses 9.7 7.8 
Effect of change in corporation taxation rate (1.0) (0.7) 
Over provision in respect of prior year (5.1) (1.6) 
Tax charge for the year 74.2 108.3 
Effective income tax rate 21.0% 21.3% 
Notes: 
1. In the Finance Act 2013 the UK Government enacted a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 21% to 20% effective from 1 April 2015. The Finance  
(No 2) Act 2015 enacted further reductions to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and 18% effective from 1 April 2020. The Finance Act 2016 then enacted a 
further reduction to 17% effective from the 1 April 2020. As a consequence, the closing deferred tax assets and liabilities have been recognised at the tax rates 
expected to apply when the assets or liabilities are settled. The impact of these changes on the tax charge for the year is set out in the table above. 
2. Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are based on continuing operations and exclude discontinued operations. 
14. Current and deferred tax 
. 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Per balance sheet:  
Current tax assets 0.1 0.1
Current tax liabilities (0.5) (10.3)
Deferred tax liabilities (46.0) (29.9)
The table below analyses the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon. 
 
Provisions 
and other 
temporary 
differences 
£m 
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations
£m
Depreciation
in excess of 
capital 
allowances
£m
Non- 
distributable  
reserve
1
£m 
Investment
properties 
 £m
Share-based 
payments 
£m 
AFS 
revaluation 
reserve
 £m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2015 5.4 (0.7) 0.8 (25.0) (4.8) 3.7 – (20.6)
(Charge) / credit to the income 
statement on continuing operations (2.1) (0.1) – (3.9) (3.6) 0.3 – (9.4)
Charge to other comprehensive 
income – (1.6) – – – – – (1.6)
Credit direct to equity – – – – – 1.7 – 1.7
At 31 December 2015 3.3 (2.4) 0.8 (28.9) (8.4) 5.7 – (29.9)
(Charge) / credit to the income 
statement on continuing operations (0.7) (0.4) (1.8) 5.5 0.2 (0.3) – 2.5
Charge to other comprehensive 
income – 0.7 – – – – (18.0) (17.3)
Credit direct to equity – – – – – (1.3) – (1.3)
At 31 December 2016 2.6 (2.1) (1.0) (23.4)  (8.2) 4.1 (18.0) (46.0)
Note: 
1. The non-distributable reserve was a statutory claims equalisation reserve calculated in accordance with the rules of the PRA. With the introduction of Solvency II on 
1 January 2016, the requirement to maintain this reserve ceased and the balance at 31 December 2015 was released to retained earnings. The taxation of this 
release is spread over six years from the change in regulation. This is provided for in deferred tax above as it represents the future unwind of previously claimed 
tax deductions for transfers into this reserve. 
In addition, the Group has an unrecognised deferred tax asset at 31 December 2016 of £7.5 million (2015: £4.1 million)  
in relation to capital losses of which £4.1 million (2015: £1.0 million) relates to realised losses and £3.4 million  
(2015: £3.1 million) relates to unrealised losses. 
   www.directlinegroup.com 159
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 159
15. Dividends 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:  
2015 final dividend of 9.2p per share paid on 19 May 2016 126.0 –
2014 final dividend
1
 of 8.8 pence per share paid on 17 April 2015 – 131.6
2016 first interim dividend of 4.9 pence per share paid on 9 September 2016 67.1 –
2015 first interim dividend of 4.6 pence per share paid on 11 September 2015 – 63.0
2016 first special interim dividend of 10.0 pence per share paid on 9 September 2016  136.9 –
2015 first special interim dividend of 27.5 pence per share paid on 24 July 2015 – 411.5
2015 second special interim dividend of 8.8p per share paid on 19 May 2016 120.6 –
2014 second special interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share paid on 17 April 2015 – 59.9
 450.6 666.0
Proposed dividends:  
2016 final dividend of 9.7 pence per share 133.4 –
2015 final dividend of 9.2 pence per share – 126.5
2015 second special interim dividend of 8.8 pence per share – 121.0
Note: 
1. The Board paid an interim dividend in lieu of a final dividend.  
The proposed final dividend for 2016 has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. 
The trustees of the employee share trusts waived their entitlement to dividends on shares held to meet obligations arising on the 
Long Term Incentive Plan, Deferred Annual Incentive Plan and Restrictive Share Plan awards, which reduced the total dividend 
paid for the year ended 31 December 2016 by £1.8 million (2015: £1.7 million). 
16. Earnings per share 
Earnings per share is calculated by dividing earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average 
number of Ordinary Shares during the year. 
On 30 June 2015, the Group completed an 11 for 12 share consolidation which had the effect of reducing the number of 
shares in issue from 1,500 million Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each to 1,375 million new Ordinary Shares of 10 
10
/11 pence 
each. The weighted average number of Ordinary Shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share for the year 
ended 31 December 2015 reflects this share consolidation. 
Basic 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted 
average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share during the period, excluding Ordinary Shares 
held as employee trust shares. 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Earnings attributable to owners of the Company arising from:  
Continuing operations 278.8 399.2
Discontinued operations – 181.2
Total Group 278.8 580.4
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares (millions) 1,368.7 1,431.2
Basic earnings per share (pence):  
Continuing operations 20.4 27.9
Discontinued operations – 12.7
Total Group 20.4 40.6
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 160
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 160
16. Earnings per share continued 
Diluted 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted 
average number of Ordinary Shares during the period adjusted for dilutive potential Ordinary Shares. The Company has share 
options and contingently issuable shares as categories of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares. 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Earnings attributable to owners of the Company arising from:  
Continuing operations 278.8 399.2
Discontinued operations – 181.2
Total Group 278.8 580.4
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares (millions) 1,368.7 1,431.2
Effect of dilutive potential of share options and contingently issuable shares (millions) 13.1 17.8
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share (millions) 1,381.8 1,449.0
Diluted earnings per share (pence):  
Continuing operations 20.2 27.6
Discontinued operations – 12.5
Total Group 20.2 40.1
17. Net assets per share and return on equity 
Net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders’ equity divided by the number of Ordinary Shares at the end of  
the period excluding shares held by employee share trusts. 
Tangible net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders’ equity less goodwill and other intangible assets divided  
by the number of Ordinary Shares at the end of the period excluding shares held by employee share trusts. 
The table below analyses net asset and tangible net asset value per share. 
At 31 December 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Net assets 2,521.5 2,630.0
Goodwill and other intangible assets (508.9) (524.8)
Tangible net assets 2,012.6 2,105.2
Number of Ordinary Shares (millions) 1,375.0 1,375.0
Shares held by employee share trusts (millions) (9.9) (6.3)
Closing number of Ordinary Shares (millions) 1,365.1 1,368.7
Net asset value per share (pence) 184.7 192.2
Tangible net asset value per share (pence) 147.4 153.8
Return on equity 
The table below details the calculation of return on equity. 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Earnings attributable to owners of the Company arising from:  
Continuing operations 278.8 399.2
Discontinued operations – 181.2
Total Group 278.8 580.4
Opening shareholders’ equity 2,630.0 2,810.5
Closing shareholders’ equity 2,521.5 2,630.0
Average shareholders’ equity 2,575.8 2,720.2
Return on equity 10.8% 21.3%
   www.directlinegroup.com 161
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 161
18. Goodwill and other intangible assets 
Goodwill 
£m 
Other 
 intangible 
 assets 
£m 
Total
£m
Cost   
At 1 January 2015 211.0 428.5 639.5
Acquisitions and additions – 74.7 74.7
Disposals and write-off
1
 – (8.0) (8.0)
At 31 December 2015 211.0 495.2 706.2
Acquisitions and additions
 
0.3 80.5 80.8
Disposals and write-off
1
 – (5.8) (5.8)
At 31 December 2016 211.3 569.9 781.2
Accumulated amortisation and impairment   
At 1 January 2015 – 122.0 122.0
Charge for the year relating to continuing operations – 63.1 63.1
Disposals and write-off
1
 – (8.0) (8.0)
Impairment losses – 4.3 4.3
At 31 December 2015 – 181.4 181.4
Charge for the year – 57.4 57.4
Disposals and write-off
1
 – (5.8) (5.8)
Impairment losses
2 
– 39.3 39.3
At 31 December 2016 – 272.3 272.3
   
Carrying amount   
At 31 December 2016 211.3 297.6 508.9
At 31 December 2015 211.0 313.8 524.8
Notes: 
1. Disposals and write-off include fully amortised intangible assets no longer utilised by the Group in its operating activities. 
2. The impairment losses relate to capitalised software development costs for ongoing IT projects primarily relating to development of new systems. The impairment 
losses result from a review of the projected benefits and the charge which reduced the carrying value of impaired assets to £nil, is reflected in the Motor segment. 
Goodwill arose on the acquisition of U K Insurance Limited (£141.0 million) and Churchill Insurance Company Limited  
(£70.0 million), which is allocated across Motor, Home, Rescue and other personal lines and Commercial. The addition to 
goodwill in the year ended 31 December 2016 of £0.3m arose on acquisition of two accident repair centres with a combined 
purchase price of £3.6 million which was allocated to Motor. 
The Group’s testing for goodwill impairment includes the comparison of the recoverable amount of each CGU to which goodwill 
has been allocated with its carrying value and updated at each reporting date in the event of indications of impairment. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 162
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 162
18. Goodwill and other intangible assets continued 
The table below analyses the goodwill of the Group by CGU. 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Motor 126.7 126.4
Home 45.8 45.8
Rescue and other personal lines 28.7 28.7
Commercial 10.1 10.1
Total 211.3 211.0
There have been no impairments in goodwill for the year ended 31 December 2016 (2015: £nil). 
The recoverable amount is the higher of the CGU fair value less the costs to sell and its value-in-use. Value-in-use is the present 
value of expected future cash flows from the CGU. Fair value is the estimated amount that could be obtained from the sale of  
the CGU in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties. 
The recoverable amounts of all CGUs were based on the value-in-use test, using the Group’s five-year strategic plan. The long-term 
growth rates have been based on GDP rates adjusted for inflation. The risk discount rates incorporate observable market long-term 
government bond yields and average industry betas adjusted for an appropriate risk premium based on independent analysis. 
The table below details the recoverable amounts in excess of carrying value for the CGUs where goodwill is held. 
 Assumptions
Sensitivity: Impact on 
recoverable amount of a: 
CGU 
Terminal
growth
 rate
%
Pre-tax
 discount
 rate
%
Recoverable
amount in excess
 of carrying value
£m
1% decrease in 
terminal growth 
rate 
£m 
1% increase in 
pre-tax discount 
rate 
£m 
1% decrease 
in forecast 
pre-tax profit
1
£m 
Motor 3.0 11.6 686.0 (189.9) (260.5) (24.8) 
Home 3.0 11.6 667.9 (66.6) (68.2) (9.0) 
Rescue and other personal lines 3.0 11.6 611.6 (56.6) (76.9) (6.9) 
Commercial 3.0 11.6 374.1 (62.1) (84.5) (7.6) 
Note: 
1. Reflects a 1% decrease in the profit for each year of the five-year plan.  www.directlinegroup.com 163
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 163
19. Property, plant and equipment 
Freehold land 
and buildings 
£m 
Other  
equipment 
£m 
Total
£m
Cost   
At 1 January 2015 83.8 154.3 238.1
Additions 17.9 49.2 67.1
Disposals (0.1) (15.7) (15.8)
Transfer to assets held for sale (note 28) (22.6) – (22.6)
At 31 December 2015  79.0 187.8 266.8
Additions 18.8 31.1 49.9
Disposals – (14.3) (14.3)
Transfer to assets held for sale (note 28) (18.0) (8.3) (26.3)
At 31 December 2016  79.8 196.3 276.1
Accumulated depreciation and impairment   
At 1 January 2015 1.7 55.1 56.8
Depreciation charge for the year relating to continuing operations 1.2 29.5 30.7
Disposals – (11.3) (11.3)
Impairment losses – 4.8 4.8
Transfer to assets held for sale (note 28) (0.5) –  (0.5)
At 31 December 2015  2.4 78.1 80.5
Depreciation charge for the year 1.0 29.1 30.1
Disposals – (12.6) (12.6)
Transfer to assets held for sale (note 28) (0.3) (2.5) (2.8)
At 31 December 2016  3.1 92.1 95.2
   
Carrying amount   
At 31 December 2016 76.7 104.2 180.9
At 31 December 2015 76.6 109.7 186.3
The Group is satisfied that the aggregate value of property, plant and equipment is not less than its carrying value. 
20. Investment property 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
At 1 January 347.4 307.2
Additions at cost 1.4 16.0
Increase in fair value during the year 5.4 24.2
Disposals (25.2) – 
At 31 December 329.0 347.4
Note: 
1. The cost included in carrying value at 31 December 2016 is £275.3 million (2015: £295.5 million). 
The investment properties are measured at fair value derived from valuation work carried out at the balance sheet date by 
independent property valuers. 
The valuation conforms to international valuation standards. The fair value was determined using a methodology based on recent 
market transactions for similar properties, which have been adjusted for the specific characteristics of each property within the 
portfolio. This approach to valuation is consistent with the methodology used in the year ended 31 December 2015. 
Lease agreements with tenants are drawn up in line with local practice and the Group has no exposure to leases that include  
contingent rents. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 164
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 164
21. Subsidiaries 
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group, over which it exercises 100% voting power, are shown below. Their capital 
consists of Ordinary Shares which are unlisted. All subsidiaries (a full list of which is included in note 2 of the Company financial 
statements) are included in the Group’s consolidated financial information. 
Name of subsidiary 
Place of incorporation  
and operation Principal activity 
DL Insurance Services Limited United Kingdom Management services 
U K Insurance Limited United Kingdom General insurance 
On 29 May 2015, the Group completed the sale of its International business comprising Direct Line Insurance S.p.A and Direct 
Line Versicherung AG for a cash consideration of £438.1 million. Details of the fair value of assets and liabilities disposed of 
and the gain on disposal are set out in note 5B. 
The Group did not dispose of any other subsidiaries in the years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015. 
22. Reinsurance assets 
 2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Reinsurers’ share of general insurance liabilities 1,329.0 975.8
Impairment provision (50.7) (53.9)
 1,278.3 921.9
Reinsurers’ unearned premium reserve 93.5 89.5
Total  1,371.8 1,011.4
Movements in reinsurance asset impairment provision 
 2016 
£m 
2015
£m
At 1 January (53.9) (66.4)
Additional provision (4.2) (5.0)
Release to income statement 7.4 17.5
At 31 December  (50.7) (53.9)
23. Deferred acquisition costs 
 2016 
£m 
2015
£m
At 1 January 203.8 208.4
Net decrease in the year (0.7) (4.6)
At 31 December 203.1 203.8
24. Insurance and other receivables 
 2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Receivables arising from insurance contracts:  
Due from policyholders 820.8 800.1
Impairment provision of policyholder receivables (0.3) (0.7)
Due from agents, brokers and intermediaries 66.4 60.0
Impairment provision of agent, broker and intermediary receivables (1.0) (1.3)
Other debtors 102.4 97.7
Total 988.3 955.8
   www.directlinegroup.com 165
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 165
25. Derivative financial instruments 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Derivative assets  
At fair value through the income statement:  
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 21.4 0.4
Designated as hedging instruments:  
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards)
1 
1.7 0.3
Interest rate swaps 56.6 18.9
Total 79.7 19.6
Derivative liabilities  
At fair value through the income statement:  
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 43.5 42.2
Designated as hedging instruments:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards)
1 
– 0.1
Interest rate swaps 1.6 4.1
Total 45.1 46.4
Note: 
1. Cash flow hedges in relation to supplier payments. 
26. Financial investments 
 
2016 
 £m 
2015
£m
AFS debt securities  
Corporate 4,183.7 4,182.4
Supranational 98.6 140.1
Local government 21.7 105.3
Sovereign 341.2 442.7
Securitised credit – 356.1
Total 4,645.2 5,226.6
HTM debt securities  
Corporate 85.1 13.5
Total debt securities 4,730.3 5,240.1
Total debt securities  
Fixed interest rate
1 
4,709.6 4,801.6
Floating interest rate 20.7 438.5
Total 4,730.3 5,240.1
Loans and receivables  
Deposits with credit institutions with maturities in excess of three months
 
– 44.9
Infrastructure debt 337.0 329.6
Commercial real estate loans
 
79.7 –
Total 5,147.0 5,614.6
Note:  
1. The Group swaps a fixed interest rate for a floating rate of interest on its US Dollar, Euro and a small amount of its Sterling corporate debt securities by entering 
into interest rate derivatives. The hedged amount at 31 December 2016 was £1,593.6 million (2015: £1,283.3 million). 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 166
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 166
27. Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings 
 
2016  
£m 
2015
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 166.6 131.8
Short-term deposits with credit institutions
1
 999.5 831.9
Cash and cash equivalents 1,166.1 963.7
Bank overdrafts
2
 (55.3) (61.3)
Cash and bank overdrafts
3 
1,110.8 902.4
Notes: 
1. This represents money market funds with no notice period for withdrawal.  
2. Bank overdrafts represent short-term timing differences between transactions posted in the records of the Group transactions flowing through the accounts  
at the bank. 
3. Cash and bank overdrafts is included for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement. 
The effective interest rate on short-term deposits with credit institutions for the year ended 31 December 2016 was 0.45%  
(2015: 0.56%) and average maturity was 10 days (2015: 10 days). 
28. Assets held for sale 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Freehold property held for sale
1 
3.8 5.1
Note: 
1. The freehold property held for sale at 31 December 2016 is a site in Bristol which was transferred from property, plant and equipment to AFS in 2016 with a 
carrying value of £23.5 million and impaired by £19.7 million to reflect the costs of remediation and estimated realisable value. The freehold property held for 
sale at 31 December 2015 comprising the sites at Pudsey were sold in the year releasing the carrying value. 
29. Share capital 
  
2016
Number
Millions
2015 
Number 
Millions 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Issued and fully paid: equity shares  
Ordinary Shares of 10 
10
/11 pence each 1,375 1,375 150.0 150.0
At a General Meeting on 29 June 2015, shareholders approved a share consolidation which completed on 30 June 2015.  
As a result of the share consolidation, shareholders held 11 new Ordinary Shares of 10 
10
/11 pence each issued by the 
Company in exchange for every 12 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each held immediately prior to the share consolidation,  
which were cancelled by the Company.  
Employee trust shares 
The Group satisfies share-based payments under the Group’s share plans primarily through shares purchased in the market and 
held by employee share trusts. 
At 31 December 2016, 9,946,340 Ordinary Shares (2015: 6,256,108 Ordinary Shares) were owned by the employee 
share trusts with a cost of £34.3 million (2015: £20.4 million). These Ordinary Shares are carried at cost and have a market 
value of £36.7 million (2015: £25.5 million).  
   www.directlinegroup.com 167
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 167
30. Other reserves 
Movements in the revaluation reserve for AFS investments 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
At 1 January 5.4 115.6
Revaluation during the year – gross 119.6 (100.5)
Revaluation during the year – tax (20.2) 22.0
Realised gains – gross (15.3) (12.5)
Realised gains – tax 2.6 2.5
Realised gain on disposal of subsidiary – gross – (31.8)
Realised gain on disposal of subsidiary – tax – 10.1
At 31 December 92.1 5.4
Movements in the non-distributable reserve 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
At 1 January 152.9 124.9
Transfer (to) / from retained earnings (152.9) 28.0
At 31 December  – 152.9
The non-distributable reserve is a statutory claims equalisation reserve that is calculated in accordance with the rules of the PRA. 
With the introduction of Solvency II on 1 January 2016 the requirement to maintain the reserve ceased and the non-distributable 
reserve transferred into retained earnings. A new model to calculate the Group’s capital requirements under Solvency II was 
agreed with the PRA in June 2016. 
Capital reserves 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Capital contribution reserve
1
 100.0 100.0
Capital reduction reserve
2
 1,350.0 1,350.0
Total 1,450.0 1,450.0
Notes: 
1. Arose on the cancellation of a debt payable to a shareholder. 
2. Arose on the reduction of nominal value of each share in issue with a corresponding transfer to capital reduction reserve. 
31. Subordinated liabilities 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Subordinated guaranteed dated notes  539.6 521.1
The subordinated guaranteed dated notes were issued on 27 April 2012 at a fixed rate of 9.25%. On the same date, the 
Group also entered into a 10-year designated hedging instrument to exchange the fixed rate of interest for a floating rate of 
three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 706 basis points which was credit value adjusted to 707 basis points with effect from  
29 July 2013. 
The notes, with a nominal value of £500 million, have a redemption date of 27 April 2042. The Group has the option to repay 
the notes on specific dates from 27 April 2022. If the notes are not repaid on that date, the rate of interest will be reset at a rate 
of the six-month LIBOR plus 7.91%. 
The notes are unsecured, subordinated obligations of the Group, and rank pari passu without any preference among themselves.  
In the event of a winding-up or of bankruptcy, they are to be repaid only after the claims of all other senior creditors have been met. 
The Group has the option to defer interest payments in certain circumstances on the notes but to date has not exercised this right.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 168
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 168
32. Insurance liabilities 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Insurance liabilities 4,666.6 4,524.5
Gross insurance liabilities 
Accident year 
2007 
£m 
2008 
£m 
2009 
£m 
2010
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2014 
£m 
2015 
£m 
2016
£m
Total
£m
Estimate of ultimate 
gross claims costs:      
At end of accident 
year 4,014.7 3,393.4 3,823.3 3,941.7 2,698.1 2,372.7 2,184.0 2,094.5 2,118.1 2,157.7
One year later (44.7) 50.8 121.6 (117.1) (99.3) (163.3) (117.6) 20.7 (30.0) 
Two years later 7.8 51.7 (37.0) (99.1) (94.6) (118.9) (153.0) (38.4)  
Three years later 64.8 (36.7) (14.0) (50.3) (89.3) (49.3) (21.0)  
Four years later (5.4) (16.7) (101.5) (105.5) (60.9) (9.9)  
Five years later (12.1) (55.5) (38.8) (57.7) (21.2)  
Six years later (24.4) (45.7) (80.8) (25.9)  
Seven years later (18.8) (29.9) (27.3)  
Eight years later (14.4) (16.2)    
Nine years later 0.5     
Current estimate of 
cumulative claims 3,968.0 3,295.2 3,645.5 3,486.1 2,332.8 2,031.3 1,892.4 2,076.8 2,088.1 2,157.7
Cumulative payments 
to date (3,770.5) (3,178.8) (3,463.0) (3,279.1) (2,134.6) (1,813.0) (1,552.7) (1,451.3) (1,360.7) (1,019.4)
Gross liability 
recognised in 
balance sheet 197.5 116.4 182.5 207.0 198.2 218.3 339.7 625.5 727.4 1,138.3 3,950.8
2006 and prior      636.5
Claims handling 
provision      79.3
Total       4,666.6
Net insurance liabilities 
Accident year 
2007 
£m 
2008 
£m 
2009 
£m 
2010
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2014 
£m 
2015 
£m 
2016
£m
Total
£m
Estimate of ultimate 
net claims costs:      
At end of accident 
year 3,970.3 3,334.7 3,790.6 3,902.0 2,644.4 2,271.8 2,093.9 1,971.0 1,926.7 1,922.2
One year later (64.3) 52.0 70.0 (125.2) (131.5) (146.7) (123.6) (29.7) (67.0) 
Two years later (14.5) 15.9 (17.4) (120.4) (82.1) (107.8) (134.4) (42.0)  
Three years later 32.9 (22.8) (54.1) (44.0) (76.5) (35.6) (27.8)  
Four years later (8.9) (45.8) (67.0) (93.6) (48.7) (11.6)  
Five years later (17.6) (48.7) (29.6) (52.3) (37.3)  
Six years later (19.6) (30.9) (74.6) (43.9)  
Seven years later (16.0) (24.5) (38.2)  
Eight years later (12.5) (16.2)    
Nine years later (7.5)     
Current estimate of 
cumulative claims 3,842.3 3,213.7 3,579.7 3,422.6 2,268.3 1,970.1 1,808.1 1,899.3 1,859.7 1,922.2
Cumulative payments 
to date (3,705.2) (3,139.0) (3,429.8) (3,264.4) (2,111.2) (1,800.7) (1,537.1) (1,449.7) (1,358.7) (1,019.4)
Net liability 
recognised in 
balance sheet 137.1 74.7 149.9 158.2 157.1 169.4 271.0 449.6 501.0 902.8 2,970.8
2006 and prior      338.2
Claims handling 
provision      79.3
Total       3,388.3
  www.directlinegroup.com 169
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 169
Movements in gross and net insurance liabilities 
 
Gross 
£m 
Reinsurance 
£m 
Net
£m
Claims reported 2,791.1 (315.3) 2,475.8
Incurred but not reported 1,778.2 (460.2) 1,318.0
Claims handling provision 104.8 – 104.8
At 1 January 2015 4,674.1 (775.5) 3,898.6
Cash paid for claims settled in the year (1,978.9) 16.0 (1,962.9)
Increase / (decrease) in liabilities:   
Arising from current-year claims 2,307.6 (191.4) 2,116.2
Arising from prior-year claims (478.3) 29.0 (449.3)
At 31 December 2015 4,524.5 (921.9) 3,602.6
Claims reported 2,732.2 (375.0) 2,357.2
Incurred but not reported 1,697.9 (546.9) 1,151.0
Claims handling provision 94.4 – 94.4
At 31 December 2015 4,524.5 (921.9) 3,602.6
Cash paid for claims settled in the year (2,036.9) 18.8 (2,018.1)
Increase / (decrease) in liabilities:   
Arising from current-year claims 2,329.3 (235.4) 2,093.9
Arising from prior-year claims (150.3) (139.8) (290.1)
At 31 December 2016 4,666.6 (1,278.3) 3,388.3
Claims reported 2,584.5 (388.3) 2,196.2
Incurred but not reported 2,002.8 (890.0) 1,112.8
Claims handling provision 79.3 – 79.3
At 31 December 2016  4,666.6 (1,278.3) 3,388.3
Movement in prior-year net claims liabilities by operating segment 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Motor (123.5) (266.8)
Home (75.9) (41.9)
Rescue and other personal lines (17.5) (13.6)
Commercial (49.8) (56.6)
Total Ongoing (266.7) (378.9)
Run-off (23.4) (70.4)
Total (290.1) (449.3)
33. Unearned premium reserve 
Movement in unearned premium reserve 
 
Gross 
£m 
Reinsurance 
£m 
Net
£m
At 1 January 2015 1,434.2 (87.0) 1,347.2
Net movement in the year 42.4 (2.5) 39.9
At 31 December 2015 1,476.6 (89.5) 1,387.1
Net movement in the year 71.3 (4.0) 67.3
At 31 December 2016 1,547.9 (93.5) 1,454.4
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 170
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 170
34. Retirement benefit obligations 
Defined contribution scheme 
The pension charge in respect of the defined contribution scheme for the year ended 31 December 2016 was £24.9 million 
(2015: £23.5 million).  
Defined benefit scheme 
The Group’s defined benefit pension scheme was closed in 2003 although the Group remains the sponsoring employer for 
obligations to current and deferred pensioners based on qualifying years’ service and final salaries. The defined benefit scheme is 
legally separated from the Group with trustees who are required by law to act in the interests of the scheme and of all the relevant 
stakeholders. The trustees of the pension scheme are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the scheme. 
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2016 is 20 years (2015: 20 years) using 
accounting assumptions. 
The table below sets out the principal assumptions used in determining the defined benefit scheme obligations. 
 
2016 
% 
2015
%
Rate of increase in pension payment 2.2 2.1
Rate of increase of deferred pensions 2.2 2.1
Discount rate 2.7 3.8
Inflation rate 3.3 3.2
No assumption has been made for salary growth as there are no obligations in the scheme that are linked to future increases  
in salaries. 
Post-retirement mortality assumptions 
 2016 2015
Life expectancy at age 60 now:  
Males 88.1 87.8
Females 90.1 89.9
Life expectancy at age 60 in 20 years’ time:  
Males 90.3 90.1
Females 92.5 92.3
The table below analyses the fair value of the scheme assets by type of asset. 
  
 2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Index-linked bonds  28.6 21.5
Government bonds  16.9 13.7
Corporate bonds  – 43.8
Liquidity fund
1 
 56.3 5.5
Other  0.7 0.6
Total   102.5 85.1
Note: 
1. The liquidity fund is an investment in an open ended fund incorporated in the Republic of Ireland which targets capital stability and income in the UK. It is invested 
in short-term fixed income and variable rate securities (such as Treasury Bills) listed or traded on one or more recognised exchange. 
The majority of debt and equity instruments held directly or through the liquidity fund have quoted prices on active markets. 
   www.directlinegroup.com 171
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 171
Movement in net pension surplus  
Fair value of 
defined benefit 
scheme assets 
£m  
Present value of  
defined benefit 
scheme 
obligations 
£m 
Net pension 
surplus
£m
At 1 January 2015 83.1 (79.6) 3.5
Income statement:   
Net interest income / (cost)
1 
 2.8 (2.7) 0.1
Statement of comprehensive income:   
Actuarial gains arising from experience adjustments (1.9) 1.2 (0.7)
Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions – 1.1 1.1
Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions – 6.3 6.3
Contributions by employer 2.8 – 2.8
Benefits paid (1.7) 1.7 –
At 31 December 2015 85.1 (72.0) 13.1
Income statement:   
Net interest income / (cost)
1
 3.2 (2.7) 0.5
Statement of comprehensive income:   
Actuarial gains arising from experience adjustments 13.7 1.2 14.9
Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions – (19.3) (19.3)
Contributions by employer 2.8 – 2.8
Benefits paid (2.3) 2.3 –
At 31 December 2016 102.5 (90.5) 12.0
Note: 
1. The net interest income / (cost) in the income statement has been included under other operating expenses. 
The table below details the history of the scheme for the current and prior years. 
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
2014 
£m 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m
Present value of defined benefit scheme obligations (90.5) (72.0) (79.6) (68.0) (61.2)
Fair value of defined benefit scheme assets 102.5 85.1 83.1 66.0 63.7
Net surplus / (deficit) 12.0 13.1 3.5 (2.0) 2.5
Experience adjustment gains / (losses) on scheme liabilities 1.2 1.2 1.0 (0.2) (0.1)
Experience adjustment gains / (losses) on scheme assets 13.7 (1.9) 12.9 (1.3) 2.2
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 172
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 172
34. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
Sensitivity analysis 
The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions  
left unchanged. Other potential risks beyond the ones described in the table could have an additional financial impact on the 
Group. This sensitivity analysis has been selected to reflect the changes to discounted cash flows as a result of changes to the 
discount rate, inflation rate and mortality assumptions. The methodology adopted involves actuarial techniques. 
 Impact on pension cost 
Impact on present value 
of defined benefit 
scheme obligations 
 
2016
£m
2015 
£m 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Discount rate   
0.25% increase in discount rate (0.2) (0.2) (4.7) (3.7)
0.25% decrease in discount rate 0.1 0.2 4.7 3.7
Inflation rate   
0.25% increase in inflation rate – – 2.3 1.7
0.25% decrease in inflation rate – – (2.3) (1.7)
Life expectancy   
1 year increase in life expectancy 0.1 0.1 2.7 2.0
1 year decrease in life expectancy (0.1) (0.1) (2.7) (2.0)
The most recent funding valuation of the defined benefit scheme took place as at 1 October 2014. The Group agreed with the 
trustees to make a contribution of £2.8 million in 2016 with further contributions of up to £1.5 million per annum in 2017 and 
2018 to meet the scheme’s funding requirements. As a result of the latest funding update no contribution is expected to be 
payable in 2017. 
35. Share-based payments 
The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans in the form of an LTIP, a Restricted Shares Plan, a DAIP and 
Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans, including both the Free Share awards and a Buy-As-You-Earn Plan, details of which are 
set out below. All awards are to be satisfied using market purchased shares. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan 
Executive Directors and certain members of senior management are eligible to participate in the LTIP with awards granted in  
the form of nil-cost options. Under the plan, the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon the continued 
employment by the Group and also the Group achieving predefined performance conditions associated with TSR and RoTE. 
Awards were made in the year ended 31 December 2016 over 3.3 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of  
£12.4 million at the 2016 grant dates (2015: 3.4 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of £11.4 million). 
The estimated fair value of the LTIP share awards with market-based performance conditions was calculated using a Monte-Carlo 
simulation model. 
The table below details the inputs into the model. 
 2016 2015
Weighted average assumptions during the year:  
Share price (pence) 368 339
Exercise price (pence) 0 0
Volatility of share price  18% 20%
Average comparator volatility  29% 27%
Expected life  3 years 3 years
Risk-free rate  0.3% 0.8%
Expected volatility was determined by considering the actual volatility of the Group’s share price since its initial public offering 
and that of a group of listed UK insurance companies.  
Plan participants are entitled to receive additional shares in respect of dividends paid to shareholders over the vesting period. 
Therefore no deduction has been made from the fair value of awards in respect of dividends. 
Expected life was based on the contractual life of the awards and adjusted based on management’s best estimate, for the effects 
of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
   www.directlinegroup.com 173
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 173
Restricted Shares Plan 
The purpose of the Restricted Shares Plan is to facilitate the wider participation in Group share-based awards to eligible 
employees. These awards can be granted at any time during the year, generally have no performance criteria, and vest over 
periods ranging between one and three years from the date of the grant, subject to continued employment. During the year 
awards were made over 0.3 million Ordinary Shares (2015: 0.0 million Ordinary Shares) with an estimated fair value of  
£0.9 million (2015: £0.1 million) using the market value at the date of grant.  
Deferred Annual Incentive Plan  
To incentivise delivery of performance over a one-year operating cycle, Executive Directors and certain members of senior 
management are eligible for awards under the Annual Incentive Plan, of which at least 40% is granted in the form of a nil-cost 
option under the DAIP with the remainder being settled in cash following year end. During the year awards were made over  
1.0 million Ordinary Shares (2015: 1.0 million Ordinary Shares) under this plan with an estimated fair value of £3.7 million 
(2015: £3.4 million) using the market value at the date of grant. 
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2016 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the 
employee remains in employment with the Group for three years from the date of grant. 
Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans: Free Share awards 
In 2016, the Group offered all eligible UK employees a Free Share award granting 71 Ordinary Shares (2015: 122 Ordinary 
Shares) free of charge. These awards have no performance criteria attached and vest on the third anniversary of the award grant 
date, subject to completion of three years, continuing employment. The Group initially granted 0.8 million Ordinary Shares 
(2015: 1.3 million) with an estimated fair value of £2.8 million (2015: £4.2 million) using the market value at the date of grant. 
Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans: Buy-As-You-Earn Plan 
The Buy-As-You-Earn Plan entitles employees to purchase shares from pre-tax pay for between £10 and £150 per month  
and receive one matching share for every two shares purchased. 
In the year ended 31 December 2016, matching share awards were granted over 0.4 million Ordinary Shares  
(2015: 0.3 million Ordinary Shares) with an estimated fair value of £1.3 million (2015: £1.1 million). The fair value  
of each matching share award is estimated using the market value at the date of grant. 
Under the plan, the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon the continued employment with the Group 
together with continued ownership of the associated purchased shares up to the point of vesting. 
Movement in total share awards 
 
Number of  
share awards 
millions 
2016 
Number of 
share awards
millions
2015
At 1 January 17.2 16.4
Granted during the year
1 
7.7 6.8
Impact of share consolidation (see note 29) – (1.6)
Forfeited during the year (0.8) (1.5)
Exercised during the year (6.0) (2.9)
At 31 December 18.1 17.2
Exercisable at 31 December 2.6 1.6
Note: 
1. In accordance with the rules of the LTIP and DAIP award plans, additional awards of 1.9 million shares were granted during the year ended 31 December 2016 
(2015: 0.8 million) in respect of the equivalent dividend. 
In respect of the outstanding options at 31 December 2016, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 1.39 years 
(2015: 1.44 years). No share awards expired during the year (2015: nil). 
The weighted average share price for awards exercised during the year ended 31 December 2016 was £3.68 (2015: £3.95). 
The Group recognised total expenses in the year ended 31 December 2016 of £16.8 million (2015: £12.1 million) relating  
to equity-settled share-based compensation plans. 
Further information on share-based payments, in respect of Directors, is provided in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 174
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 174
36. Trade and other payables including insurance payables 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Due to agents, brokers and intermediaries 15.5 22.5
Due to reinsurers 84.1 78.9
Due to insurance companies 4.4 4.7
Trade creditors and accruals 334.7 295.5
Other creditors 98.4 98.8
Other taxes 93.0 78.9
Provisions 64.8 73.1
Deferred income 4.3 4.1
Total 699.2 656.5
Movement in provisions during the year 
 
Regulatory levies
 £m
Restructuring  
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2016 27.2 9.0 36.9 73.1
Additional provision 34.4 9.8 27.2 71.4
Utilisation of provision (33.4) (4.9) (29.3) (67.6)
Released to income statement – (3.8) (8.3) (12.1)
At 31 December 2016 28.2 10.1 26.5 64.8
.  www.directlinegroup.com 175
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 175
37. Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Profit for the year 278.8 580.4
Adjustments for:  
Investment return (171.5) (235.2)
Instalment income (107.1) (101.5)
Finance costs 37.2 37.6
Defined benefit pension scheme – net interest income (0.5) –
Equity-settled share-based payment charge 16.8 12.1
Tax charge 74.2 127.7
Depreciation and amortisation charges 87.5 95.3
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets 39.3 9.1
Impairment provision movements on reinsurance contracts (3.2) (12.5)
Impairment charge on assets held for sale – freehold property 19.7 12.9
Gain on disposal of discontinued operations – (167.1)
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 1.7 4.7
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 272.9 363.5
Movements in working capital:  
Net decrease in net insurance liabilities including reinsurance assets, unearned premium reserves 
and deferred acquisition costs (143.1) (194.5)
Net increase in prepayments and accrued income and other assets (20.1) (2.8)
Net increase in insurance and other receivables (32.5) (66.4)
Net increase in trade and other payables including insurance payables 42.7 52.3
Contribution to defined benefit pension scheme (2.8) (2.8)
Cash generated from operations 117.1 149.3
Taxes paid (83.3) (107.4)
Cash flow hedges 1.2 0.2
Net cash generated from operating activities before investment of insurance assets 35.0 42.1
Interest received 294.6 318.7
Rental income received from investment property 18.4 17.9
Purchases of investment property (1.4) (16.0)
Proceeds on disposal of investment property 25.2 –
Proceeds on disposal / maturity of AFS debt securities 2,489.9 3,549.3
Net decrease in financial investments: loans and receivables to credit institutions 44.9 9.8
Advances made for Infrastructure debt and commercial real estate loans (97.7) (268.9)
Repayments of infrastructure debt  11.0 16.6
Purchases of AFS debt securities (1,886.5) (3,110.8)
Purchase of HTM debt securities / commercial real estate loans (71.0) (13.5)
Cash generated from investment of insurance assets 827.4 503.1
38. Contingent liabilities 
The Group did not have any contingent liabilities at 31 December 2016 (2015: none).  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 176
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 176
39. Commitments 
Operating lease commitments where the Group is the lessee 
The Group has entered into non-cancellable operating lease agreements for properties, vehicles and other assets. 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 18.3 18.4
The following table analyses the outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases by the period in which they fall due. 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Within one year 17.4 16.8
In the second to fifth years inclusive 54.2 53.2
After five years 159.7 162.0
Total 231.3 232.0
Operating lease commitments where the Group is the lessor 
The following table analyses future aggregate minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases in 
respect of property leased to third-party tenants. 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Within one year 16.3 15.7
In the second to fifth years inclusive 53.0 53.6
After five years 78.9 89.3
Total  148.2 158.6
40. Fair value 
Fair value hierarchy  
For disclosure purposes, fair value measurements are classified as level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which fair value  
is observable: 
 Level 1 financial assets are measured in whole or in part by reference to published quotes in an active market. In an active 
market quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service  
or regulatory agency and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length basis. 
 Level 2 financial assets and liabilities are measured using a valuation technique based on assumptions that are supported by 
prices from observable current market transactions. These are assets for which pricing is obtained via pricing services, but 
where prices have not been determined in an active market, or financial assets with fair values based on broker quotes or 
assets that are valued using the Group’s own models whereby the majority of assumptions are market-observable. 
 Level 3 fair value measurements used for investment properties, HTM debt securities, infrastructure debt and commercial real 
estate loans are those derived from a valuation technique that includes inputs for the asset that are unobservable. 
   www.directlinegroup.com 177
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 177
Comparison of carrying value to fair value of financial instruments and assets carried at fair value 
The following table compares the carrying value and the fair value of financial instruments and other assets where the Group 
discloses a fair value. 
At 31 December 2016 
Carrying value
£m
Level 1
£m
Level 2 
£m 
Level 3 
£m 
Fair Value
£m
Assets held at fair value:   
Investment property (note 20) 329.0 – – 329.0 329.0
Derivative assets (note 25) 79.7 – 79.7 – 79.7
AFS debt securities (note 26) 4,645.2 341.24,304.0 – 4,645.2
Other financial assets:   
HTM debt securities (note 26) 85.1 – 13.6 74.6 88.2
Infrastructure debt (note 26) 337.0 – – 339.2 339.2
Commercial real estate loans (note 26) 79.7 – – 79.8 79.8
Total assets 5,555.7 341.2 4,397.3 822.6 5,561.1
Liabilities held at fair value:      
Derivative liabilities (note 25) 45.1 – 45.1 – 45.1
Other financial liabilities:   
Subordinated liabilities (note 31) 539.6 – 625.0 – 625.0
Total liabilities 584.7 – 670.1 – 670.1
 
At 31 December 2015 
Carrying value
£m
Level 1
£m
Level 2 
£m 
Level 3 
£m 
Fair Value
£m
Assets held at fair value:   
Investment property (note 20) 347.4 – – 347.4 347.4
Derivative assets (note 25) 19.6 – 19.6 – 19.6
AFS debt securities (note 26) 5,226.6 442.7 4,783.9 – 5,226.6
Other financial assets:   
HTM debt securities (note 26) 13.5 – – 12.7 12.7
Deposits with credit institutions > three months (note 26) 44.9 – – 44.9 44.9
Infrastructure debt (note 26) 329.6 – – 322.2 322.2
Total assets 5,981.6 442.7 4,803.5 727.2 5,973.4
Liabilities held at fair value:   
Derivative liabilities (note 25) 46.4 – 46.4 – 46.4
Other financial liabilities:   
Subordinated liabilities (note 31) 521.1 – 623.2 – 623.2
Total liabilities 567.5 – 669.6 – 669.6
Differences arise between carrying value and fair value where the measurement basis of the asset or liability is not fair value (e.g. 
assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost). Fair values of the following assets and liabilities approximate their carrying values: 
 Insurance and other receivables; 
 Cash and cash equivalents; 
 Borrowings; and 
 Trade and other payables including insurance payables (excluding provisions) 
The movements in assets held at fair value and classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy are all within Investment property 
and are analysed in note 20. There were no changes in the categorisation of assets between levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year 
for assets and liabilities held at 31 December 2015. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 178
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 178
41. Related parties 
Transactions between the Group’s subsidiary undertakings, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and 
accordingly are not disclosed.  
There were no sales and purchases of products and services to or from related parties in the year ended 31 December 2016 
(2015: £nil). 
Year end balances arising from sales and purchases of products and services to and from related parties 
 Amounts owed by related parties Amounts owed to related parties
 
2016
£m
2015 
£m 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Total
1
 0.2 0.2 – –
Note: 
1. This balance relates to an amount recoverable from RBS Group plc, the Group’s former parent company. 
Movement in amounts owed by and to related parties 
 Amounts owed by related parties Amounts owed to related parties
 
2016
£m
2015 
£m 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
At 1 January 0.2 0.2 – 25.4
Settled in the year – – – (25.4)
At 31 December 0.2 0.2 – –
Compensation of key management 
 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Short-term employee benefits 8.4 9.5
Post-employment benefits – 0.2
Termination benefits 0.1 –
Share-based payments 7.6 4.5
Total 16.1 14.2
42. Post balance sheet events 
The 2016 results reflect a one-off Ogden discount rate reduction to minus 0.75% impacting operating profit and profit before tax 
resulting from an announcement made by the Ministry of Justice on 27 February 2017. 
  www.directlinegroup.com 179
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Parent Company balance sheet 
As at 31 December 2016 
www.directlinegroup.com 179
 
 
 Notes 
2016  
£m 
2015 
£m
Assets   
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 2 3,084.3 3,067.4
Other receivables 3 571.4 540.8
Current tax assets 4 0.8 –
Derivative financial instruments 5 1.7 0.4
Financial investments 6 134.8 7.1
Cash and cash equivalents 7 157.5 29.8
Total assets  3,950.5 3,645.5
   
Equity  3,437.5 3,131.6
 
Liabilities   
Subordinated liabilities 9 504.5 503.9
Derivative financial instruments 5 1.7 0.4
Trade and other payables 10 6.4 6.6
Deferred tax liabilities 4 0.4 –
Current tax liabilities 4 – 3.0
Total liabilities  513.0 513.9
Total equity and liabilities  3,950.5 3,645.5
The attached notes on pages 182 to 186 form an integral part of these separate financial statements. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 6 March 2017. They were signed 
on its behalf by: 
 
 
John Reizenstein 
Chief Financial Officer 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc 
Registration No. 02280426 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 180
Parent Company statement of comprehensive income  
For the year ended 31 December 2016 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 180
  
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Profit for the year 764.9 539.5
Other comprehensive income / (loss)   
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement:  
Cash flow hedges – (1.2)
Fair value gain on AFS investments 0.5 –
Tax relating to items that may be reclassified (0.1) –
Other comprehensive income / (loss) net of tax 0.4 (1.2)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to owners of the Company 765.3 538.3
 
Parent Company statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2016 
Note: 
1. There are no non-distributable reserves within retained earnings. 
The attached notes on pages 182 to 186 form an integral part of these separate financial statements.
 
Share
capital
£m
Capital 
reserves
£m
Share-based 
payment
reserve
£m
Revaluation 
reserve
£m
Foreign 
exchange 
translation 
reserve  
£m 
Retained  
 earnings
1
 
£m  
Total 
shareholder 
equity 
£m
Balance at 1 January 2015 150.0 1,450.0 9.5 – 1.2 1,647.5  3,258.2
Total comprehensive income for the year –––– (1.2) 539.5  538.3
Dividends paid – – – – – (666.0) (666.0)
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based 
payments – – 12.1 – – –  12.1
Shares distributed by employee trusts – – (11.0) – – –  (11.0)
Balance at 31 December 2015 150.0 1,450.0 10.6 – – 1,521.0  3,131.6
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 0.4 – 764.9  765.3
Dividends paid – – – – – (450.6) (450.6)
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based 
payments – – 16.8 – – –  16.8
Shares distributed by employee trusts – – (25.6) – – –  (25.6)
Balance at 31 December 2016 150.0 1,450.0 1.8 0.4 – 1,835.3  3,437.5 www.directlinegroup.com 181
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Parent Company cash flow statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2016 
www.directlinegroup.com 181
 Notes 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Net cash used by operating activities 12 (5.1) (3.1)
Cash flows from investing activities   
Interest received on loans to subsidiary undertakings  47.6 47.5
Interest received on AFS debt securities  4.7 –
Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings  780.6 671.0
Net increase in loans advanced to subsidiary undertakings  (28.8) (21.8)
Capital contribution to subsidiary undertakings  (16.9) (225.0)
Disposal of assets held for sale  – 224.3
Proceeds on disposal / maturity of AFS debt securities  5.0 –
Purchase of AFS debt securities  (136.9) (2.0)
Net cash generated from investing activities  655.3 694.0
Cash flows from financing activities   
Dividends paid 11 (450.6) (666.0)
Purchase of employee trust shares  (25.6) –
Finance costs  (46.3) (46.3)
Net cash used by financing activities  (522.5) (712.3)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  127.7 (21.4)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 7 29.8 51.2
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 7 157.5 29.8
The attached notes on pages 182 to 186 form an integral part of these separate financial statements. Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 182
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements 
 
www.directlinegroup.com 182
1. Accounting policies 
1.1 Basis of preparation 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc, registered in England and Wales (company number 02280426), is the ultimate parent 
company of the Direct Line Group. The principal activity of the Company is managing its investments in subsidiaries, providing 
loans to those subsidiaries, raising funds for the Group and the receipt and payment of dividends. 
The Company’s financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB and are presented in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006. In accordance with the exemption permitted under section 408 of the Companies  
Act 2006, the Company’s income statement and related notes have not been presented in these separate financial statements. 
The accounting policies that are used in the preparation of these separate financial statements are consistent with the accounting 
policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Direct Line Insurance Group plc as set out in those 
financial statements. 
The additional accounting policies that are specific to the separate financial statements of the Company are set out below. 
1.2 Investment in subsidiaries 
Investment in subsidiaries is stated at cost less any impairment. 
1.3 Dividend income 
Dividend income from investment in subsidiaries is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. 
2. Investment in subsidiary undertakings 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
At 1 January 3,067.4 3,065.0
Additional investment in subsidiary undertakings 16.9 237.0
Impairment of subsidiary undertakings – (234.6)
At 31 December 3,084.3 3,067.4
 
   www.directlinegroup.com 183
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 183
The subsidiary undertakings of the Company are set out below. Their capital consists of Ordinary Shares which are unlisted.  
In all cases, the Company owns 100% of the Ordinary Shares, either directly or through its ownership of other subsidiaries, and 
exercises full control over their decision making. 
Name of subsidiary 
Place of incorporation  
and operation Principal activity 
Directly held by the Company:   
Direct Line Group Limited
1
 United Kingdom Intermediate holding company 
DL Insurance Services Limited
1
 United Kingdom Management services 
Finsure Premium Finance Limited
1
 United Kingdom Non-trading company 
Inter Group Insurance Services Limited
1
 United Kingdom Non-trading company 
UK Assistance Accident Repair Centres Limited
1
 United Kingdom Motor vehicle repair services 
UK Assistance Limited
1
 United Kingdom Dormant 
U K Insurance Business Solutions Limited
1
 United Kingdom Insurance broking services 
U K Insurance Limited
2,3
 United Kingdom General insurance 
Indirectly held by the Company:   
10-15 Livery Street, Birmingham UK Limited
4
 Jersey Non-trading company 
Churchill Insurance Company Limited
1
 United Kingdom General insurance 
Direct Line Insurance Limited
1
 United Kingdom Dormant 
DLG Legal Services Limited
5
 United Kingdom Legal services 
DLG Pension Trustee Limited
1
 United Kingdom Dormant 
DL Support Services India Private Limited
6
 India Support and operational services 
Farmweb Limited
1
 United Kingdom Non-trading company 
Green Flag Group Limited
2
 United Kingdom Intermediate holding company 
Green Flag Holdings Limited
1
 United Kingdom Intermediate holding company 
Green Flag Limited
2
 United Kingdom Breakdown recovery services 
Intergroup Assistance Services Limited
1
 United Kingdom Non-trading company 
National Breakdown Recovery Club Limited
1
 United Kingdom Dormant 
Nationwide Breakdown Recovery Services Limited
1
 United Kingdom Dormant 
The National Insurance and Guarantee  
Corporation Limited
1
 United Kingdom Dormant 
UKI Life Assurance Services Limited
1
 United Kingdom Dormant 
Notes: 
1. Registered office at: Churchill Court, Westmoreland Road, Bromley, BR1 1DP. 
2. Registered office at: The Wharf, Neville Street, Leeds, LS1 4A2. 
3. U K Insurance Limited has a branch, as defined in section 1046 (3) of the Companies Act 2006 in the Republic of South Africa. 
4. Registered office at: 22 Greenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey. 
5. Registered office at: 42 The Headrow, Leeds, LS1 8HZ. 
6. Registered office at: 4 Aradhana Enclave, Sector 13, Rama Krishna Puram, New Delhi, South West Delhi, Delhi, 110066, India. 
Two dormant subsidiaries, DL Dormant 5 Limited and DL Dormant 6 Limited were dissolved in the year. 
3. Other receivables 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Loans to subsidiary undertakings
1
 569.6 540.8
Other debtors 1.8 –
Total 571.4 540.8
Current 71.4 40.8
Non-current 500.0 500.0
Total 571.4 540.8
Note: 
1. Included in loans to subsidiary undertakings is a £500 million unsecured subordinated loan to U K Insurance Limited. The loan was advanced on 27 April 2012 
at a fixed rate of 9.5% with a repayment date of 27 April 2042. There is an option to repay the loan on specific dates from 27 April 2022. If the loan is not 
repaid on 27 April 2022, the rate of interest will be reset at a rate of the six-month LIBOR plus 8.16%. All loans are neither past due nor impaired. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 184
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements continued 
 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 184
4. Current and deferred tax  
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Per balance sheet:  
Current tax assets 0.8 –
Current tax liabilities – (3.0)
Deferred tax liabilities
1 
(0.4) –
Note: 
1. In the year ended 31 December 2016, deferred tax liabilities of £0.1 million arose on the AFS revaluation reserve and £0.3 million on other temporary timing 
differences. Both of these amounts were charged to the statement of comprehensive income. There was no deferred tax asset or liability at 31 December 2015 or 
movement in the year ended 31 December 2015.  
5. Derivative financial instruments 
 Notional amount Fair value Notional amount Fair value
 
2016
£m
2016 
£m 
2015 
£m 
2015
£m
Derivative assets    
Designated as hedging instruments:   
Third parties 14.8 1.7 4.6 0.3
Subsidiary undertakings – – 0.7 0.1
Total 14.8 1.7 5.3 0.4
Derivative liabilities    
Designated as hedging instruments:   
Third parties – – 0.7 0.1
Subsidiary undertakings 14.8 1.7 4.6 0.3
Total 14.8 1.7 5.3 0.4
Note: 
1. The derivative assets and derivative liabilities are both classified as Level 2 within the Group’s fair value hierarchy set out in note 40 of the consolidated  
financial statements.  
6. Financial investments 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
AFS debt securities
1
 134.8 7.1
Note: 
1. The AFS debt securities which are fixed interest UK Sovereign debt are classified as level 1 within the Group’s fair value hierarchy set out in note 40 of the 
consolidated financial statements. 
7. Cash and cash equivalents 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 0.2 0.1
Short-term deposits with credit institutions
1
 157.3 29.7
Total 157.5 29.8
Note: 
1. This represents money market funds with no notice period for withdrawal. 
8. Share capital and capital reserves 
Full details of the share capital and capital reserves of the Company are set out in notes 29 and 30 to the consolidated financial 
statements.  www.directlinegroup.com 185
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 185
9. Subordinated liabilities 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Subordinated guaranteed dated notes  504.5 503.9
The subordinated guaranteed dated notes were issued on 27 April 2012 at a fixed rate of 9.25%. The nominal £500.0 million 
notes have a redemption date of 27 April 2042. The Company has the option to repay the notes on specific dates from 27 April 
2022. If the notes are not repaid on 27 April 2022, the rate of interest will be reset at a rate of the six-month LIBOR plus 7.91%.  
The notes are unsecured, subordinated obligations of the Company, and rank pari passu without any preference among 
themselves. In the event of a winding up or of insolvency, they are to be repaid only after the claims of all other senior creditors 
have been met. 
The notes are guaranteed by U K Insurance Limited, a principal subsidiary of the Company. 
The Company has the option, in certain circumstances, to defer interest payments on the notes but to date has not exercised  
this right. 
The aggregate fair value of subordinated guaranteed dated notes at 31 December 2016 was £625.0 million (2015:  
£623.2 million). 
10. Trade and other payables 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Payables to subsidiary undertakings 4.7 3.8
Payables to third parties 1.7 –
Provision – 2.8
Total 6.4 6.6
Movement in provision during the year 
  
Total
£m
At 1 January 2016  2.8
Utilisation of provision  (1.8)
Released to statement of comprehensive income  (1.0)
At 31 December 2016  –
11. Dividends 
Full details of the dividends paid and proposed by the Company are set out in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.  
12. Cash generated from operations 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Profit for the year 764.9 539.5
Adjustments for:  
Impairment of investment in subsidiary undertakings – 234.6
Investment return (829.4) (720.5)
Finance costs 46.9 47.1
Equity-settled share-based payment charge 16.8 –
Gain on disposal of assets held for sale – (109.5)
Tax (credit) / charge (0.5) 3.0
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital (1.3) (5.8)
Movements in working capital:  
Increase in other debtors (1.8) (4.0)
Net (decrease) / increase in trade and other payables (0.2) 5.5
Tax (paid) / received (3.0) 1.2
Cash flow hedges 1.2 –
Cash used by operating activities (5.1) (3.1)
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 186
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements continued 
 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 186
13. Related parties 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc, which is incorporated in England and Wales, is the ultimate parent undertaking of the Direct Line 
Group of companies.  
The following transactions were carried out with related parties: 
Sales of services 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Interest receivable from subsidiary undertakings 47.9 47.5
Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings 780.6 671.0
Interest income from loans to subsidiary undertakings was charged at rates ranging from 0.4% to 9.5% (2015: 0.5% to 9.5%). 
Purchases of services 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Management fees payable to subsidiary undertakings 18.1 6.0
Interest payable to subsidiary undertakings – 0.2
Interest charged on borrowings from related parties in the year ended 31 December 2016 was nil (2015: 0.5% to 0.6%). 
14. Share-based payments 
Full details of share-based compensation plans are provided in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements. 
15. Risk management 
The risks faced by the Company, arising from its investment in subsidiaries, are considered to be the same as those in the 
operations of the Group. Details of the key risks and the steps taken to manage them are disclosed in note 3 to the consolidated 
financial statements. The Company also holds, on behalf of its subsidiaries, designated hedging instruments which relate to 
foreign currency supplier payments. 
16. Directors and key management remuneration 
The Directors and key management of the Group and the Company are the same. The aggregate emoluments of the Directors 
are set out in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements, the compensation for key management is set out in note 41 to the 
consolidated financial statements and the remuneration and pension benefits payable in respect of the highest paid Director are 
included in the Directors’ remuneration report in the Governance section of the Annual Report & Accounts. 
  www.directlinegroup.com 187
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Additional information 
   www.directlinegroup.com 187 
Corporate website 
The Group’s corporate website is www.directlinegroup.com.  
It contains useful information for the Company’s investors and 
shareholders. For example, it includes press releases, details of 
forthcoming events, essential shareholder information, a dividend 
history, a financial calendar, and details of the Company’s 
AGM. You can also subscribe to email news alerts. 
Market 
The Company has a premium listing on the UK Listing 
Authority’s Official List. The Company’s Ordinary Shares (EPIC: 
DLG) are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange. 
Share ownership 
Share capital 
You can find details of the Company’s share capital in  
note 29 to the consolidated financial statements. 
Dividends 
The Company pays its dividends in Sterling to shareholders 
registered on its register of members at the relevant record date. 
Shareholders can arrange to receive their cash dividend 
payments in a bank or building society account by completing  
a dividend mandate form. This is available from the Company’s 
registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC (“Registrar”), 
in the UK. You can find the Registrar’s contact details on page 
196. Alternatively, shareholders can access their shareholdings 
online and download a dividend mandate form from the Investor 
Centre. You can find details of this below. 
Dividend Reinvestment Plan 
The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.  
This enables shareholders to use their cash dividends  
to buy the Company’s Ordinary Shares in the market.  
You can find more details on the Company’s website.  
Shareholder enquiries 
Shareholders with queries about anything relating to their 
shares can contact our Registrar. 
Shareholders should notify the Registrar of any change in 
shareholding details, such as their address, as soon as possible. 
Shareholders can access their current shareholding details 
online at www.investorcentre.co.uk/directline. Investor Centre 
is a free-to-use, secure, self-service website that enables 
shareholders to manage their holdings online. The website 
allows shareholders to: 
 check their holdings; 
 update their records, including address and direct  
credit details; 
 access all their securities in one portfolio by setting  
up a personal account; 
 vote online; and 
 register to receive electronic shareholder communications. 
To access information, the website requires shareholders  
to quote their Shareholder Reference Number. Shareholders 
can find this number on their share certificates.  
Shareholder warning 
Almost five thousand people contact the FCA about share 
fraud each year – and victims lose an average of £20,000. 
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure 
investors into scams. They may offer to sell shares that prove to 
be worthless or non-existent. Or they can offer to buy shares at 
an inflated price in return for you paying upfront. They promise 
high profits. However, if you buy or sell shares in this way,  
you will probably lose your money. 
How to avoid share fraud 
 Remember that FCA-authorised firms are unlikely to  
contact you unexpectedly offering to buy or sell shares 
 Do not converse with them. Note the name of the person 
and firm contacting you, then end the call 
 To see if the person and firm contacting you are authorised 
by the FCA, check the Financial Services Register at 
www.fca.org.uk  
 Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm; 
copying its website; or giving you false contact details 
 If you want to phone the caller back, use the firm’s  
contact details listed on the Financial Services Register  
at www.fca.org.uk 
 If the firm does not have contact details on the Register  
or they tell you the details are out of date, call the FCA  
on 0800 111 6768 
 Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at 
www.fca.org.uk/consumers/scams 
 Remember that if you buy or sell shares from an 
unauthorised firm, you cannot access the Financial 
Ombudsman Service or Financial Services  
Compensation Scheme 
 Get independent financial and professional advice  
before handing over any money 
 If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is 
Report a scam 
If fraudsters approach you, tell the FCA using the share  
fraud reporting form at www.fca.org.uk/consumers/scams.  
You can also find out more about investment scams on the  
same web page. 
You can call the FCA Consumer Helpline on  
0800 111 6768. 
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters,  
call Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 188
Additional information continued 
188 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
Tips on protecting your shares 
 Keep all your certificates in a safe place. Alternatively, 
consider holding your shares in the UK’s electronic 
registration and settlement system for equity, called CREST, 
or via a nominee 
 Keep correspondence from the Registrar that shows your 
shareholder reference number in a safe place, and shred 
unwanted correspondence 
 Inform the Registrar as soon as you change your address 
 If you receive a letter from the Registrar regarding a  
change of address and you have not recently moved, 
contact them immediately 
 Find out when your dividends are paid and contact the 
Registrar if you do not receive them 
 Consider having your dividends paid direct into your bank 
account. You will need to complete a dividend mandate 
form and send it to the Registrar. This reduces the risk of 
cheques being stolen or lost in the post 
 If you change your bank account, inform the Registrar of 
your new account details immediately 
 If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers 
registered in the UK or in your country of residence 
 Be aware that the Company will never call you concerning 
investments. If you receive such a call from a person saying 
they represent the Group, please contact the Company 
Secretary immediately, by calling +44 (0)1132 920 667 
Electronic communications and voting 
The Group produces various communications. Shareholders 
can view these online, download them, or receive paper 
copies by contacting the Registrar. 
Shareholders, who register their email address with our 
Registrar, or at the Investor Centre, can receive emails with 
news on events, such as the AGM. They can also receive 
shareholder communications electronically, like the Annual 
Report & Accounts and Notice of Meeting. 
Dealing facilities 
Shareholders who wish to buy, sell or transfer their shares may 
do so through a stockbroker or a high street bank; or through 
the Registrar’s share-dealing facility. 
You can call or email the Registrar regarding its share-dealing 
facility using this contact information: 
 For telephone sales, call +44 (0)370 703 0084 between 
8.00 am and 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday, excluding 
public holidays 
 For internet sales, go to 
www.investorcentre.co.uk/directline. You will need your 
Shareholder Reference Number, as shown on your share 
certificate, or your welcome letter from the Chairman. 
 
 
 
 
 
Dividend tax allowance 
From April 2016, dividend tax credits were replaced by  
an annual £5,000 tax-free allowance across an individual’s 
entire share portfolio. Above this amount, individuals will pay 
tax on their dividend income. The rate of this tax depends on 
their income tax bracket and personal circumstances. The 
Company will continue providing registered shareholders with 
a confirmation of the dividends paid. Shareholders should 
include this with any other dividend income they receive when 
calculating and reporting total dividend income received to 
HMRC. The shareholder is responsible for including all 
dividend income when calculating tax requirements. If you 
have any tax queries, please contact your financial adviser.  
Financial calendar 
2017 
Date Event 
07 March Preliminary Results 2016 
16 March ‘Ex-dividend’ date for 2016 final dividend 
17 March Record date for 2016 final dividend 
03 May
1
 Trading update for the first quarter  
of 2017 
11 May Annual General Meeting 
18 May Payment date for 2016 final dividend 
01 August
1
 Half Year Report 2017 
10 August
1
 ‘Ex-dividend’ date for 2017 interim 
dividend 
11 August
1
 Record date for 2017 interim dividend 
08 September
1
 Payment date for 2017 interim dividend 
07 November
1
 Trading update for the third quarter of 
2017 
Annual General Meeting 
The 2017 AGM will be held on 11 May 2017 at the offices 
of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD, 
starting at 11.00 am. All shareholders will receive a separate 
notice convening the AGM. This will explain the resolutions to 
be put to the meeting.
 
Note: 
1. These dates are subject to change  www.directlinegroup.com 189
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Glossary and appendices 
 
   www.directlinegroup.com 189 
Term Definition and explanation 
Actuarial best estimate The probability-weighted average of all future claims and cost scenarios. It is calculated using 
historical data, actuarial methods and judgement. A best estimate of reserves will therefore normally 
include no margin for optimism or, conversely, caution. 
Adjusted diluted earnings 
per share 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the adjusted profit after tax of ongoing 
operations by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares during the period adjusted for 
dilutive potential Ordinary Shares (see page 192 alternative performance measures).  
Adjusted profit after tax Profit after tax is adjusted to exclude discontinued operations, the Run-off segment and restructuring 
and other one-off costs, and is stated after charging tax (using the UK standard tax rate of 20.0%; 
2015: 20.25%). 
Annual Incentive Plan 
(“AIP”) 
This incentivises the performance of executives and employees over a one-year operating cycle.  
It focuses on the short to medium-term elements of the Group’s strategic aims. 
Available-for-sale (“AFS”) 
investment 
Financial assets that are classified as available-for-sale. Please refer to the accounting policy note 
1.12 on page 130. 
Buy-As-You-Earn The HM Revenue & Customs approved Buy-As-You-Earn Share Incentive Plan gives all employees  
the opportunity to become shareholders in the Company. 
Capital The funds invested in the Group, including funds invested by shareholders and retained profits. 
Capital coverage ratio The ratio of Solvency II own funds to the solvency capital requirement.  
Claims frequency The number of claims divided by the number of policies per year. 
Claims reserve (provision 
for losses and loss-
adjustment expense) 
Funds the Group sets aside to meet the estimated cost of paying claims, and related expenses that 
the Group considers it will ultimately need to pay. 
Clawback The ability of the Company to claim repayment of paid amounts. 
Combined operating  
ratio (“COR”) 
The sum of the loss, commission and expense ratios. The ratio measures the amount of claims costs, 
commission and expenses, compared to net earned premium generated. A ratio of less than 100% 
indicates profitable underwriting. 
Commission Payments to brokers, partners and PCWs for generating business. 
Commission ratio The ratio of commission expense divided by net earned premium. 
Continuing operations Continuing operations include all activities other than discontinued operations. 
Current-year attritional  
loss ratio 
The loss ratio for the current accident year, excluding the movement of claims reserves relating to 
previous accident years, and claims relating to major weather events in the Home division. 
Deferred Annual Incentive 
Plan (“DAIP”) 
For Executive Directors, at least 40% of the AIP award is deferred into shares typically vesting three 
years after grant. The remainder of the award is paid in cash following year-end. 
Discontinued operations The Group has sold its International division to Mapfre, S.A. See note 5 to the consolidated 
financial statements on page 152. 
Earnings per share The amount of the Group’s profit allocated to each Ordinary Share of the Company. 
Employee Representative 
Body 
A forum that represents all employees, including when there is a legal requirement to consult 
employees. 
Expense ratio The ratio of operating expenses divided by net earned premium. 
Finance costs The cost of servicing the Group’s external borrowings. 
Financial Conduct  
Authority (“FCA”) 
The independent body that regulates firms and financial advisers. It puts the customers’ interests and 
market integrity at the core of financial service providers’ activities. 
Financial Reporting  
Council 
The UK’s independent regulator responsible for promoting high-quality corporate governance and 
reporting to foster investment. 
Gross written premium The total premiums from contracts that began during the period. 
International Accounting 
Standards Board (“IASB”) 
A not-for-profit public interest organisation that is overseen by a monitoring board of public authorities. 
It develops IFRS: standards that aim to make worldwide markets transparent, accountable and efficient.
Incurred but not reported 
(“IBNR”) 
Funds set aside to meet the cost of claims for accidents that have occurred, but have not yet been 
reported to the Group. This includes an element of uplift on the value of claims reported where the 
Group has determined that the value currently held in reserves is not sufficient to meet the estimated 
ultimate costs if the claim is referred to as incurred but not enough reported (“IBNER”). 
In-force policies The number of policies on a given date that are active, and against which the Group will pay, 
following a valid insurance claim. 
Insurance liabilities This comprises insurance claims reserves and claims handling provision, which the Group maintains 
to meet current and future claims. 
Investment income yield The income earned from the investment portfolio, recognised through the income statement during 
the period, and divided by the average AUM. This excludes unrealised and realised gains and 
losses, impairments, and fair-value adjustments. The average AUM derives from the period’s 
opening and closing balances for the total Group. 
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 190
Glossary and appendices continued 
190 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
Term Definition and explanation 
Investment return The income earned from the investment portfolio, including unrealised and realised gains and losses, 
impairments, and fair value adjustments. 
Investment return yield The return earned from the investment portfolio, recognised through the income statement during  
the period divided by the average AUM. This includes unrealised and realised gains and losses, 
impairments, and fair-value adjustments. The average AUM derives from the period’s opening and 
closing balances (see page 193 alternative performance measures). 
Loss ratio Net insurance claims divided by net earned premium. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan 
(“LTIP”) 
Awards made as nil-cost options or conditional share awards, which vest to the extent that 
performance conditions are satisfied after a period of at least three years. 
Malus 
 
An arrangement that permits unvested remuneration awards to be forfeited, when the Company 
considers it appropriate. 
Net asset value The net asset value of the Group is calculated by subtracting total liabilities from total assets. 
Net claims The cost of claims incurred in the period less any claims costs recovered under reinsurance contracts. 
It includes claims payments and movements in claims reserves. 
Net earned premium The element of gross earned premium less reinsurance premium ceded for the period where 
insurance cover has already been provided. 
Ogden discount rate The discount rate set by the relevant government bodies, the Lord Chancellor and Scottish Ministers. 
Bodily injury cases use them to calculate lump-sum awards. 
Ongoing operations Ongoing operations comprise Direct Line Group’s ongoing divisions: Motor, Home, Rescue and 
other personal lines, and Commercial. It excludes discontinued operations, the Run-off segment,  
and restructuring and other one-off costs. 
Operating profit The pre-tax profit that the Group’s activities generate, including insurance and investment activity,  
but excluding finance costs. 
Own Risk and Solvency 
Assessment (“ORSA”) 
A Solvency II requirement. It documents the Group’s insurance underwriting entities’ risks and 
associated capital requirement, both now and projected over the business planning period.  
It is forward looking, reflecting business strategy and risk appetite. 
Periodic payment order 
(“PPO”) 
These are claims payments as awarded under the Courts Act 2003. PPOs are used to settle large 
personal injury claims. They generally provide a lump-sum award plus inflation-linked annual 
payments to claimants who require long-term care. 
Prudential Regulation 
Authority (“PRA”) 
The PRA is a part of the Bank of England. It is responsible for regulating and supervising insurers  
and financial institutions in the UK. 
RBS Group The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and its subsidiary companies. 
Reinsurance Contractual arrangements where the Group transfers part or all of the accepted insurance risk  
to another insurer. 
Reserves Funds that have been set aside to meet outstanding insurance claims and IBNR. 
Return on equity Return on equity is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the owners of the Company  
by average ordinary shareholders’ equity for the period. 
Return on tangible equity 
(“RoTE”) 
Return on tangible equity for 2016 is adjusted profit after tax from Ongoing operations, divided  
by the Group’s average shareholders’ equity, less goodwill and other intangible assets. Profit after 
tax is adjusted to exclude discontinued operations, the Run-off segment, restructuring and other  
one-off costs, and the gain on disposal of subsidiary. It is stated after charging tax (using the UK 
standard tax rate of 20.0%; 2015: 20.25%). RoTE for comparative periods include the net  
assets held for sale in the disposal group, and profit after tax for discontinued operations, as the 
International division was managed as part of Ongoing operations (see page 192 alternative 
performance measures). 
Risk and business mix Risk and business mix measures the premium impact of channel, tenure and underlying risk mix. It 
reflects the risk models used in the period, the outputs of which are revised when models are updated. 
Run-off Where the Group no longer underwrites new business, but continues to meet its claims liabilities 
under existing contracts. 
Solvency II The capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry, which became effective on  
1 January 2016. It establishes revised capital requirements and risk management standards.  
It comprises three pillars: Pillar I, which sets out capital requirements for an insurer; Pillar II, which 
focuses on systems of governance; and Pillar III, which deals with disclosure requirements. 
Total costs Total costs comprise operating expenses and claims handling expenses. 
Total Shareholder Return 
(“TSR”) 
Compares share price movement with reinvested dividends as a percentage of the share price  
at the beginning of the period. 
Underwriting result 
(profit or loss) 
The profit or loss from operational activities, excluding investment return and other operating income.
It is calculated as net earned premium less net insurance claims and total expenses.  www.directlinegroup.com 191
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
   www.directlinegroup.com 191 
Appendix A – Alternative performance measures 
The Group has identified Alternative Performance Measures (“APMs”) in accordance with the European Securities and Markets 
Authority’s published Guidelines. The Group uses APMs to improve comparability of information between reporting periods and 
reporting segments, by adjusting for either uncontrollable or one-off costs which impact on IFRS measures, to aid the user of the 
Annual Report in understanding the activity taking place across the Group. These APMs are contained within the main narrative 
sections of this document, outside of the financial statements and notes, and may not necessarily have standardised meanings for 
ease of comparability across peer organisations.  
Further information is presented below, defined in the glossary on pages 189 and 190 and reconciled to the most directly 
reconcilable line items in the financial statements and notes. Note 4 on page 150 of the consolidated financial statements 
presents a reconciliation of the Group’s business activities on a segmental basis to the statutory income statement including 
Ongoing operations of the Group.  
Group APM 
Equivalent 
IFRS measure Adjustment to reconcile primary statements and where calculated Rationale for adjustments 
Adjusted diluted 
earnings per 
share 
Diluted 
earnings 
per share 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share is defined in the 
glossary on page 189 and is reconciled on page 192. 
This is a representation of the underlying earnings 
over the number of shares in issue adjusted for 
potential dilutions from the exercise of options. 
Current-year 
attritional loss 
ratio 
Loss ratio Current-year attritional loss ratio is defined in the glossary  
on page 189 and is reconciled to loss ratio on page 40. 
Express claims performance in the current 
accident year in relation to net earned premium. 
COR Operating 
profit 
COR is defined in the glossary on page 189. The 
constituent parts: Operating profit – Ongoing operations is 
discussed below; and Net earned premium (note 4). 
This is a measure of underwriting profitability 
whereby a ratio of less than 100% represents an 
underwriting profit and a ratio of more than 
100% represents an underwriting loss and 
excludes non-insurance income. 
Investment 
income yield 
Investment 
income 
Investment income yield is defined in the glossary on page 
189 and is reconciled on page 193. 
Expresses a relationship between the investment 
income and the associated opening and closing 
assets net of any associated liabilities. 
Investment 
return yield 
Investment 
return 
Investment return yield is defined in the glossary on page 
190 and is reconciled on page 193. 
Expresses a relationship between the investment 
income and the associated opening and closing 
assets net of any associated liabilities. 
Loss ratio Net 
insurance 
claims 
Loss ratio is defined in the glossary on page 190 and is 
reconciled in note 4. 
Expenses claims performance in relation to net 
earned premium. 
Operating 
profit – 
Ongoing 
operations 
Operating 
profit 
Operating profit – Ongoing operations is defined as 
operating profit (see glossary on page 190) less operating 
profit from run-off segment plus restructuring and one-off costs 
(see note 4) and is reconciled on page 192. 
This measure shows the underlying performance 
(before tax and finance costs)  
of the business activities without the impact  
of business that is in run-off and non-repeating 
restructuring and one-off expenses. 
Profit after tax 
from Ongoing 
operations 
Profit after 
tax 
Profit after tax – Ongoing profit (as above) less Finance 
costs and Tax at standard rate and is reconciled on page 
192. 
This measure shows the underlying performance 
(after tax and finance costs)  
of the business activities without the impact  
of business that is in run-off and non-repeating 
restructuring and one-off expenses. 
RoTE Return on 
Equity 
RoTE is defined in the glossary on page 190 and is 
reconciled on page 192. 
This shows underlying performance against  
a measure of equity that is more able to be 
compared with other companies. 
Tangible equity Equity Tangible equity is defined as Equity less intangible assets 
within the Balance Sheet and is reconciled on page 192. 
This shows the equity excluding intangible assets 
for comparability with companies who have not 
acquired businesses or capitalised intangible 
assets. 
Tangible net 
asset per share 
Net assets 
per share 
Tangible net asset per share is defined as Tangible equity  
(as above) expressed as a value per share and is reconciled 
in note 17 on page 160 
This shows the equity excluding intangible assets 
per share for comparability with companies who 
have not acquired businesses or capitalised 
intangible assets. 
Total costs – 
ongoing 
operations 
Operating 
expenses 
Total costs – Ongoing operations is defined as Operating 
expenses adjusted to remove restructuring and one-off costs 
and operating expenses charged to the run-off segment 
(reconciled in note 11) plus claims handling expenses 
incurred in net insurance claims on Ongoing operations  
(note 9). This is reconciled on page 40. 
This represents the total value of operating 
expenses included those allocated to the 
insurance claims line as claims handling 
expenses. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 192
Glossary and appendices continued 
192 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
Appendix A – Alternative performance measures continued 
Additionally, the current-year attritional loss ratio within the analysis by division section and total costs have also been identified 
as alternative performance measures, similarly reconciled to the financial statements and notes, on page 40, and defined  
in the glossary. 
Return on tangible equity
1
 
At Note
2
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Operating profit 4 390.2 545.1
Add back: restructuring and other one-off costs 4 39.9 48.7
Exclude: operating profit from run-off 4 (26.6) (73.1)
Operating profit from Ongoing operations 4 403.5 520.7
Finance costs 12 (37.2) (37.6)
Profit before tax – Ongoing operations  366.3 483.1
Tax charge (using the UK standard tax rate of 20.0% and 20.25% respectively)  (73.3) (97.8)
Adjusted profit after tax – Ongoing operations  293.0 385.3
Opening shareholders’ equity  2,630.0 2,810.5
Opening goodwill and other intangible assets  (524.8) (517.5)
Opening disposal group equity  – (241.0)
Opening shareholders’ tangible equity  2,105.2 2,052.0
Closing shareholders’ equity  2,521.5 2,630.0
Closing goodwill and other intangible assets  (508.9) (524.8)
Closing shareholders’ tangible equity  2,012.6 2,105.2
Average shareholders’ tangible equity
3
  2,058.9 2,078.6
Return on tangible equity   14.2% 18.5%
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
1
 
At Note 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Adjusted profit after tax – Ongoing operations  293.0 385.3
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purpose of diluted earnings  
per share (millions) 16 1,381.8 1,449.0
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence)  21.2 26.6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes: 
1. See glossary on pages 189 and 190 for definitions 
2. See notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements 
3. Mean average of opening and closing balances 
Glossary and appendices continued 
192 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
Appendix A – Alternative performance measures continued 
Additionally, the current-year attritional loss ratio within the analysis by division section and total costs have also been identified 
as alternative performance measures, similarly reconciled to the financial statements and notes, on page 40, and defined  
in the glossary. 
Return on tangible equity
1
 
At Note
2
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Operating profit 4 390.2 545.1
Add back: restructuring and other one-off costs 4 39.9 48.7
Exclude: operating profit from run-off 4 (26.6) (73.1)
Operating profit from Ongoing operations 4 403.5 520.7
Finance costs 12 (37.2) (37.6)
Profit before tax – Ongoing operations  366.3 483.1
Tax charge (using the UK standard tax rate of 20.0% and 20.25% respectively)  (73.3) (97.8)
Adjusted profit after tax – Ongoing operations  293.0 385.3
Opening shareholders’ equity  2,630.0 2,810.5
Opening goodwill and other intangible assets  (524.8) (517.5)
Opening disposal group equity  – (241.0)
Opening shareholders’ tangible equity  2,105.2 2,052.0
Closing shareholders’ equity  2,521.5 2,630.0
Closing goodwill and other intangible assets  (508.9) (524.8)
Closing shareholders’ tangible equity  2,012.6 2,105.2
Average shareholders’ tangible equity
3
  2,058.9 2,078.6
Return on tangible equity   14.2% 18.5%
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
1
 
At Note 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Adjusted profit after tax – Ongoing operations  293.0 385.3
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purpose of diluted earnings  
per share (millions) 16 1,381.8 1,449.0
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence)  21.2 26.6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes: 
1. See glossary on pages 189 and 190 for definitions 
2. See notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements 
3. Mean average of opening and closing balances  www.directlinegroup.com 193
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
   www.directlinegroup.com 193 
Investment yields 
At Note 
2016 
£m 
2015
1
£m 
Investment income 7 167.9 169.1
Investment return 7 171.5 198.1
Opening investment property  347.4 307.2
Opening financial investments  5,614.6 5,961.2
Opening cash and cash equivalents  963.7 880.4
Opening borrowings  (61.3) (69.8)
Opening derivatives liability
2
  (45.7) (27.8)
Opening investment holdings  6,818.7 7,051.2
Closing investment property 20 329.0 347.4
Closing financial investments 26 5,147.0 5,614.6
Closing cash and cash equivalents 27 1,166.1 963.7
Closing borrowings 27 (55.3) (61.3)
Closing derivatives liability
2
  (5.8) (45.7)
Closing investment holdings  6,581.0 6,818.7
Average investment holdings  6,699.9 6,935.0
Investment income yield  2.5% 2.4%
Investment return yield   2.6% 2.9%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes: 
1. Results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are based on continuing operations and exclude discontinued operations 
2. See note 2 on page 45 
  
Glossary and appendices continued 
192 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
Appendix A – Alternative performance measures continued 
Additionally, the current-year attritional loss ratio within the analysis by division section and total costs have also been identified 
as alternative performance measures, similarly reconciled to the financial statements and notes, on page 40, and defined  
in the glossary. 
Return on tangible equity
1
 
At Note
2
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Operating profit 4 390.2 545.1
Add back: restructuring and other one-off costs 4 39.9 48.7
Exclude: operating profit from run-off 4 (26.6) (73.1)
Operating profit from Ongoing operations 4 403.5 520.7
Finance costs 12 (37.2) (37.6)
Profit before tax – Ongoing operations  366.3 483.1
Tax charge (using the UK standard tax rate of 20.0% and 20.25% respectively)  (73.3) (97.8)
Adjusted profit after tax – Ongoing operations  293.0 385.3
Opening shareholders’ equity  2,630.0 2,810.5
Opening goodwill and other intangible assets  (524.8) (517.5)
Opening disposal group equity  – (241.0)
Opening shareholders’ tangible equity  2,105.2 2,052.0
Closing shareholders’ equity  2,521.5 2,630.0
Closing goodwill and other intangible assets  (508.9) (524.8)
Closing shareholders’ tangible equity  2,012.6 2,105.2
Average shareholders’ tangible equity
3
  2,058.9 2,078.6
Return on tangible equity   14.2% 18.5%
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
1
 
At Note 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Adjusted profit after tax – Ongoing operations  293.0 385.3
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purpose of diluted earnings  
per share (millions) 16 1,381.8 1,449.0
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence)  21.2 26.6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes: 
1. See glossary on pages 189 and 190 for definitions 
2. See notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements 
3. Mean average of opening and closing balances  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 194
Glossary and appendices continued 
194 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
Appendix B – Proforma results
The table below presents the Group’s results on a proforma basis for 2016 in order to exclude the impact on the income 
statement of the recent reduction in the Ogden discount rate to minus 0.75%, as management believe that this provides a clearer 
comparison to 2015.  
FY  
 2016 
 £m 
Proforma  
 FY 2016 
 £m 
FY
 2015
 £m
Ongoing operations: 
In-force policies (thousands) 15,806 15,806 16,068
Gross written premium 3,274.1 3,274.1 3,152.4
Net earned premium 3,000.6 3,000.6 2,920.8
Underwriting profit 70.1 245.2 175.2
Instalment and other operating income 165.3 165.3 150.8
Investment return 168.1 168.1 194.7
Operating profit – Ongoing operations 403.5 578.6 520.7
Run-off 26.6 68.8 73.1
Restructuring and other one-off costs (39.9) (39.9) (48.7)
Operating profit 390.2 607.5 545.1
Finance costs (37.2) (37.2) (37.6)
Profit before tax 353.0 570.3 507.5
Tax (74.2) (117.7) (108.3)
Profit from discontinued operations, net of tax – – 181.2
Profit after tax 278.8 452.6 580.4
Of which Ongoing operations 293.0 433.1 385.3
Key metrics – Ongoing operations   
Loss ratio
1
 prior to the reduction in Ogden discount rate 55.0% 55.0% 59.5%
Loss ratio
1
 due reduction in Ogden discount rate 5.9% – –
Commission ratio
1
 11.5% 11.5% 10.9%
Expense ratio
1
 including Flood Re levy 25.3% 25.3% 23.6%
COR
1
 97.7% 91.8% 94.0%
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence)
 2
 21.2 31.3 26.6 
Return on tangible equity
2
 14.2% 20.2% 18.5%
Key metrics   
Investment income yield
1
 2.5% 2.5% 2.4%
Investment return
1
 2.6% 2.6% 2.9%
Basic earnings per share (pence)
 1
 20.4 33.1 27.9 
Return on equity 10.8% 17.0% 21.3%
Dividend per share  – interim (pence) 4.9 n/a 4.6
                            – final interim (pence) 9.7 n/a 9.2
                              – regular (pence) 14.6 n/a 13.8
              – first special interim
3
 (pence)                            10.0 n/a 27.5
                            – second special interim (pence) – n/a 8.8
                            – total (pence) 24.6 n/a 50.1
Net asset value per share (pence) 184.7 197.4 192.2
Tangible net asset value per share (pence) 147.4 160.2 153.8
 
FY  
 2016  
FY  
 2016  
HY 
 2016 
Capital coverage
2,4
 – estimated 165% 189% 184%
Notes: 
1. A reduction in the ratio represents an improvement and positive change as a proportion of net earned premium, while an increase in the ratio represents  
a deterioration and negative change 
2. See glossary on pages 189 and 190 for definitions and appendix A – Alternative performance measures on pages 192 and 193 for reconciliation to financial 
statement line items 
3. The special interim dividend paid on 24 July 2015 of 27.5 pence per share, following the sale of the Group’s former Italian and German operations 
4. Estimates based on the Group’s Solvency II PIM for 31 December 2016 
Glossary and appendices continued 
194 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
Appendix B – Proforma results
The table below presents the Group’s results on a proforma basis for 2016 in order to exclude the impact on the income 
statement of the recent reduction in the Ogden discount rate to minus 0.75%, as management believe that this provides a clearer 
comparison to 2015.  
FY  
 2016 
 £m 
Proforma  
 FY 2016 
 £m 
FY
 2015
 £m
Ongoing operations: 
In-force policies (thousands) 15,806 15,806 16,068
Gross written premium 3,274.1 3,274.1 3,152.4
Net earned premium 3,000.6 3,000.6 2,920.8
Underwriting profit 70.1 245.2 175.2
Instalment and other operating income 165.3 165.3 150.8
Investment return 168.1 168.1 194.7
Operating profit – Ongoing operations 403.5 578.6 520.7
Run-off 26.6 68.8 73.1
Restructuring and other one-off costs (39.9) (39.9) (48.7)
Operating profit 390.2 607.5 545.1
Finance costs (37.2) (37.2) (37.6)
Profit before tax 353.0 570.3 507.5
Tax (74.2) (117.7) (108.3)
Profit from discontinued operations, net of tax – – 181.2
Profit after tax 278.8 452.6 580.4
Of which Ongoing operations 293.0 433.1 385.3
Key metrics – Ongoing operations   
Loss ratio
1
 prior to the reduction in Ogden discount rate 55.0% 55.0% 59.5%
Loss ratio
1
 due reduction in Ogden discount rate 5.9% – –
Commission ratio
1
 11.5% 11.5% 10.9%
Expense ratio
1
 including Flood Re levy 25.3% 25.3% 23.6%
COR
1
 97.7% 91.8% 94.0%
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence)
 2
 21.2 31.3 26.6 
Return on tangible equity
2
 14.2% 20.2% 18.5%
Key metrics   
Investment income yield
1
 2.5% 2.5% 2.4%
Investment return
1
 2.6% 2.6% 2.9%
Basic earnings per share (pence)
 1
 20.4 33.1 27.9 
Return on equity 10.8% 17.0% 21.3%
Dividend per share  – interim (pence) 4.9 n/a 4.6
                            – final interim (pence) 9.7 n/a 9.2
                              – regular (pence) 14.6 n/a 13.8
              – first special interim
3
 (pence)                            10.0 n/a 27.5
                            – second special interim (pence) – n/a 8.8
                            – total (pence) 24.6 n/a 50.1
Net asset value per share (pence) 184.7 197.4 192.2
Tangible net asset value per share (pence) 147.4 160.2 153.8
 
FY  
 2016  
FY  
 2016  
HY 
 2016 
Capital coverage
2,4
 – estimated 165% 189% 184%
Notes: 
1. A reduction in the ratio represents an improvement and positive change as a proportion of net earned premium, while an increase in the ratio represents  
a deterioration and negative change 
2. See glossary on pages 189 and 190 for definitions and appendix A – Alternative performance measures on pages 192 and 193 for reconciliation to financial 
statement line items 
3. The special interim dividend paid on 24 July 2015 of 27.5 pence per share, following the sale of the Group’s former Italian and German operations 
4. Estimates based on the Group’s Solvency II PIM for 31 December 2016  www.directlinegroup.com 195
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Forward-looking statements disclaimer 
   www.directlinegroup.com 195 
This Annual Report & Accounts has been prepared for, and  
only for, the members of the Company as a body, and no other 
persons. The Company, its Directors, employees, agents or 
advisers do not accept responsibility to any other person to  
whom this document is shown, or into whose hands it may come, 
and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. 
Certain information contained in this document, including  
any information as to the Group’s strategy, plans or future 
financial or operating performance, constitutes “forward-
looking statements”. These forward-looking statements may  
be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, 
including the terms “aims”, “anticipates”, “aspire”, “believes”, 
“continue”, “could”, “estimates”, “expects”, “guidance”, 
“intends”, “may”, “mission”, “outlook”, “plans”, “predicts”, 
“projects”, “seeks”, “should”, “strategy”, “targets” or “will” or, 
in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable 
terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans, objectives, 
goals, future events or intentions. These forward-looking 
statements include all matters that are not historical facts.  
They appear in a number of places throughout this document, 
and include statements regarding the intentions, beliefs or 
current expectations of the Directors concerning, among other 
things: the Group’s results of operations, financial condition, 
prospects, growth, strategies and the industry in which the 
Group operates. Examples of forward-looking statements 
include financial targets and guidance which are contained in 
this document specifically with respect to the return on tangible 
equity; solvency capital coverage ratio; the Group’s combined 
operating ratio; prior-year reserve releases; cost reduction; 
investment income yield; net realised and unrealised gains; 
results from the Run-off segment; restructuring and other one-off 
costs; and risk appetite range. By their nature, all forward-
looking statements involve risk and uncertainties because they 
relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may 
not occur in the future, or are beyond the Group’s control. 
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future 
performance. The Group’s actual results of operations, 
financial condition and the development of the business sector 
in which the Group operates may differ materially from those 
suggested by the forward-looking statements in this document; 
for example directly or indirectly as a result of, but not limited 
to, UK domestic and global economic business conditions,  
the result of the UK’s withdrawal from the European Union; 
market-related risks such as fluctuations in interest rates and 
exchange rates, the policies and actions of regulatory 
authorities (including changes related to capital and solvency 
requirements or the Ogden discount rate), the impact of 
competition, currency changes, inflation and deflation, the 
timing impact and other uncertainties of future acquisitions, 
disposals, joint ventures or combinations within relevant 
industries, as well as the impact of tax and other legislation 
and other regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Group and 
its affiliates operate. Additionally, even if the Group’s actual 
results of operations, financial condition, and the development 
of the business sector in which the Group operates are 
consistent with the forward-looking statements in this document, 
those results or developments may not indicate results or 
developments in subsequent periods. 
The forward-looking statements in this document reflect 
knowledge and information available as of the date this 
document was prepared. The Group and the Directors 
expressly disclaim any obligations or undertaking to update or 
revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a 
result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless an 
applicable law or regulation requires them to do so. Nothing 
in this document should be construed as a profit forecast. 
Neither the content of Direct Line Group’s website nor the 
content of any other website accessible from hyperlinks on  
the Group’s website is incorporated into, or forms part of,  
this document. 
 
 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 196
Contact information 
196 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016  
Registered office 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc 
Churchill Court 
Westmoreland Road 
Bromley 
BR1 1DP 
Registered in England and Wales No. 02280426 
Company Secretary: Roger C Clifton 
Telephone: +44 (0)1132 920 667 
Website: www.directlinegroup.com 
Registrars 
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol 
BS99 6ZZ 
Shareholder helpline: +44 (0)370 873 5880 
Shareholder fax: +44 (0)370 703 6101 
Telephone number for the hard of hearing: 
+44 (0)370 702 0005 
Website: www.computershare.com 
Investor Centre 
To find out more about Investor Centre, go to 
www.investorcentre.co.uk/directline 
Auditors 
Deloitte LLP 
Hill House 
1 Little New Street 
London 
EC4A 3TR 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7936 3000 
Website: www.deloitte.com 
Legal advisers 
Allen & Overy LLP 
One Bishops Square 
London 
E1 6AD 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 3088 0000 
Website: www.allenovery.com 
Slaughter and May 
One Bunhill Row 
London 
EC1Y 8YY 
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7600 1200 
Website: www.slaughterandmay.com 
 
 
 
 
Principal banker 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 
280 Bishopsgate 
London 
EC2M 4RB 
Telephone: +44 (0)131 556 8555 
Website: www.rbs.com 
Corporate brokers 
Goldman Sachs International 
Peterborough Court 
133 Fleet Street 
London 
EC4A 2BB 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7774 1000 
Website: www.goldmansachs.com 
Morgan Stanley & Co International plc 
25 Cabot Square 
Canary Wharf 
London 
E14 4QA 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7425 8000 
Website: www.morganstanley.com 
RBC Europe Ltd (trading as ‘RBC Capital Markets’) 
Riverbank House 
2 Swan Lane 
London 
EC4R 3BF 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7653 4000 
Website: www.rbccm.com 
  This report is printed on mixed source paper which is 
FSC
®
 certified (the standards for well-managed forests, 
considering environmental, social and economic issues). 
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc
Printed by Pureprint Group Direct Line Insurance Group plc ©
Registered in England & Wales No. 02280426  
Registered Office: Churchill Court, Westmoreland Road, Bromley, BR1 1DP
Direct Line Insurance Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
