 Direct Line Insurance Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Improving our  
customer experience 
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Improving our  
customer experience
Making it easier  
for our customers
Page 2
Expanding our  
customer offering
Page 14
Improving our  
customer support
Page 24
Our aspiration is to be the leading personal 
and small business general insurer in the UK. 
That is why our customers are at the heart of 
everything we do.
Our performance has enabled us to invest  
in improving experiences for them. To  
be the best, we will continue expanding  
our capabilities, enhancing our products, 
and improving our services.
These case studies reveal how we are 
improving our customer experience. Direct Line Group (the “Group”) is Britain’s 
leading personal motor and home insurer
1
.
We operate a multi-brand, multi-product  
and multi-distribution channel business that 
covers the majority of customer segments for 
personal lines general insurance and small 
and medium-sized enterprise commercial 
insurance. Our brands offer motor, home, 
rescue, pet, travel and commercial products.
 Read more about our strategy on page 16
  Visit our website or download our app  
www.directlinegroup.com
Note:
1. Ranked number one by total in-force policies in the motor and home markets combined, including partner brands: RBS, NatWest, Nationwide and Prudential ©  
GfK NOP Financial Research Survey (FRS) 6 months ending December 2014, 12,973 adults interviewed for motor insurance and 12,181 for home insurance.
Strategic report
4 Group highlights
6 Group at a glance
8 Business model
10 Chairman’s statement
12 Chief Executive Officer’s review
16 Our strategy
26 Our key performance indicators
28 Risk management
32 Corporate social responsibility
36 Operating review
40 Finance review
Governance review
50 Chairman’s introduction
52 Board of Directors
54 Executive Committee
55 Corporate governance report
61 Committee reports
71 Directors’ remuneration report
94 Directors’ report
Financial statements
98 Contents
99 Independent auditor’s report
103 Consolidated financial statements
108 Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements
161 Parent Company financial statements
163 Notes to the Parent Company
 financial statements
Other information
167 Additional information
169 Glossary
171 Forward-looking statements disclaimer
172 Contact information
Strategic report Governance review Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 1 Improving customer interaction 
through optimised websites for 
smartphones and tablets
Customers are able to get  
live updates on the progress  
of their motor repair
We sell directly over the phone, 
internet and through the UK’s main 
price comparison websites
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 2 Making it easier  
for our customers
We aim to improve the 
efficiency and effectiveness  
of our distribution. How?  
By focusing on customer  
value and our digital 
capability to enable us to 
provide straightforward 
products that meet our 
customers’ needs. 
We rolled out new websites for the 
Group’s motor brands to make it 
easier for customers to purchase a 
policy. We also introduced a new 
customer service web chat channel, 
making it easier for customers to 
speak to us while on the go.
Notes:
1. Compared to 2013
2. Average of ‘quote and buy’ and service 
web chats for the six months to  
31 December 2014 for the Group’s  
own brands: Direct Line, Churchill and 
Privilege for motor and home products.
 1, 800 
web chats per day
2 
81 %
increase in Motor insurance 
purchased on a smartphone
1
www.directlinegroup.com 3 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 4
Group highlights
Advancing our 
strategic plans 
We achieved a good set of results and hit our financial targets 
while continuing to deliver our strategic priorities.
Notes:
1. Return on tangible equity (“RoTE”) is adjusted profit after tax from ongoing operations and the International division (discontinued operations) divided by the 
Group’s average tangible shareholders’ equity. Profit after tax is adjusted to exclude the Run-off segment, restructuring and other one-off costs and gain on disposal 
of subsidiaries, and is stated after charging tax (using the UK standard tax rate of 21.5%; 2013: 23.25%). For 2012, pro forma RoTE is based on the return on 
tangible equity, but assumes that the capital actions taken by the Group prior to the initial public offering (£1 billion dividend payment and £500 million long-term 
subordinated debt issue) occurred on 1 January 2012.
2. Ongoing operations include the Group’s ongoing divisions: Motor, Home, Rescue and other personal lines, and Commercial. It excludes the International division 
which is classified as discontinued operations, the Run-off segment and restructuring and other one-off costs.
3. Combined operating ratio is the sum of the loss, commission and expense ratios. The ratio is a measure of the amount of claims costs, commission and expenses 
compared to net earned premium generated.
4. Operating expenses and claims handling expenses from ongoing operations and International. It excludes the Run-off segment and restructuring and other  
one-off costs.
5. For 2014 and 2013, continuing operations includes all activities other than International.
Financial highlights
 16 . 8%
Return on tangible equity
1
 9 5. 0%
Combined operating ratio
3
£973 .9m
Total cost base
4
£3 ,099.4m
14 13 12
Gross written premium
– ongoing operations
2
 (£m)  
3,437 .9 
3,222.1 
3,099.4 
£456. 8m
14 13 12
Proﬁt before tax
– continuing operations
5
 (£m) 
249.1 
407.3 
456.8 
£506.0m
14 13 12
Operating proﬁt
– ongoing operations
2
 (£m) 
441.7 
509.9 
506.0 
Ongoing
2
 and International
2013: 16.0%
2012: 11.5% (pro forma 13.4%)
Our financial target
15%
Ongoing operations
2
2013: 95.2%
2012: 98.8%
Our financial target
95% to 97% in 2014
Ongoing and International
2013: £1,031.9m
2012: £1,136.8m
Our financial target
Approximately £1,000m in 2014 www.directlinegroup.com 5
Strategic report
Notes:
1. The Board has resolved this year to pay an interim dividend in lieu of a final dividend, see page 45, and references in this document to ‘final dividend’ for 2014 
are to be construed as references to this interim dividend. In this document the second special dividend is referred to separately from the final dividend. This 
enables more appropriate comparison of the 2013 final dividend. Both the second special interim dividend and the final dividend will be paid together as one 
payment. For 2012, pro forma full-year dividend is based on the final dividend of 8.0 pence per share, representing two-thirds of the full-year payout ratio.
2. Cash sale proceeds received in Euros have been converted to Pound Sterling using the rate within the designated foreign currency hedge contract.
3. Adjusted earnings per share – diluted, includes ongoing operations and the International division (discontinued operations) and excludes the Run-off segment, 
restructuring and other one-off costs, and the gain on disposal of subsidiaries (using UK standard tax rate of 21.5%; 2013: 23.25%).
4. For 2014 and 2013, basic earnings per share is presented for continuing operations and excludes discontinued operations. 2012 is for total Group.
Highlights
Financial highlights
• Gross written premium from ongoing operations 3.8% lower 
for 2014 compared with 2013, reflecting disciplined 
approach to underwriting in Motor and Home operations; 
trends improved during the year
• Combined operating ratio from ongoing operations of 
95.0% for 2014, an improvement of 0.2 percentage points 
on 2013 (95.2%) including stable contribution from 
prior-year reserve releases of £397.6 million  
(2013: £395.8 million)
• Stable operating profit from ongoing operations of £506.0 
million for 2014 (2013: £509.9 million); while total Group 
statutory profit before tax for continuing operations rose 
12.2% to £456.8 million (2013: £407.3 million)
• Return on tangible equity of 16.8% for 2014  
(2013: 16.0%)
• 4.8% increase in final
1
 dividend per share to 8.8 pence per 
share and second special interim dividend of 4.0 pence per 
share. Total dividends for 2014 of 27.2 pence per share 
(2013: 20.6 pence per share)
Strategic and operational highlights
• All initial public offering and 2014 published targets  
either met or exceeded: Group combined operating ratio; 
Commercial combined operating ratio; total cost base;  
and return on tangible equity
• Ongoing investment in capability supporting profitability 
across Group with all divisions now making a material 
contribution
• Announced binding agreement for the sale of International 
division for €550 million (£430.1 million
2
)
• Continued active capital management with 24.6% of  
initial public offering price already returned to shareholders, 
rising to 31.9% when the final
1
 and second special interim 
dividends are included. This excludes the expected return  
of capital associated with the sale of the Group’s 
International division
• Focus on UK reaffirmed with clear strategic aim of making 
insurance much easier and better value for customers
27 .2p
Dividend per share
1
– total Group (pence) 
12.0 pence pro forma full year 
dividend for 2012
14 13 12
12.6 8.0 
13.2 14.0 
8.0 
25 .5p
14 13 12
Adjusted earnings per share – diluted
3  
–
 
ongoing and International
 
(pence) 
21.8 
25.0 
25.5 
24.0p
14 13 12
Earnings per share – basic
4 
(pence) 
12.3 
20.8 
24.0  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6
Group at a glance
Protecting our customers
Churchill is a household name with products marketed in the 
UK by phone and internet, including by price comparison 
websites (“PCWs”). We target customers with a high brand 
affinity and that value the need for support.
www.churchill.com
Privilege targets customers who mainly buy through PCWs. 
We focus on providing a quick customer experience at the 
best price.
www.privilege.com
Green Flag is our roadside rescue and recovery product, 
which is sold both as a standalone service and an additional 
optional product alongside motor insurance.
www.greenflag.com
NIG is our specialist commercial insurance brand,  
focused on small and medium-sized enterprises (“SMEs”)  
in the UK. We sell our products through brokers, including  
an in-house intermediary that arranges RBS and NatWest 
commercial insurance
1
.
www.nig.com
Brand Partners is the business-to-business arm of the Group. 
We specialise in providing personal lines insurance, and 
roadside rescue and recovery products to some of the UK’s 
well-known brands.
www.brand-partners.co.uk
Direct Line has maintained the heritage of its brand in the UK 
by selling products direct to customers by phone and internet 
only. We target customers with a high brand affinity, focusing 
on a quick and straightforward customer experience.
www.directline.com
Direct Line for Business is an extension of the Direct Line 
brand. It is our direct commercial insurance brand for small 
businesses in the UK that have straightforward commercial 
insurance requirements.
www.directlineforbusiness.co.uk
We have multiple brands, products and distribution channels. 
Each enables our customers to choose the right cover to protect 
their cars, homes, holidays, businesses and pets.
Our brands 
Note:
1. The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, including National Westminster Bank plc. www.directlinegroup.com 7
Strategic report
Personal
Motor
We are Britain’s leading personal motor insurer, with  
a 13.1% share of in-force policies
1
, mainly represented  
through our highly recognised brands, Direct Line, Churchill 
and Privilege, and through partners. We insure around  
one in seven cars on the road, representing 3.7 million  
in-force policies.
£ 1,342.0m
Gross written premium
3,672
In-force policies (thousands)
96.2%
Combined operating ratio
£297. 1m
Operating profit
 For more information, see page 36 
Rescue and other personal lines
We are one of the leading providers of rescue and  
other personal lines insurance in the UK
2,3
 with 8,592 thousand 
in-force policies. This includes providing roadside assistance and 
recovery for customers through Green Flag, the UK’s third-largest 
roadside recovery provider
2
. We also offer customers protection 
for their pets and holidays and we are the third largest insurer in 
the UK for these insurance products
3
.
£371.8m
Gross written premium
8,592
In-force policies (thousands)
92.0%
Combined operating ratio
£48.0m
Operating profit
 For more information, see page 38
Home
We are one of Britain’s leading home insurers, with a  
16.7% share of in-force policies
1
. We reach our customers  
by selling home insurance products through our brands Direct 
Line, Churchill and Privilege as well as through our partners 
Sainsbury’s Bank, RBS, NatWest, Nationwide Building  
Society and Prudential.
£898.6m
Gross written premium
3,526
In-force policies (thousands)
92.7%
Combined operating ratio
£ 113.9m
Operating profit
 For more information, see page 37 
Commercial
We protect small and medium-sized enterprises through  
our own brands, NIG, Direct Line for Business and Churchill,  
plus RBS and NatWest. NIG sells its products exclusively through 
independent brokers operating across the UK. Direct Line for 
Business provides business, van and landlord insurance products. 
Churchill sells van insurance direct and via PCWs. 
£487.0m
Gross written premium
611
In-force policies (thousands)
98.8%
Combined operating ratio
£47.0m
Operating profit
 For more information, see page 39
Our performance – ongoing operations
4
Our divisions
Contribution to operating proﬁt
4
(%)
Motor 58.7
Home 22.5
Rescue and other 
personal lines 9.5
Commercial 9.3
Gross written premium
4
(%)
Motor 43.3
Home 29.0
Rescue and other 
personal lines 12.0
Commercial 15.7
Notes:
1. Ranked by total in-force policies in the motor and home markets, including partner brands: RBS, NatWest, Nationwide and Prudential © GfK NOP Financial 
Research Survey (FRS) 6 months ending December 2014, 12,973 adults interviewed for motor insurance and 12,181 for home insurance.
2. Mintel Vehicle Recovery – UK, September 2014
3. Mintel Pet Insurance – UK, August 2014 and Mintel Travel Insurance – UK, February 2014
4. See note 2 on page 4 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 8
Business model
Creating value
for our customers
Our multi-brand, multi-product and multi-distribution channel  
business offers different propositions to distinct customers.  
We believe this approach will enable us to generate value  
for customers and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
  Read more about our key performance indicators that  
measure the effectiveness of our business model on page 26 
 Read more about our risk management on page 28
Costs
Our people
Proﬁt Reinvest in the business
Product 
distribution
Settling claims
Dividends
Servicing
Pricing and 
underwriting
Our customers
Managing 
ﬁnances
Capital
Our shareholders
Claims
Investment and 
other income 
Managing risk
Premiums www.directlinegroup.com 9
Strategic report
Our customers
Customers are at the heart of our business model and we  
have a clear mission to make insurance much easier and better 
value for them. We aspire to give them products that best suit 
their needs as well as provide exceptional service throughout 
their relationship with us. We also strive to adapt to their 
changing needs. From the moment customers select our 
products, to the time they claim or need to resolve an event, 
we treat every step of the customer journey as an opportunity 
to provide excellent service and outcomes.
Our people
Everyone – from our front-line staff to employees in support and 
central functions – plays a part in ensuring we meet customers’ 
needs. Without our people, we could not generate value for 
customers and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
Our shareholders
Our shareholders are a crucial part of our business model. 
They invest in the business expecting to achieve returns.  
We aim to deliver value for our shareholders by generating 
sustainable business profits. We reinvest this profit in the 
business or distribute it to shareholders as dividends.
Generating value for our customers through our people
Our focused processes Our disciplined approach
Product distribution
We aim to make our products easy to access and give  
our customers what they are looking for. We want to ensure 
customers are appropriately covered when unexpected  
events happen.
Customers can purchase products online, including through 
PCWs, by phone, and indirectly through partners and, in our 
Commercial business, via brokers. Each brand provides 
products targeted at one or more insurance segments: motor, 
home, rescue, pet, travel and commercial. By tailoring the mix 
of distribution channels for each product, we offer customers a 
combination of brands, products and services that best suit 
their needs. 
Pricing and underwriting
Our business has operated on a large scale for almost 30 
years, giving us a deep insight into the risks we underwrite. 
This insight enables us to make our pricing more accurate. It 
also allows us to invest substantially in data and achieve 
increased efficiencies. Again, this means we can more 
accurately set the right price for the risks we underwrite. 
Settling claims
Customers truly recognise the value of their policy when they 
make a claim. We aim to settle claims as quickly and easily as 
possible through active engagement with our customers. This 
helps us demonstrate the value of our products and services, 
and manage our claims costs.
Managing finances
We seek to ensure our business is well governed and 
controlled. We manage our finances carefully and we  
balance this with targeting a suitable and sustainable return  
to our shareholders.
We hold assets that exceed our expected liabilities in the  
form of capital. This absorbs unexpected losses that might 
occur and helps us meet our regulatory capital requirements.
We ensure we have sufficient funds to pay customer claims  
by adopting a conservative approach to claims reserving.  
This may result in releases from these reserves contributing  
to our annual profit.
Managing risk
We ensure our products meet regulatory standards and that 
customers understand what they are purchasing from us.  
We also aim to price our policies prudently and invest our 
assets appropriately to minimise any potential losses.
We transfer significant insurance risk through reinsurance in  
the normal course of business and external experts regularly 
review our insurance claims reserves. We mitigate risks by 
implementing our Group policies and minimum standards. 
These are reviewed regularly to ensure we are in line with  
the risk appetite set by the Board. Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 10
Chairman’s statement
Delivering on
our targets
Mike Biggs 
Chairman
on 22 September 2014. The increase in the Company’s 
market capitalisation positively reflects investor confidence in 
our business. An increase of 16.7% in the share price to 
291.3 pence across the year to 31 December 2014 together 
with dividend payments provided a total shareholder return 
(“TSR”) of 28.7% for the year.
Strategy update
We plan to enhance the way we interact with our customers 
and the ease with which their claims are handled. Your Board 
has overseen and challenged these investment programmes 
with the aim that the business delivers appropriately for our 
customers’ evolving requirements and on a financially 
acceptable basis for our shareholders.
Early in the year we carried out a strategic review of our 
International division. We concluded that a disposal would be 
likely to generate the most value to the Group. On 25 September 
2014, we announced a binding agreement with Mapfre, S.A. 
for the sale of this division for €550 million (£430.1 million
3
). 
Completion of the sale is conditional on receiving one 
outstanding regulatory approval and is currently expected to 
complete in the first quarter or failing which in the second quarter. 
Your Board believes this is a good result for all our stakeholders, 
including providing excellent value for shareholders.
We have also taken the opportunity during 2014 to review and 
rearticulate our strategy. This strategy has at its heart our mission 
to make insurance much easier and better value for customers.
In this report, I would like to consider Direct Line Insurance 
Group plc’s (the “Company”) achievements from before the 
initial public offering (“IPO”) in October 2012 to where we  
are today, including our successful separation from the Royal 
Bank of Scotland Group (“RBS Group”) in early 2014.
Before the IPO, the Board set robust and stretching financial  
and business targets for the Group. We have met, and in  
some cases, exceeded these targets. This includes delivering  
a return on tangible equity
1
 of 15%. In both 2014 and 2013, 
we achieved returns above this level, of 16.8% and 16.0% 
respectively. Your Board set an initial gross cost savings target  
of £100 million for 2014. We subsequently increased the 
ambition to deliver a total cost base
2
 of approximately £1,000 
million, which I am pleased to say management achieved in 
2014. Our Commercial division was tasked with delivering a 
combined operating ratio of less than 100%; it has successfully 
met this challenge.
Throughout this period we stated that the Group would target 
holding capital in the range of 125% and 150% of risk-based 
capital sufficient to maintain a credit rating in the ‘A’ range. It 
has consistently remained at the upper end of this range.  
Since the IPO, we have declared cumulative dividends, 
including special interim dividends, of 55.8 pence per  
share. This is equivalent to 31.9% of the IPO price.
These achievements contributed to a strong share price 
performance and supported another milestone of 2014  
with the admission of the Company into the FTSE 100  
Notes:
1. See note 1 on page 4
2. See note 4 on page 4
3. See note 2 on page 5
 “The Board is focused on 
providing robust oversight of 
Direct Line Group, including 
a substantial programme of 
investment in improving our 
customers’ experience, and 
aiming to create long-term 
value for our shareholders.” www.directlinegroup.com 11
Strategic report
Dividend and capital management
Your Board regularly reviews the level of capital held by the 
Group. Ahead of Solvency II implementation on 1 January 2016, 
we currently believe that it is appropriate to maintain this at the 
upper end of the targeted risk-based capital-coverage range of 
125% to 150%. The Group’s Solvency II planning is on track.
The Board has resolved to pay an interim dividend of 8.8 pence 
per share in lieu of a final dividend. This represents an increase 
of 4.8% on the full-year regular
1
 dividend for 2013.
The Company paid a special interim dividend of 10.0  
pence per share on 12 September 2014 and on 2 March  
2015 resolved to pay a further special dividend of 4.0 pence 
per share. These dividends reflect the build up of surplus capital 
which the Board believes is appropriate to return to 
shareholders. On the completion of the sale of the International 
division, your Board currently expects to announce an additional 
return of capital, reflecting substantially all the net proceeds of 
the sale. This return of capital will be conditional on shareholders 
approving a share consolidation designed to neutralise the effect 
on the share price of the return of capital. Further details of the 
Leadership
Your Board challenges strategic proposals, performance 
delivery and the responsibilities of management, seeking  
to ensure that decisions are of the highest standard.
 Read more on page 55
Effectiveness
Your Board’s performance is reviewed annually in an 
effectiveness review. This considers our effectiveness, 
individually, as a Board and in our Committees.
 Read more on page 57
Accountability
Your Board provides shareholders with an assessment of 
the Group’s position and prospects. It has overall oversight 
of the Group’s risk management and internal system  
of control.
 Read more on page 28 and 59
Remuneration
Your Board, through the Remuneration Committee, is 
responsible for the remuneration arrangements of the 
Executive Directors and senior executives.
 Read more on page 71
Engagement
Maintaining strong relationships with our shareholders is 
important to support our aims. The Board maintains regular 
dialogue with our shareholders.
 Read more on page 60
Notes:
1. The regular dividend includes the interim and final dividends, it excludes special interim dividends.
2. RBS Group retained a number of Ordinary Shares in the Company to satisfy long-term incentive plan awards granted by it to Direct Line Group management.
Our governance principles
return of capital and share consolidation will be communicated  
to shareholders in due course.
Culture
Your Board is committed to embedding a values-driven culture 
across the Group. Our values are ‘Do the right thing’, ‘Aim higher’, 
‘Work together’, ‘Take ownership’, ‘Say it like it is’ and ‘Bring all  
of yourself to work’. As stated in our Code of Business Conduct, 
the Board also requires all employees to adhere to the highest 
possible standards of professional and ethical conduct. You can 
read more about our values and code on page 50.
Our relationship with RBS Group
On 27 February 2014, RBS Group sold substantially all of its 
remaining shareholding in the Company
2
. Following this, and  
in line with the Relationship Agreement between the Company  
and RBS Group, Mark Catton, RBS Group’s nominated Director, 
stepped down from the Board on 7 March 2014.
Under a Transitional Services Agreement, RBS Group continues  
to provide certain services to Direct Line Group, including IT 
infrastructure. During the year, we progressed substantially in rolling 
out our new data centres with Capgemini and deploying new 
voice and desktop tools. These are key milestones to migrate our  
IT infrastructure from RBS Group systems to our own environment.
Board changes and effectiveness
There have been several changes to the composition of the  
Board and Committees during the year. As noted above, Mark 
Catton stepped down on 7 March 2014 and I would like to thank 
him for his excellent contribution to the Board and wish him well  
for the future.
Following a review of the Board’s balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience, Sebastian James, Group Chief Executive of 
Dixons Carphone plc, joined the Board on 28 August 2014  
as a Non-Executive Director. I am delighted to welcome Sebastian. 
The Board will benefit from his knowledge of customer service  
in a digital retail market.
On 30 September 2014, Sebastian was appointed as a  
member of the Remuneration Committee and the Corporate  
Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Committee. Jane Hanson retired as 
Chair of the CSR Committee but will continue as a member. Clare 
Thompson was appointed as Chair of the CSR Committee and 
retired as a member of the Remuneration Committee. My thanks  
go to Jane for her role as Chair of the CSR Committee and 
particularly for overseeing the establishment of our CSR agenda. 
You can read more about our Committees from page 61.
Summary
We are fortunate to have hardworking and talented employees. 
Their commitment to customers and pride in what they do never 
ceases to impress me. I thank every one of them for their 
contributions last year and into the next.
Michael N Biggs 
Chairman Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 12
Investing in the future
of our business
driven by our partnership business, reflecting changing 
distribution trends. That said, the benefits from recent pricing 
and claims initiatives allowed us to increase our competitiveness 
while keeping the retention of renewing policies at good levels.
We have also met or beaten all of the published targets  
set since the IPO. We achieved a combined operating ratio
2
 
(“COR”) of 95.0% (2013: 95.2%), which was within our 
target range of 95% to 97% for ongoing operations. This 
contributed to a return on tangible equity
3
 of 16.8%, ahead  
of our long-term target of 15.0%. Our Commercial business 
achieved a COR of 98.8%, beating its sub-100% COR target. 
Our continued focus on improving operational efficiency 
enabled us to deliver further cost reductions across the 
business, beating our cost target
4
 of £1,000 million in 2014.
During the first half of 2014 we initiated a strategic review  
of our International division. Although the review did confirm  
the division’s strong market positions, we decided to explore  
a potential disposal of these operations. In September,  
we announced a binding agreement for the sale of our 
International division to Mapfre, S.A. for total cash sale 
proceeds of €550.0 million (£430.1 million
5
). We believe  
this is a good result for all our stakeholders, as it provides 
excellent value for shareholders, while offering our customers 
and colleagues stability and opportunity.
Investing in our future
We have a growing expectation that technology will profoundly 
change many aspects of our customers’ needs, and we are 
determined to be a leader in meeting these new demands. We 
have continued to invest in our infrastructure, including work on 
the next generation of customer systems and progressing with the 
Overview of financial performance
I am pleased with our performance in 2014 and proud  
of our people’s focus and dedication. Through our efforts,  
we achieved our financial targets and progressed strongly 
towards our strategic priorities. Against the backdrop of a 
highly competitive marketplace, we maintained underwriting 
discipline, helping us to deliver a stable operating profit  
from ongoing operations
1
 of £506.0 million compared  
to 2013 (£509.9 million). However, a reduction in 
restructuring costs helped deliver an increase in profit  
before tax to £456.8 million (2013: £407.3 million).
The motor insurance market remained highly competitive  
with further premium deflation at the start of the year. Gross 
written premium trends improved during the year, increasing 
0.4% in the fourth quarter compared with 2013. We 
continued to make choices to optimise value and prioritise 
underwriting profit over volume growth, which meant gross 
written premium for the Motor division of £1,342.0 million 
reduced by 5.6% and in-force policies reduced by 2.4%, 
compared with 2013.
The home insurance market also experienced further new 
business premium deflation during 2014, with gross written 
premium of £898.6 million, 4.7% lower, as in-force policies 
reduced by 5.2%, compared with 2013. This was mainly 
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Notes:
1. See note 2 on page 4
2. See note 3 on page 4
3. See note 1 on page 4
4. See note 4 on page 4
5. See note 2 on page 5
Paul Geddes 
Chief Executive Officer
 “We have built solid 
foundations for our business 
and are continuing to invest 
in our future. As we head 
into the next phase of our 
journey, I am excited by the 
focus and energy of our 
people to deliver even  
further success.” www.directlinegroup.com 13
Strategic report
migration of our IT systems from RBS Group. While this project  
is not complete and has been challenging, I am pleased to say 
we have made considerable headway while ensuring the new 
systems can achieve high levels of operational performance. 
We are on track to complete the migration in 2015.
Recognising that customers are transacting on the go, we  
have optimised our motor websites for smartphone and tablet 
devices. This has made it easier for customers to buy policies 
from us by significantly improving the ‘quote and buy’ customer 
journey. We have seen an 81% increase in Motor insurance 
purchased on a smartphone this year. The new systems have 
also enhanced analytics, which gives us further insight into 
customer browsing and purchasing behaviour, enabling us  
to tailor our websites to their needs.
Additionally, we have rolled out a number of initiatives that 
make it easier for customers to claim. In Home, we have 
enabled customers to upload photos and videos to help  
assess their claim.
We have also invested in our pricing abilities to ensure we 
continue providing value to customers. Through a series of 
pricing projects on Motor, we have enhanced and fine-tuned 
our trading capabilities, especially through the PCW channel. 
In telematics, we launched a new self-install product, which 
provides a robust, cheaper alternative to black-box technology. 
We are already using the data collected from the new 
products to improve our pricing sophistication when renewing 
telematics policies.
We have also refreshed the product offering of our Direct Line 
brand, which incorporates a new advertising campaign. We 
want customers to trust us to deliver on service and take the 
hassle out of claiming, while still offering great value for 
money. The new advertising is proving popular with customers 
and we have already seen a positive impact on desired key 
brand metrics. The TV advertising in particular is performing 
significantly ahead of all insurance sector benchmarks, across 
measures such as involvement and persuasion.
Alongside these improvements, we have continued working hard 
to improve our customer service across the Group. We have 
also introduced new measures to monitor customer satisfaction, 
which will help us improve our customers’ experience, as well as 
recognise and reward great service. We know we are heading 
in the right direction, but there is more we can do to meet our 
customers’ needs. This will be a key focus for us in 2015 as  
we embed additional customer initiatives.
Investing in our people
We have continued to make improvements throughout our 
organisation. Our people are driving these changes, 
simplifying processes and working as a community to deliver 
the products and services our customers expect. Our people sit 
behind our success, therefore we put great effort in recognising 
outstanding performance. The Chief Executive Awards are 
among the key initiatives. These awards identify and recognise 
the best examples of our values across the business as well as 
diversity and community involvement. Over 2,000 of our 
people were nominated for the special contributions they  
have made to the business. In recognition of the progress we 
have made, we plan to give our UK employees £400 of free 
shares, in addition to the shares that were awarded at the  
time of the IPO. This gives everyone a chance to share in  
the success of our business. 
Regulatory environment
The regulatory landscape continues to be dynamic, especially 
in the UK motor insurance market. This year, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (“FCA”), the Competition and Markets 
Authority (“CMA”) and the Ministry of Justice (“MoJ”) have 
issued further reviews and remedies.
Overall, the Group continues to support good conduct and 
proportionate reforms which will deliver better consumer 
outcomes and a level playing field across the industry.
Strategic priorities for 2015
We know that our environment is ever-changing, we must 
therefore ensure that our strategy is aligned to this evolution. 
We know our strategy supports our aspiration to be the 
leading personal and small business general insurer in the UK 
and this means making insurance much easier and better value 
for our customers. We have a set of core objectives that we 
believe will help us to deliver this ambition, read more on  
Our strategy on page 22.
Outlook
The UK motor and home markets remain highly competitive 
with recent market conditions characterised by periods of 
market price deflation and of stability. Early 2015 has seen 
some additional, potentially seasonal, market pressure in  
motor and broad stability in the home market.
Against this backdrop we will continue to adopt a flexible,  
but disciplined, approach to managing the trade-off between 
margin and volumes. Meanwhile we are investing in building 
future capability and continue to identify opportunities to 
improve efficiency.
For 2015, we expect to achieve a combined operating  
ratio in the range of 94% to 96% for ongoing operations after 
normalising for claims from major weather events. The range 
reflects uncertainty surrounding claims inflation versus market 
pricing in motor.
This year, we have built solid foundations for our business and 
are continuing to invest in our future. As we head into the next 
phase of our journey, I am excited by the focus and energy of 
our people to deliver even further success. I would like to thank 
our people for always helping and supporting our customers, 
while embracing continuous change. This drive will make our 
business the best it can be.
I am also thankful for our investors’ ongoing support as we 
continue improving our business and delivering further benefits 
for customers, shareholders and wider stakeholders.
Paul Geddes 
Chief Executive Officer
  Read more about our strategy on page 16 DrivePlus gives drivers 
instant access to their 
driving data via an app
DrivePlus enables our  
customers to install the  
device themselves
Telematics encourages 
better driving
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 14 Drivers can review 
their driving straight 
after each journey
Expanding our 
customer offering
As telematics continues to 
gather pace, our expertise  
and extensive data means  
we are well positioned to  
take advantage of this  
growing market.
The launch of our telematics self-install 
product, DrivePlus Plug-in, offers 
customers a convenient and easy  
way to be rewarded for safer driving.
Note:
1. Direct Line new policies taken out by 
under 21s over the phone in 2014
56%
of under 21s now taking  
up telematics
1
 12 5 
million miles of telematics  
data collected
www.directlinegroup.com 15 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 16
Our achievements were far-reaching. We proceeded 
with changing our operations and customer experience, 
while successfully hitting our financial targets.
Our key strategic priorities
We have been reporting on our performance against 
five strategic priorities since our listing as a public 
company in 2012. In this Report, we continue 
reporting against these areas and explain our  
2014 progress in this section.
Early in 2014, we carried out a strategic review of  
our International division. The review concluded that 
although these operations occupied strong positions,  
a disposal would be likely to generate the most value to 
the Group. In September, we announced the sale of the 
division and as a result of this, progress against our fifth 
strategic priority now relates solely to Commercial. You 
can find more details about the performance of the 
International division in the Finance review on page 44.
Our strategy is evolving
As we develop our business in a constantly changing 
environment, our strategy also needs to evolve. We 
have reviewed the overall Group strategy alongside 
the strategic priorities. You can find the results of this 
review on page 22.
Delivering our
key priorities
We continue to transform our 
business and progressed on our  
key strategic priorities during 2014.
Our strategy
Read more  
about our progress on 
the following pages
Our key strategic priorities
 Distribution
We have improved customers’ experience 
while differentiating the Direct Line 
customer proposition.
 Pricing
We delivered over 30 major  
pricing initiatives.
 Claims
We have continued improving  
our claims service.
 Costs
We reduced our cost base by  
5.6% in 2014.
 Commercial
We delivered a combined operating  
ratio below 100%. www.directlinegroup.com 17
Strategic report
Distribution
We aim to improve our distribution efficiency and effectiveness 
by focusing on digital capability and customer value.
We seek to understand customers’ requirements and provide 
products that meet their needs, offer good value and are 
straightforward to purchase.
We employ a multi-distribution channel model. We aim to 
optimise the mix of these channels for each of our products  
and brands. This includes selling products directly by phone 
and internet, including through all of the UK’s major PCWs,  
and via selected partners.
Progress in 2014
During 2014, we progressed significantly in making it easier for 
customers to buy from us through the launch of new websites for 
Motor. We have re-engineered and optimised the ‘quote and 
buy’ journey whether customers are using personal computers, 
smartphones or tablets.
We further differentiated the Direct Line customer proposition  
in 2014 with a focus on improving claims service. This 
proposition was supported by a new advertising campaign.
We have also continued building our telematics portfolio,  
with 38,000 in-force policies at year end. This growth has been 
accelerated by the launch of a self-install device during the year.
We have improved our customers’ 
experience while differentiating the  
Direct Line customer proposition.
 1, 8 00
web chats per day
2
56%
telematics take-up  
by under 21s
3
 81 %
increase in Motor 
insurance purchased 
on a smartphone 
compared to 2013
Distribution performance
Notes:
1. Group own brands and strategic partners: Direct Line, Churchill, Privilege, Green Flag, Sainsbury, RBS, NatWest, Prudential, Nationwide, Citroen and Peugeot © 
NICE Systems, MyCustomer – Fizzback, year ending 31 December 2014, sample size 472,828 responses for motor, home, pet, travel and rescue customers. 
‘Good or Excellent’ represented by scores of 7 to 10 out of 10
2. Average of ‘quote and buy’ and service web chats for the six months to 31 December 2014
3. Direct Line new policies taken out by under 21s over the phone in 2014
 94%
of customers rate our sales and service 
consultants as good or excellent
1 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 18
Our strategy continued
Pricing
We aim to leverage our substantial data to provide 
leading technical and market pricing.
By enhancing our pricing capabilities, we can improve 
the way we assess the risks we are willing to accept 
and price them more accurately. Our customers benefit 
through more accurate pricing.
Progress in 2014
During 2014, we made major progress in our 
ambitions around pricing sophistication. We have 
delivered over 30 programmes which relate to 
technical and market pricing, and have contributed  
to our underwriting performance.
Additionally in Motor, we have started using telematics-
generated data to inform pricing decisions for 
telematics customers. This gives us another rich and 
valuable data source, allowing us to reward customers 
for better driving in ways traditional rating factors 
would not recognise.
Note:
1. Price differential in addition to traditional rating factors when telematics data is considered.
We delivered over 30 major 
pricing initiatives.
Our pricing projects
 3 0
Major pricing initiatives delivered  
in 2014
Our projects are significantly enhancing our 
pricing capabilities and helping us offer  
more accurate pricing, including on price 
comparison websites.
Pricing performance 
81 %
Home own brands  
retention rate
 
80%
Motor own brands  
retention rate
 
 40%
Differential in pricing  
from telematics data
1 www.directlinegroup.com 19
Strategic report
We have continued improving our  
claims service.
Claims
We aim to improve our performance through efficient and 
effective claims management.
We have fundamentally redesigned our claims operating model 
with simpler processes in fewer sites. This gives a better customer 
experience through our people having more control. By 
managing most claims through our own professional loss 
adjusters and repairing cars through our own accident repair 
centres and network garages, we aim to ensure customers 
benefit from our scale and expertise.
We continue to invest in providing customers with a reliable and 
straightforward claims service that is transparent at each step.
Progress in 2014
We continued building on our claims services by using 
smartphone technology to improve our customers’ claims 
experience. Straightforward home claims can now be advised 
via photos and video taken by smartphone, helping to speed  
up settlement and reduce fraud.
We have also continued improving the claims proposition 
through using our supply chain more effectively. Direct Line 
customers now benefit from faster car repair times, the offer  
of sourcing a replacement car in the event of a total loss, and 
replacements ready in eight hours for some household goods.
Notes:
1. Association of British Insurers 2013 Fraud Benchmarking Data, motor savings
2. Percentage of in-scope claims where offered and accepted, six months to 31 December 2014
Our fraud performance
2.6times
detection level ahead of the market
1
Our claims processes  
 15 8 , 000
Vehicles repaired by our accident  
repair centres and network garages
80%
Customer uptake to upload  
digital evidence
2
Smartphone photos and videos help us to  
settle claims more quickly and reduce fraud. Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 20
Our strategy continued
Costs
We reduced our cost base 
by 5.6% in 2014.
We aim to improve efficiency throughout the business to 
reduce costs and enable faster decision making.
We recognise the need to keep costs down, whatever  
the market conditions. We are updating our IT infrastructure 
and investing in new technology, which aims to improve 
efficiency, offer more flexibility and enable us to enhance 
our customers’ experience.
Progress in 2014
During the year, we cut costs by 5.6% and beat our target  
to reduce total costs
2
 to approximately £1,000 million.  
We have achieved this by rigorously controlling discretionary 
costs during the year, reducing staff costs through a more 
efficient operating model, and lowering marketing spend.
We have progressed substantially in migrating IT 
applications from RBS Group infrastructure and expect  
to complete this in 2015. As part of this programme,  
we rolled out new desktop and voice infrastructure.  
We expect this to lead to future operational efficiencies.
Notes:
1. The ratio is a measure of operating expenses compared to net earned premium generated for ongoing operations.
2. Total cost base for the year ended 31 December 2014 in comparison to the previous year, read more on page 43.
Our cost performance 
 £ 58m
 £ 9 74m
Total cost base
We have beaten our goal of reducing costs  
to approximately £1,000 million, read more  
on page 43.
 2 3. 6%
Expense ratio
1
2013: 23.7%
Reduction in cost base following a  
focus on cost control and operating 
efficiency
2
, read more on page 43. www.directlinegroup.com 21
Strategic report
Commercial
We delivered a combined operating 
ratio below 100%.
Our Commercial business focuses on targeting the growing 
number of small and medium-sized enterprises. The business 
is well positioned to benefit as these customers move 
towards direct and e-trading distribution channels.
As the characteristics of our personal and commercial lines 
increasingly converge, we aim to leverage skills across 
these divisions, particularly in technical pricing, claims 
management, telematics and flood mapping.
Progress in 2014
We continued improving the Commercial division’s 
profitability, achieving a COR of 98.8%, beating the  
target ratio of less than 100%. We achieved this through  
a combination of factors, including a continued focus  
on disciplined underwriting and cost control.
Our award-winning eTrade platform continued gaining 
traction as we continuously improved our products and 
proposition. At the same time, we enhanced the Direct Line 
for Business customer websites with new digital functionality.
We extended PCW distribution to the van business through 
Churchill, and launched a new telematics offering.
Note:
1. Gross written premium for the year ended 31 December 2014 in comparison to the previous year.
28
,
000
 Growth in in-force policies
Our Commercial performance
 
98. 8%
Commercial COR
We achieved this ratio through 
disciplined underwriting and
tight cost control
 1 1 .5%
Gross written premium increase 
in Direct Line for Business 
landlord insurance product
1
5 ,1 00
Landlord app smartphone
downloads Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 22
Our strategy continued
Our strategy supports our aspiration to be the leading 
personal and small business general insurer in the UK.
During 2014, we reviewed the components of our strategy 
to ensure that our business is continuing to evolve and 
address the constantly changing environment in which  
we operate.
The review reaffirmed that the capabilities underpinning  
the existing strategic priorities of distribution, pricing, 
claims, costs and Commercial remain profoundly important. 
Over the last five years, the focus on these priorities has 
step-changed our performance and competitiveness and  
further investment in these areas continues to offers significant 
opportunity for us.
To facilitate future delivery, we have rearticulated our strategy 
around a simple mission: to make insurance much easier and 
better value for our customers.
We believe this strategy, when delivered, should allow us to 
grow sustainably at the same time as targeting a 15% return 
on tangible equity. Our discipline around future growth has  
not changed and we will remain focused on maximising value.
Great  
retailer
Smart and 
efficient 
manufacturer
Lead and  
disrupt  
the market
Make insurance much easier  
and better value for our customers
Data and technology
Culture and capability
Capital and risk management
Our mission
Our strategic pillars
Long-term ambition: 
Sustainable growth 
and a 15% RoTE
Our key enablers
Rearticulating our strategy
Making insurance much easier and  
better value for our customers. www.directlinegroup.com 23
Strategic report
 Data and technology
 Culture and capability
 Capital and risk management
Our strategic pillars
Our three strategic pillars demonstrate our approach to the changing needs of consumers and the wider market.
Our key enablers
Our strategic review also reaffirmed the key building blocks required to deliver our strategic priorities. These cover data and 
technology, culture and capability and capital and risk management. These are the building blocks of a successful insurer 
and allow us to develop products for the future and continue to evolve our propositions to meet changing customer needs.
Harness the power of technology 
and scale of our data
Unlock and accelerate  
our people potential
Sound foundation of capital  
and risk management
 Great retailer
Compelling brands, propositions and 
customer experience to meet diverse, 
long-term customer needs
• Further differentiate our brands including refresh of Churchill
• Launch customer experience programmes to increase Net Promoter Score, 
reduce frictional costs and reduce complaints
• Improve trading capability to maximise sales, cross-sales and retention while 
optimising margin
• Complete migration of IT infrastructure
• Continue to implement the next generation of customer systems, 
including policy system
• Update Motor pricing engine
 Smart and efficient manufacturer
Efficiency and flexibility to deliver 
better claims and customer service  
at lower cost
• Continue to build technical pricing excellence
• Beat market claims inflation via further claims programmes
• Reduce level of overall costs by improving efficiency
• Investing in developing our employees’ skills to capitalise on new systems
• Build superior people engagement via focus on leadership and  
people management
 Lead and disrupt the market
Maximise existing growth opportunities 
while creating and driving future areas 
of value
• Continue to grow Green Flag
• Capitalise on market trends towards Direct Line for Business and eTrade to 
grow Commercial
• Double number of telematics policies in-force
• Be ready for Solvency II implementation on 1 January 2016 and submit 
internal model for approval
Our objectives Our strategic pillars
Our key enablers Our objectives Customers can send photos 
via their smartphones for 
home claims assessment
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 24 www.directlinegroup.com 25
Strategic report
We can get Direct Line customers  
back on the road within seven days  
following a motor accident
Improving our  
customer support
Whether it’s our new Direct 
Line marketing campaign or 
the improvements we have 
made to our customer 
propositions, it is our people 
that have been at the heart  
of our success. The dedication 
to excellent customer service 
flows throughout our business 
and remains a key focus  
for us.
We have introduced new video 
technology tools to enable customers 
to reduce the amount of time it takes 
to settle lower value and less complex 
home claims. Customers are now 
using new technology which allows 
them to upload photos and videos to 
an online digital cloud.
Notes:
1. Includes Direct Line, Churchill and 
Privilege customers with motor or 
home products. 86% scoring 7 to  
10 for the year ending December 
2014, based on a total sample size 
of approximately 63,000 answers 
© TheLeadershipFactor 2015
2. Includes the Group’s own brands: 
Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege 
for motor and home products, nine 
months ending 31 December 2014, 
based on monthly survey volumes of 
approximately 4,200 customers
9 out of 10
customers stated they would 
recommend Group brands
1
94% 
of customers stated their  
web chat experience was  
good or great
2
www.directlinegroup.com 25 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 26
Definition
The return generated on the 
capital that shareholders have in 
the business. This is calculated by 
dividing adjusted earnings by 
average tangible equity.
Aim
Our target is to achieve a 15% 
RoTE. We achieved this in 2014.
Link to Directors’ remuneration
We base long-term incentive  
plan (“LTIP”) awards partly  
on RoTE over a three-year 
performance period.
Definition
The amount of cash paid  
to shareholders from the  
Group’s profit.
Aim
We have a progressive dividend 
policy and aim to grow the 
dividend in real terms each year. 
Additionally, we look to return 
surplus capital to shareholders 
when appropriate. For 2014,  
we paid or declared special 
interim dividends totalling 
14.0 pence per share.
Link to Directors’ remuneration
LTIP awards are partly based on 
relative TSR performance, which 
includes dividends. Directors  
also receive dividends on their 
beneficial shareholdings and 
accrue these on unvested  
LTIP awards.
Definition
A measure of financial year 
underwriting profitability 
calculated by the sum of claims, 
commissions and expenses 
divided by net earned premium. 
This excludes instalment and other 
operating income, and investment 
return. A COR of less than 100% 
indicates profitable underwriting.
Aim
We aim to make an  
underwriting profit. In 2014,  
we set and achieved the target 
range of between 95% to 97% 
for the Group, this assumed a 
normal level of claims from 
weather events.
Link to Directors’ remuneration
We base part of the Annual 
Incentive Plan (“AIP”) awards on 
ongoing operating profit. COR  
is linked closely to this.
Definition
The cost of doing business, 
including paying our people, 
marketing expenses and 
expenditure on infrastructure  
and IT. This includes the costs  
we incur in handling claims,  
but excludes any commissions  
we pay to brokers or partners, 
and restructuring and other 
one-off costs.
Aim
We aim to operate an efficient 
and effective organisation.  
We targeted and achieved  
a total cost base for 2014 of 
approximately £1,000 million.
Link to Directors’ remuneration
AIP awards in relation to 2014 
include a weighting relating to 
cost targets.
Our key performance indicators
Measuring our performance
95.0%
14 13 12
Combined operating ratio
3
 
Ongoing operations (%) 
98.8 
95.2 
95.0 
 16.8%
14 13 12
Return on tangible equity
1 
Ongoing and International (%) 
11.5 
16.0 
16.8 
13.4% pro forma in 2012
£973.9m
14 13 12
Total cost base
4
 
Ongoing and International (£m) 
1,136.8 
1,031.9 
973.9 
We have defined eight key performance indicators that allow us to assess our 
performance against our strategic priorities. These are supported by further 
performance indicators monitored by management.
Notes:
1. Includes discontinued operations, see note 1 on page 4
2. See note 1 on page 5
3. Excludes discontinued operations, see notes 2 and 3 on page 4
4. Includes discontinued operations, see note 4 on page 4 and read more on page 43
27 .2p
Dividend per share
2 
Total Group (pence) 
12.0 pence pro forma full year 
dividend for 2012
14 13 12
12.6 8.0 
13.2 14.0 
8.0 
  Read more about our performance rewards on page 71 www.directlinegroup.com 27
Strategic report
Definition
We adjust earnings for restructuring 
and other one-off costs, and the 
result of our Run-off segment. These 
adjusted earnings, which reflect 
ongoing operations and the 
International division, are divided 
by the weighted average number 
of shares in issue, adjusted for 
dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
Aim
Given the cyclical nature of the 
insurance industry, we have not set 
a target for adjusted earnings per 
share. Growing earnings per share 
is considered one indicator of  
a healthy business.
Link to Directors’ remuneration
Growth in adjusted earnings per 
share is a key driver of share price 
performance and therefore 
contributes to TSR which the LTIP 
pay-out ratio is partly based on.
Definition
This is calculated by dividing  
the earnings attributable to the 
owners of the Company by the 
weighted average number of 
Ordinary Shares in issue.
Aim
Similar to adjusted earnings per 
share, we have not set a target. 
However, growing earnings per 
share is considered an indicator 
of a healthy business.
Link to Directors’ remuneration
This KPI replaces investment 
income yield as it links more 
directly to remuneration and 
reflects the Run-off segment and 
restructuring and other one-off 
costs. The AIP awards have  
a weighting to these other  
financial measures.
Definition
A measure to show the level  
of capital held compared to  
the level that is required, taking 
into account the risks the  
Group faces.
Aim
We target risk-based capital 
coverage between 125% and 
150% to remain within our risk 
appetite. We also aim to 
maintain a rating in the ‘A’ range 
from our credit rating agencies. 
Both of these aims were satisfied 
in 2014.
Link to Directors’ remuneration
Risk management within risk 
appetite, which includes an 
assessment of capital strength, 
acts as a gateway for the  
AIP awards.
Definition
The number of complaints 
received during the year as  
a proportion of the average 
number of in-force policies.
Aim
This measure indicates the  
level of customer service we 
provide. We aim to improve  
this over time.
Link to Directors’ remuneration
The AIP awards include a 
weighting to a balance of 
customer metrics.
24.0p
14 13 12
Basic earnings per 
share
2
 
 
(pence) 
12.3 
20.8 
24.0 
148.2%
14 13 12
Risk-based capital
coverage
3
 
Total Group
 
(%) 
145.4 
148.7 
148.2 
25.5p
14 13 12
Adjusted earnings per 
share – diluted
1
 – ongoing 
and International (pence) 
21.8 
25.0 
25.5 
0.35%
14 13 12
Complaints
 
Principal UK underwriter
4 
(%) 
0.36 
0.33 
0.35 
Notes:
1. Includes discontinued operations, see note 3 on page 5
2. For 2014 and 2013, basic earnings per share is presented for continuing operations and excludes discontinued operations. 2012 is for total Group.
3. Adjusted for the interim dividend announced in lieu of a final dividend and the second special interim dividend.
4. For the Group’s principal UK underwriter, U K Insurance Limited; it excludes discontinued operations. Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 28
Risk management
Managing risk
We have a robust and integrated risk management framework. 
This framework sets out and enables the monitoring of 
responsibilities and accountabilities for risk management  
and internal control for the whole business.
Our risk governance structure
The Board sets and monitors adherence to the risk strategy,  
risk appetite and risk framework. The Board has established  
a risk management model that separates the business’s risk 
management responsibilities into three lines of defence as 
shown in the diagram below.
The 1st Line of Defence is responsible for ownership and 
management of the risks to the achievement of business 
objectives on a day-to-day basis.
The 2nd Line of Defence is responsible for the provision of 
proportionate oversight of risks, issues, events and incidents.
Group Audit delivers the 3rd Line of Defence through the 
provision to the Board of an independent view of the 
effectiveness of risk management and controls.
Board
Executive
Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer
 Disclosure 
Committee
Risk Management 
Committee
3rd Line of Defence
Independent assurance
2nd Line of Defence
Oversight, challenge and support of 1st Line
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
CSR
Committee
Investment
Committee
Audit
Committee
Risk and Compliance
Specialist control functions 
with 1st and 2nd 
Line responsibilities: 
Finance
Chief Information Ofﬁce
Claims (Business Services)
Human Resources
Legal and Company 
Secretariat
 
Tools:
High level controls and 
systems of governance
Enterprise Risk Management
strategy and framework
Delegated authorities
Policies
Minimum standards
Risk appetite
Advice and guidance
Assurance and monitoring
Oversight and governance
Own Risk and Solvency Assessment
1st Line of Defence
Risk ownership
Group Audit Personal Lines
Commercial
Claims
Finance
Chief Information Ofﬁce
Human Resources
Board Risk
Committee
Board
 “Our risk and compliance strategy is integral 
to everything we do within our business.”
José Vazquez, Chief Risk Officer
The Chief Risk Officer is a member of the Executive Committee 
and reports to the Chief Executive Officer. He also has access to 
the Chair of the Board Risk Committee and the Chairman of the 
Board and he also has a right of access to the Audit Committee, 
assuring the Risk function’s independence. The Chief Risk Officer 
chairs the Risk Management Committee, which oversees the 
effective management of risk across the Group. www.directlinegroup.com 29
Strategic report
Managing risk in line with Group strategy
Management, and ultimately the Board, are responsible for 
developing our Group strategy. Our strategic planning process 
aims to ensure we have developed clear objectives and targets 
and identified the actions needed to deliver them. These must 
be consistent with our overall objective of a 15% RoTE and 
delivered in line with our risk appetite. For more information  
on our strategy, see page 16.
Delivering a strategic plan will, by its very nature, result in 
taking risks. Identification of these risks is a key aspect of the 
strategic planning process, placing importance on the link 
between strategy and its impact on capital. We place 
Enterprise-wide Risk Management (“ERM”) at the very heart  
of our approach.
Risk strategy and appetite
Direct Line Group’s risk appetite statements articulate the level 
of risk the Group is prepared to accept to achieve its business 
objectives. To monitor whether the Group remains within  
our risk appetite, the statements are aligned to key business  
metrics and used to drive risk-aware decision-making by  
key business stakeholders.
These metrics form key risk indicators (“KRIs”), which are both 
qualitative and quantitative, and forward and backward 
looking. We review our risk appetite statements and KRIs 
annually, using outputs from the Internal Economic Capital 
Model and taking our business plan into account. For 
information on our allocation of capital by risk type, see  
page 48.
The diagram below outlines the Group’s risk objectives and risk 
appetite statements.
Our ERM framework
ERM is the process of organising and controlling the activities of 
the whole Group so as to ensure we remain within risk appetite. 
To enable ERM, we have developed a framework comprising a 
number of components which are fundamental to good risk 
management. These are shown in the diagram overleaf.
A central component of the ERM framework is our policy 
framework, which includes policies and minimum standards. 
These inform the business how it needs to conduct its activities 
to remain within risk appetite.
We also employ a number of risk tools to manage and monitor 
our risks. We test and report on the output of these tools both 
internally and externally.
We have an annual review programme to ensure our ERM and 
policies remain fit for purpose.
Our strategy 
Risk objective Risk appetite statement
Overarching risk objective The Group recognises that its long term sustainability is dependent on having sufficient 
economic capital to meet our liabilities as they fall due, thus protecting our reputation  
and the integrity of our relationship with our policyholders and other stakeholders.
As part of this, our appetite is for general insurance risk, focusing on personal lines retail  
and SME insurance in the United Kingdom. We have appetite for non-insurance risks,  
as appropriate, to enable and assist us to undertake our primary activity of insurance.
Maintain capital adequacy We seek to maintain sufficient economic capital consistent with our strategic aim of achieving 
a standalone credit rating in the ‘A’ range. We also seek to hold capital resources in the 
range of 125%-150% of risk based capital.
Stable and efficient access to funding  
and liquidity
We aim to meet both planned and unexpected cash outflow requirements, including those 
requirements that arise following a 1 in 200-year insurance, market or credit risk event.
Maintain stakeholder confidence We have no appetite for material risks resulting in reputational damage, regulatory or legal 
censure, fines or prosecutions and other types of non-budgeted operational risk losses 
associated with the Group’s conduct and activities.
The Group will maintain a robust and proportionate internal control environment. Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 30
Risk management continued
Our risk culture
Our ERM strategy and framework sets out the mechanisms  
to manage risk aligned to our Group strategy. The Board 
approves our Group strategy, risk appetite and policy 
framework. The Board Risk Committee approves our ERM 
strategy and framework.
Risk culture involves applying the ERM strategy and 
framework’s principles, processes and tools in our day-to-day 
behaviour. A good risk culture is one where risk management 
is a significant part of the way we work.
Our risk culture focuses on the key areas of strategy, 
employees, promoting good governance, communication, 
systems and reporting.
Our culture and ERM strategy and framework are mutually 
supportive. We believe that the promotion of a good risk 
culture across the Group and by all of our employees helps 
embed risk management within our business.
Solvency II
Solvency II is the European insurance industry’s new framework 
for the capital adequacy regime. It establishes a revised set of 
European Union-wide capital requirements and risk management 
standards, which aim to better protect policyholders. Solvency II 
is scheduled for implementation on 1 January 2016. The Group 
continues to make progress to ensure we meet all requirements 
in line with developing best practice.
We are embedding the Group’s ERM framework in respect of 
Solvency II, including the use of forward looking risk assessment 
based on the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment (“ORSA”) 
principles. The Group continues to use and enhance its Internal 
Economic Capital Model, which is used to support our business 
and strategic decisions from a risk-based capital perspective.
Emerging risks
The Group’s definition of emerging risk is consistent with the 
Solvency II definition in that it focuses on newly developing  
or changing risks that are difficult to quantify but may have  
a major or material impact on the business. The Group  
has further defined emerging risks as fulfilling some of the 
following criteria:
• They are risks which are external to the Group
• They are new or changing risks
• They are subject to a high degree of uncertainty
• There is scope for mitigation either now or in the future
We record emerging risks within an Emerging Risk Register 
which aligns to the risk taxonomy underpinning the Material 
Risk Register. These emerging risks link into the ORSA reporting 
cycle. They are also part of the risk-reporting framework to the 
Executive Risk Management Committee and the Board Risk 
Committee for review, challenge and approval, and feed  
into the Board’s strategic planning process.
During 2014, we enhanced our emerging risks processes. 
Supported by stress and scenario testing, the processes  
aim to:
• Achieve early recognition of risks
• Reduce the uncertainty and volatility of business results
• Take a proactive approach to managing emerging risks
• Identify, manage and monitor a broader range of risks
• Mitigate the potential impact on our profit and loss account 
and balance sheet.
On 1 April 2014, the FCA took over the regulation of 
Consumer Credit from the Office of Fair Trading. Firms within 
the Group currently have interim permission for consumer credit 
activities and will be applying for full permissions during 2015.
Reporting and management information
Capital model
Risk appetite
Policy framework
Risk training and communication
Risk assesment 
including MRA
1
Issues 
management
Control environment
certiﬁcation
Culture
Key elements of the risk management framework
ERM strategy
Group strategy 
• ‘Big data’, including cybercrime, data regulation  
and information security
• Climate change
• New car technology, for example, driverless cars
• Major new market entrants
• New insurance distribution models
• Changing approach to conduct regulation
• Change in UK legislative environment
• Pandemics
Main emerging risks:
Note:
1. Material Risk Assessment www.directlinegroup.com 31
Strategic report
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risks are always present in our business. It is important to ensure that we identify, measure, monitor and report these risks 
throughout the business on an ongoing basis. We also monitor changes in these risks over time. We believe these risks  
are broadly unchanged over the last year. 
Principal risks Owner Management and mitigation examples
Insurance risk: Underwriting  
and pricing
We face the risk that future claims and 
expenses are not as predicted. This 
includes catastrophe risks arising from 
losses due to unpredictable natural  
and man-made events. See page 119.
Managing Directors 
of Personal Lines 
and Commercial
• We have set underwriting guidelines for all business transacted
• We refine pricing through analysis of comprehensive data
• We purchase Catastrophe and Motor excess of loss reinsurance, 
limiting our exposure to large losses
• We invest in enhanced external data to analyse and  
mitigate exposures 
Insurance risk: Reserving
We face the risk that the run-off of 
reserves is not as predicted, driven by 
our large Motor portfolio and periodic 
payment orders (“PPOs”) because of 
their long-term nature. See page 118.
Chief Financial 
Officer
• We estimate the technical reserves using a range of actuarial and 
statistical techniques
• We ensure that management’s best estimate of reserves is not less 
than the actuarial best estimate
• Our reserves estimates are subject to third-party reviews
Strategic risk
The risk of direct or indirect adverse 
impact on the earnings, capital, or 
value of the business as a result of the 
strategies not being optimally chosen, 
implemented or adapted to  
changing conditions.
Chief Executive 
Officer
• We have agreed strategic targets which are monitored and managed
• We run an annual strategy process which considers Group 
performance, competitor positioning and strategic opportunities
• We identify and manage emerging risks using an established 
governance process and forums
Operational risk
We face the risk of losses resulting from 
inadequate or failed internal processes, 
people and systems, or from  
external events.
Specific members 
of the Executive 
• We have strong operational processes and systems, including 
fraudulent claims detection systems
• We maintain a robust internal control environment, see page 60
• We have developed a bespoke risk capture, management and 
reporting system
Market risk
We are exposed to fluctuations 
in the value of, or the income from,  
our investment portfolio.  
See page 121.
Chief Financial 
Officer
• We manage and control our investment portfolio through:
 – investment strategy and guidelines approved by the Board; and
 – diversity in the types of assets held
• We use risk-reduction techniques such as hedging foreign currency 
exposures with forwards, and hedging US Dollar interest rates  
with swaps
Counterparty risk
We partner with many suppliers, in 
particular for reinsurance. The failure  
of any of these partners could result in 
a financial loss. See page 124.
Chief Financial 
Officer
• We set credit limits for each counterparty
• We only purchase reinsurance from reinsurers with a minimum  
‘A-’ rating
• We actively monitor broker credit exposures
Regulatory risk
Risk arises from changes in law and 
regulations (including changes of 
interpretation) not being identified, 
interpreted or adopted correctly,  
including Solvency II.
Chief Risk Officer • We have a constructive and open relationship with our regulators
• We use specific risk management tools and resources, such as our 
upstream risk team, to help manage exposure to regulatory risk
• We exercise risk-based monitoring to ensure we use our resources  
to the greatest impact
Conduct risk
Failure to treat our customers 
appropriately or failure by our  
people to behave with integrity.
Chief Executive 
Officer
• Our organisational culture prioritises a consistent approach to 
customers. Our customers’ interests are at the heart of how  
we operate
• We have developed a robust customer conduct risk management 
framework to minimise our exposure to conduct risk, see page 65
Brand and reputational risk
We depend on the strength of  
our brands and our reputation  
with customers and distributors.
Specific members 
of the Executive
• We regularly review our brand and reputational risk through our 
governance framework
• We undertake substantial marketing activities to protect and build our 
brands, and measure their effectiveness regularly
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 32
Corporate social responsibility
Establishing solid
foundations
We aspire to be the leading personal and small business general insurer in the 
UK. We know that we can succeed only if we earn the trust of our stakeholders. 
This means we must consider the impact of each and every decision we make  
on society, as well as thinking about what it means for our business.
Approach and priorities
CSR is about how we make our money. We believe being 
recognised as a trusted, responsible company can boost  
our reputation, engage our people and improve  
stakeholder relations.
Three key principles drive our approach:
• We acknowledge that we have a responsibility to wider 
society, including the community and the environment
• In our business of providing insurance and other services,  
we seek to operate in a way that demonstrates this  
wider responsibility
• This is a collective and individual responsibility
These principles are at the heart of our CSR Charter. The 
Charter defines our commitment to CSR and links to our values, 
code of conduct and policy framework, which guide our 
behaviour. The Charter is published on the Group’s website.
The CSR Advisory Group, formed of senior managers and 
chaired by a member of the Executive Committee, ensures  
CSR is embedded across our business. The Sustainability team 
supports the Advisory Group and manages CSR activity on  
a daily basis.
Four key strands – sustainable business practices, employee 
experience, community, and energy and environment –
provided the framework for our CSR activity in 2014 and  
form the basis of this report. External feedback and our own 
benchmarking indicate that we are making good progress.  
Full details of our performance against last year’s targets as 
well as our 2015 targets are set out on the Group’s website.
Having established solid foundations, for 2015 we have 
prioritised our focus areas for each strand to sharpen our 
approach. As shown in the graphic, they are ‘Helping to make 
our society safer’, ‘Proud to be here’, ‘Recognised as part of our 
communities’ and ‘Reduce, Reuse, Recycle’. A separate member 
of our Executive team is now responsible for each strand.
Sustainable business practices
Our products, services and operations affect our many 
stakeholders.
Working with Government
In order to ensure homeowners who are vulnerable to flooding 
continue to be able to receive affordable home insurance, we 
are working closely with Government with the aim of 
introducing the Flood Re programme in 2015.
The Government continued its programme of legal reforms to 
combat motor insurance fraud during the year. We have been 
actively involved in MoJ working groups to ensure a strong 
industry voice. Insurance fraud has a big impact on premiums  
so it is important for customers that we achieve the right 
outcome from these reforms.
We recognise that there is a general concern about lobbying 
and we continue to engage only in public policy debates that 
have an impact on our business or our stakeholders. We do 
not support party political interests or make political donations.
  Our approach is overseen by the CSR Committee,  
see page 66
Our CSR strategy
Helping to make our 
society safer
Proud to be here
Recognised as part 
of our communities
Reduce, Reuse and Recycle www.directlinegroup.com 33
Strategic report
In 2015, we are focusing on developing our supplier-
management programme, promoting CSR across our strategic 
suppliers, and setting challenging targets to reduce our impact 
on the environments in which we operate.
Living wage
We ensure all our employees, whether in our offices or our 
Accident Repair Centres, are paid at or above the living wage.
Responsible investment
We look to mandate external asset managers who show  
they are committed to using their market leverage to support 
environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) objectives.  
We favour asset managers with an active, ongoing 
demonstrable engagement in local or global ESG initiatives 
and encourage them to be signatories to the UN Principles  
for Responsible Investment. However, we do not set ethical 
parameters for our asset managers regarding the issuers in 
which they can or cannot invest. In 2014, we approved a 
mandate to invest in UK infrastructure debt. We require at  
least 30% of this mandate, once invested fully, to be allocated 
to social-infrastructure assets, for example, healthcare, 
education and government buildings.
Energy and environment
We aim to manage our operations in a sustainable way.
Emissions
Group-wide greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions are shown in 
the chart below. You can find more details of our emissions in 
the Directors’ report on page 96.
Energy use is a key driver of our emissions. Our Property 
Management team has developed an energy-saving plan. This 
involves seeking to optimise our buildings’ heating, ventilation 
and air-conditioning systems, and a programme of investment 
in energy-efficient devices, such as lighting. Since April 2014, 
100% of the Group’s purchased electricity has been from 
renewable sources on green tariffs.
Improving road safety
In our Motor division, we developed our telematics 
propositions. The technology enables us to better assess each 
person’s driving risk. More importantly, the feedback we give 
drivers encourages safer and more considerate driving, which 
we expect will help lead to safer roads. We have aimed our 
telematics propositions primarily at younger drivers, who are 
disproportionately involved in road traffic accidents.
In September 2014, we highlighted a rarely addressed  
road safety issue to Government: drink-driving among women. 
Our report, ‘Drinking Amongst British Women and its Impact  
on their Pedestrian and Driving Activities’, found that the 
percentage of those convicted of drink driving who are women 
had nearly doubled since 1998. Consequently, the 
Government said it would consider how its anti-drink-driving 
THINK! campaigns might target a female audience.
We have a long-standing partnership with ‘Brake’, the road-
safety charity. We have funded Brake’s research into driver 
attitudes and behaviours and used the findings to run a series of 
media campaigns to raise awareness of topical road safety 
issues such as driving under the influence of drink or drugs, long 
journeys and the effects of tiredness, speeding, driving in winter 
conditions and the importance of proper car maintenance.
We also sponsored Brake’s Parliamentarian of the Year 
Awards, which recognise Members of Parliament who 
campaign on road safety issues, and supported its primary 
school education programme, ‘Beep Beep!’
Within our network of Accident Repair Centres we operate  
a fleet of 73 trucks. During 2014, we fitted all our trucks with  
a safety tool called ‘Tracker Fleet’. This enables us to improve 
route planning, which reduces fuel costs and carbon emissions; 
monitor and avoid traffic hotspots; view truck locations to cut 
down on calls to drivers; and gather driving-behaviour data  
to raise awareness of road safety issues.
Our trucks operate mainly in urban areas with high 
populations. The Government has targeted these areas for 
investment in cycling. Not surprisingly, accidents involving 
cyclists and large vehicles, such as trucks, often result in serious 
injury. That is why we are trialling a new closed-circuit 
television (“CCTV”) system which improves visibility around 
trucks and warns drivers of potential hazards. If successful, we 
will roll out CCTV to the entire fleet in 2015.
Suppliers
Our Ethical Code for Suppliers sets out our approach to 
managing CSR-related matters across our supply chain.
Last year, within our Home Repair Network, we partnered with 
a new supplier, ‘Anyjunk’. Following a claim, Anyjunk offers  
a ‘man in a van’ waste collection service that removes and  
looks to recycle household waste. Anyjunk reports regularly on 
what it has collected and recycled. This greatly improves the 
transparency of our business. Anyjunk is currently recycling  
85% of the waste collected from our customers.
6.2%
14 13
Greenhouse gas 
emissions
1
 (tonnes)
29,127
27,308
14 13
Paper used
2
(tonnes)
118
52
56%
Notes:
1. Emissions for continuing operations. This excludes discontinued operations, 
the Group’s International division. Total Group emissions including 
discontinued operations are 28,759 tonnes (2013: 30,624 tonnes).
2. Paper used for 2013 has been re-presented for printing and copying at our 
main office sites.
 85%
Waste recycled from our Home Repair Network claims Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 34
Corporate social responsibility continued
Waste
After introducing a new system to sort waste at source,  
we recycled an average of 40% of waste from our offices  
and 60% of waste from our UK Accident Repair Centres.
We diverted 86% of our waste from landfill in 2014  
including recycling.
Paper use
Through our desktop and printing transformation programme, 
we have replaced our old hardware with new Multi Functional 
Devices (“MFDs”). This has significantly reduced energy and 
paper use. The graph on the previous page shows our paper 
consumption. Our office paper is made from recycled material. 
All our waste paper is recycled.
Employee experience
Our people strategy continued its focus on ensuring we have 
the right capability to deliver our strategic objectives with 
particular focus on leadership and people managers.
Engagement
Our business areas focused on capability and engagement plans 
to help embed and build upon the transformational activity of the 
previous year. Our aim of involving people and encouraging a 
sense of ownership led to the continued development of our 
employee representative bodies and other participative 
approaches as well as key initiatives such as confirming a further 
free share award, see page 155, and enhancements to our 
Buy-as-you-Earn scheme effective in early 2015.
Employee feedback remains an important gauge. During the 
first half of 2014 we completed a ‘pulse’ survey, with our new 
employee opinion survey DiaLoGue taking place in November. 
DiaLoGue uses a significantly more robust and demanding 
measure of engagement that is directly linked  
to our strategic priorities.
On a like-for-like basis, engagement has increased overall  
to 76% (2013: 71%). Using the new and more challenging 
methodology which is aligned to our ambition to be a top 
employer we scored 45% which is comparable to industry 
norms. The survey continues to show that people have a strong 
understanding of our ambitions, customer focus and  
a commitment to playing a part in the future growth of the 
Group and we will continue to build from this positive base 
over coming years.
Recognition
We made a key change to our recognition framework in 2014 
by redesigning our Chief Executive Awards programme. This 
provided greater autonomy for business locations to nominate and 
decide who should receive an award for contributions relating to 
our Company values. Each location organised the event that best 
suited their people.
The changes proved a great success, resulting in a more 
tailored and personal approach, and really positive feedback. 
Since launch, eight ceremonies have been held with over 
2,000 nominations resulting in more than 400 people being 
shortlisted and over 100 people being recognised for  
their contribution.
Human rights and diversity
Our diversity and inclusion practices are in line with the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We continue to work 
towards an environment that is based on meritocracy and 
inclusion, where all employees can develop to their full 
potential. This is irrespective of their age, beliefs, disability, 
ethnic or national origin, gender, gender identity, marital or 
civil partnership status, political opinion, race, religion or 
sexual orientation.
Through our Ethical Code for Suppliers, we adhere to the core 
International Labour Organization standards.
During 2014, our Diversity Network Alliance (“DNA”) 
continued building its visibility throughout the business by,  
for example, attending London Pride and giving employees the 
opportunity to learn about a range of diversity topics through 
informative articles on the company intranet. DNA also 
promoted an inclusive culture through a series of networking 
and educational events, and seminars covering unconscious 
bias, balancing work and other topics.
Male 5,598
Female 5,334
Gender diversity of all employees 
Waste recycled 40
Diverted from landﬁll 46
Ofﬁce waste 
(%)
Waste to landﬁll 14
86%
Landﬁll
diverted
 100%
Electricity from renewable sources on green tariffs www.directlinegroup.com 35
Strategic report
The ratio of female-to-male employees at 31 December 2014 
is shown in the charts.
Community
We believe how our people feel about working here is linked 
to our wider reputation in the community. That is why we seek 
to align our giving with our employees’ interests.
Community and social committees
To drive engagement among our people, we operate a 
network of Community and Social Committees (“CASCs”),  
The CASCs, which comprise local volunteers, receive central 
funding and support. Within an agreed framework, they are 
free to create their own programme of events and activities  
for their site, and build relationships with local charities and 
voluntary organisations.
We encourage all employees to volunteer individually or as  
a team through our ‘One Day initiative’, ideally with a local 
organisation with which they already have a connection.  
For example, our Logistics team chose to support the charity, 
‘Carers Leeds’. The team helped the charity to reduce the costs 
associated with mailing out their newsletters.
According to our Employee Opinion Survey, last year 31%  
of staff fundraised or volunteered in Company time.
Matched giving
We operate a well-established and generous Payroll Giving 
scheme that matches regular employee charitable donations up 
to £50 per month. In 2014, we achieved Silver in the ‘Payroll 
Giving Quality Mark and Awards’. The Awards, administered 
by the Institute of Fundraising and supported by the Cabinet 
Office, recognise and reward businesses that are committed  
to Payroll Giving.
We also provide grants of £250 to organisations for which 
our employees regularly volunteer or raise funds in their  
own time.
In 2014, our employees donated £154,000 through our 
Payroll Giving scheme and we donated a further £94,000  
in matched giving. We also donated £46,000 in grants.
Strategic partnerships
In addition to our partnership with the road safety charity 
Brake, see page 33, we have recycled funds received  
from taking on apprentices through the Government’s Wage 
Incentive Scheme and used them to help other young 
unemployed people through a structured programme of  
support delivered by the leading charity, ‘Groundwork’.
Male 102
Female 27
Gender diversity of senior managers 
Male 6
Female 3
Gender diversity of Board members 
£ 1 54,000
Employee donations through our  
Payroll Giving scheme
31 %
Employees volunteering or fundraising  
in company time Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 36
Operating review  
36 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 
Personal lines 
“We continue to improve our customer 
experience and propositions through 
investing in new capabilities.” 
Mike Holliday-Williams 
Managing Director of Personal Lines 
Motor 
Highlights 
• Retained position as Britain’s leading personal motor insurer, 
with a 13.1% share of in-force policies
1
 
• Operating profit reduced by 14.6% due to lower levels of 
prior-year reserve releases and adverse large bodily injury 
claims volatility in 2014, partly offset by lower costs and  
a higher investment return 
• Continued to develop customer functionality and propositions 
during the year, launched new tablet and smartphone-
optimised websites and a self-install telematics proposition 
Performance highlights 
2014 2013
In-force policies (thousands) 3,672 3,762
Gross written premium £1,342.0m £1,421.1m
Loss ratio 67.0% 65.1%
Commission ratio 3.2% 2.5%
Expense ratio 26.0% 25.6%
Combined operating ratio 96.2% 93.2%
Operating profit £297.1m £347.7m
Market 
The UK economy continued expanding, while in the European 
Union area output grew modestly and domestic demand 
weakened. This may subdue UK growth in the future. 
Consumer price inflation has been lower than expected. This 
led to a delay in anticipated rises in base interest rates and 
continued the trend of low investment returns on debt securities. 
The total number of cars on the road increased to 32 million 
supported by car manufacturing, rising approximately 4% on 
the previous period, as economic confidence rose. Fuel prices 
were broadly stable for most of the year although did fall late 
in the year, while total distance travelled increased. 
The motor insurance market was highly competitive with  
further premium deflation at the start of the year. As the year 
progressed premium rates flattened. PCWs continued to take  
a central role in the market as customers shopped around.  
The CMA introduced a ban on wide ‘most favoured nation’ 
clauses, which aims to increase competition further.
Performance 
We continued enhancing our customer functionality through 
new tablet and smartphone-optimised websites. We also 
improved our customer propositions, including rolling out a  
self-install telematics proposition. 
We continued making choices designed to optimise value and 
prioritise underwriting profit over volume growth. Furthermore, 
these results reflected previous actions to reduce risk and 
manage claims costs. These have helped us manage the 
business successfully through a dynamic and evolving 
regulatory landscape and competitive marketplace. 
Effect on premium income of changes in price and risk mix
2
 
Q4 
2014
Q3  
2014 
Q2 
2014
Q1 
2014
Change in price 1.7% − (2.3%) (5.1%)
Change in risk 
mix (1.0%) (2.6%) (2.3%) (1.0%)
Gross written premium of £1,342.0 million reduced by 5.6% 
and in-force policies reduced by 2.4%, compared with 2013. 
Overall, prices increased marginally in the fourth quarter of 
2014 compared with the same period last year, while risk mix 
reduced by 1.0%. Our prices were more competitive in a 
stable market, and the benefits from improvements in pricing 
capability continued. 
Underwriting profit reduced by 49.2% to £49.8 million.  
This was mainly due to lower, albeit still significant, prior-year 
reserve releases and adverse volatility in large bodily injury 
claims in 2014. These factors increased the loss ratio by  
1.9 percentage points. The expense ratio deteriorated by  
0.4 percentage points as benefits from the Group’s cost saving 
plans were offset by a reduction in net earned premium. The 
commission ratio deteriorated by 0.7 percentage points as  
a result of an increase in profit commission payments due  
to partners. 
Overall operating profit was £297.1 million, a reduction of 
14.6% compared with 2013, as lower underwriting profit  
and lower other income was offset by better investment returns. 
Outlook 
A number of headwinds are facing the motor market as we 
enter 2015, in particular the return to a more normal long-term 
claims inflation versus evidence in the early part of the year of 
continued market competition. Against these headwinds, we 
end the year conservatively reserved, from which we continue 
to expect material reserve releases assuming current claims 
trends continue, and a programme of initiatives to deliver 
further capability improvements. 
Notes: 
1. See note 1 on page 7 
2. Risk mix reflects the expected level of claims from the portfolio. It measures the estimated quarterly movement to the same quarter in the previous year based on  
risk models used in that period and is revised when risk models are updated.  Strategic report
www.directlinegroup.com 37
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.directlinegroup.com 37 
Home 
Highlights 
• Retained position as one of Britain’s leading home insurers 
with a 16.7% share of in-force policies
1
 
• Own brand customer retention improved on last year as we 
continued investing in pricing programmes 
• Delivered claims customer experience improvements using 
smartphone technology for Home claims assessment 
• Operating profit increased by 7.3% due to an improved 
attritional loss ratio performance and lower costs, partially 
offset by higher profit commissions due to partners. 
• COR improved by 1.1 percentage points to 92.7% 
Performance highlights 
2014 2013
In-force policies (thousands) 3,526 3,719
Gross written premium £898.6m £943.1m
Loss ratio 50.8% 53.9%
Commission ratio 21.7% 19.6%
Expense ratio 20.2% 20.3%
Combined operating ratio 92.7% 93.8%
Operating profit £113.9m £106.2m
Market 
The economic downturn strongly affected new home building. 
However, this has now recovered and increased by 16%  
on the previous period. This led to the overall net supply of 
new house builds increasing by 10% on the previous year. 
Competition in the home insurance market increased and the 
market trend of new business premium deflation continued
2
.  
A number of trends contributed to the competition including 
growth in the use of PCWs, increased competitiveness from 
insurers via panels, in some cases supported by reinsurers,  
and motor insurance providers focusing on home insurance 
products. Changes in the regulatory environment continued  
to affect banks and building societies, and their branch sales 
of insurance were subdued. 
The insurance industry continued working with the government 
and the Association of British Insurers on the set up of Flood Re 
and the associated levies, costs and processes. This aims to 
make home insurance more affordable for customers in the 
highest-risk flood areas. 
Performance 
We delivered another good result in 2014, as we continued 
investing in pricing programmes and claims transformation 
allowing us to compete in an increasingly competitive  
market. Own brands customer retention also improved on  
the previous year. 
Gross written premium of £898.6 million reduced by 4.7% 
and in-force policies fell by 5.2% since last year. This was 
mainly due to lower new business volumes impacted by 
competitive market conditions, partially offset by an 
improvement in customer retention. 
Underwriting profit increased by 13.0% to £63.5 million. The 
loss ratio improved by 3.1 percentage points reflecting a focus 
on enhancing risk selection and continued prior-year reserve 
releases. Claims costs from major weather events of £63 million 
were broadly in line with 2013 (£69 million). Adjusting for 
claims from major weather events the current-year attritional loss 
ratio of 49.2% was 1.9 percentage points lower than 2013. 
The commission ratio deteriorated by 2.1 percentage points 
due to a one-off adjustment to historic profit-share payments 
and increased profit-share payments as a result of higher 
profitability in 2014. The expense ratio improved by 0.1 of  
a percentage point as lower costs from improvements across  
the Group were partly offset by a reduction in net earned 
premium. Overall, operating profit improved by 7.3%. 
Outlook 
Following significant new business premium deflation in 2014, 
the home market has stabilised in the early part of 2015, but 
remains an area of uncertainty. For own brands, we will 
continue to use the benefits from our pricing and claims initiatives 
to enhance our competitive position, while working with our 
partners to optimise the value of their current market positions. 
One of our largest partners, Nationwide, is currently reviewing 
its home insurance provider as our contract approaches 
renewal. We will continue to work with key stakeholders to 
facilitate a successful implementation of Flood Re. 
Notes: 
1. See note 1 on page 7 
2. Based on online independent research by Consumer Intelligence in 2014; data obtained from 2,100 risk profiles from 34 companies.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 38
Operating review continued 
38 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 
Rescue and other personal lines 
Highlights 
• Rescue in-force policies grew by 3.3% in the year, driven  
by Green Flag’s new marketing campaigns and propositions 
• Other personal lines in-force policies reduced by 7.0%,  
due to a reduction in Travel policies connected to the sale  
of packaged bank accounts 
• Gross written premium decreased by 3.0% to £371.8 
million, driven by the sale of Direct Line Life Insurance 
Company Limited (the “Life business”) in November 2013 
• Adjusting for the Life business, underlying gross written 
premium rose 4.5%, primarily due to Green Flag and  
pricing initiatives 
• Operating profit increased by 3.2%, due to Green Flag’s 
strong underlying performance and higher prior-year reserve 
releases in Travel than in 2013 
Performance highlights 
2014 2013
In-force policies (thousands)  
Rescue 4,075 3,944
Pet 221 246
Travel 4,061 4,295
Other 235 316
Gross written premium £371.8m £383.4m
Loss ratio 57.4% 60.1%
Commission ratio 9.4% 7.5%
Expense ratio 25.2% 24.8%
Combined operating ratio 92.0% 92.4%
Operating profit £48.0m £46.5m
Market 
The wider economic trends are similar to those detailed in  
the Motor and Home market reviews on pages 36 to 37. 
The roadside assistance market, in which there are three key 
providers including Green Flag, is expected to grow broadly 
in line with the number of cars on the road. Roadside 
assistance products are bought direct from providers; linked to 
the sale of motor insurance; through PCWs; and provided as  
a component of a packaged bank account through partners. 
Customers place a high level of importance on service. 
The number of pets in the UK remained stable over the last 
year, as has the level of customer take-up of insurance cover
1
. 
However, higher veterinary medical costs led to increased 
claims costs. Providers mitigated these costs by increasing 
average premiums. For insurance providers, veterinary 
practices also remained a key distribution route to customers. 
High volumes and penetration rates continued to characterise 
the travel insurance market. The uptake of insurance mirrored 
the UK population taking an increasing number of trips 
abroad, as the economy improved. Medical claims continued 
to represent the largest component of claims spend. However, 
the strength of the Pound Sterling partially offset overseas 
medical inflationary pressures on claims costs in 2014. 
Customers continued to purchase cover through PCWs and  
as part of packaged bank accounts. Purchases through  
travel agents have reduced over time. 
Performance 
A new marketing campaign and propositions, including our 
misfuelling proposition, successfully continued to differentiate 
Green Flag from its peers. Our Travel and Pet product lines 
delivered positive results, in Travel this resulted from price 
increases. The results included higher prior-year reserve releases. 
Gross written premium of £371.8 million decreased by 3.0% 
from £383.4 million in 2013. This was due to the sale of  
the Life business in November 2013. Adjusting for the Life 
business, underlying gross written premium increased by 4.5%. 
This reflected increased direct sales of Green Flag products. 
Gross written premium for Travel products increased 8.9%, 
resulting from price increases, which offset a reduction in in-
force policies. Pet gross written premium remained stable. 
Underwriting profit increased by £1.7 million on 2013 while 
the loss ratio improved by 2.7 percentage points to 57.4% 
due to an improved underlying performance benefitting from 
price increases, reduction of claims from weather and higher 
prior-year reserve releases. The expense ratio deteriorated 
marginally by 0.4 percentage points. Overall, operating profit 
increased 3.2% to £48.0 million. Of the total operating profit, 
Rescue delivered £41.5 million, a £3.3 million improvement 
on the previous year. 
Outlook 
Rescue and other personal lines continues to represent an 
opportunity to meet customers’ broader insurance needs and 
create additional value for the Group. Green Flag represents a 
strong offering in the Rescue market and we will look to build 
on its recent market share gains. During 2015, we also aim to 
review our Pet operating models to enhance our service while 
updating our customer proposition. 
Note: 
1. Source: Association of British Insurers  Strategic report
www.directlinegroup.com 39
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.directlinegroup.com 39 
Commercial 
“By focusing on the SME sector, 
maintaining our underwriting discipline  
and driving improvements in efficiencies, 
we exceeded our target and delivered  
a COR of 98.8%.” 
Jon Greenwood 
Managing Director of Commercial 
Highlights 
• Achieved the sub-100% COR target set for 2014, delivering 
a COR of 98.8% 
• In-force policies continued to increase with 4.8% growth  
in 2014. This was driven by Landlord and Tradesman 
products, and partially offset by a reduction in Van 
• Gross written premium increased by 2.6% to £487.0 
million, with growth in eTrade and Direct Line for Business, 
partially offset by Van 
• Continued improvement of the eTrade products and 
propositions, and launched a Churchill Van product 
• Operating profit of £47.0 million represented a substantial 
increase on 2013, due to a continued focus on disciplined 
underwriting and cost control 
Performance highlights 
2014 2013
In-force policies (thousands) 611 583
Gross written premium £487.0m £474.5m
Loss ratio 57.1% 62.3%
Commission ratio 19.7% 21.2%
Expense ratio 22.0% 23.3%
Combined operating ratio 98.8% 106.8%
Operating profit £47.0m £9.5m
Market 
The UK economy, business investment and productivity 
continued expanding. The number of new companies 
registered and people in employment has risen. 
Businesses are increasingly purchasing policies online and 
through banks. The purchase of commercial van insurance 
direct from insurance providers remains the main channel  
for this product. 
Levels of buy-to-let lending rose on last year. Tighter lending 
criteria were introduced in April 2014 for home owner-
occupier mortgages. These do not apply to buy-to-let 
mortgages and in fact, the proportion of privately rented 
residential properties is more than one in six – the highest  
level since the 1970s. 
Performance 
In-force policies continued to increase with 4.8% growth in 
2014. Growth was particularly in the strategically important 
Direct Line for Business and eTrade segments, with higher in-
force policies from Landlord and Tradesman products. We 
continued to improve the functionality of our eTrade product 
suite and launched a Churchill Van product, which focuses  
on growing distribution through PCWs. We also piloted 
telematics propositions with Direct Line for Business and  
NIG customers. 
Gross written premium increased by 2.6% compared to last year, 
with growth in eTrade and Direct Line for Business benefiting from 
previous investments. The commercial van market, similar to the 
UK personal motor market, was highly competitive. 
The COR improved to 98.8%, achieving our 2014 target. The 
loss ratio improved by 5.2 percentage points to 57.1%, driven 
by a continued focus on disciplined underwriting and the non-
repeat of the above-average level of large claims experienced 
in 2013. This included significant prior-year reserve releases, 
which were broadly in line with the level of 2013. The 
expense ratio improved by 1.3 percentage points to 22.0%. 
This was due to the continued benefits from our regional 
restructure during the previous year and cost improvement 
programmes across the Group. The commission ratio  
improved by 1.5 percentage points to 19.7%. 
Overall operating profit increased by £37.5 million to £47.0 
million for the year. This was delivered principally due to a 
continued focus on disciplined underwriting and cost control. 
Outlook 
In 2015, we aim to build on the profitable position established 
by the Commercial division following the achievement of its 
COR target in 2014. In particular, we are looking to further 
our ambition in the direct and eTrade broker channels where 
the Group has recently invested and where we believe we  
will be increasingly competitively advantaged. 
 
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 40
Finance review 
40 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 
Delivering 
performance 
 
John Reizenstein 
Chief Financial Officer 
“This year, we met our key financial targets 
while continuing to invest for the future.” 
Highlights 
• Operating profit from ongoing operations
1
 of £506.0 
million for 2014, down 0.8%, (2013: £509.9 million) 
• Profit before tax of £456.8 million (2013: £407.3 million) 
increased 12.2%, reflecting a reduction in restructuring and 
other one-off costs 
• Gross written premium for ongoing operations decreased by 
3.8%, reflecting disciplined underwriting in competitive markets 
• Combined operating ratio for ongoing operations of 95.0%, 
an improvement of 0.2 of a percentage point 
• Return on tangible equity
2
 of 16.8% for 2014 (2013: 16.0%) 
• Second special interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share 
declared and final
3
 dividend of 8.8 pence per share proposed 
 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Ongoing operations
1
  
In-force policies (thousands) 16,401  16,865 
Gross written premium 3,099.4  3,222.1 
Net earned premium 2,987.1  3,154.1 
Underwriting profit 148.1  152.6 
Instalment and other  
operating income 147.3  172.6 
Investment return 210.6  184.7 
Operating profit – ongoing 
operations 506.0  509.9 
Run-off  55.3  63.6 
Restructuring and other  
one-off costs (69.6) (140.5)
Operating profit 491.7  433.0 
Finance costs (37.2) (37.7)
Gain on disposal of subsidiaries 2.3  12.0 
Profit before tax 456.8  407.3 
Tax (97.5) (96.5)
Profit from discontinued 
operations, net of tax 13.3  2.0 
Profit after tax 372.6  312.8 
Of which is ongoing 
operations 368.0  362.4 
Key metrics   
Loss ratio
1
 59.6% 60.9%
Commission ratio
1
 11.8% 10.6%
Expense ratio
1
 23.6% 23.7%
Combined operating ratio
1
 95.0% 95.2%
Investment income yield – 
continuing operations 2.4% 2.1%
Investment return – continuing 
operations 2.9% 2.4%
Basic earnings per share – 
continuing operations (pence) 24.0  20.8 
Adjusted earnings per share
4
 – 
diluted (pence) 25.5  25.0 
Return on tangible equity
2
 16.8% 16.0%
Net asset value per share 
(pence) 188.2  186.6 
Tangible net asset value  
per share (pence) 153.1  153.2 
Dividend per share  
– interim (pence) 4.4  4.2 
– final (pence) 8.8  8.4 
– regular (pence) 13.2  12.6 
– first special (pence) 10.0  4.0 
– second special (pence) 4.0  4.0 
– total (pence) 27.2  20.6 
  
  
  
 
Notes: 
1. See note 2 on page 4 
2. See note 1 on page 4 
3. Second interim dividend declared in lieu of a final dividend 
4. See note 3 on page 5  Strategic report
www.directlinegroup.com 41
 
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.directlinegroup.com 41 
Performance 
On 25 September 2014, the Group entered into a binding 
agreement for the sale, subject to regulatory approval, of its 
International division and accordingly has treated this division 
as discontinued operations. 
Operating profit – ongoing operations
1
 
2014  
£m 
2013
£m
Underwriting profit 148.1  152.6 
Instalment and other operating 
income 147.3  172.6 
Investment return 210.6  184.7 
Operating profit 506.0  509.9 
In 2014, operating profit from ongoing operations was stable 
at £506.0 million (2013: £509.9 million). The underwriting 
result was marginally lower by 2.9% as lower net earned 
premium more than offset the improvement in COR to 95.0% 
(2013: 95.2%). This reflected investment in pricing capability 
and focus on underwriting discipline. A lower cost base 
reflecting an ongoing focus on operating efficiency was partly 
offset by higher profit-share payments to partners. The 
investment return increase of 14.0%, driven by changes in the 
asset mix as the Group moved towards its target allocation 
and favourable unrealised gains on investment property, was 
offset by lower instalment and other operating income. 
In-force policies and gross written premium 
In-force policies – ongoing operations (thousands) 
At 31 December 2014  2013 
Own brands 3,415  3,466 
Partnerships 257  296 
Motor total 3,672  3,762 
 
Own brands 1,693  1,749 
Partnerships 1,833  1,970 
Home total 3,526  3,719 
 
Rescue 4,075  3,944 
Other personal lines 4,517  4,857 
Rescue and other personal lines 8,592  8,801 
 
Commercial 611  583 
Total ongoing 16,401  16,865 
During 2014, in-force policies for ongoing operations 
decreased by 2.8% to 16.4 million. The fall primarily related 
to other personal lines, within the Rescue and other personal 
lines division, and Home. The reduction in Rescue and other 
personal lines was mainly due to fewer Travel policies 
connected to packaged bank accounts. However, Rescue in-
force policies grew by 3.3%, driven by Green Flag’s new 
marketing campaign and propositions. 
The reduction in Motor and Home in-force policies of 2.4% 
and 5.2% respectively reflected the Group’s focus on 
maintaining its underwriting discipline in a competitive 
marketplace. Within Home, own-brand in-force policies 
reduced by 3.2% compared to the same period in 2013.  
This reflected lower new-business volumes, partially offset  
by a high retention rate. 
In-force policy growth in Commercial arose mainly from  
Direct Line for Business with positive effects from Landlord and 
Tradesman products, partially offset by a reduction in Van. 
Gross written premium – ongoing operations 
 
2014  
£m 
2013
£m
Own brands 1,248.4 1,305.2
Partnerships 93.6 115.9
Motor total 1,342.0  1,421.1 
 
Own brands 416.2 434.8
Partnerships 482.4 508.3
Home total 898.6  943.1 
 
Rescue 156.9 146.9
Other personal lines 214.9 236.5
Rescue and other personal lines 371.8  383.4 
 
Commercial 487.0  474.5 
Total ongoing 3,099.4  3,222.1 
Gross written premium of £3,099.4 million reduced by 3.8% 
compared with the prior year (2013: £3,222.1 million). This 
reflected the impact of competitive motor and home insurance 
markets, together with the Group’s continued focus on 
maintaining its underwriting discipline. 
Gross written premium for Commercial of £487.0 million 
increased by 2.6% (2013: £474.5 million). The division 
continued to benefit from previous investments and focus  
on Direct Line for Business and eTrade. The commercial  
van market, similar to the personal motor market, remained 
highly competitive. 
Underwriting profit – ongoing operations 
 2014  2013 
Underwriting profit (£ million) 148.1  152.6 
Loss ratio 59.6% 60.9%
Commission ratio 11.8% 10.6%
Expense ratio 23.6% 23.7%
Combined operating ratio 95.0% 95.2%
The COR for ongoing operations improved slightly in 2014 to 
95.0% (2013: 95.2%) as a lower loss ratio was offset by a 
higher commission ratio. Adjusted for a normal level of claims 
from major weather events and including International, the 
Group’s COR was approximately 96%, within the guidance 
range for 2014 of 95% to 97%. 
Note: 
1. See note 2 on page 4  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 42
Finance review continued 
42 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 
Within the overall COR improvement, there was a 1.3 
percentage point reduction in the loss ratio. This arose from an 
improvement in the attritional loss ratio and higher prior-year 
reserve releases of £397.6 million as a percentage of net 
earned premium (2013: £395.8 million). Home claims from 
major weather events decreased by approximately £6 million 
on the previous year. In 2014, these claims totalled 
approximately £63 million (2013: approximately £69 million). 
During the year, the commission ratio increased by  
1.2 percentage points to 11.8% (2013: 10.6%). This was  
mainly due to profit-share payments due to partners in  
Motor and Home. 
Reflecting the benefit of cost reduction initiatives, which more 
than offset the effect of lower net earned premium, the expense 
ratio decreased by 0.1 of a percentage point to 23.6%. 
Current-year attritional-loss ratio – ongoing operations 
2014  2013 
Reported loss ratio 59.6%  60.9% 
Prior-year reserve releases 13.3%  12.6% 
Major weather events – Home
1
 (2.1%) (2.2%)
Current-year attritional loss 
ratio 70.8%  71.3% 
The movement in the current-year attritional loss ratio is a  
key indicator of underlying accident year performance as it 
excludes prior-year reserve movements, and claims from major 
weather events in the Home division. The Group’s current-year 
attritional loss ratio improved by 0.5 percentage points to 
70.8% in 2014 (2013: 71.3%). This reflected improved 
performance in Home, Commercial and Rescue and other 
personal lines, partially offset by Motor. 
Prior-year reserve releases from ongoing operations continued 
to be significant at £397.6 million and were a similar level  
to the previous year (2013: £395.8 million). Prior-year reserve 
releases were equivalent to 13.3% of net earned premium 
(2013: 12.6% of net earned premium). If current claims trends 
continue, the Group expects further significant reserve releases 
to continue in 2015, albeit the overall level is expected to be 
lower than in 2014. 
By division, the COR improved in Home, Commercial,  
and Rescue and other personal lines compared with 2013,  
but deteriorated in Motor. 
Motor 
In Motor, the 3.0 percentage points deterioration in the COR 
principally reflects an increase in the loss and commission 
ratios. Reserve releases of £278.4 million in 2014 were 
driven primarily by continued favourable experience on bodily 
injury claims across recent accident years. This was partly 
attributable to benefits arising from the Group’s claims 
transformation programme as well as the Legal Aid, 
Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act reforms. The 
Group believes that it is currently outperforming the industry  
in respect of small bodily injury claims experience. The current-
year attritional loss ratio deteriorated by 3.2 percentage points  
to 88.5%. This was primarily a result of higher costs for large 
bodily injury claims in the 2014 accident year, which the 
Group considers to be due to the intrinsic volatility in this  
type of claim. 
Home 
The COR for the Home division improved to 92.7% in 2014 
from 93.8% in the previous year. The current-year attritional 
loss ratio improved by 1.8 percentage points on the previous 
year, reflecting the benefits of a disciplined underwriting 
approach and favourable underlying claims experience. 
Reserve releases were slightly higher than prior year at £49.8 
million (2013: £43.3 million). In 2014, claims from major 
weather events totalled approximately £63 million compared 
with approximately £69 million in 2013. This was partially 
offset by a higher commission ratio reflecting increased profit-
share payments due to partners. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis by division 
  
 Motor Home
Rescue and other 
personal lines Commercial Total ongoing
For the year ended 31 December 2014   
Combined operating ratio 96.2% 92.7% 92.0% 98.8% 95.0%
Current-year attritional loss ratio 88.5% 49.3% 61.7% 69.2% 70.8%
Prior-year reserve releases (£ million)
2
 278.4 49.8 15.7 53.7 397.6
For the year ended 31 December 2013   
Combined operating ratio 93.2% 93.8% 92.4% 106.8% 95.2%
Current-year attritional loss ratio 85.3% 51.1% 62.5% 74.1% 71.3%
Prior-year reserve releases (£ million)
2
 291.9 43.3 9.0 51.6 395.8
 
Notes: 
1. Home claims from major weather events, including inland and coastal flooding, and storms. 
2. This excludes the Run-off segment reserve releases of £53.2 million (2013: £52.1 million).  Strategic report
www.directlinegroup.com 43
 
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.directlinegroup.com 43 
Rescue and other personal lines 
The COR for Rescue and other personal lines improved by  
0.4 percentage points to 92.0% (2013: 92.4%), driven by 
higher prior-year reserve releases on Travel and lower claims 
frequency in Rescue. In November 2013, the Life business 
was sold. This contributed £6.4 million to operating profit  
in the prior year. 
Commercial 
The Commercial COR improved to 98.8% from 106.8% in 
2013 beating the target set for the division. The 8.0 percentage 
points improvement in the COR was mainly due to better 
underlying underwriting performance, and better expense and 
commission ratios. The current-year attritional loss ratio improved, 
demonstrating the positive effect of disciplined underwriting and 
the non-repeat of the above average level of large claims 
experienced in 2013. The division continued experiencing 
significant prior-year reserve releases, which were slightly  
higher than in 2013. 
Total cost base 
2014  
£m 
2013
£m
Staff costs 247.6  297.8 
Marketing 123.9  159.1 
Depreciation 22.6  18.4 
Amortisation and impairment  
of other intangible assets 66.4  33.6 
Other operating expenses 244.9  237.9 
Total operating expenses − 
ongoing 705.4  746.8 
Claims handling expenses 222.3  238.2 
Total cost base – ongoing 927.7  985.0 
Total operating expenses − 
discontinued 29.0 39.6
Claims handling expenses − 
discontinued 17.2 7.3
Total cost base – ongoing and 
discontinued operations 973.9  1,031.9 
The Group achieved its target total cost base of approximately 
£1,000 million in 2014 with a total cost base of £973.9 
million including the International division which is now treated 
as a discontinued operation. 
The total cost base for ongoing operations of £927.7 million 
was 5.8% lower than last year (2013: £985.0 million). The 
reduction was principally due to the Group’s cost-savings 
initiatives, with a continuing focus on cost control and 
operating efficiency, including marketing. Overall, the expense 
ratio reduced 0.1 of a percentage point to 23.6%, with the 
reduction in operating expenses partially offset by the impact 
of lower net earned premium. 
Instalment and other operating income – ongoing operations 
 
2014  
£m 
2013
£m
Instalment income 100.4  111.0 
Other operating income:  
Vehicle replacement referral 
income 15.8  15.7 
Revenue from vehicle recovery 
and repair services
1
 18.0  31.8 
Fee income from insurance 
intermediary services 2.1  1.7 
Other income
2
 11.0  12.4 
Other operating income 46.9  61.6 
Total ongoing 147.3  172.6 
Instalment and other operating income from ongoing 
operations reduced by 14.7% on 2013. This was mainly  
due to the sale of the Tracker business, cessation of solicitors’ 
referral fee income from 1 April 2013 and lower  
instalment income. 
Instalment income, which represents interest charged on 
insurance premiums paid by instalments, of £100.4 million 
reduced by £10.6 million compared with the prior year 
(2013: £111.0 million). This was a result of lower in-force 
policies and gross written premium in Motor and Home. 
In February 2014, the Group sold its stolen-vehicle recovery 
business, Tracker. In 2014, Tracker’s revenue prior to sale  
was £1.4 million (2013: £18.4 million), which was included 
in the above. Operating losses from the business were  
£0.4 million (2013: loss of £1.4 million). 
Investment return – ongoing operations 
 
2014  
£m 
2013
£m
Investment income 171.7  157.1 
Net realised and unrealised 
gains 38.9  27.6 
Investment return – ongoing 210.6  184.7 
Investment yields – continuing operations
3
 
 2014  2013 
Investment income yield
4
 2.4% 2.1%
Investment return
5
 2.9% 2.4%
The total investment return for ongoing operations increased to 
£210.6 million compared to £184.7 million in 2013. This 
was driven by both an increase in investment income and net 
realised and unrealised gains. Investment income was £171.7 
million, a 9.3% increase from 2013, as a result of changes in 
asset mix, which were partially offset by both lower assets 
under management (“AUM”) and market yields. Net realised 
Notes: 
1. Vehicle recovery includes post-accident and pay-on-use recovery, and vehicle tracking. Repair services include providing non-insurance related repairs. 
2. Includes referral fees and legal income 
3. Includes continuing operations and the Run-off segment 
4. Investment income yield excludes net gains and is calculated on income divided by calculating the average AUM based on the opening and closing balance for 
total Group – continuing operations. 
5. Investment return includes net gains and is calculated on income divided by calculating the average AUM based on the opening and closing balance for total 
Group – continuing operations.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 44
Finance review continued 
44 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 
and unrealised gains from ongoing operations of £38.9 
million were higher than the previous year (2013: £27.6 
million gain) primarily due to fair value increases on investment 
property (2014: £25.9 million; 2013: £7.6 million) with 
lower realised gains on fixed income debt securities (2014: 
£15.8 million; 2013: £20.5 million gain). 
The investment income yield for continuing operations in 2014 
was 2.4%, compared to 2.1% in 2013. This reflects portfolio 
actions which increased investments in UK commercial 
property, securitised credit and non-investment grade credit 
within the corporate debt portfolio and infrastructure debt as 
the Group moved towards its target asset allocation. Based on 
current yield curves and the current target asset allocation, the 
Group forecasts 2016 investment income yield of 2.7%. 
Total investment holdings excluding International reduced by 
8.3% in 2014, primarily reflecting a reduction in gross written 
premium and payment of the £149.7 million special interim 
dividend on 12 September 2014. Portfolio changes are 
outlined on page 47. Total unrealised gains excluding 
International and net of tax, on available-for-sale (“AFS”) 
investments were £94.4 million at 31 December 2014  
(31 December 2013: £50.3 million). 
Operating profit – ongoing operations 
 
2014  
£m 
2013
£m
Motor 297.1  347.7 
Home 113.9  106.2 
Rescue and other personal lines 48.0  46.5 
Commercial 47.0  9.5 
Total ongoing 506.0  509.9 
All divisions were profitable in 2014, with all areas except 
Motor improving operating profit compared to the previous year. 
Reconciliation of operating profit 
2014  
£m 
2013
£m
Operating profit – ongoing 506.0  509.9 
Run-off  55.3  63.6 
Restructuring and other one-off 
costs (69.6) (140.5)
Operating profit 491.7  433.0 
Finance costs (37.2) (37.7)
Gain on disposal of subsidiaries 2.3  12.0 
Profit before tax 456.8  407.3 
Tax (97.5) (96.5)
Profit from discontinued 
operations, net of tax 13.3  2.0 
Profit after tax 372.6  312.8 
Run-off 
The Run-off segment generated a profit of £55.3 million in 
2014 compared with £63.6 million in 2013. Improved 
claims experience, particularly from large bodily injury, led  
to a similar level of prior-year reserve releases to 2013. It is 
currently expected that the Run-off segment will contribute 
positively to operating profit in future years; however, at a 
lower level than in 2014. 
Restructuring and other one-off costs 
Restructuring and other one-off costs for 2014 of £69.6 million 
(2013: £140.5 million) primarily related to costs associated 
with migrating the Group’s IT infrastructure. The reduction  
was mainly due to lower costs arising from the Group’s cost 
savings initiatives. 
For 2015, the Group expects to incur additional restructuring 
costs in the region of £50 million as it concludes the IT 
migration as well as costs associated with ongoing cost 
reduction initiatives including the exit of one location 
announced earlier in 2015. 
Over the next three years, the Group expects cumulative 
restructuring costs to be substantially offset by the profit from  
the Run-off segment. 
Finance costs 
Finance costs remained stable at £37.2 million  
(2013: £37.7 million). 
Gain on disposal of subsidiaries 
The gain on disposal of £2.3 million relates to selling the 
Group’s stolen vehicle recovery business, Tracker. 
Taxation 
The effective tax rate for continuing operations in 2014 was 
21.3% (2013: 23.7%), aligning closely with the standard UK 
corporation tax rate of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%). The difference 
in rate was driven primarily by disallowed expenses, the non-
taxable disposal of subsidiaries and adjustments to provisions 
in respect of prior-year tax. 
Discontinued operations 
On 25 September 2014, the Group announced a binding 
agreement for the sale of its International division to Mapfre, 
S.A. for total cash proceeds of €550.0 million (£430.1 
million
1
). The results from this division are now treated as 
discontinued operations. 
Gross written premium for discontinued operations of £567.6 
million was 6.1% lower than the previous year, mainly due to 
foreign currency movements. Gross written premium in local 
currency terms fell marginally by 1.7%, as competitive markets 
in Italy were partially offset by Germany’s expanding share of 
business incepting on 1 January 2014. 
Note: 
1. See note 2 on page 5  Strategic report
www.directlinegroup.com 45
 
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.directlinegroup.com 45 
The discontinued operations’ COR in 2014 improved to 
102.1% from 103.9% in 2013. The loss ratio improved  
by 3.1 percentage points reflecting a decrease in claims 
frequency in Italy and non-repeat of claims from severe 
hailstorms which affected Germany in 2013. 
Overall, the operating profit for discontinued operations 
increased by 26.5% to £21.0 million in 2014 (2013:  
£16.6 million). 
Further details on discontinued operations are presented in 
note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, see page 133. 
Profit for the year and return on tangible equity 
Profit for the year amounted to £372.6 million (2013: 
£312.8 million), an increase of 19.1% on 2013. 
RoTE increased to 16.8% (2013: 16.0%) in part from a lower 
capital base as the Group returned surplus capital to 
shareholders. 
Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share for continuing operations of 24.0 
pence increased by 15.4% (2013: 20.8 pence). This 
reflected a decrease in restructuring and other one-off costs, 
partially offset by lower operating profit from the Run-off 
segment and a lower effective tax rate. 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share, which includes ongoing 
operations and the International division, increased marginally 
by 2.0% to 25.5 pence (2013: 25.0 pence). 
Dividends 
The Board has resolved this year to pay an interim dividend in 
lieu of a final dividend of 8.8 pence per share (2013: 8.4 
pence), making total regular dividends for 2014 of 13.2 
pence per share (2013: 12.6 pence). This represents an 
increase of 4.8% on the 2013 regular dividend and is in line 
with the Group’s aim to grow dividends annually in real terms. 
Given the proximity of the 2014 final dividend to the expected 
special dividend relating to the sale of the International 
division, as an exception to the usual process, the final 
dividend will be accelerated and, as referred to above, the 
Board has resolved to pay it as an interim dividend. This 
should avoid potential delays in payment to shareholders, 
which might otherwise arise following the sale of the 
International business. 
The Board has also resolved to pay a second special interim 
dividend of 4.0 pence per share. This is in addition to the 
10.0 pence per share special dividend paid in September 
2014. This return of capital is consistent with the Group’s 
policy to distribute surplus capital. The ex-dividend date for 
both the final and second special dividends is 12 March 
2015 and the record date is 13 March 2015. The dividends’ 
payment date is 17 April 2015. 
Moreover, the Board currently expects to propose, following 
completion of the sale of the Group’s International division,  
a further special interim dividend of substantially all the net 
proceeds. This return of capital will be conditional on 
shareholders approving a share consolidation designed to 
neutralise the effect on the share price of this return of capital 
and to maintain comparability of per share data. 
Cash flow 
Net cash used by operating activities before investing 
insurance assets increased to £410.6 million (2013: £307.0 
million). This reflected an increase in cash used by operations 
to £315.2 million (2013: £226.6 million) and an increase  
of taxes paid to £94.8 million (2013: £80.2 million). The 
increase in cash used by operations resulted from a decrease 
in trade and other payables, including insurance payables of 
current and prior-year claims. 
During the year, cash generated from investing insurance 
assets increased to £1,121.1 million (2013: £433.0 million). 
Net cash proceeds from the disposal, maturity and purchases 
of AFS financial investments were £496.7 million (2013: 
£274.9 million cash used). Interest received decreased by 
£215.7 million (2013: £574.2 million). 
Overall, net cash generated from operating activities totalled 
£710.5 million (2013: £126.0 million). 
Net cash used by investing activities of £216.0 million (2013: 
£145.3 million) primarily comprised of purchasing intangibles 
relating to ongoing software investment, and purchasing 
property, plant and equipment relating to freehold land  
and buildings. 
Dividends paid amounted to £401.1 million (2013: £242.7 
million), representing payment of the final 2013 and interim 
and first special interim 2014 dividends. Following these,  
net cash used by financing activities totalled £443.4 million 
(2013: £544.7 million). 
Overall, cash and cash equivalents increased by £51.1 
million (2013: £564.0 million decrease) across the year to 
£898.2 million (31 December 2013: £853.2 million). 
Net asset value 
At 31 December 
2014  
£m 
2013
£m
Net assets 2,810.5  2,790.0 
Goodwill and other intangible 
assets (523.1) (500.1)
Tangible net assets 2,287.4  2,289.9 
Net asset value per share 
(pence) 188.2  186.6 
Tangible net asset value per 
share (pence) 153.1  153.2 
The net asset value at 31 December 2014 was £2,810.5 million 
(31 December 2013: £2,790.0 million) with tangible net asset 
value of £2,287.4 million (31 December 2013: £2,289.9 
million). This equates to 188.2 pence and 153.1 pence per 
share respectively at 31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: 
186.6 pence and 153.2 pence, respectively). 
The marginal increase in net asset value principally reflects 
profit for the period and increase in unrealised gains on AFS 
investments offset by dividend payments.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 46
Finance review continued 
46 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 
Financial management 
Accessing sufficient funding as liabilities fall due is central to 
the Group’s long-term sustainability. The Group’s integrity and 
brand reputation for customers and other stakeholders relies on 
this sustainability. The Group’s key financial risks are reserving 
for insurance liabilities and market risk connected to the 
investment portfolio. 
Reserving 
Financial management includes the central aspect of estimating 
claims reserves. Uncertainty is an inherent part of insurance 
and requires judgement when assessing claims liabilities. The 
Group considers the class of business, the length of time to 
notification of a claim, the validity of the claim against a 
policy, and the claim value. Claims reserves could settle at  
a range of outcomes, and settlement certainty increases over 
time. However, for bodily injury claims, the uncertainty is 
greater due to the length of time taken to settle these claims. 
Lifetime indexed payments for injured parties also increase  
this uncertainty. 
The Group seeks to adopt a conservative approach to 
assessing liabilities as evidenced by the favourable 
development of historical claims reserves. Reserves are based 
on management’s best estimate which incorporates a prudent 
margin in excess of the internal actuarial best estimate. This 
margin is made in reference to a range of actuarial scenario 
assessments and percentiles and also considers other short  
and long-term risks not reflected in the actuarial inputs. For 
more information, see pages 149 to 152. 
The significant level of recent prior-year reserve releases has 
arisen primarily from improvements in the actuarial best 
estimate, while the percentage margin above actuarial best 
estimate has increased over the same period. Looking forward, 
the Group will continue to set its initial management best 
estimate for future accident years conservatively, but provided 
that the risk outlook remains stable, it does not expect to need 
to increase further the overall margin. Over time, the share of 
the Group’s underwriting profit attributable to current year is 
expected to increase. Assuming current claims trends continue, 
the contribution from prior-year reserve releases is expected to 
remain significant, albeit lower than in 2014. 
Claims reserves net of reinsurance 
At 31 December 
2014  
£m 
2013
£m
Motor 2,355.1  2,606.3 
Home 335.2  398.1 
Rescue and other personal lines 77.0  77.4 
Commercial 607.5  637.9 
Total ongoing 3,374.8  3,719.7 
Run-off  523.8  682.2 
International 393.6  438.2 
Total Group 4,292.2  4,840.1 
Taxation 
The Board recognises that the Group has an important 
responsibility to its stakeholders to manage its tax position 
effectively. The Board has delegated day-to-day management 
of taxes to the Chief Financial Officer and oversight is 
provided by the Audit Committee. 
These arrangements are intended to ensure that: the Group 
complies with applicable laws and regulations, and meets  
its obligations as a contributor of taxes and a collector of  
taxes on behalf of the tax authorities; and manages its tax 
affairs efficiently, claiming reliefs and other incentives  
where appropriate. 
Investment portfolio 
The total value of the investment portfolio excluding the 
International division’s portfolio at 31 December 2014 was 
£7,051.3 million, 8.3% lower than at 31 December 2013. 
The investment income yield on the portfolio for 2014 was 
2.4%, an increase of 0.3 percentage points compared to 
previous year. 
The investment strategy is designed to deliver several 
objectives, which are summarised below: 
• To ensure there is sufficient liquidity available within the 
investment portfolio to meet stressed liquidity scenarios 
determined by the Risk function 
• To duration match non-PPO liabilities 
• To back inflation-linked PPO liabilities with growth assets 
and other appropriate long-term assets expected to generate 
long-term returns in line with claims requirements 
• To deliver a suitable risk adjusted investment return 
commensurate with the Group’s risk appetite 
Asset and liability management 
The following table summarises the Group’s high level 
approach to asset and liability management. 
Liabilities Asset Characteristics 
More than 10 years, 
for example PPOs 
Property and 
infrastructure debt 
Inflationary linked 
or floating 
Short and medium 
term − all other 
claims 
Investment-grade 
credit and short-
term high yield 
Key rate duration 
matched 
Tier 2 sub-debt 
(swapped fixed to 
floating) 
Securitised credit 
and cash 
Floating 
Surplus − tangible 
equity 
Investment-grade 
credit, cash and 
government debt 
securities 
Fixed or floating  Strategic report
www.directlinegroup.com 47
 
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.directlinegroup.com 47 
Key highlights in 2014 included: 
• The introduction of two new asset classes with an intention 
for a third. The allocation to infrastructure debt supports the 
asset strategy backing PPO liabilities. Allocations to high 
yield and private placement credit help support delivering an 
improved risk adjusted return. After identifying external asset 
managers for each mandate, infrastructure debt funding 
commenced in the year, the high-yield credit mandate was 
fully funded and the private placement investments will 
commence in early 2015 
• The wider use of pooled liquidity products to support returns 
from cash and cash equivalents 
• The regular use of the internal economic capital model to 
determine the capital implications for all asset changes 
proposed and to support Investment Committee and Board 
decision making 
• Updated management reporting and redefined key risk 
indicators covering investment activities 
Asset allocation and benchmarks 
The present strategic asset benchmarks for the Group’s 
principal UK general insurance underwriter, U K Insurance 
Limited (“UKI”), are detailed in the following table: 
At 31 December 
Current 
benchmark 
holding 2014
Investment-grade credit 55.0% 58.2%
High yield 4.0% 4.0%
Investment-grade private placements 4.0% – 
Credit 63.0% 62.2%
Securitised credit 6.0% 6.0%
Sovereign 13.0% 14.1%
Total debt securities 82.0% 82.3%
Infrastructure 6.0% 1.1%
Investment property 5.0% 4.3%
Cash
1
 and cash equivalents 7.0% 12.3%
Total 100.0% 100.0%
Total debt securities, excluding the International division’s 
investment portfolio, are £5,802.5 million (2013: £6,266.3 
million), of which 13.5% are rated as ‘AAA’ and a further 
65.2% are rated as ‘AA’ or ‘A’. Corporate, local government 
and supranational debt securities account for 75.6% of the debt 
securities portfolio. The average duration at 31 December 2014 
of total debt securities was 2.1 years (2013: 2.3 years). 
During 2014, the Group reduced its allocation in investment 
grade credit by four percentage points, and allocated the funds 
to high-yield credit rated ‘BB’ and ‘B’. A further reallocation of 
funds is planned for 2015 with another four percentage points 
reduction in existing investment grade credit (public debt issues) 
and allocation to investment grade private placements. 
Derivatives are permitted only for risk mitigation and efficient 
portfolio management within the investment portfolio. 
Derivatives used include interest rate swaps, for example to 
hedge exposure to US Dollar interest rate movements, and 
forward currency contracts to hedge assets denominated in US 
Dollars back to Pounds Sterling. Separately, interest rate swaps 
have also been used to change the interest rate liability on the 
Group’s debt issuance to a floating rate basis. Furthermore, 
Euro cash proceeds to be received from the expected sale of 
the International division have been hedged to Pounds Sterling 
within the designated foreign currency hedge contract. 
 
Note: 
1. Awaiting investment into investment property, investment grade private placements and infrastructure. 
Investment portfolio as at 31 December 2014 
(%)
Corporate debt securities 58.0
Supranational 2.5
Local government 1.7
Securitised credit 6.0
Sovereign 14.1
Infrastructure 1.1
Cash and cash equivalents 12.3
Investment property 4.3
Investment portfolio as at 31 December 2013 
(%)
Corporate debt securities 49.6
Supranational 3.9
Local government 1.6
Securitised credit 2.2
Sovereign 16.0
Cash and cash equivalents 14.0
Investment property 2.6
International 10.1 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 48
Finance review continued 
48 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 
Investment holdings and yields – total Group 
 2014 2013 
£m Allocation Income Allocation Income
Corporate
1
 4,092.7 118.2 4,248.6 111.8
Supranational 176.2 4.9 330.5 6.8
Local government 120.3 2.4 134.5 2.9
Credit 4,389.2 125.5 4,713.6 121.5
Securitised 
credit
1
 419.6 6.1 184.0 0.3
Sovereign 993.7 22.4 1,368.7 30.1
Total debt 
securities 5,802.5 154.0 6,266.3 151.9
Infrastructure 76.2 0.1 ––
Cash
2
 865.4 5.2 1,199.4 6.9
Investment 
property 307.2 16.2 223.4 11.4
Total excluding 
International 7,051.3 175.5 7,689.1 170.2
International
3
 – – 868.5 18.4
Total Group 7,051.3 175.5 8,557.6 188.6
   
 Weighting Yield Weighting Yield
Corporate
1
 58.0% 2.8% 49.6% 2.8%
Supranational 2.5% 1.9% 3.9% 1.6%
Local government 1.7% 1.9% 1.6% 1.5%
Credit 62.2% 2.8% 55.1% 2.6%
Securitised 
credit
1
 6.0% 2.0% 2.2% 0.4%
Sovereign 14.1% 1.9% 16.0% 1.9%
Total debt 
securities 82.3% 2.6% 73.3% 2.4%
Infrastructure 1.1% 0.3%  – – 
Cash
2
 12.3% 0.5% 14.0% 0.4%
Investment 
property 4.3% 6.1% 2.6% 6.5%
Total excluding 
International 100.0% 2.4% 89.9% 2.1%
International
3
 –  –  10.1% 2.2%
Total Group 100.0% 2.4% 100.0% 2.1%
Capital management 
Capital management policy 
The Group seeks to manage its capital efficiently, maintaining 
an appropriate level of capitalisation and solvency, while 
aiming to grow its dividend annually in real terms. 
In determining the appropriate level of capitalisation and 
solvency, the Group considers capital across a number of 
metrics. These include risk-based capital, regulatory capital 
and rating agency capital. The Group targets holding capital 
in the range of 125% to 150% of risk-based capital as well  
as holding capital sufficient to maintain a credit rating in the 
‘A’ range. 
Where the Board believes the Group has capital that is surplus 
to requirements, it looks to return it to shareholders. For 
example, this may occur if it expected that the risk-based 
capital coverage would be significantly above the 125% to 
150% target range for a prolonged period. 
Risk-based capital 
For UKI, the Group uses its own risk-based capital model to 
determine the level of capital required to operate within its  
risk appetite. The internal model is calibrated to a 99.5% 
confidence interval and considers earned business and future 
business written over a one-year period. Additionally, the 
model allows for the uncertainty around this business until 
ultimate settlement. This approach is consistent with the 
individual capital assessment (“ICA”) methodology set by  
the Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”). 
For UKI, the major part of its required capital is held against 
reserve risk (approximately 46%), followed by underwriting  
risk (approximately 27%) and operational risk (approximately 
13%). The high level of reserve risk reflects the size of the 
claims reserves held against business written. This includes  
the Run-off segment, and the Group’s exposure to PPOs  
which carry a high capital requirement. 
 
Capital position and leverage 
At 31 December 
2014  
£m 
2013
£m
Consolidated statutory solvency 
capital  
Shareholders’ equity 2,810.5  2,790.0 
Goodwill and other intangible 
assets (523.1) (500.1)
Regulatory adjustments (28.1) 6.2 
Total tier 1 capital 2,259.3  2,296.1 
Lower tier 2 capital
4
 496.1  496.9 
Regulatory adjustments (54.6) (28.9)
Total regulatory capital 2,700.8  2,764.1 
Less: final and special dividends (192.0) (186.0)
Adjusted regulatory capital 2,508.8  2,578.1 
Notes: 
1. Allocation at 31 December 2014 includes investment-portfolio derivatives, which have been netted and have a mark-to-market liability value of £27.8 million, split 
£24.4 million in corporate-debt securities, £0.1 million in supranationals, £0.4 million in local government, £2.8 million in securitised credit and £0.1 million in 
sovereign (31 December 2013: mark-to-market asset value £39.8 million, split £37.7 million corporate-debt securities and £2.1 million securitised credit). This 
excludes non-investment derivatives used to hedge subordinated debt, operational cash flows and the pending disposal of the International division. 
2. Net of bank overdrafts and including term deposits with financial institutions with maturities exceeding three months. 
3. Income included in discontinued operations in 2013 
4. Includes that element of the subordinated guaranteed dated notes applicable for regulatory capital purposes 
Capital allocated by risk type
(%)
Reserving risk 46.2
Underwriting risk 26.7
Operational risk 12.9
Market risk 6.2
Counterparty risk 8.0 Strategic report
www.directlinegroup.com 49
 
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.directlinegroup.com 49 
The Group is well capitalised with key capital metrics within 
the Group’s risk appetite and significantly above regulatory 
minima. The regulatory numbers are estimated, based on 
preliminary regulatory returns for 31 December 2014. 
At 31 December 2014  2013
Insurance Group Directive 
(“IGD”) coverage ratio 347.4% 291.6%
Risk-based capital-coverage 
ratio 158.9% 158.7%
Risk-based capital-coverage 
ratio (adjusted for final and 
special dividends) 148.2%  148.7%
At 31 December 2014, the Group had an estimated risk-
based capital-coverage ratio of 158.9% (31 December 
2013: 158.7%). This reduces to 148.2% after deducting the 
proposed final and special interim dividends (31 December 
2013: 148.7%). On an IGD basis, the coverage is 347.4% 
(31 December 2013: 291.6%). 
The following table sets out the Group’s financial leverage 
ratio. The Group’s leverage ratio remains conservative with  
a financial leverage of 15.8% at 31 December 2014  
(31 December 2013: 14.9%). 
At 31 December 
2014  
£m 
2013
£m
Shareholders’ equity 2,810.5  2,790.0 
Financial debt − subordinated 
guaranteed dated notes 526.3  486.6 
Total capital employed 3,336.8  3,276.6 
Financial-leverage ratio
1
 15.8% 14.9%
Credit ratings 
Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service provide 
insurance financial-strength ratings for UKI, the Group’s 
principal UK general insurance underwriter. UKI is currently 
rated ‘A’ (strong) with a stable outlook by Standard & Poor’s 
and ‘A2’ (good) with a stable outlook by Moody’s. 
Solvency II 
With effect from 1 January 2016 the basis on which the 
Group will assess its regulatory capital position will move from 
ICA to Solvency II. As part of this transition, the Group will 
consider any changes it should make to its risk-based capital 
metrics to align these more closely to Solvency II. This will 
include reviewing the Group’s risk appetite and, if necessary, 
recalibrating it. 
Current capital position and outlook 
The Group has continued to manage its capital base actively 
during 2014 with a special interim dividend of 10.0 pence per 
share paid in September 2014. The Board has resolved to pay 
a second special interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share.  
The first and second special interim dividends have resulted  
from the build up of surplus capital, in part reflecting the Group’s 
disciplined approach to underwriting over the last few years. 
A final dividend of 8.8 pence per share, which the Board has 
resolved to pay this year as an interim dividend, represents 
4.8% growth on 2013. Total regular dividends for 2014 of 
13.2 pence per share represent 4.8% growth on 2013 and 
are in line with the Group’s policy to aim to increase the 
dividend annually in real terms. 
Since the IPO, the Group has paid dividends equivalent to 
24.6% of its IPO price to shareholders, and this figure will rise 
to 31.9% when the final and second special interim dividends 
are included. 
After deducting these dividends, the Board considers that  
the Group is strongly capitalised with a risk-based capital 
coverage ratio at the upper end of its target range. It also has 
an ‘A’ rating with stable outlook from its credit rating agencies. 
The Board’s view of the capital position takes into account  
the transition to a Solvency II environment and considers the 
Group’s position on the standard formula, which it is expected 
to operate under for at least the first six months of 2016, and 
the Internal Economic Capital Model. In view of the transition  
to Solvency II, the Board is likely to next consider any return  
of capital alongside the full-year results for 2015. The 
consideration of any future return of capital that the Board may 
decide to make will take into account the Group’s requirements 
on a Solvency II basis and, in line with its existing policy, will 
consider capital requirements over a prolonged period. 
Notwithstanding the above, following the completion of the 
sale of the International division, and as indicated at the time 
of the announced sale in September 2014, the Board expects 
to announce a special interim dividend of substantially all of 
the net proceeds. This return of capital will be conditional on 
shareholders approving a share consolidation designed to 
neutralise the effect on the share price of this return of capital 
and to maintain comparability of per share data. 
 
Statement of the Directors in respect of the Strategic report 
The Board reviewed and approved our Strategic report on pages 2 to 49 on 2 March 2015. 
By order of the Board 
 
Paul Geddes   John Reizenstein 
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer 
2 March 2015   2 March 2015 
Note: 
1. Total financial debt as a percentage of total capital employed  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 50
Chairman’s introduction 
50 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 
Corporate 
governance 
 
Mike Biggs, 
Chairman 
“We have a strong team in place to 
continue delivering our strategy, to 
capitalise on opportunities and meet  
the challenges ahead.” 
Dear shareholders and other stakeholders 
Our commitment to good corporate governance 
As Chairman, I want to ensure that Direct Line Group is well 
governed. I am pleased to report that we have complied  
with substantially all of the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (September 2012). The Board has worked 
hard during the year seeking to ensure that high governance 
standards have been maintained throughout the Group.  
The following Corporate governance report gives shareholders 
a clear and comprehensive view of the Group’s governance 
arrangements and how we have operated within them over the 
past year. 
The way we do business 
The way we do business and our underlying values are central 
to Direct Line Group’s success. Our Code of Business Conduct 
governs the way we interact with our stakeholders and our 
values determine our behaviours. Both determine how we  
do business throughout the Group and define our corporate 
identity. They also influence our business relationships and 
reputation, which are key to our long-term success. Our Code 
of Business Conduct is set out below, our values are on the 
following page and you can also view them and our Ethical 
Code for Suppliers at www.directlinegroup.com . 
Relationship with RBS Group 
It was another significant year for Direct Line Group.  
On 27 February 2014, RBS Group sold its entire remaining 
shareholding in the Company, save for a small number of 
shares it retained to satisfy long-term incentive awards issued 
by RBS Group to Direct Line Group management. As 
explained in last year’s Annual Report, a European 
Commission obligation required RBS Group to sell its 
shareholding by the end of 2014. As such, Direct Line Group 
is no longer owned by RBS Group and our operations are 
now largely separate. The sale does not affect our business 
strategy. We will continue our journey towards our goal of 
becoming the leading personal and small business general 
insurer in the UK. 
 
 
 
 
Our Code of Business Conduct 
Business practices 
We shall engage in honest, 
professional and ethical 
conduct and maintain 
effective procedures to 
prevent confidential 
information being misused. 
Dealing with customers 
We shall treat customers 
fairly, openly and honestly, 
and operate an effective 
complaints process to address 
any perceived departure  
from these standards. 
Dealing with shareholders 
and other stakeholders 
We shall seek to maximise 
shareholder value over time, 
recognising that wealth 
generated also benefits 
customers, employees and 
the communities where  
we operate. 
Dealing with employees 
We shall maintain a working 
environment that attracts, 
motivates and retains 
employees, and shall be 
intolerant of any type of 
discrimination, harassment  
or victimisation.  Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 51
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.direclinegroup.com 51 
Board composition 
A number of changes in the composition of the Direct Line 
Insurance Group plc Board took place during 2014. Following 
RBS Group’s sale of substantially all of its shareholding in the 
Company, Mark Catton, RBS Group’s nominated Non-Executive 
Director, stepped down on 7 March 2014. 
I would like to thank Mark for his excellent contribution to  
the Company during his time on the Board and wish him  
well in the future. 
Following a review of the Board’s balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience, and a rigorous selection process, Sebastian 
James joined the Board on 28 August 2014. With digital 
marketing and customer service increasingly important to our 
business, Sebastian brings valuable experience in these fields 
and is an important addition to the Board. On behalf of the 
Board, I am delighted to welcome him as a Non-Executive 
Director of the Company. 
You can find further information on diversity at Board level and 
the Board effectiveness review in the Corporate governance 
report on page 57. 
I am confident we have a strong team in place to continue 
delivering our strategy, capitalise on the opportunities and 
meet the challenges ahead. 
 
 
 
Michael N Biggs, Chairman 
2 March 2015 
 
Our values 
 Do the right thing 
For our people, our customers, our shareholders and our wider 
stakeholders; make decisions based on what is right, not what 
is easy; demonstrate personal and professional integrity; do 
what’s right for the long-term sustainability of our business. 
 Aim higher 
Strive to be the best in every area of the business; be 
ambitious, courageous and innovative; relentlessly challenge 
and improve; seek and embrace change; learn from our 
mistakes; persevere, always deliver our promises and don’t 
settle for second best. 
 Work together 
Collaborate across all levels and across all functions; leverage 
the skills, knowledge and experience, irrespective of hierarchy, 
to deliver the best possible results; develop relationships based 
upon trusting each other, partnerships and win-wins; recognise 
and celebrate success. 
 Take ownership 
Treat it like it’s OUR business; take the initiative, if you can see 
a better way, go and make a difference; take decisions, be 
accountable for your actions in whatever role you carry out; 
take responsibility for your own personal development  
and performance. 
 Say it like it is 
Be real, authentic and true to self; have adult to adult 
conversations with all audiences; listen, seek to understand 
and respect diversity of views; be open, call out issues we see; 
share information and keep things as simple as possible. 
 Bring all of yourself to work 
Be the best you can be, the real and whole you; celebrate our 
diversity of skills, experiences and personalities; be a role model 
to others, demonstrate ‘can do’ spirit, have fun and make this a 
great place to be; be excited about our Company and our 
future; believe in yourself, feel confident and empowered. 
 
Dealing with suppliers of 
goods and services and 
business partnerships 
We shall maintain the 
highest possible standards of 
integrity in business 
relationships with suppliers 
and partners by treating them 
honestly and with respect, 
and avoiding compromising 
offers of gifts and hospitality.  
Dealing with communities 
and the environment 
We shall contribute to the 
social and economic well-
being of those communities 
where we are an employer, 
and encourage employees  
to participate in projects  
and initiatives to strengthen 
those communities. 
Dealing with competitors 
We shall compete with 
competitors honestly and in 
accordance with the relevant 
competition law. 
Dealing with regulators 
We shall maintain a 
constructive and open 
relationship with our regulators 
to foster mutual trust, respect 
and understanding, and will 
not offer anything to officials in 
return for favourable treatment.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 52
Board of Directors 
 
52 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 
1 Mike Biggs (62), Chairman of the Board  
(appointed April 2012) 
(N and R)
 
Biography 
Mike is also Chair of the Nomination Committee. He has over 40 
years’ experience of the UK and international financial services sector. 
He is a respected figure in the insurance industry and is well regarded 
by City investors. 
Mike was previously Chairman of Resolution Limited, the FTSE 100 UK 
life assurance business, and has acted as Chief Executive Officer and 
Group Finance Director of Resolution plc. He was previously Group 
Finance Director of Aviva plc. 
He has a Masters degree in History from the University of Oxford and 
is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England 
and Wales. 
External appointments 
None 
2 Paul Geddes (45), Chief Executive Officer (appointed August 
2009) 
(C)
 
Biography 
Paul is Chief Executive Officer. His experience in leading one of the 
UK’s largest retail banking businesses during a challenging period for 
the industry and improving its customer and financial performance 
against peers singled him out in 2009 as the Chief Executive able  
to lead the turnaround of Direct Line Group and its divestment from  
RBS Group. 
He was the Chief Executive Officer of RBS Group’s mainland UK retail 
banking business, having joined in 2004 as Managing Director with 
responsibility for products and marketing. Before joining RBS Group, 
Paul held a number of senior roles in multi-channel retailing in the GUS 
and Kingfisher groups. Paul started his career in marketing, with UK 
and European roles at Procter & Gamble. Paul read Philosophy, 
Politics and Economics at the University of Oxford. He is a Fellow  
of the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland. 
External appointments 
Paul is a member of the Association of British Insurers’ Board, a 
member of the Financial Ombudsman Service’s insurance industry 
steering group, and a member of the Financial Conduct Authority’s 
Practitioner Panel. 
3 John Reizenstein (58), Chief Financial Officer (appointed  
December 2010) 
Biography 
John is an experienced Chief Financial Officer and former banker with 
extensive City and financial services experience. 
John was previously an Executive Director at the Co-operative 
Insurance Society, CIS General Insurance and The Co-operative Bank. 
He was Chief Financial Officer of these entities between 2003 and 
2007, and subsequently Managing Director, Corporate and Markets. 
Prior to that, John spent more than 20 years in investment banking with 
UBS and Goldman Sachs. He is an Economics graduate of the 
University of Cambridge. 
External appointments 
John is a trustee and director of Farm Africa and is an alternate 
representative of the Association of British Insurers on the Panel  
on Takeovers and Mergers. 
4 Glyn Jones (62), Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 
(appointed September 2012) 
(A, I, N and +)
 
Biography 
Glyn is Chair of the Investment Committee. He has undertaken a 
number of senior roles within the financial services industry and, as  
a former Chief Executive Officer in the asset management industry,  
he also understands the City and shareholders well. 
Glyn was Chairman of Towry Holdings Limited between 2006 and 
2011 and Chairman of Aspen UK from 2007 to 2014. He also 
served as Chairman of Hermes Fund Managers from 2008 to 2011 
and was Chairman of its sister company, BT Pension Scheme 
Management, for a part of this period. Glyn was Chief Executive 
Officer of the independent investment group, Thames River Capital, 
from 2005 to 2006. From 2000, he served as Chief Executive 
Officer of Gartmore Investment Management in the UK for four years. 
Before this, Glyn was Chief Executive Officer of Coutts NatWest 
Group and Coutts Group, having joined in 1997. Glyn joined 
Standard Chartered in Hong Kong in 1990 where he became the 
General Manager of Global Private Banking. He was a consulting 
partner with Coopers & Lybrand/Deloitte Haskins & Sells Management 
Consultants from 1981 to 1990. He is a graduate of the University  
of Cambridge and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants  
in England and Wales. 
External appointments 
Glyn is Chairman of Aspen Insurance Holdings Limited, a New York 
listed specialty lines insurer. He is also Chairman of Aldermore Group 
plc and its subsidiary Aldermore Bank plc. 
5 Jane Hanson (47), Non-Executive Director (appointed December 
2011) 
(A, B, C, I and +)
 
Biography 
Jane is Chair of the Board Risk Committee. She has extensive 
experience of risk management, corporate governance and internal 
control. She also has extensive experience of developing and 
monitoring customer frameworks. 
She spent 12 years with KPMG, where she worked in the financial 
sector, becoming the Director responsible for delivery of corporate 
governance, internal audit and risk management services in the North  
of England. Jane has also held executive roles including Director of 
Audit, and Risk and Governance Director at Aviva’s UK Life business. 
She is a graduate of the University of York with a degree in Music and is 
a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. 
1 2 3 4 5 Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 53
 
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.direclinegroup.com 53 
External appointments 
Jane is Chair of Reclaim Fund Ltd and a Non-Executive Director of  
Old Mutual Wealth Management Limited. She is also an Independent 
Member of the Fairness Committee at ReAssure Ltd. 
She has her own financial sector consulting business, delivering audit, 
enterprise risk management and corporate governance advisory and 
consulting services. She is also a magistrate. 
6 Sebastian James (48), Non-Executive Director (appointed August 
2014) 
(C, R and +)
 
Biography 
Sebastian is Group Chief Executive of Dixons Carphone plc and  
has held a number of senior strategic and operational positions in  
the retail, consulting and insurance sectors. 
Sebastian was Group Chief Executive of Dixons Retail plc from 2012 
until its merger with Carphone Warehouse Group plc on 6 August 
2014. Before this, Sebastian was Chief Executive Officer of Synergy 
Insurance Services Limited, a private equity backed insurance 
company, and was previously Strategy Director at Mothercare plc. He 
began his career at The Boston Consulting Group, having graduated 
from the University of Oxford and completed an MBA at INSEAD. 
External appointments 
Sebastian is Group Chief Executive of Dixons Carphone plc and is also 
a Trustee of the charities Save the Children and Tablets for Schools. 
7 Andrew Palmer (61), Non-Executive Director (appointed March 
2011) 
(A, B, I, N, R and +)
 
Biography 
Andrew is Chair of the Audit Committee. He has undertaken a number 
of senior roles within the financial services and insurance industries. In 
addition, he has insight into corporate governance developments and 
best practice in financial reporting through his membership of the 
Financial Reporting Review Panel of the Financial Reporting Council. 
Andrew retired from Legal & General Group plc, where he was the 
Group Finance Director, in 2009. He is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. 
External appointments 
Andrew is a Trustee of the Royal School of Needlework, a Trustee and 
Treasurer of Cancer Research UK and a Non-Executive Director of Royal 
London Mutual Insurance Society Limited. He is also a member of the 
Financial Reporting Review Panel of the Financial Reporting Council. 
8 Clare Thompson (60), Non-Executive Director (appointed 
September 2012) 
(A, B, C, I and +)
 
Biography 
Clare is Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.  
She brings with her extensive experience and knowledge gained from 
roles across the professional services industry, including as Lead Audit 
Partner at PwC, where she guided companies through change and 
acted as an adviser to insurance companies. She gained significant 
experience of both general and life insurance in this role. 
Clare was a partner at PwC from 1988 to 2011. During her 23 years 
as a partner at PwC, she held several senior and high profile roles, 
particularly within the insurance sector. She is a graduate of the 
University of York with a degree in Mathematics and is a Fellow  
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. 
External appointments 
Clare is a Non-Executive member of the Partnership Board of Miller 
Insurance Services LLP and is a Trustee and Treasurer of the Disasters 
Emergency Committee. She is also a Director of Retail Charity Bonds plc. 
9 Priscilla Vacassin (57), Non-Executive Director (appointed 
September 2012) 
(B, R and +)
 
Biography 
Priscilla is Chair of the Remuneration Committee. She has great 
knowledge and experience of developing organisational values, and 
creating the leadership, succession, development and remuneration 
structures required to support corporate strategy. She has worked both 
as a practitioner and as an adviser and therefore understands the 
complexity around remuneration in both technical and market terms. 
Priscilla was most recently Group Human Resources Director at 
Prudential plc and a Non-Executive Director at the Ministry of Defence. 
Priscilla has previously held senior human resources positions across a 
number of financial services and customer facing industries, including 
roles at Abbey National plc, where she was Executive Director, 
Human Resources; BAA plc, where she was Group Human Resources 
Director; and Kingfisher plc. She graduated in Law from the University 
of North East London. 
External appointments 
Priscilla has her own search and consultancy business. 
Key: 
(A) Audit Committee 
(B) Board Risk Committee 
(C) Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
(I) Investment Committee  
(N) Nomination Committee 
(R) Remuneration Committee 
(+) Independent 
6 7 8 9 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 54
Executive Committee 
 
54 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 
The Executive Committee is chaired by Paul Geddes and, in addition 
to John Reizenstein, comprises the following individuals: 
1 Jonathan Greenwood, Managing Director of Commercial  
(joined 2000) 
Experience and qualifications 
Jonathan joined the Group in 2000 as Product and Pricing Director  
for UK partnerships, which included Tesco, BMW and Nationwide 
Building Society. Following the acquisition of Churchill, Jonathan 
became Commercial Director and then Managing Director of the 
Group’s household and life businesses. Jonathan was appointed 
Managing Director of Commercial in 2009. 
2 Mike Holliday-Williams, Managing Director of Personal Lines 
(joined May 2014) 
Experience and qualifications 
Mike was previously Chief Executive Officer of RSA Group’s 
Scandinavian businesses, Codan A/S and Trygg-Hansa. Before 
joining RSA, Mike worked in the energy, telecoms and retail sectors, 
beginning his career at WH Smith Limited, before moving to various 
Centrica-owned businesses, including British Gas and Onetel. He has 
also served as Managing Director of MORETH>N Limited and holds 
an EMBA from Ashridge Business School. 
3 Simon Linares, Human Resources Director (joined September 2014) 
Experience and qualifications 
Simon was Group HR Director at ITV and before that Human Resources 
Director of Telefonica’s digital businesses globally. Prior to that, Simon 
was Group Human Resource Director of O2’s European businesses, 
having had previous success in senior HR roles with Diageo. 
4 Steve Maddock, Managing Director of Claims and Business 
Services (joined 2010) 
Experience and qualifications 
Steve was previously Director of Strategic and Technical Claims at 
RSA, a role he assumed in 2004. He has over 20 years’ insurance 
industry experience, including roles as Director of Claims and 
Customer Service at Capita and Director of Operations at AMP.  
Steve holds an MBA from the University of Reading and is Chairman 
of the Motor Insurers’ Bureau. 
5 Angela Morrison, Chief Information Officer (joined 2010) 
Experience and qualifications 
Angela was previously Chief Information Officer at J Sainsbury’s and  
a member of their Operating Board. She previously worked for ASDA 
/ Wal-Mart where she held a number of roles including European 
Strategy Director, Chief Information Officer through the ASDA /  
Wal-Mart integration and e-Commerce Director which included 
establishing ASDA’s home grocery business. Angela holds a degree  
in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from the University of Bristol. 
6 Humphrey Tomlinson, General Counsel (joined 2011) 
Experience and qualifications 
Humphrey was previously Group Legal Director at RSA. He is a 
solicitor with over 25 years’ experience, including advising on 
corporate and commercial matters, a wide range of corporate 
transactions in the UK and internationally, legal risk management and 
corporate governance issues. Prior to RSA, he worked at City law firm 
Ashurst Morris Crisp. He is a graduate of the University of Oxford. 
7 José Vazquez, Chief Risk Officer (joined 2012) 
Experience and qualifications 
José was previously Global Chief Risk Officer at HSBC Insurance.  
Prior to joining HSBC, José held senior actuarial roles at Zurich 
Insurance and also worked as a consultant with KPMG in London.  
José is a Mathematics graduate from Brunel University and a Fellow  
of the Institute of Actuaries. 
1
6 7
2 3 4 5 Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 55
Corporate governance report 
55 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 
This report details the role and activities of the Board and 
explains how corporate governance is operated throughout  
the Group. 
The UK Corporate Governance Code 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc (the “Company”) has complied 
with the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2012 (the “Code”) throughout the year, 
with the exception of the recommendation contained  
in Provision E.1.1 of the Code to the effect that the Senior 
Independent Director (the “SID”) should attend sufficient 
meetings with a range of major shareholders. This is to listen  
to their views to help develop a balanced understanding of  
the issues and concerns of major shareholders. The Board 
received regular updates from the Company’s corporate 
brokers on the views of its institutional shareholders. Major 
shareholders have the opportunity to discuss any issues they 
wish to raise with the Chairman and the Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee. Additionally, the Chairman has met 
certain major shareholders during the year and, through the 
brokers, offered other major shareholders the opportunity to 
discuss any matters with him or the SID. The Board is satisfied 
that, on the basis of reports from the Company’s brokers and 
through the Chairman, it understands the views of the 
Company’s major shareholders. 
Details of how the Company applied the Code’s principles 
and complied with its provisions are in this report and the 
Directors’ remuneration report. You can find further information 
on the Code on the Financial Reporting Council’s website  
at www.frc.org.uk . 
Leadership 
The Board 
The Board’s primary role is to organise and direct the Group’s 
affairs in a manner that is most likely to promote its long-term 
success for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole. The Board 
supervises the Group’s operations, ensuring they are effectively 
managed, that prudent controls are in place, and that risks  
are assessed and managed appropriately. The Board sets the 
Group’s strategy and monitors management’s performance  
and progress against the strategic aims and objectives. 
The specific duties of the Board are set out in the Schedule  
of Matters Reserved for the Board (the “Matters Reserved”). 
The Matters Reserved are reviewed annually by the Board  
and contain those items that are specifically reserved for 
consideration and approval by the Board. Matters requiring 
approval by the Board include: 
• The Group’s strategic aims and objectives 
• The annual operating and capital expenditure budgets 
• Corporate governance matters 
• Capital structure, financial reporting and controls, including 
dividend policy 
• The system of internal controls and risk management, 
including the Group’s risk appetite statements  
• Major capital projects, major investments and contracts that 
are either materially strategic or above the Chief Executive 
Officer’s delegated authority 
• Board and Committee membership and succession planning 
• The remuneration policy for Directors and senior executives 
• The 12 Group policies which form part of the high level 
governance framework 
In addition to the Matters Reserved, each Board Committee 
has written terms of reference defining its role and the authority 
delegated to it. You can find further details on the Board 
Committees in the Board Committees’ section from pages 61 
to 70. 
Board composition 
As at the date of this Report, the Board comprises the 
Chairman, who was independent on his appointment to the 
Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer 
and six independent Non-Executive Directors. All of the current 
Directors served throughout the reporting period, except  
for Sebastian James, who was appointed to the Board on  
28 August 2014. 
You can find the names of the Directors as at the date of  
this report and their biographical information on pages 52  
and 53. 
Mark Catton, who was nominated by RBS Group as a  
Non-Executive Director in accordance with the terms of the 
Relationship Agreement between Direct Line Insurance Group 
plc and RBS Group, resigned from the Board on 7 March 
2014. His resignation followed the sale by RBS Group on 27 
February 2014 of its interest in the Ordinary Shares of Direct 
Line Insurance Group plc. This excluded 4,185,643 shares, 
which were retained to satisfy long-term incentive plan awards 
previously granted by RBS Group to certain members of Direct 
Line Group’s management. These shares have since been 
transferred to an RBS Group Employee Benefit Trust. Since 
disposing of its shareholding, RBS Group no longer has a right 
to nominate a director to the Board. 
Structure of the Board 
The Board and its Committees have been established to  
ensure that an appropriate balance of skills, experience, 
independence, sector knowledge and diversity exists to  
enable the Directors to discharge their duties and 
responsibilities effectively. 
All Non-Executive Directors must be able to devote sufficient 
time to the role to discharge their duties and responsibilities 
effectively. The letters of appointment for the Chairman and 
each of the Non-Executive Directors set out the anticipated time 
commitment of at least three days per week for the Chairman 
and an average of three days per month for the Non-Executive 
Directors. The Nomination Committee reviews this time 
commitment annually.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 56
Corporate governance report continued 
 
56 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 
On behalf of the Board, the Nomination Committee assessed 
the independence, skills, knowledge and experience of the 
Non-Executive Directors as part of its annual review of each 
Director’s performance. The Board concluded that all of the 
current Non-Executive Directors were independent, continued 
to contribute effectively and demonstrated commitment to the 
role. The Nomination Committee’s work in the year resulted  
in the appointment of Sebastian James as an additional Non-
Executive Director. It also resulted in certain changes to the 
membership of the Committees, which were announced in 
September 2014. You can find further details of these activities 
and the Nomination Committee’s work in the year on pages 
68 to 69. 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
The Board has agreed role profiles for the Chairman, Mike 
Biggs, and the Chief Executive Officer, Paul Geddes, which 
clearly define their respective roles and responsibilities. This  
is to ensure no one individual has unfettered powers of 
decision-making. 
The Chairman’s priority is leading the Board and ensuring  
its effectiveness. The Chief Executive Officer’s priorities are 
managing the Group and delivering the Group’s strategy  
and financial results. 
Senior Independent Director  
Glyn Jones is the Senior Independent Director (“SID”). His role 
is to provide a sounding board for the Chairman, to serve as 
an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary and to 
be available to shareholders, should they have any concerns 
they cannot resolve through normal channels. His 
responsibilities also include evaluating the Chairman’s 
performance annually. 
Non-Executive Directors 
The Non-Executive Directors objectively and constructively 
challenge management. They also use their wider business 
experience to help develop the Group’s strategy. 
Non-Executive Directors are initially appointed for a term of 
three years. They may serve two fixed terms of three years  
and, in appropriate circumstances, may be invited to serve a 
further three year term. The Nomination Committee nominates 
the Directors for appointment. The Board then approves the 
appointments. Non-Executive Directors are subject to election 
or re-election annually at the Company’s Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”). You can find the standard terms and 
conditions of the appointments at www.directlinegroup.com . 
Information and support 
All Directors have access to the assistance and advice of the 
Company Secretary. The Board is satisfied that it receives 
information in a timely manner and of an appropriate quality to 
enable the Directors to discharge their duties. Directors may 
seek external independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense if they require it to discharge their duties. 
Conflicts of interest 
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company’s 
Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise a matter in 
relation to which there is, or may be, a conflict between the 
Group’s interests and the direct or indirect interests of a 
Director or between the Director’s duties to the Group and 
another person. 
Each Director has a duty to avoid conflicts of interest. They 
must declare any conflict of interest that could interfere with 
their ability to act in the Group’s best interests. The Board  
has adopted procedures for ensuring its powers to authorise 
conflicts operate effectively. 
The Board has given a number of authorisations in this manner. 
Notwithstanding such authorisation, the Board continues to 
ensure that any actual conflict of interest or duty, should it 
arise, is dealt with appropriately. This would usually involve 
ensuring the Director does not participate in the relevant  
Board or Committee discussion or decision. 
For this purpose, the Company Secretary maintains a register 
of conflicts, and of any authorisation of a conflict granted  
by the Board. The Board reviews this register regularly. 
Board activities during 2014 
During 2014, the Board’s specific areas of focus, challenge 
and supervision included: 
• Participating in developing and challenging the Group’s 
strategic plan 
• Overseeing the prudent management of the Group’s capital, 
ensuring that capital reserves remain robust, while enabling 
the return of capital to investors by way of special dividends 
• Approving and monitoring a comprehensive programme of 
investment in technology, organisational restructuring and 
cultural change. This programme aims to improve customer 
experience, making it easier to do business with the Group, 
and deliver outstanding customer service 
• Overseeing the management and reduction of the Group’s 
cost base 
• Overseeing a review and streamlining of the Group’s 
governance framework, including reviewing and approving 
risk-based policies 
• Supporting the Chief Executive Officer in restructuring his 
management team and appointing new senior executives 
• Considering strategic options for the Group’s International 
businesses, and subsequently authorising and monitoring  
the proposed sale of the Group’s International businesses. 
There was particular emphasis on obtaining fair outcomes 
for all stakeholders 
• Encouraging management initiatives for cultural 
transformation 
• Monitoring the progress of the complex programme of 
migrating IT systems and telephony from RBS Group to  
new Direct Line Group platforms, networks and data centres 
• Encouraging the relaunch of the Direct Line brand and 
challenging the related brand and customer-service 
propositions 
• Overseeing the Group’s regulatory relationships and 
preparations for the forthcoming implementation of  
Solvency II  Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 57
 
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.direclinegroup.com 57 
Meetings 
The Board held 11 scheduled meetings in 2014 and nine 
additional meetings. The additional meetings were ad hoc  
or Board sub-committee meetings to consider specific matters, 
for example, the proposed sale of the Group’s International 
businesses. The Board also held its annual strategy day in  
June 2014. One of the scheduled Board meetings was held  
in Glasgow as part of a Board site visit. 
The Company Secretary attended all Board meetings. At the 
Board’s discretion, senior executives and external advisers 
were invited to attend Board meetings and present on business 
developments and governance issues. 
The table below sets out attendance at the scheduled meetings 
in 2014: 
Scheduled 
 meetings
1
Percentage 
attendance
Chairman  
Mike Biggs 11 of 11 100%
Senior Independent Director  
Glyn Jones 11 of 11 100%
Non-Executive Directors  
Mark Catton
2
 2 of 2 100%
Jane Hanson 11 of 11 100%
Sebastian James
3
 3 of 4 75%
Andrew Palmer 11 of 11 100%
Clare Thompson 11 of 11 100%
Priscilla Vacassin 11 of 11 100%
Executive Directors  
Paul Geddes 11 of 11 100%
John Reizenstein 10 of 11 91%
Board induction, resources and training 
The Board is committed to training and developing all Directors 
and employees. The Company Secretary is responsible  
for helping the Chairman regularly review and organise 
appropriate training for the Directors and maintains an  
annual training agenda for the Board and its Committees. 
On appointment, Sebastian James commenced a tailored 
induction programme, comprising 16 sessions. The 
programme was designed to provide an understanding of the 
Group’s businesses, strategic and transformational priorities, 
regulatory and governance frameworks, capital and financial 
management, and risk framework. 
The main Board training and development activities in the year 
under review included the following: 
• Training on specific topics, including: competition law, 
accounting for investments and anti-bribery and corruption 
• Visits by Non-Executive Directors to operational business 
units to meet the management teams and better understand 
the way the business operates. These included visits to the 
Claims, Technical and Large Loss, Customer Relations and 
Counter Fraud teams in Glasgow, and visits to several of  
the UK Assistance Accident Repair Centres Limited sites 
• Internal training workshops on Solvency II, including capital 
and catastrophe modelling, Internal Model Approval Process 
(“IMAP”) submission requirements, Standard Formula 
calculation, profit and loss attribution, diversification and 
dependencies/correlations 
• The Company Secretary presented a regular corporate 
governance update to the Board 
• The Group’s brokers and financial advisers presented 
quarterly industry and market updates to the Board 
• The Investor Relations team reported regularly to the  
Board on the Group’s relationship with institutional  
investors and analysts 
Direct Line Group’s approach to diversity 
The Board carefully considered the diversity of its members 
from a variety of perspectives. It also sought to ensure that 
Directors had the relevant range of knowledge, skills, 
experience and, where necessary, independence to help the 
Group deliver its strategy. 
The Company believes in the merits of diversity. Of the  
Board’s nine members, three are women. However, while  
the Board will take care to consider diversity when selecting 
new members, it is committed to appointing the most 
appropriate candidate. 
The Nomination Committee’s terms of reference state that due 
regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender diversity, 
should be given in selecting candidates for the Board. 
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee also considers 
this matter in the context of ensuring the Group’s talent pipeline 
remains diverse to meet future requirements. The Group 
provides mentoring schemes for high-potential candidates and 
associated training and development programmes. You can 
find numerical data relating to the gender diversity of the 
Board, senior managers and employees on pages 34 and 35. 
Board effectiveness review 
In 2013, an independent external consultant performed and 
facilitated the Board’s first effectiveness review. In 2014, the 
Board chose to conduct its effectiveness review in-house. The 
Company Secretary designed and coordinated the process. 
This involved agreeing a structured questionnaire with the 
Chairman and members of the Board, distributing it to 
stakeholders, collating responses and preparing reports. 
The Board and each of its Committees reviewed and  
discussed these reports. 
Notes: 
1. Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend. 
2. Mark Catton resigned as a Director of the Board on 7 March 2014. 
3. Sebastian James was appointed as a Director of the Board on 28 August 2014.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 58
Corporate governance report continued 
 
58 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 
The questionnaire encouraged respondents to comment on aspects 
perceived as working well in the 2013 review and areas thought 
to require improvement. Relating to the Board, its Committees and 
its individual directors, the questionnaire focused on: 
• The flow of information, including the quality and sufficiency 
of reports, management information and training 
• The behaviour of, and interaction between, the Board or 
Committee and management, including the proportion of 
time spent on strategic matters, the degree of challenge by 
Non-Executive Directors, the Board’s culture and composition 
• Administration, including the number and frequency of 
meetings, the volume of papers, the quality of systems  
and processes for, Board and Committee support 
The Chairman discussed the outcome of the effectiveness 
review with the Non-Executive Directors and the Chief 
Executive Officer, providing them with feedback on their 
performance and contributions. Feedback on the Chairman’s 
performance was provided by the Senior Independent 
Director, with input from his fellow Non-Executive Directors. 
Based on responses to the structured questionnaire and the 
resulting reports, the Directors are satisfied that the Board and 
its Committees operated effectively during 2014. The Directors 
are also satisfied that significant progress was made regarding 
areas identified in 2013 as requiring improvement. The Board 
and its Committees agreed an action plan for further 
improvement, which will be pursued in 2015. 
Governance framework and structure 
The Board is responsible for ensuring an appropriate system of 
governance is in place throughout the Group. This includes a 
robust system of internal controls and a sound Risk Management 
framework. The Group’s Governance Framework is detailed in 
the High Level Control and System of Governance document. 
The Board reviews this document annually. In addition to this 
document, the core elements are: 
• The Enterprise-wide Risk Management (“ERM”) strategy 
and framework, which sets out the Group’s robust risk 
management approach and the ownership and oversight  
of risks 
• The Executive Governance Framework, which outlines how 
each business function is governed and details the 
delegation of authority to Executive Committee members 
• The Group Policy Framework, which comprises a set of 
policies that are required to be approved by the Board and 
are underpinned by Minimum Standards which translate the 
policies into requirements that are implemented throughout 
the Group 
The diagram below summarises the split of responsibilities for the 
different components of the Group’s Governance Framework. 
Board
approves
Board
High Level Governance
framework, risk appetite and 
Group Policies are set by the 
Board, following review by the 
Board Risk Committee, for 
implementation by the Executive. 
Policies are drafted by Executive 
policy owners.
Board Risk Committee
Enterprise-wide Risk
Management framework is
approved by the Board Risk
Committee, following review
by the Risk Management  
Committee. 
Risk Management Committee
Developed by the Executives within 
the framework approved by the 
Board. Minimum Standards are 
reviewed by the Group’s Policy 
and Minimum Standard owners’ 
review forum. The Executive 
Governance Framework and 
Minimum Standards are approved 
by Executives within the Risk 
Management Committee.
High Level Control and System
of Governance document
Board Matters Reserved
and Committee 
terms of reference
Risk appetite
Group Policies
ERM strategy and framework
Executive Governance Framework Group Minimum Standards
Board Risk
Committee 
approves 
Executives 
approve
Business unit and operational area implementation Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 59
 
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.direclinegroup.com 59 
 
 
 
Board Committees 
The Board has established a number of Committees to help 
meet its responsibilities. Each Committee plays a vital role in 
ensuring the Board operates efficiently and considers matters 
appropriately. The diagram above details the names of the 
Board Committees and the Chairs. 
Each Board Committee has separate terms of reference.  
The Board reviews these annually. You can find details of  
the composition, attendance, role and focus of each 
Committee on pages 61 to 70. 
Chief Executive Officer 
Although the Board is ultimately responsible for the success  
of the Company, Paul Geddes, the Chief Executive Officer, 
has received delegated authority from the Board to manage 
the day-to-day operations of the Group and deliver its  
strategic objectives. 
In turn, Paul Geddes has cascaded certain elements of his 
delegated authority to the members of the Executive 
Committee. These delegations help ensure that senior 
executives are accountable and responsible for managing their 
respective businesses and functions. The delegations also 
involve ensuring the senior executives have the appropriate 
financial, and other, authorities needed to manage those 
business areas. 
Executive Committee 
The Executive Committee is the principal management 
committee that assists the Chief Executive Officer in the day-to-
day management of the Group. It supports him in setting 
performance targets, implementing the Group’s strategy and 
direction as determined by the Board, and monitoring key 
objectives and commercial plans to help achieve the Group’s 
targets. It also helps him evaluate new business initiatives  
and opportunities, and receives and considers reports on 
operational matters, where these are material to the Group  
or have cross-company implications. 
The diagram below depicts the management-governance 
framework. 
Accountability 
Financial and business reporting 
The Board is responsible for providing shareholders with a fair, 
balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s 
position and prospects. The Board is also responsible for the 
maintenance of adequate accounting records and ensuring 
compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations. 
An explanation from the Directors of their responsibility for 
preparing the financial statements is set out in the statement  
of Directors’ responsibilities on page 97. The statement by  
the Company’s external Auditor explaining their responsibilities 
is on page 102. 
 
 
Audit Committee
Andrew Palmer
Chair
Board Risk
Committee
Jane Hanson
Chair
Investment
Committee
Glyn Jones
Chair
Nomination
Committee
Mike Biggs
Chair
Remuneration
Committee
Priscilla Vacassin
Chair
Board of Directors
Mike Biggs
Chairman
Corporate Social
Responsibility
Committee
Clare Thompson
Chair
Paul Geddes
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Managing Director
Personal Lines
Mike Holiday-
Williams
Managing Director
Claims and
Business Services
Steve Maddock
Managing Director
Commercial
Jon
Greenwood
Chief Risk Ofﬁcer
José Vazquez
Chief Information
Ofﬁcer
Angela Morrison
Human Resources
Director
Simon Linares
General Counsel
Humphrey
Tomlinson
Chief Financial
Ofﬁcer
John Reizenstein Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 60
Corporate governance report continued 
60 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 
The Board meets the specific responsibilities that the Code 
places on it as follows: 
• An explanation of how the Company generates value over 
the long term is included within the business model on page 
8 and the strategy for delivering Company objectives on 
page 16 
• How the Board has concluded that the business remains a 
going concern is discussed on page 96 
• The arrangements established by the Board for the 
application of risk management and internal control 
principles are detailed below 
• The Board has delegated oversight of the management of 
the relationship with the Company’s external Auditor to the 
Audit Committee. The Audit Committee report on pages 61 
to 63 provides details of its role, activities and relationship 
with the internal and external Auditors 
Risk management and internal control system 
The Board oversees the Group’s risk management and internal 
control system. It has complied with the Code by establishing  
a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing 
the significant risks the Group faces. This process includes risks 
arising from social, environmental and ethical matters. 
The Group operates a ‘three lines of defence model’, further 
details of which can be found in the Risk Management section 
on pages 28 to 31. 
During the year, the Board reviewed the effectiveness of the 
Group’s risk management and internal controls. The Group’s 
assessment process included output from a system for reporting 
on all significant risks that stand in the way of the Group’s 
objectives. The system reported on the nature and effectiveness 
of the controls and other management processes that manage 
these risks. The system also sets risk appetites for key 
categories of quantifiable risk. Additionally, it encompassed 
risk owners’ self-assessment of control throughout the Group. 
The second and third lines of defence independently challenge 
their assertions. Furthermore, Group Audit has undertaken 
reviews in the financial year to support this. 
The Board Risk Committee regularly reviews significant risks, 
their potential impact on the Group’s financial position, 
variations from agreed risk appetites, and the actions taken  
to manage those risks. 
Internal systems of control 
The Board has established a management structure with 
defined lines of responsibility and clear delegation of authority. 
This control framework cascades through the divisions and 
central functions, detailing clear responsibilities for ensuring 
appropriate controls are in place at an operational level. This 
includes controls relating to the financial reporting process. 
The Group Audit function supports the Board by providing an 
independent and objective assurance of the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the Group’s operations. It brings a systematic 
and disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the 
effectiveness of its risk management, control and governance 
frameworks and processes. 
The Directors know that any system of internal control is 
designed to manage, not eliminate, the risk of failing to 
achieve business objectives. It can only provide reasonable, 
not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or 
financial loss. 
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee regularly reviews 
the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control systems. Its 
monitoring covers all material controls. Principally, it reviews 
and challenges reports from management, the Group Audit 
function and external Auditors. This enables it to consider how 
to manage or mitigate risk in line with the Group’s risk strategy. 
The Committee did not identify or report any major failings or 
weaknesses to the Board in 2014. 
Remuneration 
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee 
responsibility for the remuneration arrangements of the Group’s 
Executive Directors and for overseeing senior executives’ 
remuneration. Find out more information on the remuneration 
arrangements and policy in the Directors’ remuneration report 
on page 71. 
Relations with shareholders 
The Board believes that actively engaging with the Company’s 
shareholders is fundamental to the Group’s business. An active 
dialogue and ongoing engagement with investors is vital to 
keeping up-to-date on opinions. It also provides the Company with 
the opportunity to address any questions and concerns proactively. 
The Executive Directors meet frequently with investors and ensure 
shareholder concerns are communicated to the Board. The 
Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive 
Directors are available to attend meetings with major shareholders 
at their request. This gives the Directors the opportunity to discuss 
governance and strategy with shareholders. 
The Company’s Investor Relations team facilitates the Directors’ 
ongoing dialogue with institutional investors, fund managers 
and analysts. The Board receives regular updates on investor 
relations, including feedback from analysts. The Company’s 
corporate brokers also regularly attend Board meetings to 
inform the Board of shareholder views. 
Annual General Meeting 
The Board views the Company’s AGM as a good opportunity 
for private shareholders to communicate directly with the 
Board. All shareholders are entitled to attend the AGM.  
All Directors attended the AGM in 2014. 
The Chief Executive Officer presents the Group’s results before 
the Chairman proposes the AGM’s formal business. All 
shareholders are encouraged to ask questions relating to the 
meeting’s business. The Chairman, the Committee Chairs  
and the remaining Directors are also available at the meeting.  Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 61
Committee reports 
Version 10.0 Draft and Secret www.direclinegroup.com 61 
Audit Committee report 
 
Andrew Palmer,  
Chair of the Audit Committee 
Role of the Audit Committee 
The Committee is responsible for overseeing and challenging 
the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of financial control, 
financial and regulatory reporting and other internal controls. 
The Committee reviews the adequacy and integrity of the 
Group’s internal financial controls and internal control systems, 
and the procedures for monitoring their effectiveness. It also 
monitors the work and effectiveness of the Group’s internal  
and external auditors and actuaries. 
The Committee has unrestricted access to management and 
external advisers to help discharge its duties. It is satisfied that, 
during 2014, it received sufficient, reliable and timely 
information to perform its responsibilities effectively. 
You can find the Audit Committee’s terms of reference at 
www.directlinegroup.com . 
Committee composition, skills and experience 
The Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive 
Directors: Andrew Palmer; Jane Hanson; Glyn Jones; and  
Clare Thompson. You can find the members’ biographical 
information on pages 52 to 53. 
All Committee members are members of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. They also have 
recent and relevant financial experience, enabling them to 
contribute diverse expertise to the Committee’s proceedings.  
To keep skills current and relevant, members of the Committee 
have received training by Deloitte LLP focused on Solvency II 
and trends in the motor insurance market, in addition to 
training available to the whole Board. 
 
Audit Committee focus during 2014 
• Assessed and monitored the risks associated with 
migrating the Group’s finance systems from RBS Group  
to the Group’s new IT platform 
• Reviewed the Group Audit function’s performance and 
effectiveness, including commissioning an external  
quality assessment of the function 
• Reviewed the Group-wide Financial Reporting  
Control Framework 
• Adopted and monitored the Group’s policy and minimum 
standard for the Independence of External Audit 
• Reviewed the impact of selling the International division 
on the financial statements 
• Reviewed financial results announcements, including the 
2013 Annual Report & Accounts, the 2014 Half Year 
Interim Report, and Interim Management Statements 
• Assessed the disclosures in the 2013 Annual Report & 
Accounts to provide advice to the Board on whether the 
report, taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and 
understandable and provided the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy 
• Reviewed reports and received training for Solvency II 
• Assessed the going concern status of the Company and 
its principal operating subsidiary, U K Insurance Limited 
• Reviewed the effectiveness of internal control processes 
• Approved the Group Audit plan and reviewed Group 
Audit reports on key control issues 
• Reviewed the results of the external audit relating to the 
2013 year end and approved the scope of the external 
audit regarding the 2014 year end 
• Reviewed the external Auditor’s independence  
and objectivity 
• Determined the external Auditor’s remuneration and 
recommended it to the Board 
• Considered the Group’s policy on tendering its 
independent external audit contract against the backdrop 
of regulatory and best practice developments 
• Recommended the reappointment of the external Auditor 
to the Board, for approval by shareholders at the 2014 
Annual General Meeting 
• Reviewed reserving governance and processes,  
and considered quarterly actuarial and proposed 
management best estimates of technical reserves 
• Considered an external peer review of reserves 
• Considered regulatory developments and their impact  
on assumptions and judgements used in the Group’s 
reserving and reporting 
• Reviewed critical accounting estimates and judgements, 
including outstanding claims provisions and related 
reinsurance recoveries, impairment provisions on financial 
assets, fair value of properties, deferred acquisition costs 
and goodwill  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 62
Committee reports continued 
62 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.0 Draft and Secret 
Meetings 
The Audit Committee held five scheduled meetings in 2014,  
at appropriate times in the financial and regulatory reporting 
and audit cycle. The following table sets out attendance at  
the scheduled meetings: 
Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Andrew Palmer (Chair) 5 of 5 100%
Jane Hanson 5 of 5 100%
Glyn Jones 5 of 5 100%
Clare Thompson 5 of 5 100%
Sub-committees of the Audit Committee met in May and 
October 2014 to approve the Group’s Interim Management 
Statements relating to the first and third quarters of the 2014 
financial year. The quorum of both sub-committee meetings 
comprised Andrew Palmer, Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein. 
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk 
Officer, Group Financial Controller and Head of External 
Reporting are invited to attend Audit Committee meetings. The 
Actuarial Director, external actuarial advisers, external Auditor 
and Group Head of Audit are also invited to attend meetings 
and meet privately with the Audit Committee, in the absence of 
management. The Managing Director of Claims and Business 
Services is also invited to attend appropriate sections of Audit 
Committee meetings. 
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee 
meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting. 
Internal control and Group Audit 
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the adequacy 
and effectiveness of the Group’s internal control systems. 
The Group’s Financial Reporting Control Framework (“FRCF”) 
forms part of its wider internal controls system. It is based on 
the principles of the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations  
of the Treadway Commission’s Enterprise Risk Management 
Framework and is designed to address risks relating to 
financial reporting. The Board’s supervision of the FRCF is 
delegated to the Audit Committee. Daily responsibility for  
the FRCF is delegated to the Chief Financial Officer. 
During 2014, management reviewed and tested the FRCF’s 
design and effectiveness. The Committee received reports 
focusing on control deficiencies, and mitigating and remedial 
action taken. The Committee also assessed and monitored the 
risks associated with migrating the Group’s finance systems 
from RBS Group to the Group’s new IT platform. 
The Audit Committee oversees the work of Group Audit and 
ensures Group Audit appropriately adopts industry best 
practice. The Group Head of Audit reports functionally to the 
Chair of the Committee and has a secondary reporting line to 
the Chief Financial Officer for management purposes. At each 
of its meetings, Group Audit provides the Committee with 
independent and objective reports on the appropriateness and 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls and governance 
frameworks. The Committee approves Group Audit’s annual 
plan, and receives quarterly reports detailing internal audit  
activity, key findings, management responses and proposed 
action plans. The Group Audit function monitors completion  
of these actions. 
During 2014, and following a formal tender-evaluation 
process, the Committee appointed Deloitte LLP to conduct an 
external quality assessment of Group Audit in accordance  
with the guidelines of the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors 
(“CIIA”). The assessment included evaluating the effectiveness 
of Group Audit, with reference to CIIA’s Standards and Code 
of Ethics and its recommendations for Effective Internal Audit  
in the Financial Services Sector. A benchmark against 
comparable industry peers was also performed. Deloitte LLP 
submitted the resulting report to the Committee, which 
concluded that Group Audit is performing effectively. The 
Committee endorsed recommendations for continuing 
improvement and was satisfied that Group Audit has access  
to appropriate resources. 
The Committee considered the Group’s internal controls and 
processes for identifying and responding to the risk of fraud. 
Reserves 
The Committee approves annual plans for reviews of reserves, 
informed by emerging internal and external issues. It also 
considers an appropriate balance between internal and 
external actuarial review. Consultants appointed to provide 
actuarial reviews of reserves are subject to approval by the 
Committee. The external actuarial review was carried out by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for Direct Line Insurance Group 
plc and its relevant affiliates
1
 only and not for anyone else. 
Every quarter, the Committee reviews and challenges the key 
assumptions and judgements, emerging trends, movements and 
analysis of uncertainties underlying the actuarial best estimate 
of technical provisions. At the same time, the Committee 
considers and challenges the appropriateness of the Chief 
Financial Officer’s proposals for the management best estimate 
of reserves. These are informed by actuarial analysis, wider 
commercial and risk-management insights, and principles of 
consistency from period to period. 
After reviewing the actuarial best estimate and management 
best estimate of reserves, the Committee recommends them  
to the Board. 
Financial reporting 
During the year, the Committee reviewed the preliminary 
announcement of the Group’s 2013 results, the 2013 Annual 
Report & Accounts, and the 2014 Half Year Interim Report. The 
Committee then recommended them to the Board for approval. 
The review process focused on critical accounting policies  
and practices, emphasising those requiring a major element  
of judgement. The review also considered going concern 
assumptions, impairment reviews, reserving provisions,  
unusual transactions, clarity of disclosures and significant  
audit adjustments. 
The Committee also advised the Board whether the financial 
statements, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and 
understandable and provided sufficient information to enable 
the reader to assess the Group’s performance, business model 
and strategy. 
Note: 
1. The relevant affiliates are U K Insurance Limited and Churchill Insurance Company Limited.  Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 63
 
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.direclinegroup.com 63 
In addition to matters relating to reserving, issues and 
judgements considered by the Committee included: 
• Provisions, including the release of an onerous lease 
provision after purchasing a property and recognising  
a subsequent impairment charge 
• The carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets, 
and the need for any impairment provisions 
• Classifying investment properties for fair-value disclosure 
purposes 
• The carrying value of the Group’s financial investments and 
the need for any impairment provisions 
• Judgements regarding tax, particularly the carrying value  
of any deferred tax assets and liabilities 
• The sale of the International division 
• Reinsurance recoverables 
The Committee also reviewed and delegated authority to  
a sub-committee to approve the quarterly Interim  
Management Statements. 
External Audit 
Deloitte LLP has served as the Company’s Auditor since 2000. 
Before listing, the Group was audited as a division of RBS 
Group. In accordance with the Group’s policy on maintaining 
the independence of external audit, Deloitte LLP must ensure 
that the audit partner engaged on the audit is rotated regularly 
and the current partner is scheduled to be rotated after the 
2015 year end. 
Under the transitional rules for audit tendering and auditor rotation, 
as set out in the Competition and Markets Authority’s Order and 
the EU Audit Regulation, Deloitte LLP cannot be reappointed as 
Auditor of the Company after June 2023. The Committee has 
decided it will consider the timing of a tender before that date 
during 2015, to align with the current audit partner’s rotation and 
taking the Group’s strategic priorities into account. In addition 
under the Order, the Committee will be responsible for negotiating 
the audit fee and setting the scope of the audit. 
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Company’s 
choice of external Auditor and no auditor liability agreement 
has been entered into. Equally, any recommendation to 
reappoint Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the Company depends  
on continued satisfactory performance. 
Auditor independence and non-audit services policy 
The Group has adopted an Independence of External Audit 
minimum standard which established parameters for preventing 
or mitigating any compromise of the external Auditor’s 
independence or objectivity by virtue of their providing non-
audit services to the Group. 
In accordance with the Independence of External Audit 
minimum standard, the Committee formally approves a list of 
audit and non-audit services to be provided by the external 
Auditor before each financial year. 
Authority has been delegated to the Chair of the Audit 
Committee to approve any non-audit services costing up to 
£100,000. Non-audit services with a value exceeding 
£100,000 require the Committee’s approval. The Committee 
receives and reviews a report on all consultancy spend, 
including non-audit services, at least twice a year. 
During the year, the Committee approved fees payable to 
Deloitte LLP for services not related to audit work of £0.4 
million. These fees related to audit assurance and tax services. 
The following is a breakdown of fees paid to Deloitte LLP in 
respect of the year ended 31 December 2014. 
 
Fees 
£m Proportion
Audit fees
1
 2.3 85.2%
Non-audit fees 0.4 14.8%
Total fees for audit  
and other services 2.7 
Having reviewed the application of the Group’s minimum 
standard on audit and non-audit services during 2014, the 
Committee is satisfied that adequate procedures are in place to 
safeguard the external Auditor’s independence and objectivity. 
Effectiveness of the external audit process and the re-
appointment of the external Auditors 
During 2014, in addition to regular questioning of the Auditor 
during its meetings, the Audit Committee assessed the 
effectiveness of the external Auditor. It achieved this through  
a detailed questionnaire completed by key stakeholders, 
discussions with the Chief Financial Officer, a formal review  
of Deloitte LLP’s independence, and an assessment of its 
fulfilment of the agreed audit plan. 
The Committee concluded that Deloitte LLP had effectively and 
appropriately performed its obligations as external Auditor  
to the Group. Following this review, the Audit Committee has 
recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be reappointed  
as external Auditor to the Group. A resolution to this effect will 
be put to the shareholders at the 2015 AGM. 
Effectiveness of the Audit Committee 
The Company Secretary facilitated the Committee’s review  
of its effectiveness during the year. The Company Secretary 
also prepared a report based on responses from the members 
of the Committee and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed 
questionnaire. Having reviewed and discussed the resulting 
report, the Committee concluded that it was effective and has 
access to sufficient resources to perform its duties. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
2 March 2015. 
 
 
 
Andrew Palmer, Chair of the Audit Committee 
Note: 
1. Includes the audit fee for discontinued operations, the Group’s International division. Further information can be found in note 11 to the consolidated  
financial statements.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 64
Committee reports continued 
64 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.0 Draft and Secret 
Board Risk Committee report 
 
Jane Hanson, 
Chair of the Board Risk Committee 
Role of the Board Risk Committee 
The Committee is responsible for providing oversight and 
advice to the Board in relation to the Group’s current and 
potential future risk exposures and the strategic approach to 
managing risk. The Committee recommends risk appetite and 
tolerance levels to the Board, and promotes a risk-awareness 
culture within the Group. 
The Committee has unrestricted access to management and 
external advisers to help discharge its duties. It is satisfied  
that during 2014, it received sufficient, reliable and timely 
information to perform its responsibilities effectively. During the 
year, at the Committee’s request, external consultants undertook 
specific reviews. These included validation activities regarding 
the IMAP submission. 
You can find the Board Risk Committee’s terms of reference  
at www.directlinegroup.com . 
Committee composition, skills and experience 
The Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive 
Directors: Jane Hanson; Andrew Palmer; Clare Thompson;  
and Priscilla Vacassin. You can find the members’ biographical 
information on pages 52 to 53. 
Meetings 
The Board Risk Committee held six scheduled meetings in  
2014, one of which was a joint meeting with the Remuneration 
Committee. Additionally, four sub-committee meetings were held 
to consider Solvency II and IMAP matters. The following table 
sets out attendance at the scheduled meetings: 
 Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Jane Hanson (Chair) 6 of 6 100%
Andrew Palmer 6 of 6 100%
Clare Thompson 6 of 6 100%
Priscilla Vacassin 5 of 6 83%
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk 
Officer, Group Head of Audit, General Counsel and a 
representative from the External Auditor are invited to attend 
Board Risk Committee meetings. In addition to regular one-to-
one meetings with the Chair, the Chief Risk Officer also met 
privately with the Committee, in the absence of management. 
The Director of Compliance and Regulatory Risk, Director  
of Financial Risk, Enterprise Risk Director, and Head of 
Investigations and Anti-Bribery are also invited to attend 
appropriate sections of the Board Risk Committee meetings. 
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee 
meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting. 
Board Risk Committee focus during 2014 
• Assessed and monitored the Risk function’s oversight  
of major change initiatives. These included IT migration 
and transformation programmes 
• Reviewed and challenged the Solvency II programme 
plan and timetable, and received reports and training  
on various Solvency II matters. These included: the IMAP 
plan; outputs of external validation and assurance 
activities; the strengths and limitations of the Internal 
Economic Capital Model; and dependencies, 
correlations and diversification 
• Reviewed the stress testing and scenario analysis plan for 
2014, and the outputs of two specific reverse stress tests 
undertaken at the Committee’s request 
• Commissioned an external review of the Financial 
Promotions team and considered the findings and 
recommendations 
• Reviewed the findings and output of a review undertaken 
by an external consultant regarding the maturity of the 
Risk Management Committee 
• Reviewed the strategic approach to managing risk  
across the Group and monitored the effectiveness of  
the ERM framework 
• Approved the Risk and Compliance plan and Conduct 
and Compliance assurance plan, and assessed the level 
and effectiveness of resource within the Risk function 
• Recommended approving the Group’s risk appetite and 
risk policies to the Board 
• Reviewed and challenged the Group’s conduct risk and 
compliance management processes to drive the right 
customer outcomes. The Committee regularly reviewed 
and challenged key risk indicators and measures 
covering the key areas of treating customers fairly and 
core regulatory interactions 
• Reviewed the adequacy of the Group’s arrangements to 
allow employees to raise concerns and reviewed reports 
on these matters. Assessed the effectiveness of the 
Group’s anti-money laundering and sanctions systems 
and controls 
• Worked with the Remuneration Committee to ensure risk 
management is considered and included when assessing 
the performance of senior executives, and incorporated 
into the incentive schemes for customer facing roles and 
for technicians and support staff in the accident and 
repair centres 
• Reviewed the ORSA report for 2014  Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 65
 
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.direclinegroup.com 65 
Major change programmes 
The Committee received regular reports on the major change 
programmes undertaken in the Group. During the year, the 
Committee commissioned several reviews, including a detailed 
risk assessment by an external consultant of the transformation 
programme to expand the Group’s capabilities, develop new 
technology and digital tools to support customers, focusing on 
governance and programme setup. The reviews culminated  
in detailed presentations at scheduled Committee meetings, 
where the findings were reviewed and actions agreed. 
Solvency II 
During 2014, the Group continued progressing towards 
compliance with Solvency II requirements; the Solvency II 
Directive has an implementation date of 1 January 2016.  
The Committee has considered a range of Solvency II matters 
at scheduled meetings and training sessions. Key areas of 
focus have included: the approach to IMAP validation and the 
IMAP submission process; Internal Economic Capital Model 
developments, strengths and limitations; profit and loss 
attribution; and dependencies, correlations and diversification. 
Stress and scenario testing 
Regular stress testing and scenario analysis, including reverse 
stress testing, is a core component of the Group’s ERM 
framework. It supports the Group’s strategic objectives and  
is an area of increasing focus for the PRA. During the year,  
the Committee requested that the Risk function undertake two 
reverse stress tests: the impact of multiple weather events; and 
the mis-selling of customer policies. The Committee reviewed 
and challenged the outputs of these reverse stress tests, and 
considered the proposed management actions. 
Risk management framework 
During 2014, the Committee reviewed and approved several 
enhancements to the ERM framework. These included the re-
launched Group Policies and Minimum Standards, and an 
enhanced Emerging Risks Register, which provides a forward-
looking perspective on emerging risks facing the organisation. 
The Committee also reviewed and challenged the ORSA in 
advance of Solvency II. The Committee provided oversight  
of risk management operations by reviewing the Risk and 
Compliance operational plan. These included the Group’s 
approach to conduct and culture; reviewing and approving the 
Group’s Risk Appetite Statements and Material Risk Register; 
and considering the effectiveness of the ERM framework. 
Risk appetite monitoring 
The Committee received regular reports corresponding to  
the three strategic risk objective appetite statements: maintain 
capital adequacy; stable/efficient access to funding and 
liquidity; and maintain stakeholder confidence, together with 
lower level risk appetite statements that supported these.  
The Committee monitored the Group’s exposure against  
these appetites, and assessed the drivers impacting the risk 
appetite status. 
Conduct and compliance risk 
As part of the Chief Risk Officer’s report, the Committee 
reviewed and challenged the conduct and compliance risk 
measures, covering customer and regulatory interactions across 
the Group’s functions, with a particular emphasis on achieving 
the right customer outcomes. The Committee commissioned an 
external review of the Financial Promotions team, focusing on 
governance of approval processes and systems and controls. 
Additionally, the Committee ensured that there is a standing 
agenda item on Compliance and Regulatory Risk, including 
conduct risk, with updates on any key developments at each 
scheduled Committee meeting from the Group’s Director of 
Compliance and Regulatory Risk. 
Whistleblowing and financial crime 
The Committee received regular updates on the Company’s 
whistleblowing process. It also reviewed the arrangements for 
employees to report any concerns about suspected illegal or 
unethical behaviour within Direct Line Group, without fear of 
adverse consequences. The Committee received annual reports 
from the Money Laundering Reporting Officer, who has 
delegated authority from the Board to ensure that the Group 
has appropriate systems and controls in place to manage 
money laundering and sanction risks; and the UK designated 
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Officer. 
Remuneration 
During the year, the Board Risk and Remuneration Committees 
held a joint meeting to ensure risk management metrics are 
considered as part of evaluating the performance of senior 
executives, and are incorporated into the incentive schemes for 
customer facing roles in the insurance sales and service contact 
centres, and for technicians and support staff within the UK 
Assistance Accident and Repair Centres. The Committees 
considered matters including regulatory developments in 
remuneration and the level of preparedness in relation to the 
draft Solvency II guidance; and how the performance of 
individuals in Control Functions should be assessed. 
Effectiveness of the Board Risk Committee 
The Company Secretary facilitated the Committee’s review  
of its effectiveness during the year. The Company Secretary 
also prepared a report based on responses from the members 
of the Committee and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed 
questionnaire. Having reviewed and discussed the resulting 
report, the Committee concluded that it was effective and  
has access to sufficient resources to perform its duties. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
2 March 2015. 
 
 
Jane Hanson, Chair of the Board Risk Committee  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 66
Committee reports continued 
66 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.0 Draft and Secret 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee report 
 
Clare Thompson,  
Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
Role of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
The Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Committee 
provides oversight and advice in relation to how the Group 
conducts its business responsibly, including in relation to health 
and safety, the environment, employee engagement and 
wellbeing, community involvement and ethical matters. The 
Committee considers the role of the Group in society, including 
environment and community engagement policies. 
Committee composition 
The Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive 
Directors: Jane Hanson; Sebastian James; and Clare Thompson; 
together with Paul Geddes, Chief Executive Officer; and Angela 
Morrison, Chief Information Officer. You can find the members’ 
biographical information on pages 52 to 54. 
During the year, Clare Thompson became Chair of the CSR 
Committee. Jane Hanson retired as Chair at that time but 
continues to be a member. The Board also approved the 
appointment of Angela Morrison as a member of the 
Committee, following Tom Woolgrove’s departure from the 
Group, and the appointment of Sebastian James as an 
additional Committee member. 
Meetings 
The CSR Committee held four scheduled meetings in 2014. The 
following table sets out attendance at the scheduled meetings: 
Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Clare Thompson (Chair) 4 of 4 100%
Paul Geddes 3 of 4 75%
Jane Hanson 4 of 4 100%
Sebastian James
1
 1 of 1 100%
Angela Morrison
1
 3 of 3 100%
Tom Woolgrove
1
 2 of 2 100%
The Human Resources Director, Managing Director of Claims 
and Business Services, Head of Public Affairs and Sustainability, 
Head of Employee Relations and Engagement and CSR 
Manager are invited to attend CSR Committee meetings. 
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee 
meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting. 
 
CSR Committee focus during 2014 
• Reviewed and approved the Group’s CSR 2015 strategy 
and four key focus areas 
• Reviewed and approved the adoption of a CSR Charter 
• Received regular reports from the Diversity Network 
Alliance group, focusing on the gender, working families 
and diversity strands 
• Held a scheduled Committee meeting in the Glasgow 
office, following an informal lunch with colleagues 
representing the Glasgow Local Community Team, and 
the Charity and Social Committee 
• Reviewed updates on emerging CSR matters, including 
presentations from external speakers 
• Received regular reports from the Health and Safety 
Committee, and assessed health and safety performance 
against the previously agreed plan 
• Reviewed progress against the Group’s sustainability 
targets, which are published on our website 
• Received updates on employee engagement in relation  
to CSR matters, volunteering and community activities 
CSR 2015 strategy 
The Committee reviewed and approved the Group’s CSR 
2015 strategy. It incorporates an overarching principle that  
a clear benefit to the Group’s business, customers and people 
must be embedded in the CSR strategy and every focus area. 
The four focus areas, each sponsored by a member of the 
Executive Committee, are as follows: 
• Helping to make our society safer – Mike Holliday-Williams 
• Proud to be here – Simon Linares 
• Reduce, Reuse and Recycle – Steve Maddock 
• Being recognised as part of our communities – Jon 
Greenwood 
You can find more information on the Group’s approach and 
priorities regarding CSR in the CSR report on pages 32 to 35. 
Effectiveness of the CSR Committee 
The Company Secretary facilitated the Committee’s review  
of its effectiveness during the year. The Company Secretary 
also prepared a report based on responses from the members 
of the Committee and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed 
questionnaire. Having reviewed and discussed the resulting 
report, the Committee concluded that it was effective and  
has access to sufficient resources to perform its duties. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
2 March 2015. 
 
 
Clare Thompson, Chair of the CSR Committee 
 
Note: 
1. Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended  
out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend.  Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 67
 
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.direclinegroup.com 67 
Investment Committee report 
 
Glyn Jones, 
Chair of the Investment Committee 
Role of the Investment Committee 
The Committee is responsible for overseeing the development 
of the Group’s investment strategy and the management and 
performance of the Group’s investment portfolio. 
Committee composition, skills and experience 
The Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive 
Directors: Glyn Jones; Jane Hanson; Andrew Palmer; and  
Clare Thompson. You can find the members’ biographical 
information on pages 52 to 53. 
Meetings 
The Investment Committee held four scheduled meetings in 
2014. Additionally, one meeting was called to consider a 
new investment allocation. The following table sets out 
attendance at the scheduled meetings: 
Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Glyn Jones (Chair) 4 of 4 100%
Jane Hanson 4 of 4 100%
Andrew Palmer 3 of 4 75%
Clare Thompson 4 of 4 100%
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk 
Officer, Director of Investment Management and Treasury, and 
Director of Financial Risk are invited to attend Investment 
Committee meetings. 
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee 
meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting. 
Effectiveness of the Investment Committee 
The Company Secretary facilitated the Committee’s review of 
its effectiveness during the year. The Company Secretary also 
prepared a report based on responses from the members of 
the Committee and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed 
questionnaire. Having reviewed and discussed the resulting 
report, the Committee concluded that it was effective and has 
access to sufficient resources to perform its duties. 
 
 
 
 
Investment Committee focus during 2014 
• Considered proposals to develop further the Group’s 
investment strategy. This resulted in the following 
recommendations (with attendant capital implications) 
being made to the Board, which approved them: 
− An allocation to UK infrastructure debt, to include as 
part of the asset strategy backing Periodical Payment 
Order (“PPO”) liabilities 
− An investment into US Dollar short-duration high yield 
debt to enhance future expected returns from the portfolio 
− An allocation to Pound Sterling private placement 
bonds to enhance expected returns and provide further 
issuer diversification for the portfolio 
• Monitored global macroeconomic developments and 
financial market yields, and considered the likely impact 
and risks for budgeted investment returns in 2014 and the 
Group’s capital base 
• Requested a study of investment strategies to help identify 
any attractive investment opportunities (appropriate for an 
insurer) not presently accessed by the Group 
• Examined how the Group was enhancing expected 
returns from cash/near cash assets by using more widely 
liquidity products available in the market and investigated 
the Group’s ability to obtain full visibility of underlying 
assets and to understand the capital implications of 
investing in such products 
• Considered reports from the Director of Investment 
Management and Treasury covering matters including: 
key market developments; financial performance from 
investment activity; performance of internally managed 
portfolios, external fund managers and the custodian; and 
compliance with agreed risk and exposure limits 
• Considered the findings from a report prepared by the 
Group Audit function. This report examined the 
effectiveness of key processes within the Investment and 
Treasury department 
• Examined proposals regarding enhancing the key risk 
indicator framework used to monitor investment activities 
and requested a better understanding of the rationale and 
governance underpinning the calculation and setting of 
Value at Risk limits employed by the Group 
• Requested periodic updates from management regarding 
planning and delivery of regulatory-driven changes 
impacting investments (notably European Market 
Infrastructure Regulation derivative reporting (delivered in 
2014) and the future requirement for Solvency II reporting 
of assets) 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
2 March 2015. 
 
 
Glyn Jones, Chair of the Investment Committee  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 68
Committee reports continued 
68 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.0 Draft and Secret 
Nomination Committee report 
 
Mike Biggs, 
Chair of the Nomination Committee 
Role of the Nomination Committee 
The Committee is responsible for keeping the Board’s structure, 
size, composition, and balance of skills, experience and 
expertise under review. The Committee recommends Board 
and Committee appointments to the Board, reviews the 
Group’s leadership needs, and monitors the Executive and 
Non-Executive Director succession plans. It also reviews 
Directors’ time commitment and considers and recommends  
the re-election of Directors at the Company’s AGM. 
You can find the Nomination Committee’s terms of reference  
at www.directlinegroup.com . 
Committee composition, skills and experience 
The Committee comprises the Chairman, Mike Biggs, and two 
independent Non-Executive Directors: Glyn Jones; and Andrew 
Palmer. You can find the members’ biographical information 
on pages 52 to 53. 
Meetings 
The Nomination Committee held three scheduled meetings  
in 2014. Additionally, three meetings were held to deal with 
matters emerging during the year. The following table sets  
out attendance at the scheduled meetings: 
Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Mike Biggs (Chair) 3 of 3 100%
Glyn Jones 3 of 3 100%
Andrew Palmer 3 of 3 100%
The Chief Executive Officer is invited to attend Nomination 
Committee meetings. The Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee, Human Resources Director and General Counsel 
are also invited to attend appropriate sections of the 
Nomination Committee meetings. 
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee 
meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting. 
 
Nomination Committee focus during 2014 
• Evaluated the Board’s balance of skills, knowledge, 
experience and diversity 
• Considered the requirement for an additional Non-
Executive Director, defined search criteria, engaged  
JCA Group Limited (“JCA Group”) as external search 
consultants, assessed potential candidates, and 
recommended appointing Sebastian James to the Board 
• Reviewed the Group’s leadership needs and considered 
succession planning for Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors, and senior executives  
• Reviewed the membership and chairmanship of Board 
Committees, and recommended appropriate changes 
• Reviewed the letters of appointment and appointment 
terms for Non-Executive Directors 
• Reviewed the independence and time commitment of 
Directors, and recommended their re-election at the  
2014 AGM 
Changes to the Board 
Mark Catton, who had been nominated to represent RBS 
Group on the Board, stepped down on 7 March 2014. This 
followed RBS Group selling substantially all of its shareholding 
in the Company in February 2014. Sebastian James was 
appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Company on  
28 August 2014. 
Board appointment and reappointment process 
During 2014, the Committee oversaw the appointment of 
Sebastian James as a Non-Executive Director. Following a 
review of the expertise and experience of members of the 
Board, the Committee produced a detailed candidate brief 
and engaged external search consultants, JCA Group, to find 
suitable candidates. JCA Group is a signatory to the Voluntary 
Code of Conduct for executive search firms and has no other 
connection to the Company. A long list of candidates of 
appropriate merit from diverse backgrounds was prepared and 
the Committee agreed a shortlist and interviewed candidates. 
It then approached the PRA and FCA for approval, and 
recommended Sebastian James’ appointment as a  
Non-Executive Director to the Board. 
Sebastian James, having been appointed during the year,  
will submit himself for election at the Company’s 2015 AGM. 
Sebastian James is considered independent within the meaning 
of the Code. 
Election and re-election of Directors 
Before the proposed re-election of Directors at the 2014 
AGM, the Committee reviewed the independence of Non-
Executive Directors. It concluded that Jane Hanson, Glyn Jones, 
Andrew Palmer, Clare Thompson and Priscilla Vacassin were 
all independent within the meaning of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. Mike Biggs was independent on his 
appointment as Chairman. The Committee recommended to 
the Board and shareholders that all serving Directors be re-
elected at the Company’s 2014 AGM.  Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 69
 
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.direclinegroup.com 69 
Diversity 
The Group celebrates the diversity of its workforce. We seek  
to recruit the best candidates for all positions throughout the 
business, irrespective of gender. Three of our nine Directors  
are women (33% of the Board). This level exceeds the target 
recommended by the Davies Report on boardroom diversity. 
The Board acknowledges the benefit of diversity. The 
Nomination Committee has encapsulated in its terms of 
reference a requirement to consider candidates for 
appointment to the Board on merit, against objective criteria 
and with due regard to diversity, including gender diversity. 
You can find more information on the Group’s approach to 
diversity in the CSR section on pages 32 to 35. 
Effectiveness of the Nomination Committee 
The 2013 Board and Committee effectiveness review 
identified the need for greater focus on succession planning. 
This was incorporated into the Nomination Committee’s 
agenda for 2014. The Committee has reviewed the Executive 
and Non-Executive Director succession plans. It has also 
guided management on succession planning, in particular 
identifying, assessing and developing potential among  
senior executives. 
The Company Secretary facilitated the Committee’s review  
of its effectiveness during the year. The Company Secretary 
also prepared a report based on responses from the members 
of the Committee and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed 
questionnaire. Having reviewed and discussed the resulting 
report, the Committee concluded that it was effective and  
has access to sufficient resources to perform its duties. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
2 March 2015. 
 
 
 
Michael N Biggs, Chair of the Nomination Committee 
Remuneration Committee report 
 
Priscilla Vacassin, 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
Role of the Remuneration Committee 
The Committee is responsible for setting and overseeing  
the implementation of the Group’s remuneration policy.  
The Committee oversees the level and structure of remuneration 
arrangements for senior executives, approves share incentive 
plans, and recommends to the Board share plans and,  
when applicable, changes to share plans requiring 
shareholder approval. 
You can find the Remuneration Committee’s terms of reference 
at www.directlinegroup.com . 
Committee composition, skills and experience 
The Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive 
Directors: Priscilla Vacassin; Sebastian James; and Andrew 
Palmer; and the Board Chairman, Mike Biggs. You can find 
the members’ biographical information on pages 52 to 53. 
On 30 September 2014, Sebastian James was appointed  
as a member of the Committee, and Clare Thompson retired 
as a member. 
Meetings 
The Remuneration Committee held eight scheduled meetings  
in 2014, one of which was a joint meeting with the Board 
Risk Committee to discuss matters relating to overlapping remits 
between the two Committees. Additionally, two meetings  
were held to deal with matters arising during the year. The 
following table sets out attendance at the scheduled meetings: 
 Scheduled 
 meetings
1
 
Percentage 
attendance
Priscilla Vacassin (Chair) 8 of 8 100%
Mike Biggs 8 of 8 100%
Sebastian James 1 of 1 100%
Andrew Palmer 8 of 8 100%
Clare Thompson 7 of 7 100%
Note: 
1. Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended  
out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 70
Committee reports continued 
70 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.0 Draft and Secret 
The Chief Executive Officer, Human Resources Director and 
senior representatives of the Human Resources function are 
invited to attend Remuneration Committee meetings. FIT 
Remuneration Consultants LLP, who act as independent 
advisers to the Committee, are also invited to attend 
Remuneration Committee meetings. 
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee 
meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting. 
Remuneration Committee focus during 2014 
• Considered the continued suitability of the current 
remuneration framework 
• Reviewed regulatory developments relating to remuneration 
and considered the implications for the Group 
• Reviewed the share-ownership guidelines for senior 
executives and the extent of compliance with the guidelines 
• Determined the 2013 bonus pool and individual 
allocations to senior executives, in light of the 
performance of the business, advice from the Chairs  
of the Audit and Board Risk Committees, the audit of  
the Group’s results, and individual performance 
• Determined that no clawback of awards under the  
Annual Incentive Plan (“AIP”) was required in 2014 
• Considered the implications of selling the Group’s 
International division on remuneration at the International 
division and Group levels 
• Considered the compensation for senior executives 
joining and leaving the Group 
• Considered management recommendations for a 
restricted share award to outstanding employees  
not eligible for the Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”),  
and approved a proposal for a free share award to  
all employees 
• Determined the quantum of awards under the LTIP,  
in view of business and individual performance 
• Considered the required approach for the AIP for 
employees in control functions, including Risk and  
Group Audit 
• Approved the metrics and targets for the 2014 AIP 
• Worked with the Board Risk Committee to ensure risk 
management metrics were considered and included 
when assessing the performance of senior executives, 
and incorporated into the incentive schemes for customer 
facing roles and for technicians and support staff in the 
accident and repair centres 
• Reviewed the compensation for Executive Directors and 
supervised the compensation review for members of  
the Executive Committee, other senior executives and 
other employees 
Effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee 
The Company Secretary facilitated the Committee’s review  
of its effectiveness during the year. The Company Secretary 
also prepared a report based on responses from the members 
of the Committee and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed 
questionnaire. Having reviewed and discussed the resulting 
report, the Committee concluded that it was effective and  
has access to sufficient resources to perform its duties. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
2 March 2015. 
 
 
Priscilla Vacassin, Chair of the Remuneration Committee  Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 71
Directors’ remuneration report 
Version 10.1   Draft and Secret   www.direclinegroup.com   71 
 
Priscilla Vacassin, 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
Dear shareholder 
As Chair of the Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”),  
I am pleased to introduce our report on Directors’ remuneration.  
Our remuneration policy has been in place since the IPO,  
and received a significant level of support from shareholders  
at the 2014 AGM (97.5% of votes cast). 
You can find a copy of the approved policy on pages 84  
to 93 of this report. 
Linking remuneration to performance – key pay 
outcomes in respect of 2014 
As outlined in the Board Chairman’s letter on pages 10 to 11, 
we have met or exceeded the stretch targets which we set 
ourselves before the IPO. The incentive outcomes for our 
Executive Directors, as presented in the annual remuneration 
report on pages 77 to 83, and for other senior executives  
and employees, reflect these achievements. 
In line with last year’s approach, bonuses under the Annual 
Incentive Plan (“AIP”) are based on performance against key 
financial and strategic measures. Bonuses of 75% of the 
maximum were awarded to the Chief Executive Officer and  
the Chief Financial Officer in respect of 2014. This reflects  
the strong performance against our financial targets and the 
significant progress made during the year in achieving our 
strategic priorities. 
In arriving at this outcome, as in previous years, the Committee 
has exercised careful judgement, assessing the quality of 
earnings and the overall context for performance to ensure  
that bonus outcomes are fair for shareholders and executives. 
We have provided enhanced disclosure this year in relation  
to the AIP outcome for 2014 on page 77 of this report. 
Under our Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”), the first awards, 
which were made following the IPO, and are subject to total 
shareholder return (“TSR”) and RoTE performance conditions,  
are due to vest later in 2015. The performance period in 
respect of the RoTE element of these awards has now been 
completed. Subject to final determination by the Committee at 
the time of vesting, the RoTE delivered in 2013 and 2014 has 
resulted in achievement of 82% of the maximum opportunity for 
this element. These shares will not be delivered to Executive 
Directors until November 2015, when the Committee will  
also assess performance under the TSR element of the award. 
Awards will only vest to the extent that the Committee is 
satisfied at that time that the outcome reflects the Group’s 
underlying financial performance and there have been no 
material risk failings. 
Separately, this year also saw the completion of the 
performance period for the last legacy awards under the  
RBS Group long-term incentive plan (“RBS Group LTIP”).  
These awards were granted to Executive Directors, and other 
senior executives, in respect of their work as executives of  
RBS Insurance, as Direct Line Group was known when it  
was owned by the RBS Group. The assessment against the 
performance framework set by RBS Group at the time of grant 
against financial, operational, risk and strategic measures,  
has resulted in vesting of 90% of awards. As agreed with RBS 
Group at the time of the IPO, these awards will be delivered  
in the form of Direct Line Insurance Group plc (the “Company”) 
shares, transferred by RBS Group. 
The vesting outcomes described above under both the Direct 
Line Group LTIP and RBS Group LTIP have been included in the 
single figure of remuneration which is shown on page 77. 
Remuneration approach for 2015 
Our remuneration policy has worked well and continues to be 
aligned with our key strategic priorities. Therefore, we are not 
making any changes to the approved policy this year but have 
refined aspects of our practices which do not require 
shareholder approval and which will help further align our 
executives and shareholders and will continue incentivising 
superior and sustainable business performance. 
You can find more details of these changes in the section of this 
remuneration report that describes how we intend to implement 
our remuneration policy in 2015 on pages 74 to 76. 
I would like to highlight the following areas: 
• The salaries of both Executive Directors will increase by 2% in 
April 2015, in line with the average increase to employees 
across the Group generally. This will be the first increase since 
their salaries were set in September 2012 
• Our approach to measuring performance under the AIP in 
2015 will be similar to that followed in 2013 and 2014. 
We will continue to measure performance using specific 
financial, strategic and personal targets and carefully 
assessing payouts using broader judgement. The Committee 
will continue to consider lead indicators, costs and prior-year 
reserve releases as part of its overall judgement but there will 
be no specific weighting allocation to these elements  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 72
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
72  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014  Version 10.1  Draft and Secret 
• To reflect the Group’s continued focus on customer 
experience, in 2015 we will be increasing the weighting  
of customer measures under the AIP from 10% to 20%.  
We will also increase the range of customer measures 
taken into account to better reflect the specific focus for  
the coming year 
• We are not proposing any changes to the performance 
conditions for 2015 awards under the LTIP. However,  
we will be increasing the level of RoTE required for 2015 
awards to vest from the current range of 14.0% to 17.0%  
to the range 14.5% to 17.5%. This will ensure that awards 
to Executive Directors will only vest in full if significant value 
has been delivered to our shareholders 
• To further strengthen the alignment of Executive Directors’  
and shareholders’ interests we have increased the share 
ownership guidelines for the Chief Financial Officer from 
150% to 200% of base salary, aligning them with those of 
the Chief Executive Officer 
During the year, the Committee also considered if it would  
be appropriate to introduce a requirement to hold any awards 
under the LTIP for a further period following vesting. The 
Committee decided that, pending final guidance on the 
requirements of Solvency II expected during 2015 and which 
may well include guidance on this aspect necessitating further 
change, it would not change the policy at this stage. The 
Committee will review remuneration structures and policy once 
the final Solvency II requirements have been published. 
Voting on the annual remuneration report 
As we are not proposing any changes to our remuneration 
policy which would require shareholder approval, the annual 
report on remuneration will be the only report to be put to an 
advisory shareholder vote at the AGM on 13 May 2015. 
I believe the remuneration our Executive Directors received  
in 2014 is appropriate and rewards them fairly for their 
performance and that their remuneration arrangements for 
2015 will continue to incentivise them to deliver our strategic 
priorities and provide our shareholders with sustainable returns. 
I hope you find this report informative and welcome any 
feedback you may have. 
 
 
 
Priscilla Vacassin, 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
Questions and answers on our executive 
remuneration policy 
Q How did you determine the bonuses for 2014 for the 
Executive Directors? 
Similar to last year, we began by quantitatively assessing 
performance under each measure. This gave the Committee  
an initial view on delivery against the targets set at the start  
of the year. 
We then considered a wide range of additional quantitative 
and qualitative factors. These included quality of earnings, 
affordability, the Group’s overall performance against the 
agreed risk profile, performance relative to peers, the wider 
economic environment plus other factors. This allowed the 
Committee to consider the overall Group performance and 
ensure bonuses reflect this. 
As described in the Remuneration Committee Chair’s letter on 
page 71, this assessment resulted in achievement of 75% of 
the maximum opportunity in respect of both Executive Directors. 
As in previous years, for both Executive Directors 40% of the 
awarded bonus will be deferred in Company shares for three 
years. This is in line with the approach for other Executive 
Committee members and strategic leaders (our most senior 
executives, who are responsible for developing and executing 
Group strategy). 
Q Will the 2015 process be different? 
It will be broadly unchanged. Our overall framework for 
determining bonuses has existed since the IPO, and has 
proved effective in linking business performance with payments 
to the Executive Directors. However, we have refined some of 
its details, making it easier to operate and communicate. 
We particularly wanted to broaden the factors the Committee 
considers when assessing performance. Therefore, to that effect 
we have moved the consideration of lead indicators, costs and 
prior-year reserve releases to the overall judgement applied by 
the Committee in considering outcomes as opposed to 
applying a specific weighting. 
The other change in 2015 will be to increase the scope and 
the weighting of the customer measures. 
You can find more details on these changes on page 75. 
Q Do you comply with the Financial Conduct Authority’s 
Remuneration Code? 
As an insurance business, we are not subject to the provisions of 
the Financial Conduct Authority’s Remuneration Code. However, 
we seek to comply with the core requirements of the Code that 
we should establish, implement and maintain remuneration 
policies, procedures and practices that are consistent with  
and promote sound and effective risk management. 
As such, significant elements of performance related pay for  
all our strategic leaders and Executive Committee members, 
including Executive Directors, are subject to deferral and 
potential malus and clawback. This is explained further in  
our policy report.  Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 73
Version 10.1  Draft and Secret  www.direclinegroup.com  73 
We also assess bonuses for senior personnel in our control 
functions independently from the Group financial results. This 
helps maintain the independence of our control functions. 
Q How are you preparing to comply with Solvency II 
remuneration requirements? 
Guidance in relation to the pay implications of Solvency II 
remains draft and high level, with final guidance not expected 
until after the publication of this report. In 2014, we thoroughly 
assessed our remuneration arrangements against known 
guidance with help from external advisers. The results 
confirmed that we already achieve a high level of compliance 
with the draft guidance. 
When we know the final provisions we will fully review our 
remuneration policy and practices and consider whether we 
need to change them. We will disclose any changes affecting 
our Executive Directors’ remuneration arrangements in 
subsequent remuneration reports as appropriate. 
Q Why are the Executive Directors still receiving shares 
under RBS Group share plans? 
In line with other Direct Line Group employees previously 
granted awards under RBS Group employee share plans,  
Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein were granted awards under 
the RBS Group LTIP and the RBS Group Deferral Plan prior to 
the IPO, when they were employees of RBS Group. 
In the case of awards under the RBS Group LTIP, the last set  
of outstanding awards is due to vest in March 2015, as 
described in more detail in the Committee Chair’s letter on 
page 71. These awards will be delivered in the form of Direct 
Line Insurance Group plc shares, transferred by RBS Group as 
agreed at the time of the IPO. 
The remaining RBS Group Deferred awards are also due to 
vest in March 2015 and will be delivered in RBS Group 
shares. These awards are not subject to any performance 
conditions as they represent the deferral element of annual 
bonuses that have already been earned. 
Q How will the sale of the International division affect 
remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors? 
Completion of the sale of our International division is currently 
expected in the first quarter or failing which in the second 
quarter. As this sale was not completed during 2014, we  
did not adjust the AIP targets for 2014, which continued  
to include the performance of the International division. 
For existing awards under the LTIP, in line with typical market 
practice, we will not adjust performance targets under the  
TSR or RoTE elements. 
Future performance targets for the AIP and the RoTE element  
of the LTIP have been set after taking the impact of the sale  
of the International division, and its impact on our budget  
and business plans, into account. 
Q Do you offer all your employees the opportunity to 
become shareholders? 
Yes, we believe it is important for all employees to have the 
opportunity to become shareholders in the Company. We run 
a Buy-As-You-Earn Share Incentive Plan (the “SIP”) which allows 
employees to receive one matching share for every two shares 
they purchase. 
In addition, in order to recognise the exceptional contribution 
of our people to the success of our business, we announced 
during December 2014 a free share award with a value of 
£400 per employee in the UK. This award will be made 
during March 2015 and will be the second offer of free 
shares to UK employees since the IPO. 
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 74
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
74   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014   Version 10.1   Draft and Secret 
Introduction 
The remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the “Regulations”). The Company 
also complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to remuneration. 
Annual remuneration report 
Remuneration Committee members and governance 
The following list details members of the Remuneration Committee during 2014. You can find information about each member’s 
attendance at meetings in the Remuneration Committee report on page 69. Their biographies can be found on pages 52 to 53. 
Committee Chair 
Priscilla Vacassin 
Non-Executive Directors 
Mike Biggs 
Sebastian James (appointed to Committee on 30 September 2014) 
Andrew Palmer 
Clare Thompson (retired from Committee on 30 September 2014) 
Advisers to the Committee 
The Committee consults with the Chief Executive Officer, the Human Resources Director and senior representatives of the HR 
function on matters relating to the appropriateness of all remuneration elements for Executive Directors and Executive Committee 
members. The Chief Executive Officer and the Human Resources Director are not present when their own remuneration is 
discussed. The Committee works closely with the Chairs of the Board Risk Committee and the Audit Committee. 
The Committee retains FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP (“FIT”), who are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants Group’s 
Code of Conduct, as its independent adviser. This appointment was made by the Committee in preparation for the IPO and 
following consideration of the firm’s experience in this sector. FIT was reappointed by the Committee during the year following  
a review of its performance. 
During the year, FIT provided advice on market practice, corporate governance, incentive plan design, regulatory and other 
matters under consideration by the Committee. FIT does not provide any other services to the Company, and accordingly the 
Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by FIT is objective and independent. 
FIT’s total fees for remuneration-related advice in 2014 were £175,332 exclusive of VAT. FIT charged its fees on the basis of  
its standard terms of business for providing advice. 
Allen & Overy LLP, one of the Group’s legal advisers, also provided legal advice relating to the Group’s executive remuneration 
arrangements, and provided the Group with other legal services. 
Statement of implementation of policy in 2015 
Executive Directors’ salaries in 2015 
The current base salaries paid to the Executive Directors were set before the IPO. The Committee has considered the current  
level of salaries and decided to award an increase of 2% from 1 April 2015, in line with the average increase awarded  
to UK employees. 
Director Position 
2015 base salary
£’000
2014 base salary 
£’000 
Annual change in base 
salary
Paul Geddes Chief Executive Officer 775 760 2%
John Reizenstein Chief Financial Officer 469 460 2%
Annual Incentive Plan 2015 
The maximum annual incentive awards which may be payable to Executive Directors in respect of 2015 are shown below and 
have remained unchanged since the IPO. 
Director Position 
Maximum annual incentive award for 
2015 (% base salary) 
Deferred under the Deferred Annual 
Incentive Plan
Paul Geddes Chief Executive Officer 175% 40%
John Reizenstein Chief Financial Officer 150% 40% Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 75
 
Version 10.1  Draft and Secret  www.direclinegroup.com  75 
During 2014, the Committee reviewed the basket of measures used to assess performance under the AIP and the operation of the 
overall framework since it was put in place at the time of the IPO. The review concluded that, overall, the framework worked well 
in linking the variable pay of Executive Directors with the performance of the Group. However, as part of the review, the 
Committee decided to adopt the following changes aimed at simplifying the plan and further strengthening that link: 
• In 2014, ongoing operating profit was adjusted to exclude movements in prior-year reserves. This adjustment will no longer  
be made in 2015 although the Committee will assess the impact of prior-year reserving on performance as part of its overall 
judgement. The weighting of ongoing operating profit has increased to 50% 
• To remove the specific weighting for cost targets and lead indicators, but consider these factors as part of its overall exercise  
of judgement around the quality and sustainability of earnings 
• To broaden the basket of customer measures and double the weighting of this element to 20%, reflecting the specific business 
priorities for the year ahead 
 Measures  Weighting for 2015 Weighting for 2014
Financial Ongoing operating profit (no longer adjusted for prior-year 
reserving from 2015) 50% 40%
 Other financial measures not reflected in the definition of 
profit, primarily the performance of the Run-off segment and 
restructuring costs 10% 10%
 Cost targets 10%
Strategic A mix of financial and non-financial lead indicators 
including market share, retention, quote to conversion ratio, 
scored loss ratio, progress with technology and strategic 
projects and others 
No specific 
weighting, but 
considered as part 
of the overall 
judgement 10%
 Based on a basket of customer measures including Net 
Promoter Score and complaints 20% 10%
Personal objectives Defined objectives for each Executive Director, including 
shared objectives across the Executive Committee 20% 20%
In line with previous years, all AIP outcomes will continue to be determined after the Committee determines a payment gateway. 
This requires the Committee to be satisfied that it is appropriate to permit a bonus award, at all or at a given level. The gateway 
necessarily involves some subjective judgement of performance. This may result in positive or negative moderation of each AIP 
performance measure or the overall bonus outcome. 
The table below sets out the gateway criteria for the AIP for 2015. 
Gateway criteria for the Annual Incentive Plan for 2015 outcomes for Executive Directors 
• Quality and sustainability of earnings, referring to reserving, gross written premium, costs and loss ratio, and relevant  
lead indicators 
• Additional customer context, for example, conduct, experience, brand and franchise health 
• Affordability 
• Risk management within risk appetite 
• The Group’s relative performance to that of its peers 
• The wider economic environment 
• Exceptional events, such as abnormal weather 
• Any regulatory breaches and / or reputational damage to the Group 
• Committee satisfaction that paying the bonus does not cause major reputational concerns 
The Committee may also use its discretion to take into account additional factors. These include the quality of financial results,  
the ’direction of travel‘ of all measures and a wider consideration of reputation, risk and audit. 
Performance conditions for Long-Term Incentive Plan awards 
LTIP awards to be granted in 2015 will continue to be subject to performance against the following performance conditions: 
• 60% based on RoTE over a three-year performance period (2015, 2016 and 2017) 
• 40% based on relative TSR performance against the constituents of the FTSE 350 (excluding investment trusts) over a  
three-year performance period starting on the date of grant. The starting TSR and closing TSR will both be averaged over  
a three-month period  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 76
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
76  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014  Version 10.1  Draft and Secret 
For these purposes, we use the Group’s standard definition for RoTE, see page 170, subject to other adjustments which the 
Committee may consider appropriate. 
Following the year end, the Committee reviewed the performance targets and, in line with its commitment to ensure that awards 
to Executive Directors would only be payable if significant value has been created for shareholders, decided to increase the  
RoTE target range as follows: 
  Performance required for threshold vesting Performance required for maximum vesting 
Performance measure 
Vesting for threshold 
performance Awards for 2015
Awards made
 prior to 2015 Awards for 2015 
Awards made 
prior to 2015
RoTE 
20% of this element  
of the award 
Average annual
RoTE performance of 
14.5%
Average annual
RoTE performance of 
14.0%
Average annual 
RoTE performance of 
17.5% 
Average annual
RoTE performance of 
17.0%
Relative TSR 20% of this element  
of the award Median Upper quintile 
For the TSR and RoTE elements, 20% of the award vests for threshold performance with 100% vesting for maximum performance. 
There is a straight-line interpolation between these points for the TSR element (on a ranked basis). For the RoTE element, 40% of 
the award will vest for RoTE of 15.5% for awards to be made in 2015 (previously 15%). Otherwise, similar to TSR, a straight-line 
interpolation occurs from threshold to target then from target to maximum performance. 
The LTIP awards will also vest only to the extent that the Committee is satisfied that the outcome of the TSR and RoTE performance 
conditions reflects the Group’s underlying financial performance from the date of grant until vesting. When considering these 
matters, the Committee will consider whether there have been any material risk failings. 
Pension and benefits 
A pension contribution of 25% of base salary will continue to be paid to both Executive Directors in 2015. This is shown in  
the table below. 
Director Position Pension contribution (% base salary)
Paul Geddes Chief Executive Officer 25%
John Reizenstein Chief Financial Officer 25%
Benefits comprise the provision of a company car or car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance, income protection 
and health screening. The Executive Directors are also eligible for certain discounted Group products in line with  
the approach for all employees. 
Non-Executive Director fees 
The current fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors were set in 2012 and have not been changed to date. 
Position 
 Fees for 2015
£’000
Board Chairman fee 400
Basic Non-Executive Director fee 70
Additional fees 
Senior Independent Director fee 30
Chair of Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees 30
Chair of CSR Committee 10
Member of Board Committee (Audit, Risk or Remuneration) 10
Member of Board Committee (CSR or Nomination) 5
No additional fees are paid for membership or chairmanship of the Investment Committee. 
External directorships 
The Company encourages Executive Directors to accept, subject to the approval of the Chairman, an invitation to join the board 
of another company outside the Group in a non-executive capacity. This recognises the value of such wider experience. In these 
circumstances, they can retain any remuneration from the non-executive appointment. Executive Directors are generally limited to 
accepting one external directorship. 
John Reizenstein is a trustee and director of Farm Africa, for which he receives no fees, otherwise the Executive Directors do not 
hold any external directorships.  Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 77
 
Version 10.1  Draft and Secret  www.direclinegroup.com  77 
Implementation of policy and pay outcomes in relation to 2014 performance 
Single figure table
1
 (audited) 
£’000 Salary Annual bonus
2
 Long-term incentives
3,4,5
Benefits
6
 
All employee  
share plans
7
 
Pension contributions 
and cash allowance 
in lieu of pension Total 
  2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Paul 
Geddes 760 760 1,000 835 2,656 728 17 23 − − 190 190 4,623 2,536
John 
Reizenstein 460 460 518 415 830 158 15 14 1 1 115 115 1,939 1,163
Notes: 
1. All figures in the table are rounded to the nearest thousand. 
2. Includes amounts earned for performance during the year, but deferred for three years under the Deferred Annual Incentive Plan (“DAIP”), see page 81.  
These deferred awards are not subject to any conditions except continuous employment although awards remain available for malus / clawback. 
3. Long-term incentives in 2013 and 2014 represent the vesting of the RBS Group LTIP awards granted in 2011 and 2012 respectively. The expected vesting 
outcome figures for the RBS Group LTIP awards granted in 2011 reported in 2013 have been updated based on the actual vesting share price of £2.652  
on 7 March 2014, compared to the three month average share price of £2.2658 used in reporting this figure in the 2013 remuneration report. This results in  
an adjusted reportable increase of approximately £106,000 for Paul Geddes and £23,000 for John Reizenstein, with a corresponding increase by the same 
amounts of the single figure for 2013. For the RBS Group LTIP awards granted in 2012, the vesting outcome is calculated at 90% of shares under award resulting 
in a value of £2,028,470 for Paul Geddes and £456,403 for John Reizenstein. Details of the performance measures applicable to the vesting of  
RBS Group LTIP awards are shown on page 83. 
4. The long-term incentive figures for 2014 also include the estimated vesting outcome for the RoTE portion of the awards made under the Direct Line Group LTIP in 
November 2012. In line with the criteria set at the time of grant, this has been assessed by reference to RoTE performance during 2013 and 2014 at 49.2% of 
shares under award (82% of the maximum in relation to the RoTE element). The corresponding values under long-term incentives, including the value of dividends 
accrued, are £617,636 for Paul Geddes and £373,826 for John Reizenstein. These shares will be delivered to Executive Directors in November 2015. 
5. The values shown under long-term incentives for 2014 are based on the three month average Company share price to 31 December 2014. The LTIP figure for 
2014 for Paul Geddes also includes the value on exercise of 4,206 dividend shares on his DAIP award for 2012 in March 2014 of £10,157. 
6. Benefits include a company car or allowance, and private medical and income protection insurance. 
7. Includes the value of matching shares under the SIP. 
Each Executive Director has confirmed that they have not received any other items in the nature of remuneration, other than those 
already disclosed in the single figure table. 
Annual Incentive Plan outcomes for 2014 
The table below shows outcomes against the specific measures during the year: 
 
Notes: 
1. Primarily movements in prior-year reserves, the performance of the Run-off segment and restructuring costs 
2. Including market share, retention, quote to conversion ratio, scored loss ratio, progress with technology and strategic projects 
As reported in last year’s report, at the start of the year, the Committee did not set a formal threshold to maximum range for 
performance measures. Instead, the Committee believed it was more appropriate to consider performance relative to targets, those 
numbers being commercially sensitive and likely to remain so, and assess over or underperformance by judging overall performanc e 
at the year end. The outcomes shown above, therefore, reflect the strong performance during the year, particularly in terms of the 
financial measures, as highlighted in the Group highlights and Chairman’s statement on pages 4 to 5 and 10 to 11 respectively. 
Measures
Weight 
(as a % of 
maximum 
award)
Threshold
10% vesting
Target
60% vesting
Maximum
100% vesting
Financial
Strategic
Personal
Adjusted ongoing operating proﬁt
Other ﬁnancial measures not reﬂected in 
the deﬁnition of ongoing operating proﬁt
1
Cost reduction targets
A mix of ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial 
lead indicators
2
Customer experience
Personal objectives 
including shared 
objectives amongst all 
Executive Committee 
members
Paul Geddes
John Reizenstein
40%
10%
10%
10%
10%
20%
20%
90%
80%
60%  
60%  
60%  
 66% 
 65% 
Achievement against performance measures Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 78
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
78  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014  Version 10.1  Draft and Secret 
Consequently, the annual incentive awards payable to the Executive Directors for the financial year ended 31 December 2014 
are as follows: 
Director Position 
Maximum annual incentive 
award (% of base salary)
Actual annual incentive award  
for 2014 (% of base salary) 
Actual annual incentive award 
for 2014 (including cash and 
deferred element)
£’000
Paul Geddes Chief Executive Officer 175% 132% 1,000
John Reizenstein Chief Financial Officer 150% 113% 518
Non-Executive Directors 
Remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2014 is shown in the table below. Fees were  
the only remuneration paid to the Non-Executive Directors in 2013 and 2014. Non-Executive Directors may also claim for 
reasonable travel expenses in accordance with the Group’s travel and expenses policy. 
Director 
Fees
1
£’000
Total 2014 
£’000 
Total 2013
£’000
Michael Biggs 400 400 400
Glyn Jones 115 115 115
Jane Hanson² 119 119 120
Sebastian James³ 28 28 −
Andrew Palmer 125 125 125
Clare Thompson
4
 104 104 105
Priscilla Vacassin 110 110 110
Mark Catton
5
 − − −
Notes: 
1. Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Group's bonus or share incentive schemes or join any Group pension scheme. 
2. Jane Hanson remained a member of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee through 2014, but stood down as Chair from 1 October 2014. 
3. Sebastian James was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 28 August 2014. The fees for membership of the Remuneration Committee and 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee applied from 30 September 2014. 
4. Clare Thompson stood down from the Remuneration Committee from 30 September 2014. 
5. Mark Catton, a Director nominated by RBS Group, resigned as a Director of Direct Line Insurance Group plc on 26 April 2013, following the reduction in the 
shareholding of RBS Group in Direct Line Insurance Group plc to less than 50% on 13 March 2013. He was reappointed as a Director on 1 October 2013 
following Bruce Van Saun’s resignation. He later resigned on 7 March 2014. During their appointment as Non-Executive Directors, Bruce Van Saun and Mark 
Catton were RBS Group employees with any fees received payable to RBS Group. A lump sum payment in respect of Directors’ fees for Mark Catton and Bruce 
Van Saun for the years 2012 to 2014 inclusive of £133,579 was paid in January 2015. 
Percentage change in pay of Chief Executive Officer 2013 to 2014 
The table below shows the year-on-year percentage change in salary, taxable benefits and bonus for the Chief Executive Officer 
compared to the average remuneration of all other UK employees. The Committee considers that it is appropriate to compare 
against all UK employees, but to exclude those based outside the UK. This helps ensure consistent comparisons with the Chief 
Executive Officer. 
 Salary
1
Benefits
2
Bonus (including
 deferred amount)
3
Chief Executive Officer Nil -26% 20%
All UK employees 2.6% -6% 20%
Notes: 
1. Based on the change in average pay for UK employees employed in both the year ended 31 December 2014 and the year ended 31 December 2013. 
2. There were no changes in benefit provision between 2013 and 2014. The decrease in value shown is due to a decrease in the cost associated with the 
provision of certain benefits. 
3. Includes average amounts earned under the Annual Incentive Plan and, for employees other than the Chief Executive Officer, other variable incentive schemes, 
including monthly and quarterly incentive schemes operated in certain parts of the Group. 
When determining Directors’ remuneration, the Committee considers employment conditions elsewhere in the Group. The 
Committee particularly reviews overall pay and bonus decisions in aggregate for the wider Group. Through the Chief Executive 
Officer, Paul Geddes, and other senior management, the Committee may receive input provided by employee groups, such as 
the Employee Representative Body as required.  Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 79
 
Version 10.1  Draft and Secret  www.direclinegroup.com  79 
Distribution statement 
The following chart shows the overall pay expenditure across all Group employees compared with the total value of dividends 
paid to shareholders for 2013 and 2014. 
 
Note: 
There have been no share buy-backs since the IPO other than shares purchased by the Employee Benefit Trusts to satisfy the awards of shares under the Company’s 
share plans. Consistent with market practice, the overall expenditure on pay has been taken from note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. Therefore it has  
not been calculated in a manner consistent with the single figure in this report. 
Historical performance of Total Shareholder Return 
The following graph shows the Company’s TSR since trading of the Company’s shares began on the London Stock Exchange in 
October 2012 against the FTSE 350 Index (excluding investment trusts) over the same period. The FTSE 350 Index (excluding 
investment trusts) has been selected as it is a broad index, of which the Company is a constituent. It also represents the same 
group of companies used for measuring relative TSR under the LTIP. 
 
The table below shows historical levels of the Chief Executive Officer’s pay between 2012 and 2014. It also shows vesting  
of annual and long-term incentive pay awards as a percentage of the maximum available opportunity. 
Chief Executive Officer 
Single figure of total 
remuneration
£'000
Annual bonus payout  
(% of maximum) 
Long-term incentive
vesting (% of maximum)
1
2014 4,623 75% 88%
2013 2,536 63% 55%
2012 1,908 65% 30%
Note: 
1. Based on actual vesting under the 2010 and 2011 and expected vesting under the 2012 RBS Group LTIP. The value included in the single figure in respect of 
these awards is £205,000 in 2012, £728,000 in 2013 and £2,028,470 in 2014. For 2014, the estimated vesting of the RoTE portion of the Direct Line 
Group LTIP granted in 2012 has also been included at a value of £617,636. Any shares vesting under the Direct Line Group LTIP will not be delivered until 
November 2015 but have been included in the single figure as the performance period in respect of the RoTE portion has now been completed. 
14 13
501.0 
445.1 
14 13
467.1 
412.2 
Overall expenditure on pay
(including International division) (£m)
Overall expenditure on pay 
(excluding International division) (£m)
Dividend (£m)
14 13
242.7 
401.1 
65.3%
% change:
-11.2%
% change:
-11.8%
% change:
Total Shareholder Return
16/10/12
130
150
110
90
170
190
31/12/12 31/12/13 31/12/14
Direct Line Group FTSE 350 (excluding investment trusts) Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 80
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
80  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014  Version 10.1  Draft and Secret 
Voting outcomes from 2014 Annual General Meeting  
The table below shows the percentage of shareholders voting for, or voting against, and the percentage of votes withheld in 
relation to the resolutions to approve the Directors’ remuneration policy and Directors’ annual remuneration report put to the 
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) in 2014. 
For Against  
 
Number Percentage Number Percentage 
Number of votes 
withheld 
(abstentions) 
Percentage votes 
withheld
(abstentions
Approval of Directors’ 
remuneration policy 1,064,002,114 97.5% 26,743,783 2.5% 1,945,618 0.2%
Approval of Directors’ 
remuneration report 1,069,454,199 98.0% 21,291,566 2.0% 1,945,750 0.2%
Note: 
The percentages of votes for and against are expressed as a percentage of votes cast, excluding abstentions. The percentage of votes withheld is expressed as a 
percentage of total votes cast, including abstentions. 
The Committee takes into account the approval levels of remuneration related matters at the AGM to determine whether the 
current Directors’ remuneration policy remains appropriate. 
The Committee aims to build an active and productive dialogue with investors on developments in the remuneration aspects of 
corporate governance generally and changes to the Company’s executive pay arrangements in particular. 
The Committee is satisfied that no element of the Directors’ remuneration policy conflicts with the Group’s approach to 
environmental, social or corporate governance matters. 
Shareholdings 
The Executive Directors are subject to Share Ownership Guidelines. As such they are expected to retain all of the Ordinary 
Shares that they obtain from any of the Company’s share incentive plans until they have achieved the required shareholding level. 
This is after any disposals necessary to pay personal taxes on acquiring such Ordinary Shares. For these purposes, the holding of 
Ordinary Shares will be treated as including all vested but unexercised awards, valued on a basis that is net of applicable 
personal taxes. 
During the year, and in accordance with the power conferred to it by the Directors’ remuneration policy, the Committee reviewed 
the level of Share Ownership Guidelines for both Executive Directors and aligned the guideline for the Chief Financial Officer 
(previously 150% of salary) to that of the Chief Executive Officer (200% of salary). The extent to which Executive Directors 
achieved the guideline requirements by 31 December 2014 is: 
Position 
Share Ownership 
Guideline 
(% of salary) 
Value of shares held at 
31 December 2014
(% of salary)
Chief Executive Officer 200% 104.1%
Chief Financial Officer 200% 61.6% Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 81
 
Version 10.1  Draft and Secret  www.direclinegroup.com  81 
The table below shows the total share interests of each Executive Director. 
  Share plan interests at 31 December 2014 Beneficial share interests 
Director Position 
Share plan awards 
subject to performance
conditions
1
Share plan awards not 
subject to performance
conditions
2
Share plan interests
exercised
3
Shares held at 
31 December 
 2014
4,5,6
 
Shares held at
31 December 2013
5
Paul Geddes Chief Executive 
Officer 2,488,902 218,790 391,833 271,472 58,768
John Reizenstein Chief Financial 
Officer 1,203,368 137,347 59,713 97,352
7
 60,904
Notes: 
1. Includes awards under the RBS Group LTIP and Direct Line Group LTIP. As described in the notes to the single figure table, 90% of Direct Line Insurance Group plc 
shares in respect of awards granted to each Executive Director under the RBS Group LTIP are expected to vest in March 2015. For single figure purposes, using 
the three month average share price to 31 December 2014, these shares have been valued at £2,028,470 for Paul Geddes and £456,403 for  
John Reizenstein. 
2. Includes matching and free shares held under the SIP, see page 82, and deferred shares under the DAIP. RBS Group deferred awards are not included as these 
will be settled in RBS Group shares. 
3. 20% of the shares awarded to Paul Geddes under the DAIP in March 2013 vested during the financial year, consistent with the policy applying at RBS Group. 
These figures also include awards vested during the year under the 2011 RBS Group LTIP. 
4. As at the date of this report the number of shares beneficially held by John Reizenstein had increased to 97,438. There was no change to the number of shares 
beneficially held by Paul Geddes. 
5. Includes holdings of connected persons, as defined in section 96B(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. 
6. The DAIP and LTIP plan rules provide that all dividends accruing in the vesting period (or until exercise for awards made in 2012 and 2013) will be added  
on vesting. The table above excludes such roll up. 
7. Beneficial share interests include partnership shares purchased by John Reizenstein under the SIP. 
The table shows the beneficial interests of the Non-Executive Directors in the Company’s shares as at 31 December 2014  
and 31 December 2013. 
Director 
Shares held at 
31 December 2014
1,2
 
Shares held at
31 December 2013
Michael Biggs − −
Jane Hanson 28,571 28,571
Glyn Jones 67,551 60,395
Andrew Palmer 11,428 11,428
Clare Thompson 33,775 30,197
Priscilla Vacassin 33,775 30,197
Sebastian James − n/a
Notes: 
1. There were no changes to the number of shares held by Directors between the year end and the date of this report. 
2. Includes holdings of connected persons, as defined in section 96B(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. 
Direct Line Group share awards 
Direct Line Group Deferred Annual Incentive Plan awards made in 2014 
The table below details the awards made to Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein under the DAIP relating to the bonus in respect of 
2013, the monetary value of which was disclosed in full in last year’s remuneration report. 
Director 
Awards held 
at 1 January 
2014 
Awards 
granted 
during the 
 year¹ Grant date
Three day 
average share 
price at grant 
date 
£
Face value 
of award
£ Vesting date
DAIP 
dividend 
share award Exercise²
Awards 
held at 
31 
December 
2014
Paul Geddes 
188,522 137,241 
26 March 
2014 2.433667 333,999
1 March 2014 – 
26 March 2017 4,206 117,319 218,647³
John Reizenstein 
68,462 68,210 
26 March 
2014 2.433667 166,000 26 March 2017 − − 136,672
Notes: 
1. Awards are granted as nil-cost options. 
2. Exercised on 27 March 2014 at £2.4330, resulting in an aggregate gain of £285,437. 
3. Balance includes 5,997 shares relating to final dividend accruals from the DAIP award exercised on 28 March 2014 and which remain to be delivered.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 82
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
82  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014  Version 10.1  Draft and Secret 
Direct Line Group Long Term Incentive Plan awards made in 2014 
The table below details the unvested awards held by Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein made under the Company’s LTIP. 
Director 
Awards at
1 January 2014
1
Awards granted 
during the year Grant date
Three day
average share 
price for grant of 
awards
£
Face value of 
award
£ Vesting date 
Percentage of 
scheme interests 
that would be 
receivable if the 
minimum 
performance 
 was achieved
2
Awards held at 
31 December
2014
3
Paul Geddes 
312,285 
26 March 
2014 2.433667 759,998
26 March 
2017 20% 
 
1,117,729
261,888 
29 August 
2014 2.9020 759,999
29 August 
2017 20% 
1,691,902
John Reizenstein 
189,015 
26 March 
2014 2.433667 460,000
26 March 
2017 20% 
 
676,519
158,511 
29 August 
2014 2.9020 459,999
29 August 
2017 20% 
1,024,045
Notes: 
The Company’s share price on 31 December 2014 was £2.913 and the range of prices in the year was £2.303 to £3.042. 
1. These awards take the form of nil-cost options over the Company’s shares and are subject to performance conditions to be assessed by the Committee. Awards 
granted prior to 2014 accrue dividend entitlements until the date of transfer of shares. Awards granted from 2014 accrue dividend entitlement from grant date  
to date on which an award vests. 
2. The RoTE targets for awards up to 2014, applying to 60% of the award, were 14% for 20% vesting, 15% for 40% vesting and 17% for full vesting. A straight-line 
interpolation occurs from threshold to target and then from target to maximum performance. The remaining 40% of each award is based on TSR performance 
conditions which are the same as noted on page 76 for awards in 2015. 
3. These figures do not include those RBS Group LTIP awards held by the Executive Directors. They are included in the table on page 83. 
The Company’s policy is to make awards twice a year following the announcement of the Group’s full and half-year results. The 
value of each grant of awards is set at 50% of the normal annual policy level. This means the total face value of awards to each 
Executive Director during the year equates to 200% of base salary, measured using a three-day average share price prior to the 
date of grant. 
Direct Line Group 2012 Share Incentive Plan 
During 2014 all employees, including Executive Directors, were eligible to invest from £10 up to £125 per month from their pre-
tax pay into the SIP and receive one matching share for every two shares purchased. The limit of £125 per month was 
subsequently increased to £150 per month in January 2015 following legislation changes in 2014. 
The table below details the number of shares held by John Reizenstein under the SIP. Paul Geddes does not participate in the plan. 
Director  
Matching shares 
granted during the year
Matching shares 
cancelled during 
the year
Value of matching 
 shares granted¹
£ 
Balance of matching 
shares at 31 December 
2014
John Reizenstein 278 − 750 532
Note: 
1. The accumulated market value of matching shares at the time of each award. Purchase of the matching shares takes place within 30 days of the contributions 
being deducted from salary. 
Additionally, at the time of the IPO, and under the same terms as other employees, Executive Directors were offered the 
opportunity to subscribe for 143 free Company shares which will vest in November 2015, three years from grant. Both Executive 
Directors subscribed for this offer. They were similarly eligible to participate in the award of approximately £400 worth of free 
shares due to be made in March 2015 as referred to in the Committee Chair’s letter but have both waived their eligibility to this 
award. 
Dilution 
The Company complies with the dilution levels recommended by the ABI guidelines, of 10% in 10 years for all share plans and 
5% in 10 years for discretionary plans, consistent with the rules of the Company’s share plans. Legacy RBS Group awards to be 
satisfied in Company shares will be satisfied by RBS Group rather than the Company and RBS Group has placed shares in trust 
to facilitate this.  Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 83
 
Version 10.1  Draft and Secret  www.direclinegroup.com  83 
RBS Group Long-Term Incentive awards 
The Executive Directors were granted awards in 2011 and 2012 under the RBS Group Long-Term Incentive Plan (“RBS Group 
LTIP”) as employees of RBS Group. It was agreed that awards under this plan will be satisfied in Direct Line Insurance Group plc 
shares, transferred by RBS Group to the extent that the performance conditions, based on financial, risk, customer and people 
measures, have been satisfied. 
Director and scheme 
Awards 
held at 
1 January 
2014 
(Direct Line 
Group shares) 
Awards 
vested during the 
year 
(Direct Line 
Group shares)
1
Awards lapsed 
during the year 
(Direct Line 
Group shares)
Awards held at 
31 December 2014 
(Direct Line
Group shares)
2
Grant date
Market price at 
grant date (RBS 
Group shares) 
£ Vest date
Paul Geddes 
2011 501,394 274,514 226,880 −
7 March 
2011 4.45 7 March 2014
2012 797,000 − − 797,000
9 March 
2012 2.80 9 March 2015
John Reizenstein 
2011 102,953 59,713 43,240 −
7 March 
2011 4.45 7 March 2014
2012 179,324 − − 179,324
7 March 
2012 2.80 7 March 2015
Notes: 
1. It was agreed with RBS Group that participants now employed by Direct Line Group holding awards under the RBS Group LTIP granted in 2011 and 2012 
would be given the opportunity to have those awards satisfied by the transfer of Direct Line Insurance Group plc shares from RBS Group on vesting. The 
conversion rate applied to these awards was the average price of RBS Group shares over the five business day period prior to 11 October 2012 divided by the 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc share offer price (£1.75). This conversion equated to 1.487 Direct Line Insurance Group plc shares for every RBS Group share 
under grant. Both Executive Directors took up this offer. 
2. As disclosed in the single figure table on page 77, 90% of the shares granted under the RBS Group LTIP in 2012 are expected to vest on the dates shown above. 
For single figure purposes this results in an estimated value of £2,028,470 for Paul Geddes and £456,403 for John Reizenstein. 
RBS Group deferred awards 
Awards which were originally awarded under the RBS Group Deferral Plan will continue to be delivered in RBS Group shares. 
The awards detailed below under the RBS Group Deferral Plan give a conditional right to acquire ordinary shares in RBS Group. 
No awards were granted or lapsed during the year. 
Director and scheme 
Awards 
held at 
1 January 2014 
(RBS Group shares) 
Awards
vested during the year
(RBS Group shares)
Awards
held at
31 December 2014
(RBS Group shares) Grant date Vesting dates
Paul Geddes 
2011 17,981 17,981¹ − 7 March 2011 
7 March 2012 −
7 March 2014
2012 64,310 32,154 32,156 9 March 2012 
9 March 2012 −
9 March 2015
John Reizenstein 
2011 2,397 2,397¹ − 7 March 2011 
7 March 2012 −
7 March 2014
2012 8,813 4,406 4,407 7 March 2012 
7 March 2012 −
7 March 2015
Note: 
1. Vested on 11 March 2014 when the RBS Group share price was £3.2012. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on 2 March 2015. 
 
 
 
Priscilla Vacassin, Chair of the Remuneration Committee  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 84
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
84  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014  Version 10.1  Draft and Secret 
Policy report 
A resolution in respect of the Directors’ remuneration policy was approved at the Company’s AGM on 15 May 2014 by a 
significant majority (97.5% in favour). No changes to the policy are proposed. For ease of reference, a copy of the policy 
approved by shareholders is repeated below (subject only to minor referencing updates to assist with the reading of the policy). 
Policy table 
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation 
Base salary • This is the core element  
of pay that reflects the 
individual's role and 
position within the Group 
and is payable for doing 
the expected day-to-day 
job 
• Ensuring we are 
competitive in the market 
allows us to attract, retain 
and motivate high calibre 
executives with the skill sets 
to achieve our key aims 
while managing costs 
• Base salaries are reviewed annually and set in April of each year, although  
the Committee may undertake an out-of-cycle review if it determines that this  
is appropriate 
• Salaries are typically reviewed against: 
− level of skill, experience and scope of responsibilities, individual and 
business performance, economic climate and market conditions; 
− the median market pay in the context of insurance peers and companies of 
a similar size, particularly FTSE 31-100 companies being companies which 
are considered to be reflective of the size and complexity of the Group; and 
− general base salary movement across the Group. 
• The Committee does not strictly follow data but uses it as a reference point  
in considering, in its judgement, the appropriate level having regard to other 
relevant factors including corporate and individual performance and any 
changes in an individual’s role and responsibilities 
• The principles for setting base salary are similar to those applied to other 
employees in the Group, although the specific benchmarking groups used  
to review external market relativities may differ across employee groups 
• Base salary is paid monthly 
Annual Incentive 
Plan (the “AIP”) 
 
• To motivate executives and 
incentivise delivery of 
performance over a one-
year operating cycle, 
focusing on the short to 
medium-term elements of 
our strategic aims 
• For Executive Directors, at least 40% of the award is deferred into shares under 
the Deferred Annual Incentive Plan (the “DAIP”) typically vesting three years 
after grant (with deferred awards also capable of being settled in cash).  
The remainder of the award is paid in cash following year-end 
• The percentage deferred and the terms of deferral will be kept under review by 
the Committee to ensure that levels are in line with regulatory requirements and 
best practice and may be changed in future years but will not, in the view of 
the Committee, be changed to be less onerous overall 
• Malus and clawback provisions apply to both the cash and deferred elements 
and are explained in more detail in the notes to the policy table 
2012 Long-Term 
Incentive Plan (the 
“LTIP”) 
• To motivate and incentivise 
delivery of sustained 
business performance over 
the long term, aligning 
executives’ interests with 
those of shareholders 
• To aid long-term retention 
of key executive talent 
• Awards will typically be made in the form of nil-cost options or conditional 
share awards which vest to the extent performance conditions are satisfied  
over a period of at least three years. Under the Plan rules, awards may also  
be settled in cash 
• Vested options will remain exercisable for a period of seven years 
• Malus and clawback provisions apply to the LTIP and are explained in more 
detail in the notes to the policy table 
• Awards under the LTIP may be made at various times during the financial year. 
While the Committee reserves the right to do otherwise, practice has been to 
make awards twice in each financial year following the announcement of the 
Group's annual and half-year results  Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 85
 
Version 10.1  Draft and Secret  www.direclinegroup.com  85 
 
 
 
 
 
Maximum opportunity Performance measures 
• The Committee has determined that its 
policy will be to only set base salaries 
by reference to the factors set out in the 
previous column for the duration of this 
policy. In any event no increase will  
be made if it would take an Executive 
Director’s salary above the median level 
of salaries for relevant roles in the FTSE 
100 as determined using data available 
to the Committee at or shortly prior to 
when any increase is considered 
• Where salary increases are awarded, 
the Committee will have regard to the 
increase being awarded to employees 
within the Group more generally, as 
well as the other factors outlined in this 
table under ‘Operation’ 
• Not applicable 
• Maximum and target bonus levels for 
Executive Directors are set by reference 
to practice at other insurance and 
general market comparators 
• The maximum bonus level potential 
under the AIP is 175% of base salary 
per annum. The current maximum bonus 
level applying for each individual 
Executive Director is shown in the 
statement of implementation of policy  
in 2015 section of the annual 
remuneration report 
• Performance over the financial year is assessed against performance measures which the 
Committee considers to be appropriate 
• These may be financial, non-financial (Group, divisional or business line) and individual. Each 
year, at least 50% of the bonus is based on financial measures. The remainder of the bonus 
will be based on a combination of non-financial and individual performance measures 
• Targets are set at the beginning of each financial year by the Committee 
• No more than 10% of the bonus is paid for threshold performance (30% for the individual 
performance element). No more than 60% of the maximum opportunity pays out for target 
performance. However, the Committee retains flexibility to amend the level of payout at different 
levels of performance for future bonus cycles based on its assessment of the level of stretch 
inherent in the targets that have been set and will disclose any such determinations appropriately 
• Before any payment can be made, the Committee will perform an additional gateway 
assessment to determine whether the amount of any bonus is appropriate in view of such facts 
or circumstances as the Committee considers relevant. This assessment may result in 
moderation (either positive or negative) of each AIP performance measure but subject to the 
individual maximum bonus levels 
• The AIP remains a discretionary arrangement and the Committee reserves discretion to adjust 
the out-turn (from zero to the cap) should it consider that to be appropriate. In particular, the 
Committee will operate this discretion as a gateway in respect of any risk concerns 
• The Plan allows for awards over shares 
with an absolute maximum value of 
200% of base salary per financial year 
(although awards of up to 300% of 
base salary are permitted in 
exceptional circumstances in relation to 
the recruitment or retention of an 
employee, as determined by the 
Remuneration Committee) 
• The Committee will determine the performance cond itions for each award made under the LTIP,  
with performance measured over a single period of at least three years with no provision to retest 
• Performance is measured against targets set at the beginning of the performance period 
which may be set by reference to the time of grant or financial year 
• Awards vest based on performance against financial and / or share return measures, as  
set by the Committee, to be aligned with the long-term strategic objectives of the Group 
• For awards to be granted in 2015, vesting will continue to be determined based on two 
measures: RoTE and relative Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance against the FTSE 
350 (excluding investment trusts). The Committee may apply different performance measures 
and targets in future years 
• Awards will be subject to a payment gateway such that the Committee must be satisfied that 
there are no material risk failings, reputational concerns or regulatory issues 
• In addition, there is an underpin relating to the Committee’s view of the underlying financial 
performance of the Group 
• Fuller details of the performance conditions and targets for 2015 and prior-year awards are 
set out in the annual remuneration report 
• For both the TSR and RoTE elements, 20% of the award vests for threshold performance with 
100% vesting for maximum performance. The Committee reserves the discretion to make 
changes to these levels which it considers non-material 
• The Committee reserves the right to lengthen (but not reduce) any performance period and/ 
or to introduce a separate holding period  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 86
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
86  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014  Version 10.1  Draft and Secret 
 
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation 
Pension • To remain competitive 
within the market place 
• To encourage retirement 
planning and retain 
flexibility for individuals 
• Pension contributions are paid only in respect of base salary 
• Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the defined contribution 
pension arrangement or alternatively they may choose to receive a cash 
allowance in lieu of pension 
• This is in line with the approach taken for all Group employees 
Benefits • A comprehensive and 
flexible benefits package is 
offered, with the emphasis 
on individuals being able 
to choose the combination 
of cash and benefits that 
suits them 
• Executive Directors receive a benefits package generally set by reference to 
market practice in companies of a similar size and complexity, particularly 
FTSE 31-100 companies. Benefits currently provided include a company car 
or car allowance, private medical insurance, life insurance, health screening 
and income protection 
• The Committee may periodically amend the benefits available to employees. 
The Executive Directors are eligible to receive such additional benefits on 
similar terms to other senior executives 
• In line with our approach to all employees, certain Group products are 
offered to Executive Directors at a discount 
• Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in any of the employee 
share plans operated by the Company, in line with HMRC guidelines (where 
relevant), on the same basis as for other eligible employees. Currently this 
includes the Share Incentive Plan, which was also used to provide an award 
of free shares to all employees (including Executive Directors) at the time of 
the IPO 
Share 
ownership 
guidelines 
• To further align the interests 
of Executive Directors with 
those of shareholders 
• Executive Directors are expected to retain all of the ordinary shares vesting 
under any of the Company’s share incentive plans, after any disposals for  
the payment of applicable taxes, until they have achieved the required level 
of shareholding 
Notes to the policy table 
Stating maximum amounts for each element of remuneration 
Where the table refers to the maximum amounts that may be paid in respect of any element of the policy (as required under  
the Regulations) these will operate simply as caps and not be indicative of any aspiration. 
Malus and clawback 
Malus (being the forfeiture of unvested awards) and clawback (being the ability of the Company to claim repayment of paid 
amounts) provisions apply to the AIP (cash and deferred element) and LTIP if, in the opinion of the Committee, any of the 
following has occurred: 
• There has been a material misstatement of the Company’s financial results which has led to an overpayment 
• The assessment of performance targets is based on an error or inaccurate or misleading information or assumptions 
• Circumstances warranting summary dismissal in the relevant period 
• A material failure of risk management or any other act or omission that has had a sufficiently significant impact on the 
reputation of the Company to justify such action 
Amounts in respect of awards under both plans may be subject to clawback for up to three years post payment or vesting  
as appropriate.  Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 87
 
Version 10.1  Draft and Secret  www.direclinegroup.com  87 
 
Maximum opportunity Performance measures 
• Pension contributions for both Executive Directors are set at 
25% of base salary per annum 
• Not performance related 
• The costs of benefits provided may fluctuate from year to 
year even if the level of provision has remained unchanged 
• An annual limit of 10% of base salary per Executive 
Director has been set for the duration of this policy. The 
Committee will monitor the costs in practice and ensure  
that the overall costs do not increase by more than the 
Committee considers to be appropriate in all the 
circumstances 
• In addition, the limit for any employee share plans in which 
the Executive Directors participate will be in line with the 
caps permitted by HMRC from time to time 
• The Executive Directors may be entitled to retain fees 
received for any directorships held outside of the Group 
• Not performance related 
 
• 200% of salary for both Executive Directors (representing 
an increase from 150% in respect of the Chief Financial 
Officer)  
• The Committee reserves the discretion to amend these 
levels in future years 
• Not applicable 
 
Exercise of discretion 
In line with market practice, the Committee retains discretion in relation to the operation and administration of the AIP, DAIP  
and LTIP. This discretion includes, but is not limited to: 
• The timing of awards and payments 
• The size of awards, within the overall limits disclosed in the policy table 
• The determination of vesting 
• The treatment of awards in the case of change of control or restructuring 
• The treatment of leavers within the rules of the plan and the termination policy summary shown on pages 90 to 91 
• Adjustments needed in certain circumstances (for example, rights issue, corporate restructuring or special interim dividend) 
The Committee also retains the discretion to amend the performance measures, weightings and targets after they have been set  
if events make it appropriate to do so. Any changes will be explained in future annual remuneration reports and, if appropriate, 
be the subject of consultation with the Company’s major shareholders.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 88
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
88  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014  Version 10.1  Draft and Secret 
 
Adjustment to number of shares under deferred bonus and LTIP 
The number of shares subject to deferred bonus and LTIP awards may be increased to reflect the value of dividends that would 
have been paid in respect of any dates falling between the grant of awards and the date of vesting of awards (the date of 
transfer of shares for awards made prior to 2014). 
The terms of incentive plan awards may be adjusted in the event of a variation of the Company’s share capital, demerger or  
a similar event that materially affects the price of the shares or otherwise in accordance with the plan rules. 
Remuneration payments agreed prior to appointment to the Board 
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office (including, where relevant, 
exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments) notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy  
set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed (i) before the policy came into effect or (ii) at a time when the relevant 
individual was not a Director of the Direct Line Insurance Group plc and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in 
consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company. For these purposes ‘payments’ include pension arrangements, 
the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are 
‘agreed’ at the time the award is granted. 
RBS Legacy arrangements 
Both Executive Directors continue to hold unvested awards previously granted to them under the RBS Group LTIP in 2012. These 
awards were granted to Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein at a time when they were divisional directors of RBS Group and  
will now be satisfied by the transfer of Direct Line Insurance Group plc shares from RBS Group on vesting. The performance 
conditions for these awards relate to financial and operational performance against the strategic plan for Direct Line Group, 
effective risk management and measures based on employee and customer satisfaction. 
In addition, both Executive Directors continue to hold awards originally awarded under the RBS Group Deferral Plan and these 
will continue to be delivered in RBS Group shares. These awards are not subject to any performance conditions on vesting. 
Selection of performance measures 
Annual Incentive Plan 
The AIP performance measures have been selected by the Committee to incentivise Executive Directors to achieve financial  
targets for the year as well as specific strategic and personal objectives. These measures are aligned with the key performance 
indicators that we use as a business to monitor performance against our strategic priorities, as shown on pages 26 to 27 of  
the Annual Report & Accounts. 
The relevant targets are set at or following the start of each year to ensure that Executive Directors are appropriately focused  
on the key objectives for the next 12 months. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan 
The ultimate goal of our strategy is to provide long-term sustainable returns for our shareholders. 
For 2015, awards under the LTIP will therefore continue to be subject to performance against both RoTE and relative TSR targets, 
which are important KPIs for the business. The Committee believes that this combination provides a balanced approach to the 
measurement of Group performance over the longer term by using both a stated financial KPI that incentivises individuals to keep 
growing the business in an efficient way and a measure based on relative shareholder return. This combination of measures 
achieves an appropriate balance of absolute and relative returns. 
Differences in remuneration policy from broader employee population 
When determining Executive Directors’ remuneration, the Committee takes into account pay throughout the Group to ensure that 
the arrangements in place remain appropriate. 
The Group has one consistent reward policy for all levels of employees. Therefore, the same reward principles guide reward 
decisions for all Group employees, including Executive Directors, although remuneration packages differ to take into account 
appropriate factors in different areas of the business: 
• AIP – approximately 3,900 employees participate in the AIP and the corporate performance measures for all employees are 
consistent with those used for Executive Directors although the weighting attributable to those factors may differ. The Group’s 
strategic leaders also receive part of their bonus in Company shares deferred for a period of three years 
• LTIP – our strategic leaders participate in the LTIP currently based on the same performance conditions as those for Executive 
Directors, although the Committee reserves the discretion to vary the performance conditions for awards made to employees 
below the Board for future awards 
• All employee share plans – the Committee considers it is important for all employees to have the opportunity to become 
shareholders in the Company. The HMRC-approved Buy-As-You-Earn Share Incentive Plan in the UK and an International plan 
mirroring the UK plan for Italy were both launched during 2013. At year-end, approximately 2,100 employees throughout  
the Group had signed up to these schemes  Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 89
 
Version 10.1  Draft and Secret  www.direclinegroup.com  89 
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors 
Element Purpose and link to 
strategy 
Approach to setting fees and cap Other items 
Chairman and 
Non-Executive 
Directors’ fees 
To enable the 
Company to recruit 
and retain Non-
Executive Directors 
of the highest 
calibre, at the 
appropriate cost 
• Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic annual fee 
plus reasonable travel expenses. Additional fees may 
be paid to Non-Executive Directors who chair a Board 
Committee, sit on a Board Committee and for the 
Senior Independent Director. The level of fees for 2015 
is shown in the annual remuneration section 
• Fee levels for Non-Executive Directors are reviewed 
and may be increased at appropriate intervals by the 
Board, with affected individual Directors absenting 
themselves from deliberations 
• In setting the level of fees, the Company takes into 
account the expected time commitment of the role and 
fees at other companies of a similar size, sector and / 
or complexity to the Group 
• The fees paid to the Chairman are inclusive of all 
Board and Committee membership fees and are 
determined by the Remuneration Committee 
• Subject to a Non-Executive Director aggregate fee cap 
in the Articles of Association (currently £2,000,000 
per annum), the Company reserves the right to change 
how the elements and weightings within the overall 
fees are paid and to pay a proportion of the fees in 
shares within this limit 
• The Non-Executive 
Directors are not 
entitled to receive 
any compensation 
for loss of office, 
other than fees for 
their notice period. 
They do not 
participate in the 
Group’s bonus, 
employee share 
plans or pension 
arrangements and 
do not receive any 
benefits 
 
Recruitment remuneration policy 
The recruitment remuneration policy aims to give the Committee sufficient flexibility to secure the appointment and promotion  
of high-calibre executives to strengthen the management team and secure the skill sets to deliver the Group’s strategic aims. 
Principles for recruitment remuneration 
• In terms of the principles for setting a package for a new Executive Director, the starting point for the Committee will be to  
look to the policy for Executive Directors as set out in the policy table and structure a package in accordance with that policy. 
Consistent with the Regulations, the caps contained within the policy table for fixed pay do not apply to new recruits, although 
the Committee would not envisage exceeding these caps in practice 
• For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may either continue on its original 
terms or be adjusted to reflect the new appointment, as appropriate 
• For external and internal appointments (including a major change in role), the Committee may agree that the Company will 
meet certain relocation expenses, legal and other fees involved in negotiating any recruitment or pay expatriate benefits in line 
with the Group’s international assignment policy, as appropriate 
Buy-out awards 
• Where it is necessary to make a recruitment-related pay award to an external candidate, the Company will not pay more than 
is necessary, in the view of the Committee, and will in all cases seek, in the first instance, to deliver any such awards under  
the terms of the existing incentive pay structure 
• All such awards for external appointments, whether under the AIP, LTIP or otherwise, to compensate for awards forfeited on 
leaving their previous employer will be capped at the commercial value of the amount forfeited and will take account of the 
nature, time horizons and performance requirements of those awards. In particular, the Committee’s starting point will be to 
ensure that any awards being forfeited which remain subject to outstanding performance requirements (other than where 
substantially complete) are bought out with replacement requirements and any awards with service requirements are bought out 
with similar terms. However, exceptionally the Committee may relax those obligations where it considers it to be in the interests 
of shareholders and those factors are, in the view of the Committee, equally reflected in some other way, for example through 
a significant discount to the face value of the awards forfeited. It will only include guaranteed or non-prorated amounts under 
the AIP where the Committee considers that it is necessary to secure the recruitment  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 90
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
90  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014  Version 10.1  Draft and Secret 
The elements of any package for a new recruit, including the maximum level of variable pay, but excluding buy-outs, and  
the approach taken by the Committee in relation to setting each element of the package will be consistent with the Executive 
Directors’ remuneration policy described in this report, as modified by the above statement of principles where appropriate.  
The Committee reserves the right to avail itself of the current Listing Rule 9.4.2 if needed in order to facilitate, in exceptional 
circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director. Awards granted under this provision will only be used for buy-out awards. 
Any commitments made before promotion to the Board (except when made in connection with the appointment to the Board)  
can continue to be honoured under the policy even if they are not consistent with the policy prevailing when the commitment  
is fulfilled. 
In exceptional circumstances, the initial notice period may be longer than the Company’s 12 month policy up to a maximum of 
24 months. However, this will reduce by one month for every month served, until it has reduced to 12 months in line with the 
Company’s policy position. 
The remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors as set out earlier in this report will apply in relation to  
any recruitments to those positions. 
Service contracts 
Subject to the discretion noted above for new recruits, it is the Company’s policy to set notice periods for Executive Directors of 
no more than 12 months (both by the Director or Company). The Executive Directors’ service agreements summary is as follows: 
Director Effective date of contract 
Notice period (by 
Director or 
Company) Exit payment policy 
Paul Geddes 1 September 2012 12 months Base salary only for unexpired portion of notice period and 
to be paid in a lump sum or monthly instalments, in which 
case instalments are subject to mitigation if an alternative  
role is found. 
John Reizenstein 1 September 2012 12 months Base salary only for unexpired portion of notice period and 
to be paid in a lump sum or monthly instalments, in which 
case instalments are subject to mitigation if an alternative  
role is found. 
There are no further obligations which could give rise to a remuneration or loss of office payment other than those set out in the 
remuneration policy table and termination policy summary. 
Termination policy summary 
It is appropriate for the Committee to retain discretion to consider the termination terms of any Executive Director, having regard 
to all the relevant facts and circumstances available to them at the time. A Director is deemed a ’good leaver‘ if the following 
circumstances are met: 
• Annual Incentive Plan and Long-Term Incentive Plan – death, injury, ill-health, redundancy, retirement, the sale of the individual’s 
employing company or business out of the Group, or in such other circumstances as the Committee determines 
• Deferred Annual Incentive Plan – for any reason other than summary dismissal or resignation unless, in the case of resignation 
only, the Committee determines otherwise 
The table overleaf sets out the general position although it should be noted that the Committee, consistent with most other 
companies, has reserved a broad discretion to determine whether an Executive Director should be categorised as a ‘good leaver’ 
and that discretion forms part of the approved policy. Similarly, while the policy is generally to reduce AIP and LTIP awards on  
a pro-rata basis, the Committee has reserved discretion to disapply such reduction if, in the circumstances, it considers that to  
be appropriate taking into account the performance of the departing executive and the circumstances of leaving.  Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 91
 
Version 10.1  Draft and Secret  www.direclinegroup.com  91 
 
Incentives 
If a leaver is a ‘bad leaver’, for 
example leaving through resignation 
or summary dismissal 
If a leaver is deemed to be  
a ‘good leaver’ 
Other events, for example change in 
control or winding up of Company 
Annual Incentive Plan No awards made Bonus paid at the normal 
time and on a time pro-rata 
basis, unless the Committee 
determines otherwise. 
Bonus determined on such 
basis as the Committee 
considers appropriate and 
paid on a time pro-rata 
basis, unless the Committee 
determines otherwise. 
Deferred Annual  
Incentive Plan 
All awards will lapse Deferred shares typically vest 
on the normal vesting date, 
although the Committee 
reserves discretion to 
accelerate vesting. In the 
case of the participant’s 
death or other exceptional 
circumstances, awards may 
vest immediately. 
Awards will vest in full. 
In the event of a demerger or 
similar event, the Committee 
may determine that awards 
vest on the same basis. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan All awards will lapse Awards will vest on the 
normal vesting date subject 
to performance and, unless 
the Committee determines 
otherwise, time pro rating.  
In exceptional circumstances, 
as determined by the 
Committee, for example in 
the case of the participant’s 
death, awards may vest  
on cessation. 
Awards will vest subject  
to the application of the 
performance conditions  
and, unless the Committee 
determines otherwise, time 
pro rating. 
In the event of a demerger or 
similar event, the Committee 
may determine that awards 
vest on the same basis. 
Service agreements for Executive Directors provide that Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein are not eligible to receive any 
enhanced redundancy terms which may be offered by the Group from time to time. Their rights to a statutory redundancy 
payment are not affected. 
Depending on the circumstances of departure, an Executive Director may have additional claims under relevant employment 
protection laws and the Company may contribute to any legal fees involved in agreeing a termination. It may also agree to incur 
certain other expenses such as the provision of outplacement services. Any such fees would be disclosed as part of the detail of 
any termination arrangements. 
Non-Executive Director letters of appointment 
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three-year term which may be renewed by mutual agreement. In common with the 
Executive Directors, all Non-Executives are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.  
The Directors may appoint additional members to join the Board during the year. Directors appointed in this way will be subject 
to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment. In subsequent years the Directors are required to submit 
themselves for re-election at each AGM. 
Terms and conditions of appointment of all of the Directors are available for inspection by any person at the Company’s 
registered office and at the AGM. 
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have notice periods of three months from either party, which do not apply in the case 
of a Director not being re-elected by shareholders or retiring from office under the articles of association. Other than fees for this 
notice period, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any compensation on exit. 
External directorships 
The Company encourages Executive Directors to accept, subject to the approval of the Chairman, an invitation to join the board 
of another company outside the Group in a non-executive capacity, recognising the value of such wider experience. In these 
circumstances, they are permitted to retain any remuneration from the non-executive appointment. Executive Directors are 
generally limited to accepting one external directorship.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 92
Directors’ remuneration report continued 
92  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014  Version 10.1  Draft and Secret 
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group 
As explained elsewhere in the Directors’ remuneration report, the Committee reviews the overall pay and bonus decisions in 
aggregate for the wider Group and therefore takes account of pay and conditions in the wider Group in determining the 
Directors’ remuneration policy and the remuneration payable to Directors. Through the Chief Executive Officer, Paul Geddes,  
and other senior management the Committee may receive input provided by employee groups within the Group, such as the 
Employee Representative Body, as required. 
In accordance with prevailing commercial practice, the Committee did not consult with employees in preparing the Directors’ 
remuneration policy. 
Consideration of shareholders’ views 
The Committee takes into account the approval levels of remuneration related matters at the AGM in determining whether the 
current Directors’ remuneration policy remains appropriate. 
The Committee, consistent with its approach of operating within the highest standards of corporate governance, takes significant 
account of guidelines issued by the ABI and shareholder bodies (such as the National Association of Pension Funds) when setting 
the remuneration policy.  
The Committee will also seek to build an active and productive dialogue with investors on developments in the remuneration 
aspects of corporate governance generally and any changes to the Company’s executive pay arrangements in particular. 
The Committee is satisfied that no element of the Directors’ remuneration policy conflicts with the Group’s approach to 
environmental, social or corporate governance matters. 
Performance scenarios 
The Directors’ remuneration policy has been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of total remuneration is delivered  
in the form of variable pay and is therefore dependent on performance against our strategic objectives. 
The Committee has considered the level of remuneration that may be paid under different performance scenarios to ensure that  
it would be appropriate in each situation in the context of the performance delivered and the value created for shareholders. 
The following charts show the potential remuneration that may be earned by Executive Directors under three assumed 
performance scenarios as follows: 
 Total ﬁxed pay  AIP LTIP
100% 602
50%
27%
35% 15% 1,211
31% 42% 2,244
CFO – John Reizenstein 
(£’000)
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
£0m £1m £2m £3m £4m
 Total ﬁxed pay  AIP LTIP
15% 2,110
100% 986
47%
25%
38%
35% 40% 3,893
CEO – Paul Geddes 
(£’000)
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
£0m £1m £2m £3m £4m Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 93
 
Version 10.1  Draft and Secret  www.direclinegroup.com  93 
The elements of remuneration included in each scenario are as follows. 
Minimum Consists of fixed remuneration only (that is, base salary, benefits and pension): 
 • Base salary is the salary to be paid from 1 April 2015 
 • Benefits measured as benefits paid in 2014 as set out in the single figure table on page 77 
 • Pension measured as the defined contribution or cash allowance in lieu of Company contributions,  
as a percentage of salary (25% of base salary for both Executive Directors) 
On-target Based on what the Director would receive if performance was on-target (excluding share price appreciation  
and dividends): 
 • Fixed remuneration as above 
 • AIP – consists of the on-target bonus of 60% of maximum bonus opportunity 
 • LTIP – consists of the threshold level of vesting (20% vesting) 
Maximum Based on the maximum remuneration receivable (excluding share price appreciation and dividends): 
 • Fixed remuneration as above 
 • AIP – consists of the maximum bonus (175% of base salary for Paul Geddes, 150% for John Reizenstein) 
 • LTIP – consists of the face value of awards (200% of base salary) 
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 94
Directors’ report  
94  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014  Version 10.1  Draft and Secret 
The Directors present their report for the financial year ended 
31 December 2014. 
You can find the forward-looking statements disclaimer on 
page 171. 
Strategic report 
The Company’s Strategic report is on pages 2 to 49. It 
includes the following information that would otherwise  
be required to be disclosed in this Directors’ report: 
Subject Pages
Use of financial instruments 47
Important events since the 
financial year end 
10 to 13
Likely future developments in  
the business 
13 and 36 to 39
Employee involvement 34
Corporate governance statement 
The FCA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules require certain 
information to be included in a corporate governance 
statement in the Directors’ report. You can find information that 
fulfils the corporate governance statement’s requirements in this 
Directors’ report; the Corporate Governance report; the 
Committee reports; and the Directors’ remuneration report on 
pages 50 to 93. This is incorporated into the Directors’ report 
by reference. 
Disclosure of information under Listing Rule 9.8.4R 
Subject Page
Contracts of significance 95
Details of shareholder dividend 
waivers 
95
Significant shareholder 
agreements 
95
Post-balance sheet events 
Events after the balance sheet date are disclosed in note 40  
to the consolidated financial statements. 
Dividends 
Due to the uncertainty around the timing of the completion of 
the sale of the International division, and the potential related 
distribution, the Board has resolved to pay the ‘final’ dividend 
as an interim dividend. 
The Board has therefore declared an interim dividend of  
8.8 pence per share plus a second special interim dividend  
of 4.0 pence per share for the 2014 financial year. Both 
dividends will be paid on 17 April 2015 to all holders of 
Ordinary Shares on the register of members at close of 
business on 13 March 2015. 
The Company paid an interim dividend of 4.4 pence per 
share, plus a special interim dividend of 10.0 pence per share 
in September 2014. 
The special interim dividends are consistent with the Group’s 
policy to distribute surplus capital. 
Regarding 2013, the Company paid a final dividend of 8.4 
pence per share and a special interim dividend of 4.0 pence 
per share in May 2014. 
Including the dividends declared on 2 March 2015, the total 
dividend for the 2014 financial year is 27.2 pence per share 
(2013: 20.6 pence), of which 14.0 pence relates to special 
interim dividends (2013: 8.0 pence). 
Directors 
You can find full biographical details of the current Directors  
on pages 52 to 53. All Directors will retire and be submitted 
for election or re-election at the 2015 AGM. This is in 
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and  
the Articles of Association of the Company, governing 
appointment and replacement of directors. 
Mark Catton resigned as a Director on 7 March 2014. His 
resignation followed the sale by RBS Group of substantially  
all of its shareholding in the Company in February 2014,  
as described further on page 68. 
Sebastian James was appointed as a Director on 28 August 
2014. You can find details on the appointment process in  
the Nomination Committee report on pages 68 to 69. 
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Company’s 
Articles of Association. You can obtain a copy of these on  
the Company’s website at www.directlinegroup.com . The 
Directors’ powers are also subject to relevant legislation  
and, in certain circumstances, authority given by the 
Company’s shareholders. 
Directors’ interests 
You can find details of the Directors’ remuneration, service 
contracts, employment contracts and interests in the shares of 
the Company in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 
71 to 93. 
Directors’ indemnities 
The Articles of Association of the Company permit it to 
indemnify the officers of the Company, and the officers of  
any associated company, against liabilities arising from the 
conduct of Company business, to the extent permitted by law. 
Accordingly, the Company executed deeds of indemnity for 
the benefit of each Director regarding liabilities that may attach 
to them in their capacity as Directors of the Company or 
associated companies. These indemnities are qualifying third-
party indemnities as defined by section 234 of the Companies 
Act 2006. No amount was paid under any of these 
indemnities during the year.  Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 95
 
Version 10.1  Draft and Secret  www.directlinegroup.com  95 
The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance. This insurance provides appropriate cover for legal 
actions brought against its Directors. 
The Company has also provided qualifying pension scheme 
indemnities to the directors of DLG Pension Trustee Limited in 
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 2006. 
DLG Pension Trustee Limited acts as trustee for two of the 
Company’s occupational pension schemes. 
Share capital 
The Company has a premium listing on the London Stock 
Exchange. As at 31 December 2014, its share capital 
comprised 1,500,000,000 fully paid Ordinary Shares of  
10 pence each. 
At the Company’s 2014 AGM, the Directors were authorised to: 
• allot shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £50,000,000; or grant rights to subscribe for,  
or convert, any security into shares; 
• allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£100,000,000 for the purpose of a rights issue; and 
• make market purchases up to 150,000,000 shares in the 
Company (representing approximately 10% of the 
Company’s issued share capital at the time). 
These authorities have not been used to date and shareholders 
will be asked to renew them at the 2015 AGM. 
The Company has not held any shares in treasury during the 
period under review. 
You can find further details of the Company’s share capital 
and shares under option at 31 December 2014 in notes 27 
and 33 to the consolidated financial statements. 
The Company operates a share incentive plan for employees. 
Shares are held in this plan by a trustee on behalf of 
employees. The trustee may vote on the shares but has no 
obligation to do so. The trustee may also have regard to  
the participants’ interests when exercising its voting rights. 
Rights attaching to shares 
All of the Company’s issued Ordinary Shares rank equally  
in all respects. The rights and obligations attaching to the 
Company’s Ordinary Shares are set out in the Company’s 
Articles of Association. You can obtain a copy of this on  
the Company’s website at www.directlinegroup.com . 
All issued shares are fully paid and free from any restrictions  
on their transfer, except where required by law, such as insider 
trading rules. All employees must conform to the Company’s 
share dealing rules; these restrict the ability of particular 
employees to deal in the Company’s shares at certain times 
and require permission to deal. Additionally, the relevant 
employee benefit trust must hold certain shares awarded under 
the Company’s share plans for up to three years from the date 
of grant. 
Where the trustees of the employee benefit trusts hold shares 
that have not been allocated to employees, they waive their 
entitlement to any dividends paid by the Company in respect 
of the unallocated shares they hold. 
Further details on the number of shares held by the employee 
benefit trusts can be found in note 27 on page 148. 
Each notice of general meeting will specify the time for 
determining a shareholder’s entitlement to attend and vote at 
the meeting, which will not be more than 48 hours before the 
time fixed for the meeting. All proxy appointments must be filed 
at least 48 hours before the time of the meeting to be valid. 
Where the Company has issued a notice under section 793  
of the Companies Act 2006 which is in default for at least  
14 days, the person(s) interested in those shares shall not be 
entitled to attend or vote at any general meeting until the 
default has been corrected or the shares sold. 
Articles of Association 
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of 
Association, they may only be amended by a special resolution 
of the Company’s shareholders at a general meeting. 
Relationship Agreement with RBS Group 
On 27 February 2014, RBS Group sold its remaining 
shareholding in Direct Line Insurance Group plc, except a 
small number of shares which it transferred to an employee 
benefit trust for the purpose of satisfying long-term incentive 
awards made by RBS Group to Direct Line Group’s 
management during its period of ownership. As a 
consequence of selling its remaining shareholding, RBS Group 
relinquished its right, under the Relationship Agreement entered 
into on 16 October 2012, to nominate a Non-Executive 
Director to the Board. Accordingly, Mark Catton, the RBS 
Group nominated Non-Executive Director, stepped down from 
the Board on 7 March 2014. Direct Line Insurance Group plc 
is no longer owned by RBS Group and its operations are now 
largely separate. 
Following the sale of RBS Group’s shareholding in Direct Line 
Insurance Group plc, there is no arrangement or understanding 
with any shareholder, customer or supplier, or any other 
external party, providing the right to appoint a Director or a 
member of the Executive Committee, or any other special rights 
with regard to the control of Direct Line Insurance Group plc. 
Significant agreements affected by a change of control 
A number of agreements may take effect, alter or terminate 
upon a change of control of the Company. None of these 
agreements is considered to be significant in terms of its  
impact on the business of the Group as a whole. 
All of the Company’s employee share incentive plans contain 
provisions relating to a change of control. Outstanding awards 
would typically vest and become exercisable. This is subject to 
satisfying any performance conditions, and normally with an 
additional time-based pro-rata reduction where performance 
conditions apply.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 96
Directors’ report continued 
96  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014  Version 10.1  Draft and Secret 
Substantial shareholdings 
In accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of the FCA’s 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Company has been 
notified of the following direct and indirect interests in the 
Company’s voting rights. 
31 December 
2014 
10 March
2015
Blackrock Inc.  5.08% 5.08%
Schroders plc 6.71% 6.71%
Political donations 
The Group made no political donations during the year 
(2013: nil). 
Employees with disabilities 
As an organisation we are committed to ensuring that diversity 
is promoted across all areas of our business. At recruitment we 
make adjustments to facilitate applications and the selection 
process and provide guidance and where necessary 
additional training for interviewers. 
Our Diversity Network Alliance has a ‘strand’ which focuses  
on matters important to our employees with a disability and  
to identify areas that we can improve upon. To facilitate 
continued employment we make reasonable adjustments to the 
working environment/equipment, the role or role requirements 
and ensure that the same opportunities are available to all. 
Greenhouse gas emissions 
The Group has followed the 2013 UK Government 
environmental reporting guidance for greenhouse gas (“GHG“) 
emissions, used the UK Government’s greenhouse gas 
conversion factors, and adopted the financial control approach 
to setting the organisational boundaries of responsibilities for 
GHG emissions. GHG emissions are classified as direct or 
indirect, and divided into scope 1 and scope 2 emissions. 
Direct GHG emissions are those from sources that the Group 
owns or controls. Indirect GHG emissions are those that are  
a consequence of the Group’s activities, but occur at sources 
owned or controlled by another organisation. The Group has 
considered the six main GHGs, reported in tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent (“CO2e“), and set 2013 as the base year. 
The Group has included emissions from all of its overseas 
subsidiaries. It has not included emissions associated with its 
investment portfolio. 
• Scope 1 – direct emissions including fuels used in office 
buildings, accident repair centres and owned vehicles 
• Scope 2 – indirect emissions resulting from generating 
electricity purchased for office buildings and accident  
repair centres 
Total GHG emissions for continuing operations for 2014 were 
27,308 tonnes (2013: 29,127 tonnes), as set out in the table 
below. This primarily comprised emissions from purchased 
electricity and natural gas, diesel fuel and refrigerant gas used. 
In addition to total emissions, the Group also monitors 
emissions per £ million of net earned premium. In 2014,  
this was 9.1 tonnes per £ million of net earned premium for 
continuing operations (2013: 9.2 tonnes). This is a measure  
of how efficiently insurance products are provided and allows 
comparison between our year-on-year performance and 
performance against insurance companies. 
Ecometrica has externally verified the GHG emissions data. 
Verification statements can be found on the Group’s website  
at www.directlinegroup.com . 
You can find further information on the Group’s approach  
to energy and the environment in the Corporate Social 
Responsibility report on page 33. 
Greenhouse gas emissions 
CO2e tonnes Continuing operations 
Total Group 
including International
1
 
2014 2013 2014 2013
Scope 1 direct 7,784 8,423 7,787 8,424
Scope 2 indirect 19,524 20,704 20,972 22,200
Total gross 
emissions 27,308 29,127 28,759 30,624
Emissions per £ 
million of net 
earned premium 9.1 9.2 8.7 8.7
Going concern 
The Group has sufficient financial resources to meet its 
financial needs, including managing a mature portfolio of 
insurance risk. The Directors believe the Group is well 
positioned to manage its business risks successfully in the 
current economic environment. 
The finance review on pages 40 to 49 describes the Group’s 
capital management strategy, which covers how it measures its 
regulatory and economic capital needs, and deploys capital. 
The Group’s financial position is also covered in that section, 
including a commentary on cash and investment levels, 
reserves, currency management, insurance liability 
management, liquidity and borrowings. Additionally, note 3  
to the consolidated financial statements describes capital 
management needs and policies and also covers underwriting, 
market, liquidity and credit risks which may affect the Group’s 
financial position. 
After making due enquiries, the Directors reasonably expect 
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources  
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, they have adopted the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements. 
Note: 
1. On 25 September 2014, the Group announced a binding agreement to sell its International division. This segment is now presented as discontinued operations.  Governance review
www.directlinegroup.com 97
 
Version 10.1  Draft and Secret  www.directlinegroup.com  97 
Disclosing information to the Auditor 
Each Director at the date of the approval of this Annual Report 
& Accounts confirms that: 
• so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which Deloitte LLP, the Company’s external 
Auditor, is unaware; and 
• they have taken all the steps they ought to have taken as  
a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant  
audit information and establish that Deloitte LLP is aware  
of that information. 
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the 
Companies Act 2006. 
Auditor 
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office 
as the external Auditor. A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP 
will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM. An assessment of 
the effectiveness and recommendation for the reappointment  
of Deloitte LLP can be found in the Audit Committee report on 
page 63. 
Directors’ responsibility statement 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law, the 
Directors must prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs“) as adopted by the EU and Article 4 of the 
International Accounting Standard (“IAS“) regulation. They 
have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company financial 
statements under IFRSs, as adopted by the EU. Under company 
law, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
Company’s state of affairs and profit or loss for that period. 
In preparing these financial statements, IAS 1 requires  
that Directors: 
• properly select and apply accounting policies; 
• present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; 
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance; and 
• assess the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclosing, with reasonable accuracy, the 
Company’s financial position at any time, and enable them to 
ensure the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. Additionally, they are responsible for safeguarding the  
Company’s assets and hence taking reasonable steps to 
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. The Directors 
are responsible for maintaining and ensuring the integrity of  
the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website at www.directlinegroup.com . Legislation 
in the UK governing preparing and disseminating financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on 
pages 52 to 53, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: 
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs, 
give a true and fair view of the Company’s assets, liabilities, 
financial position, and profit or loss, and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and 
• the Strategic report (on pages 2 to 49) and Directors’ report 
(on pages 94 to 97) include a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business, and the 
Company’s position and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties they face. 
Statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual 
Report & Accounts 
The Directors confirm that they consider that the Annual Report 
& Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 
understandable, and provide the information shareholders 
need to assess the Group’s position and performance, business 
model and strategy. 
In arriving at this conclusion, the Board was supported by  
a number of processes, including the following: 
• management drafted the Annual Report & Accounts.  
To ensure consistency across sections, a steering group 
comprising a team of cross-functional senior management 
provided overall governance and co-ordination; 
• a verification process to ensure the content was  
factually accurate; 
• members of the Executive Committee reviewed drafts of  
the Annual Report & Accounts; 
• the Company’s Disclosure Committee reviewed an 
advanced draft, and the Company’s legal advisers and 
Auditor reviewed certain parts; and 
• the Audit Committee reviewed the substantially final draft 
before consideration by the Board. 
A Committee of the Board reviewed and approved this report 
on 2 March 2015. 
By order of the Board 
 
 
Roger C. Clifton 
Company Secretary 
2 March 2015 
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 98
Contents 
98  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014  Version 10.1  Draft and Secret 
Financial statements  
Independent auditor’s report 99
Consolidated financial statements 
 
Consolidated income statement 103
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 104
Consolidated balance sheet 105
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 106
Consolidated cash flow statement 107
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
1. Accounting policies 108
2. Critical accounting estimates and judgements 115
3. Risk management 118
4. Segmental analysis 130
5. Discontinued operations and disposal group 133
6. Net earned premium 135
7. Investment return 135
8. Other operating income 136
9. Net insurance claims 136
10. Commission expenses 136
11. Operating expenses 136
12. Finance costs 138
13. Tax charge 138
14. Current and deferred tax 139
15. Dividends 140
16. Earnings and net assets per share, return on equity 140
17. Goodwill and other intangible assets 142
18. Property, plant and equipment 144
19. Investment property 144
20. Subsidiaries  145
21. Reinsurance assets 146
22. Deferred acquisition costs 146
23. Insurance and other receivables 146
24. Derivative financial instruments 147
25. Financial investments 147
26. Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings 147
27. Share capital 148
28. Other reserves 148
29. Subordinated liabilities 148
30. Insurance liabilities, unearned premium reserve and 
reinsurance assets 
149
31. Life insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 152
32. Retirement benefit obligations 152
33. Share-based payments 154
34. Trade and other payables including insurance 
payables 
156
35. Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 157
36. Contingent liabilities 157
37. Commitments 158
38. Fair value 159
39. Related parties 160
40. Post balance sheet events 160
Parent Company financial statements 
Parent Company balance sheet 161
Parent Company statement of comprehensive income 162
Parent Company statement of changes in equity 162
Parent Company cash flow statement 162
Notes to the Parent Company  
financial statements 
1. Accounting policies 163
2. Investment in subsidiary undertakings 163
3. Asset held for sale 163
4. Other receivables 164
5. Current tax assets 164
6. Derivative financial instruments 164
7. Financial investments 164
8. Cash and cash equivalents 164
9. Share capital 164
10. Subordinated liabilities 165
11. Trade and other payables 165
12. Dividends 165
13. Cash generated from operations 165
14. Related parties 166
15. Share-based payments 166
16. Risk management 166
17. Directors and key management remuneration 166 Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 99
Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of Direct Line Insurance Group plc 
Version 10.0  Draft and Secret  www.directlinegroup.com  99 
Opinion on the financial statements of Direct Line 
Insurance Group plc 
In our opinion: 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at  
31 December 2014 and of the Group’s profit for the year 
then ended; 
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (“IFRSs“) as adopted by the European Union; 
• the Parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and 
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and,  
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
International Accounting Standard (“IAS“) Regulation. 
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income 
statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income, the consolidated and Parent Company balance 
sheets, the consolidated and Parent Company cash flow 
statements, the consolidated and Parent Company statements 
of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 40 on the 
consolidated financial statements, and the related notes 1 to 
17 on the Parent Company financial statements. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation 
is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of  
the Companies Act 2006. 
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by  
the IASB 
As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial 
statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation  
to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group 
has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (“IASB“). 
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with 
IFRSs as issued by the IASB. 
Going concern 
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the 
Directors’ statement on page 96 that the Group is a going 
concern. We confirm that: 
• we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going 
concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the 
financial statements is appropriate; and 
• we have not identified any material uncertainties that may 
cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as  
a going concern. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be 
predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. 
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below 
are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the 
allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of 
the engagement team: 
 
 
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
The methodology and assumptions used in setting insurance 
reserves 
Insurance reserves include the Group’s insurance liabilities from
continuing business totalling £4.7 billion as detailed in note 
30, and the insurance liabilities held for sale, in relation to the 
International operations, totalling £553.4 million as detailed in 
note 5. The determination of the value of the insurance reserves 
requires significant judgment in the selection of key 
assumptions and methodologies. Management exercises 
significant judgement in respect of the trends in bodily injury 
claims frequency and severity, the propensity for large claims 
to settle as periodic payment orders (“PPOs“), the likely 
outcome of the government’s consultation on the Ogden 
discount rate used by the courts to calculate claims for long-
term damages and other regulatory developments. 
We have tested the design and implementation and operating 
effectiveness of the key controls over the end-to-end reserving 
process. We also tested the completeness and accuracy of  
the underlying data used in the actuarial calculations through 
performing reconciliations on the data back to the financial ledger 
and the actuarial data used by our Deloitte actuarial specialists. 
Having done this, we worked with those specialists to: 
• consider the suitability of the methodology used in setting 
insurance reserves;  
• challenge management’s key assumptions and judgements 
against industry benchmark; and 
• assess whether the reserving methodology has been applied 
consistently across periods.  
We also performed work to understand the sensitivity of insurance 
reserves to changes in key assumptions and methodology. 
 
 
 
 
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 100
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Direct Line Insurance Group plc continued 
100  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014  Version 10.1  Draft and Secret 
Risk  How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
The valuation of investments including complex financial 
instruments and their accounting treatment in accordance  
with IAS 39 and IFRS 13 
The Group’s financial investments shown in notes 25 and 19 
represent the largest number on the balance sheet, £6.3 
billion. The Group’s investment portfolio has become more 
diversified with introduction of an infrastructure debt portfolio 
during 2014. The valuation of financial investments held at  
fair value is based on a range of inputs. Many of the inputs 
required can be obtained from readily available liquid market 
prices and rates. Where observable market data is not 
available, for example, when determining the valuation of 
investment property, estimates must be developed based on  
the most appropriate source data and are subject to  
significant judgement.  
 We have performed audit procedures over the valuation and 
accounting of investments held by the Group. We have tested 
the design and implementation and operating effectiveness of 
the key controls over the investment valuation process. On a 
sample basis we have tested their valuation at the year end. 
We also performed a review of sources and systems used by 
the Group for valuation and compared valuations to those 
obtained from an independent source using various data points 
where there was a degree of subjectivity. We have reviewed 
the classification and accounting treatment of the Group’s 
investment portfolio in line with the accounting polices set out 
in note 1.12 to the consolidated financial statements. We also 
have used our financial instrument valuation specialists, where 
appropriate, to test the valuation of complex financial 
instruments, such as derivatives and compliance with the 
hedge accounting rules. We have checked that the Group’s 
disclosures satisfied the requirements of IAS 39, IFRS 7 and 
IFRS 13. 
IT server migration 
Towards the end of 2014, the Group began its program of 
transitioning onto new IT servers independent from RBS Group 
infrastructure. There is a risk with a large and complex 
migration of this nature of data loss and significant business 
interruption. There is also a risk that the controls surrounding  
the new servers are inadequate. 
 We have tested the design and implementation and operating 
effectiveness of general IT controls around key IT processes on 
the migrated applications and infrastructure, and have 
understood the governance process over the IT migration itself. 
We have tested the Group’s reconciliation of key financial 
data pre- and post-migration to check the completeness and 
accuracy of the data migrated. 
Transformation projects 
There is a risk that the business transformation programmes 
undertaken by the Group could impact the internal financial 
reporting control environment, in particular, in areas of the 
business where there has been significant headcount reduction 
or new processes and procedures have been introduced. 
There is a risk that there may no longer be an appropriate  
level of review or adequate segregation of duties. 
 We have tested the design and implementation and operating 
effectiveness of key business processes that have been subject 
to change. We have tested the processes to determine 
whether appropriate segregation of duties continues to exist 
within the Group’s system of internal controls. For example, our 
procedures included an assessment of the impact to the control 
environment and processes from the wider implementation of 
the new claims system in the Commercial division. 
Reinsurance asset valuation 
The valuation of the reinsurance asset in respect of the ceded 
part of the insurance reserves, as detailed in note 21, requires 
significant judgement to reflect the credit risk exposure to  
long-term assets arising from PPOs. 
 We have tested the design and implementation and operating 
effectiveness of the key controls over the reinsurance asset 
measurement and valuation process. 
We have challenged management’s key assumptions over 
credit risk and the calculation methodology, including a 
comparison of the underlying credit ratings for key reinsurance 
counterparties to independent sources. We have also 
considered the consistency of the approach with the prior year.
Revenue recognition 
Due to the large number of policies underwritten by the Group 
there is a risk that the revenue recorded in the financial 
statements and the flow of premium information from the 
underwriting systems to the financial reporting ledger is not 
complete and accurate. 
 We have tested the design and implementation and operating 
effectiveness of the key controls over revenue recognition, 
focusing on the flow of information from the underwriting 
systems to the financial reporting ledger. In addition, we 
performed substantive analytical testing procedures on the 
gross and unearned premium balances. 
  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 101
 
Version 10.0  Draft and Secret  www.directlinegroup.com  101 
The Audit Committee’s consideration of these risks is set out on 
page 61. 
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed 
in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a 
whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts 
or disclosures. Our opinion on the financial statements is not 
modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and 
we do not express an opinion on these individual matters. 
Our application of materiality 
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the 
financial statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be 
changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning 
the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of  
our work. 
We have determined that the critical benchmark for the Group 
was average pre-tax profit from ongoing operations. This 
measure uses a three-year average of profit before tax, 
excluding the impact of discontinued activities and 
transformation costs to exclude the effect of year-on-year 
volatility. We calculated materiality for the Group to be £28 
million (2013: £40 million), which is below 6.5% (2013: 
8.48%) of average pre-tax profit from ongoing operations. We 
also considered this measure to be suitable having compared 
to other benchmarks: our materiality is 5.86% of statutory profit 
before tax, 0.76% of gross earned premium and below 1.5% 
of equity. Our materiality is lower than the level we set for the 
year ended 31 December 2013 to reflect: the disposal of the 
Group’s International business, with a consequential reduction 
in profit and premium income; emerging market practice; and 
guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council. Group 
materiality is used for setting audit scope and the assessment  
of uncorrected misstatements. Component materialities are set 
for work on significant components − audit testing for the main 
UK insurance trading entity, which makes up 88% of Group 
revenue and 85% of Group statutory profit before tax, is 
performed at component materiality of £25.1 million  
(2013: £25.5 million). 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to 
the Committee all audit differences in excess of £560,000 
(2013: £800,000), as well as differences below that 
threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative 
grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure 
matters that we identified when assessing the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. 
An overview of the scope of our audit 
The scope of our Group audit was determined by obtaining  
an understanding of the Group and its environment, including 
Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material 
misstatement at the Group level. Based on that assessment,  
we focused our Group audit scope on the audit work at three 
primary operating locations: the UK; Italy; and Germany. 
Four entities at these locations were subject to a full audit,  
a further two were subject to an audit of specified account 
balances where the extent of our testing was based on our 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the 
materiality of the Group’s operations at those locations. 
These six entities represent the principal business units and 
account for 98% (2013: 98%) of the Group’s net assets, 99% 
(2013: 99%) of the Group’s revenue and 95% (2013: 95%) 
of the Group’s profit before tax. They were also selected to 
provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to 
address the risks of material misstatement identified above. 
Our audit work at the three locations was executed at levels  
of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were 
lower than Group materiality. 
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation 
process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our 
conclusion that there were no significant risks of material 
misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the 
remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified 
account balances. The Group audit team also performs the 
audit of the UK entities which account for 93% of the Group’s 
net assets and 94% of the Group’s profit before tax. 
The Group audit team followed a programme of planned visits 
that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor 
visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was 
focused at least once a year. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and 
• the information given in the Strategic report and the 
Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial 
statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by 
exception 
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion: 
• we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit; or 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the Parent Company financial statements are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns. 
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 102
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Direct Line Insurance Group plc continued 
102  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014  Version 10.1  Draft and Secret 
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to 
report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors’ 
remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors’ 
remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns. We have nothing to report 
arising from these matters. 
Corporate governance statement 
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the  
part of the corporate governance statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with ten provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report 
arising from our review. 
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report 
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), 
we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information 
in the Annual Report is: 
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or 
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in 
the course of performing our audit; or 
• otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have 
identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge 
acquired during the audit and the Directors’ statement that  
they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately 
discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit 
Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. 
We confirm that we have not identified any such 
inconsistencies or misleading statements. 
Respective responsibilities of the Directors and  
the auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities 
statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. We 
also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 
(UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to 
ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, 
understood and applied. Our quality controls and systems 
include our dedicated professional standards review team  
and independent partner reviews. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members,  
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the Company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by 
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a 
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions  
we have formed. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies 
are appropriate to the Group’s and the Parent Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read 
all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual 
Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report. 
 
 
David Rush FCA (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
London, United Kingdom 
2 March 2015  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 103
Consolidated income statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2014 
www.directlinegroup.com 103
Notes 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Continuing operations   
Gross earned premium 6 3,144.2 3,317.0
Reinsurance premium ceded 6 (157.5) (160.2)
Net earned premium 6 2,986.7 3,156.8
Investment return 7 215.1 197.7
Instalment income  100.4 111.0
Other operating income 8 46.9 61.6
Total income  3,349.1 3,527.1
Insurance claims 9 (1,778.6) (1,881.8)
Insurance claims recoverable from reinsurers 9 51.2 10.9
Net insurance claims 9 (1,727.4) (1,870.9)
Commission expenses 10 (354.0) (334.5)
Operating expenses 11 (776.0) (888.7)
Total expenses  (1,130.0) (1,223.2)
Operating profit  491.7 433.0
Finance costs 12 (37.2) (37.7)
Gain on disposal of subsidiaries 20 2.3 12.0
Profit before tax  456.8 407.3
Tax charge 13 (97.5) (96.5)
Profit from continuing operations, net of tax  359.3 310.8
Profit from discontinued operations, net of tax 5 13.3 2.0
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company  372.6 312.8
   
Earnings per share:   
Continuing operations:   
Basic (pence) 16 24.0 20.8
Diluted (pence) 16 23.8 20.7
Continuing and discontinued operations:   
Basic (pence) 16 24.9 20.9
Diluted (pence) 16 24.7 20.8
The attached notes on pages 108 to 160 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 104
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
For the year ended 31 December 2014 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 104 
Notes 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Profit for the year  372.6 312.8
Other comprehensive income / (loss)   
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to the income statement:   
Actuarial gain / (loss) on defined benefit pension scheme 32 2.8 (6.9)
Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified  (0.6) 1.5
  2.2 (5.4)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement:   
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations  (14.5) (4.9)
Cash flow hedges  1.3 –
Fair value gain / (loss) on available-for-sale investments 28 97.2 (108.2)
Less: realised net gains on available-for-sale investments included in income statement 28 (22.8) (25.7)
Tax relating to items that may be reclassified  (17.6) 33.9
  43.6 (104.9)
Other comprehensive income / (loss) for the year net of tax  45.8 (110.3)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to owners of the Company  418.4 202.5
The attached notes on pages 108 to 160 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 105
Consolidated balance sheet 
As at 31 December 2014 
www.directlinegroup.com 105
Notes 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Assets   
Goodwill and other intangible assets 17 517.5 500.1
Property, plant and equipment 18 181.3 102.3
Investment property 19 307.2 223.4
Reinsurance assets 21 862.5 1,011.0
Deferred tax assets 14 – 19.3
Current tax assets 14 0.1 1.3
Deferred acquisition costs 22 208.4 321.5
Insurance and other receivables 23 959.9 1,122.0
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets  107.9 95.7
Derivative financial instruments 24 27.3 40.7
Retirement benefit asset 32 3.5 –
Financial investments 25 5,961.2 7,441.2
Cash and cash equivalents 26 880.4 908.3
Assets held for sale 5 1,208.4 1.0
Total assets  11,225.6 11,787.8
   
Equity  2,810.5 2,790.0
   
Liabilities   
Subordinated liabilities 29 526.3 486.6
Insurance liabilities 30 4,674.1 5,757.4
Unearned premium reserve 30 1,434.2 1,818.7
Retirement benefit obligations 32 – 2.0
Borrowings 26 69.8 55.1
Derivative financial instruments 24 29.4 19.3
Trade and other payables including insurance payables 34 660.6 818.3
Deferred tax liabilities 14 20.6 19.3
Current tax liabilities 14 35.7 21.1
Liabilities held for sale 5 964.4 –
Total liabilities  8,415.1 8,997.8
Total equity and liabilities  11,225.6 11,787.8
The attached notes on pages 108 to 160 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 2 March 2015. They were signed 
on its behalf by: 
 
 
John Reizenstein 
Chief Financial Officer Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 106
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2014 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 106 
Notes 
Share
 capital
£m
Employee 
trust
shares
£m
Capital 
reserves
 £m
Revaluation 
reserve
 £m
Non-
distributable 
reserve
 £m
Foreign 
exchange 
translation 
reserve 
 £m 
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total 
shareholders 
equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2013  150.0 (5.0) 1,450.0 158.8 63.2 5.0 1,009.6 2,831.6
Profit for the year  – – – – – – 312.8 312.8
Other comprehensive loss  – – – (100.0) – (4.9) (5.4) (110.3)
Dividends 15 – – – – – – (242.7) (242.7)
Transfer to non-distributable 
reserve 28 – – – – 29.6 – (29.6) –
Shares acquired by employee 
trusts  – (5.7) – – – – – (5.7)
Credit to equity for equity-settled 
share-based payments 33 – – – – – – 4.1 4.1
Shares distributed by employee 
trusts  – 0.5 – – – – (0.5) –
Deferred tax on share-based 
payments  14 – – – – – – 0.2 0.2
Balance at 31 December 2013  150.0 (10.2) 1,450.0 58.8 92.8 0.1 1,048.5 2,790.0
Profit for the year  – – – – – – 372.6 372.6
Other comprehensive income  – – – 56.8 – (13.2) 2.2 45.8
Dividends 15 – – – – – – (401.1) (401.1)
Transfer to non-distributable 
reserve 28 – – – – 32.1 – (32.1) –
Shares acquired by employee 
trusts  – (4.4) – – – – – (4.4)
Credit to equity for equity-settled 
share-based payments 33 – – – – – – 6.6 6.6
Shares distributed by employee 
trusts  – 1.0 – – – – (1.0) –
Deferred tax on share-based 
payments  14 – – – – – – 1.0 1.0
Balance at 31 December 2014  150.0 (13.6) 1,450.0 115.6 124.9 (13.1) 996.7 2,810.5
The attached notes on pages 108 to 160 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 107
Consolidated cash flow statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2014 
www.directlinegroup.com 107
Notes 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Net cash used by operating activities before investment of insurance assets 35 (410.6) (307.0)
Cash generated from investment of insurance assets 35 1,121.1 433.0
Net cash generated from operating activities  710.5 126.0
Cash flows from investing activities   
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 18 (86.7) (39.1)
Purchases of intangible assets 17 (92.8) (115.5)
Purchases of asset held for sale  (12.6) –
Proceeds on disposals of asset held for sale  0.8 –
Net cash flows from acquisition / disposal of subsidiaries 20 (24.7) 18.8
Cash flows from net investment hedges  – (9.5)
Net cash used by investing activities  (216.0) (145.3)
Cash flows from financing activities   
Dividends paid 15 (401.1) (242.7)
Repayment of subordinated liabilities  – (258.5)
Finance costs   (37.9) (37.8)
Purchase of employee trust shares  (4.4) (5.7)
Net cash used by financing activities  (443.4) (544.7)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  51.1 (564.0)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year  853.2 1,417.5
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  (6.1) (0.3)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 26 898.2 853.2
The attached notes on pages 108 to 160 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 108
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 108 
Corporate information 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc is a public limited company 
incorporated in the United Kingdom. The address of the 
registered office is Churchill Court, Westmoreland Road, 
Bromley, BR1 1DP, England. 
1. Accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
As required by the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of  
the EU IAS Regulation, the consolidated financial statements 
are prepared in accordance with IFRSs issued by the IASB  
as adopted by the EU. The financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with and full compliance with IFRSs  
as issued by the IASB. 
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on  
the historical cost basis except for AFS financial assets, 
investment property and derivative financial instruments,  
which are measured at fair value. 
The Company’s financial statements and the Group’s 
consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds 
Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company. 
The International segment has been classified as a 
discontinued operation; accordingly the income statement  
has been re-presented in respect of the prior period and 
International assets and liabilities have been presented as  
a disposal group. 
Adoption of new and revised standards 
The following standards and amendments have been adopted  
in the year and have not had a material impact on the Group’s 
financial statements: 
IAS 19 (amended), ‘Employee Benefits’. Introduces a narrow-
scope amendment, to simplify the accounting for employee 
contributions in respect of defined benefit plans that are 
independent of the number of years of service. 
IAS 32 (amended), ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation – 
Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities’. These 
amendments address previous inconsistencies when applying 
the offsetting criteria in IAS 32. 
IAS 36 (amended), ‘Impairment of Assets – Recoverable 
Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets’. These 
amendments clarify the scope of certain disclosures around the 
recoverable amount of impaired assets. 
IAS 39 (amended), ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement’. These amendments provide relief from 
discontinuing hedge accounting when novation of a derivative 
designated as a hedging instrument meets certain criteria.  
IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 (amended), ‘Investment Entities’. 
These amendments define an exception to consolidating 
particular subsidiaries for investment entities. 
IFRIC 21, ‘Levies’. Clarifies how an entity should account for 
liabilities to pay levies imposed by governments. 
1.1 Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 
statements of the Company and the entities that are controlled 
by the Group at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 
2013. Control exists when the Group is exposed, or has 
rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity 
and has the ability to affect those returns through its power  
over the entity. In assessing if the Group controls another entity, 
the existence and effect of the potential voting rights that are 
currently exercisable or convertible are considered. 
Where necessary, adjustments have been made to the 
financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting 
policies used into line with those used by the Group.  
The policies set out below have been applied consistently 
throughout the years ended 31 December 2014 and  
31 December 2013 to items considered material to the 
consolidated financial statements. 
A subsidiary acquired is included in the consolidated financial 
statements from the date it is controlled by the Group until the 
date the Group ceases to control it. On acquisition of a 
subsidiary, its identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities are included in the consolidated financial statements 
at fair value. 
All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses 
between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.  
The consolidated financial statements are prepared using 
consistent accounting policies. 
1.2 Foreign currencies 
The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented  
in Pounds Sterling which is the presentational currency of the 
Group. Group entities record transactions in the currency  
of the primary economic environment in which they operate 
(their functional currency), translated at the foreign exchange 
rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into 
the relevant functional currency at the foreign exchange rates 
ruling at the balance sheet date. Foreign exchange differences 
arising on the settlement of foreign currency transactions  
and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities are 
reported in the income statement except for differences that 
arise on hedges of net investments in foreign operations,  
which were reported in other comprehensive income. 
Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies  
that are stated at fair value are translated into the relevant 
functional currency at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the 
dates the values are determined. Translation differences arising  
on non-monetary items measured at fair value are recognised  
in the income statement except for differences arising on AFS 
non-monetary financial assets, which are recognised in other 
comprehensive income. 
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill 
and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated 
into Pounds Sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the 
balance sheet date. Income and expenses of foreign 
operations are translated into Pounds Sterling at average 
exchange rates unless these do not approximate the foreign 
exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Foreign 
exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign 
operation are recognised in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income. The amount accumulated in equity is 
reclassified from equity to the consolidated income statement 
on disposal or partial disposal of a foreign operation. 
  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 109
 
www.directlinegroup.com 109
1.3 Contract classification 
Insurance contracts are those contracts where the Group  
(the insurer) has accepted significant insurance risk from 
another party (the policyholder) by agreeing to compensate  
the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event  
(the insured event) adversely affects the policyholder. 
Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, 
it remains an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, 
even if the insurance risk reduces significantly during this 
period, unless all rights and obligations are extinguished. 
1.4 Revenue recognition 
Premiums earned 
Insurance and reinsurance premiums comprise the total 
premiums receivable for the whole period of cover provided  
by contracts incepted during the financial year, adjusted by an 
unearned premium provision, which represents the proportion 
of the premiums incepted in prior periods and that relate to 
periods of insurance cover after the balance sheet date. 
Unearned premiums are calculated over the period of exposure 
under the policy, on a daily basis, 24ths basis or allowing for 
the estimated incidence of exposure under policies. 
Premiums collected by intermediaries or other parties,  
but not yet received, are assessed based on estimates from 
underwriting or past experience, and are included in insurance 
premiums. Insurance premiums exclude insurance premium  
tax or equivalent local taxes and are shown gross of any 
commission payable to intermediaries or other parties. 
The long-term assurance contracts that the Group wrote 
included whole-life and term assurance contracts that were 
expected to remain in force for an extended period of time. 
The contracts insured events associated with human life  
(for example, death or the occurrence of a critical illness). 
These were recognised as revenue when they became 
payable by the contract holder. Premiums were shown  
before the deduction of commission. 
Investment return 
Interest income on financial assets is determined using the 
effective interest rate method. The effective interest rate  
method is a way of calculating the amortised cost of a 
financial asset (or group of financial assets) and of allocating 
the interest income over the expected life of the asset. In the 
case of financial assets classified as AFS, estimates are based 
on the straight-line method, which is a close approximation  
to the effective interest rate. 
Rental income from investment property is recognised in  
the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period  
of the contract. Any gains or losses arising from a change  
in fair value are recognised in the income statement. 
Instalment income 
Instalment income comprises the interest income earned  
on policyholder receivables, where outstanding premiums  
are settled by a series of instalment payments. Interest is 
earned using an effective interest rate method over the term  
of the policy. 
Other operating income 
Vehicle replacement referral income 
Vehicle replacement referral income comprises fees in respect 
of referral income received when a customer or a non-fault 
policyholder (claimant) of another insurer has been provided 
with a hire vehicle from a preferred supplier. 
Income is recognised immediately when the customer or 
claimant is provided with the hire vehicle. 
Revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services 
Fees in respect of services for vehicle recovery are recognised 
as the right to consideration, and accrue through the provision 
of the service to the customer. The arrangements are generally 
contractual and the cost of providing the service is incurred  
as the service is rendered. The price is usually fixed and 
always determinable. 
The Group’s income also comprises vehicle repair services 
provided to other third-party customers. Income in respect  
of repairs to vehicles is recognised upon completion of the 
service. The price is determined using market rates for the 
services and materials used after discounts have been 
deducted where applicable. 
Other income 
Commission fee income in respect of services is recognised 
when a policy has been placed and incepted. Income is 
stated excluding applicable sales taxes. 
Legal services revenue represents the amount charged to clients 
for professional services provided during the year including 
expenses but excluding value added tax. Revenue is only 
recognised once services have been provided and certainty 
exists as to the outcome of the respective cases.  
1.5 Insurance claims 
Insurance claims are recognised in the accounting period in 
which the loss occurs. Provision is made for the full cost of 
settling outstanding claims at the balance sheet date, including 
claims incurred but not yet reported at that date, net of salvage 
and subrogation recoveries. Outstanding claims provisions are 
not discounted for the time value of money except for claims  
to be settled by PPOs established under the Courts Act 2003. 
A UK court can award damages for future pecuniary loss in 
respect of personal injury or for other damages in respect of 
personal injury and may order that the damages are wholly  
or partly to take the form of PPOs. These are covered in more 
detail in note 2.1. Costs for both direct and indirect claims 
handling expenses are also included. 
Provisions are determined by management based on 
experience of claims settled and on statistical models  
which require certain assumptions to be made regarding  
the incidence, timing and amount of claims and any specific 
factors such as adverse weather conditions. When calculating 
the total provision required, the historical development of 
claims is analysed using statistical methodology to extrapolate, 
within acceptable probability parameters, the value of 
outstanding claims (gross and net) at the balance sheet date. 
Also included in the estimation of outstanding claims are 
factors such as the potential for judicial or legislative inflation. 
In addition, an allowance is made for reinsurance assets 
deemed not recoverable.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 110
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 110 
1. Accounting policies continued  
Provisions for more recent claims make use of techniques  
that incorporate expected loss ratios and average claims  
cost (adjusted for inflation) and frequency methods. As claims 
mature, the provisions are increasingly driven by methods 
based on actual claims experience. The approach adopted 
takes into account the nature, type and significance of the 
business and the type of data available, with large claims 
generally being assessed separately. The data used for 
statistical modelling purposes is generated internally and 
reconciled to the accounting data. 
The calculation is particularly sensitive to the estimation of  
the ultimate cost of claims for the particular classes of business 
at gross and net levels and the estimation of future claims 
handling costs. Actual claims experience may differ from the 
historical pattern on which the actuarial best estimate is based 
and the cost of settling individual claims may exceed that 
assumed. As a result, the Group sets provisions at a margin 
above the actuarial best estimate. This amount is recorded  
as claims provisions. 
A liability adequacy provision is made for unexpired risks 
arising where the expected value of net claims and expenses 
attributable to the unexpired periods of policies in force at the 
balance sheet date exceeds the unearned premium reserve in 
relation to such policies after the deduction of any acquisition 
costs deferred and other prepaid amounts (for example, 
reinsurance). The expected value is determined by reference to 
recent experience and allowing for changes to the premium 
rates. The provision for unexpired risks is calculated separately 
by reference to classes of business that are managed together 
after taking account of relevant investment returns.  
1.6 Reinsurance 
The Group has reinsurance treaties and other reinsurance 
contracts that transfer significant insurance risk. 
The Group cedes insurance risk by reinsurance in the normal 
course of business, with the arrangement and retention limits 
varying by product line. Outward reinsurance premiums are 
generally accounted for in the same accounting period as  
the premiums for the related direct business being reinsured. 
Outward reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same 
accounting period as the direct claims to which they relate. 
Reinsurance assets include balances due from reinsurance 
companies for ceded insurance liabilities. Amounts recoverable 
from reinsurers are estimated in a consistent manner with the 
outstanding claims provisions or settled claims associated with 
the reinsured policies and in accordance with the relevant 
reinsurance contract. Recoveries in respect of PPOs are 
discounted for the time value of money. 
A reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed in respect of 
reinsurance debtors, to allow for the risk that the reinsurance 
asset may not be collected or where the reinsurer’s credit  
rating has been downgraded significantly. This also includes 
an assessment in respect of the ceded part of claims provisions 
to reflect the counterparty risk exposure to long-term reinsurance 
assets particularly in relation to periodical payments. This  
is affected by the Group reducing the carrying value of the 
asset accordingly and the impairment loss is recognised  
in the income statement. 
1.7 Deferred acquisition costs 
Acquisition costs relating to new and renewing insurance 
policies are matched with the earning of the premiums to 
which they relate. A proportion of acquisition costs incurred 
during the year is therefore deferred to the subsequent 
accounting period to match the extent to which premiums 
written during the year are unearned at the balance  
sheet date. 
The principal acquisition costs deferred are direct advertising 
expenditure, administration costs, commission paid and costs 
associated with telesales and underwriting staff. 
1.8 Goodwill and other intangible assets 
Acquired goodwill, being the excess of the cost of an 
acquisition over the Group’s interest in the net fair value  
of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities  
of the subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired, is  
initially recognised at cost and subsequently at cost less  
any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill arising on  
the acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures  
is included in the balance sheet category ‘goodwill and  
other intangible assets’. The gain or loss on the disposal  
of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture includes the  
carrying value of any related goodwill. 
Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated  
at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement over the 
assets’ economic lives using methods that best reflect the 
pattern of economic benefits and is included in operating 
expenses. The estimated useful economic lives are as follows: 
Software development costs 5 years 
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is 
written off as incurred. Direct costs relating to the development 
of internal-use computer software and associated business 
processes are capitalised once technical feasibility and 
economic viability have been established. These costs include 
payroll costs, the costs of materials and services, and directly 
attributable overheads. Capitalisation of costs ceases when the 
software is capable of operating as intended. During and after 
development, accumulated costs are reviewed for impairment 
against the projected benefits that the software is expected to 
generate. Costs incurred prior to the establishment of technical 
feasibility and economic viability are expensed as incurred,  
as are all training costs and general overheads. The costs of 
licences to use computer software that is expected to generate 
economic benefits beyond one year are also capitalised. 
1.9 Property, plant and equipment 
Items of property, plant and equipment (except investment 
property – note 1.11) are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses. Where an item of 
property, plant and equipment comprises major components 
having different useful lives, they are accounted for separately.  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 111
 
www.directlinegroup.com 111
  
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a  
straight-line basis so as to write off the depreciable amount  
of property, plant and equipment over their estimated useful 
lives. The depreciable amount is the cost of an asset less its 
residual value. Land is not depreciated. Estimated useful lives 
are as follows: 
Freehold and long  
leasehold buildings 
50 years or the period of the 
lease if shorter 
Vehicles 3 years 
Computer equipment Up to 5 years 
Other equipment, including 
property adaptation costs 
2 to 15 years 
The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of 
property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference 
between the disposal proceeds, if any, and the carrying 
amount of the item. 
1.10 Impairment of intangible assets, goodwill and property, 
plant and equipment 
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is 
any indication that its intangible assets, goodwill or property, 
plant and equipment are impaired. If any such indication 
exists, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the  
asset and the impairment loss, if any. Goodwill is tested for 
impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes  
in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired. If an asset 
does not generate cash flows that are independent of those  
of other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount is 
determined for the cash-generating unit (“CGU”) to which the 
asset belongs. The recoverable amount of an asset is the 
higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. 
Value in use is the present value of future cash flows from the 
asset or CGU, discounted at a rate that reflects market interest 
rates, adjusted for risks specific to the asset or CGU that have 
not been reflected in the estimation of future cash flows. 
If the recoverable amount of an intangible or a tangible asset 
is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognised 
immediately in the income statement and the carrying value  
of the asset is reduced by the amount of the impairment loss. 
A reversal of an impairment loss on intangible assets or 
property, plant and equipment is recognised as it arises 
provided the increased carrying value does not exceed the 
carrying amount that would have been determined had no 
impairment loss been recognised. Impairment losses on 
goodwill are not reversed. 
1.11 Investment property 
Investment property comprises freehold and long-leasehold 
properties that are held to earn rentals or for capital 
appreciation or both. Investment property is not depreciated, 
but is stated at fair value based on valuations by independent 
registered valuers. Fair value is based on current prices for 
similar properties adjusted for the specific characteristics of 
each property. Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair 
value is recognised in the income statement. 
Investment property is derecognised when it has been either 
disposed of or permanently withdrawn from use and no future 
economic benefit is expected from disposal. Any gains or 
losses on the retirement or disposal of investment property are 
recognised in the income statement in the year of retirement  
or disposal. 
1.12 Financial assets 
Financial assets are classified as held-to-maturity, AFS, 
designated at fair value through profit or loss, or loans and 
receivables. The Group only has AFS financial assets and 
loans and receivables.  
AFS 
Financial assets that are not classified as loans and receivables 
are classified as AFS. Financial assets can be designated as 
AFS on initial recognition. AFS financial assets are initially 
recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs. 
They are subsequently measured at fair value. Impairment 
losses and exchange differences resulting from retranslating  
the amortised cost of foreign currency monetary AFS financial 
assets are recognised in the income statement, together with 
interest calculated using the effective interest rate method. 
Other changes in the fair value of AFS financial assets are 
reported in a separate component of shareholders’ equity  
until disposal, when the cumulative gain or loss is recognised 
in the income statement. 
Regular way purchases of financial assets classified as loans 
and receivables are recognised on settlement date; all other 
regular way purchases are recognised on trade date. 
A financial asset is regarded as quoted in an active market  
if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an 
exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or 
regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and 
regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length 
basis. The appropriate quoted market price for an asset held  
is usually the current bid price. When current bid prices are 
unavailable, the price of the most recent transaction provides 
evidence of the current fair value as long as there has not been 
a significant change in economic circumstances since the time 
of the transaction. If conditions have changed since the time  
of the transaction (for example, a change in the risk-free interest 
rate following the most recent price quote for a corporate 
bond), the fair value reflects the change in conditions by 
reference to current prices or rates for similar financial 
instruments, as appropriate. 
The valuation methodology described above uses observable 
market data. 
If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group 
establishes the fair value by using a valuation technique. 
Valuation techniques include using recent arm’s length market 
transactions between knowledgeable and willing parties  
(if available), reference to the current fair value of another 
instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash  
flow analysis and option pricing models. If there is a valuation 
technique commonly used by market participants to price  
the instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to 
provide reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market 
transactions, the Group uses that technique.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 112
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 112 
1. Accounting policies continued 
Loans and receivables 
Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable 
repayments that are not quoted in an active market are 
classified as loans and receivables, except those that are 
classified as AFS. Loans and receivables are initially 
recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs 
and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate method less any impairment losses. 
Insurance receivables comprise outstanding insurance premiums 
where the policyholders have elected to pay in instalments, or 
amounts due from third parties where they have collected or  
are due to collect the money from the policyholder. 
Receivables also include amounts due in respect of the 
provision of legal services. 
Impairment of financial assets 
At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether there 
is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group of 
financial assets classified as AFS or loans and receivables is 
impaired. A financial asset or portfolio of financial assets is 
impaired and an impairment loss incurred if there is objective 
evidence that an event or events since initial recognition of the 
asset have adversely affected the amount or timing of future 
cash flows from the asset. 
AFS 
When a decline in the fair value of a financial asset classified 
as AFS has been recognised directly in equity and there is 
objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative 
loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income 
statement. The loss is measured as the difference between the 
amortised cost of the financial asset and its current fair value. 
Impairment losses on AFS equity instruments are not reversed 
through profit or loss, but those on AFS debt instruments are 
reversed, if there is an increase in fair value that is objectively 
related to a subsequent event. Subsequent increases in the fair 
value of AFS other investment funds were recognised in equity. 
Loans and receivables 
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a 
financial asset or group of financial assets classified as loans 
and receivables has been incurred, the Group measures the 
amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying 
amount of the asset or group of assets and the present value  
of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets, 
discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at 
initial recognition. 
Impairment losses are assessed individually where significant 
or collectively for assets that are not individually significant. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement and 
the carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial 
assets is reduced by establishing an allowance for the 
impairment losses. If in a subsequent period the amount of the 
impairment loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to 
an event after the impairment was recognised, the previously 
recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance. 
For amounts due from policyholders, the bad debt provision  
is calculated based upon prior loss experience. For all 
balances outstanding in excess of three months, a bad debt 
provision is made. Where a policy is subsequently cancelled, 
the outstanding debt that is overdue is charged to the income 
statement and the bad debt provision is released back to the 
income statement. 
Derivatives and hedging 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially, and 
subsequently measured, at fair value. Derivative fair values  
are determined from quoted prices in active markets where 
available. Where there is no active market for an instrument, 
fair value is derived from prices for the derivative’s components 
using appropriate pricing or valuation models. 
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of a 
derivative are recognised as they arise in the income statement 
unless the derivative is the hedging instrument in a qualifying 
hedge. The Group enters into a number of hedge relationships 
for cash flow and fair value hedges. Previously the Group 
entered into hedge relationships for net investments. 
Hedge relationships are formally documented at inception.  
The documentation identifies the hedged item and the hedging 
instrument and details the risk that is being hedged and the way 
in which effectiveness will be assessed at inception and during 
the period of the hedge. If the hedge is not highly effective in 
offsetting changes in cash flows and fair values attributable  
to the hedged risk, consistent with the documented risk 
management strategy, or if the hedging instrument expires or is 
sold, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting is discontinued. 
In the hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation,  
the portion of foreign exchange differences arising on the 
hedging instrument determined to be an effective hedge were 
recognised directly in equity, where they remain until disposal 
or partial disposal of the associated subsidiaries. Any 
ineffective portion was recognised in the income statement. 
Non-derivative financial liabilities as well as derivatives may 
have been the hedging instrument in a net investment hedge. 
In a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or 
loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity. 
Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement. 
In a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument is recognised in the income statement. The gain  
or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is 
recognised in the income statement and, where the hedged 
item is measured at amortised cost, adjusts the carrying  
amount of the hedged item. 
Derecognition of financial assets 
A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive  
the cash flows from that asset have expired or when the Group 
has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset 
and has transferred substantially all the risk and rewards of 
ownership of the asset.  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 113
 
www.directlinegroup.com 113
1.13 Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and 
demand deposits with banks together with short-term highly 
liquid investments that are readily convertible to known 
amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of change  
in value. 
Borrowings, comprising bank overdrafts, are measured  
at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. 
1.14 Financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value net  
of transaction costs incurred. Other than derivatives which  
are recognised and measured at fair value, all other financial 
liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest rate method. 
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under 
the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires. 
1.15 Subordinated liabilities 
Subordinated liabilities comprise subordinated guaranteed 
dated notes which are initially measured at the consideration 
received less related transaction costs. Subsequently, 
subordinated liabilities are measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest rate method. 
1.16 Provisions 
The Group recognises a provision for a present legal or 
constructive obligation from a past event when it is more likely 
than not that it will be required to transfer economic benefits to 
settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. 
The Group makes provision for all insurance industry levies, 
such as the Financial Services Compensation Scheme and 
Motor Insurance Bureau. 
When the Group has an onerous contract, it recognises  
the present obligation under the contract as a provision.  
A contract is onerous when the unavoidable costs of  
meeting the contractual obligations exceed the expected  
future economic benefit. In respect of leasehold properties,  
a provision is recognised when the Group has a detailed 
formal plan to vacate the leasehold property, or significantly 
reduce its level of occupancy, the plan has been 
communicated to those affected and the future property  
costs under the lease exceed future economic benefits. 
Restructuring provisions are made, including redundancy costs, 
when the Group has a constructive obligation to restructure.  
An obligation exists when the Group has a detailed formal 
plan and has communicated the plan to those affected. 
1.17 Leases 
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of  
the lease. 
1.18 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 
The Group provides post-retirement benefits in the form  
of pensions and healthcare plans to eligible employees. 
Contributions to the Group’s defined contribution pension 
scheme are recognised in the income statement when payable. 
The Group’s defined benefit pension scheme, as described in 
note 32, was closed in 2003. Scheme liabilities are measured 
on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method 
and discounted at a rate that reflects the current rate of return 
on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent term and 
currency to the scheme liabilities. 
Scheme assets are measured at their fair value. Any surplus  
or deficit of scheme assets over liabilities is recognised in 
the balance sheet as an asset (surplus) or liability (deficit).  
The current service cost and any past service costs, together 
with the net interest on net pension liability or asset, is charged 
or credited to operating expenses. Actuarial gains and losses 
are recognised in full in the period in which they occur outside 
the income statement and presented in other comprehensive 
income under ‘Items that will not be reclassified subsequently  
to the income statement’. 
1.19 Taxation 
The tax charge or credit represents the sum of the tax currently 
payable or receivable and deferred tax. 
The current tax charge is based on the taxable profits for  
the year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax 
legislation, after any adjustments in respect of prior years. 
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income 
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that 
are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes 
items that are never taxable or deductible. 
Provision for taxation is calculated using tax rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet 
date, and is allocated over profits before taxation and amounts 
charged or credited to components of other comprehensive 
income and equity, as appropriate. 
Deferred taxation is accounted for in full using the balance 
sheet liability method on all temporary differences between  
the carrying amount of an asset or liability for accounting 
purposes and its carrying amount for tax purposes. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary timing differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable  
profits will be available against which deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised. 
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date 
and reduced to the extent that it is probable that they will not 
be recovered. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates 
expected to apply when the assets are realised or liabilities  
are settled based on laws and rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax  
is charged or credited in the income statement, except when  
it relates to items charged or credited to other comprehensive 
income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in 
other comprehensive income.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 114
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 114 
1. Accounting policies continued 
1.20 Share-based payments 
The Group operates a number of share-based compensation 
plans under which it awards Company shares and share 
options to its employees. Such awards are generally subject  
to vesting conditions that vary the amount of cash or shares  
to which an employee is entitled. 
Vesting conditions include service conditions (requiring the 
employee to complete a specified period of service) and 
performance conditions (requiring the employee to meet 
specified performance targets). 
The fair value of options granted is estimated using valuation 
techniques which incorporate exercise price, term, risk-free 
interest rates, the current share price and its expected volatility. 
The cost of employee services received in exchange for an 
award of shares or share options granted is measured by 
reference to the fair value of the shares or share options on the 
date the award is granted and takes into account non-vesting 
conditions and market performance conditions (conditions 
related to the market price of the Company’s shares). 
The cost is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period (the period during which all the specified vesting 
conditions must be satisfied) with a corresponding increase in 
equity in an equity-settled award, or a corresponding liability 
in a cash-settled award. The cost is adjusted for vesting 
conditions (other than market performance conditions) so as to 
reflect the number of shares or share options that actually vest. 
The cancellation of an award through failure to meet non-
vesting conditions triggers an immediate expense for any 
unrecognised element of the cost of an award. 
1.21 Capital instruments 
The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a 
financial liability or an equity instrument in accordance with  
the substance of the contractual arrangement. An instrument is 
classified as a liability if it is a contractual obligation to deliver 
cash or another financial asset, or to exchange financial assets 
or financial liabilities on potentially unfavourable terms, or as 
equity if it evidences a residual interest in the assets of the 
Group after the deduction of liabilities. 
The consideration for any Ordinary Share of the Company 
purchased by the Group for the benefit of the employee trusts 
is deducted from equity.  
1.22 Dividends 
Interim dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised in equity 
in the period in which they are paid. Final dividends on 
Ordinary Shares are recognised when they have been 
approved at the AGM. 
1.23 Accounting developments 
In July 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’  
that will replace IAS 39 ‘Financial instruments: Recognition  
and Measurement’ in its entirety. The classification and 
measurement of financial assets and liabilities will be directly 
linked to the nature of the instrument’s contractual cash flows and 
the business model employed by the holder of the instrument.  
The standard introduces a new expected loss model that is  
a departure from the current incurred loss model. The model 
requires a 12 month expected loss to be recognised for all 
financial instruments when they first originate or are acquired. 
In subsequent periods, if there is a significant increase in  
credit risk of a financial instrument since it was originated  
or acquired, the full lifetime expected credit loss would then  
be recognised.  
The standard has introduced greater flexibility in the type of 
transactions eligible for hedge accounting and broadened  
the type of instruments that qualify as hedging instruments.  
The hedge effectiveness test has been replaced with the 
principle of an ‘economic relationship’.  
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or 
after 1 January 2018, although early adoption is permitted.  
In May 2014, IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with 
Customers’ was issued by the IASB, to establish a single 
comprehensive model to use in accounting for revenue 
recognition and measurement, from contracts (note: insurance 
contracts are excluded from the scope of IFRS 15) with 
customers. The standard provides guidance on when and  
how combined contracts should be unbundled and when a 
transaction price includes a variable consideration element. 
The standard will require the Group to consider contracts with 
customers to determine if changes are required to existing 
accounting practices, but is not expected to have a material 
impact on the Group’s financial statements.  
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or 
after 1 January 2017, although early adoption is permitted.   Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 115
 
www.directlinegroup.com 115
2. Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation 
of its financial information. The Group’s principal accounting policies are set out on pages 108 to 114. UK company law and 
IFRSs require the Directors, in preparing the Group’s financial statements, to select suitable accounting policies, apply them 
consistently and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.  
In the absence of an applicable standard or interpretation, IAS 8 requires management to develop and apply an accounting 
policy that results in relevant and reliable information in the light of the requirements and guidance in IFRS dealing with similar 
and related issues and the IASB’s Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements. The judgements  
and assumptions involved in the Group’s accounting policies that are considered by the Board to be the most important to  
the portrayal of its financial condition are discussed below. The use of estimates, assumptions or models that differ from  
those adopted by the Group would affect its reported results. 
2.1 General insurance: outstanding claims provisions and related reinsurance recoveries 
The Group makes provision for the full cost of outstanding claims from its general insurance business at the balance sheet date, 
including claims estimated to have been incurred but not yet reported at that date and claims handling. Outstanding claims 
provisions net of related reinsurance recoveries at 31 December 2014 amounted to £3,898.6 million with an additional 
£393.5 million included in liabilities held for sale (2013: £4,840.1 million). 
Claims reserves are assessed separately for large and attritional claims, typically using standard actuarial methods of projection. 
Key judgements in this assessment include the selection of specific methods as well as assumptions for claims frequency and 
severity through the review of historical claims and emerging trends. The corresponding reinsurance recoveries are also 
calculated on an equivalent basis as discussed in note 1.6. 
The most common method of settling bodily injury claims is by a lump sum paid to the claimant and, in the cases where this 
includes an element of indemnity for recurring costs such as loss of earnings or ongoing medical care, settlement normally occurs 
using a standardised Ogden annuity factor at a discount rate of 2.5%. This is normally referred to as the Ogden discount rate. 
Other estimates are also required for case management expenses, loss of pension, court protection fees, alterations to 
accommodation and transportation fees. 
In August 2012, the MoJ announced a review of the approach to setting the Ogden discount rate within the existing legal 
framework. Following further consultation, in 2014 the Justice Secretary announced that a panel of three financial investment 
experts will be appointed to provide testimony on potential changes to the discount rate on personal injury damages. 
The Group holds provisions for a reduction in the Ogden discount rate at 31 December 2014 to 1.5% (2013: 1.5%).  
Details of sensitivity analysis to the assumed Ogden discount rate are shown in note 3.3.1. 
The Group settles some large bodily injury claims as PPO’s rather than lump sum payments. 
The table below analyses the outstanding PPO claims provisions on a discounted and an undiscounted basis at 31 December 2014 
and 31 December 2013. These represent the total cost of PPOs rather than any costs in excess of purely Ogden-based settlement. 
At 31 December 
Discounted 
2014
£m
Undiscounted 
2014 
£m 
Discounted 
2013 
£m 
Undiscounted 
2013
£m
Gross claims   
Approved PPO claims provisions 422.6 1,245.7 367.7 1,099.9
Anticipated PPOs 651.0 1,963.2 631.2 1,935.7
Total 1,073.6 3,208.9 998.9 3,035.6
Reinsurance   
Approved PPO claims provisions (216.6) (688.6) (204.9) (656.3)
Anticipated PPOs (216.5) (839.6) (165.9) (707.9)
Total (433.1) (1,528.2) (370.8) (1,364.2)
Net of reinsurance   
Approved PPO claims provisions 206.0 557.1 162.8 443.6
Anticipated PPOs 434.5 1,123.6 465.3 1,227.8
Total 640.5 1,680.7 628.1 1,671.4
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 116
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 116 
2. Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued  
The provisions for PPOs have been categorised as either claims which have already settled as PPOs (approved PPO claims 
provisions) or those expected to settle as PPOs in the future (anticipated PPOs). Anticipated PPOs consist of both existing  
large loss case reserves including allowances for development as well as claims yet to be reported to the Group. Reinsurance  
is applied at claim level and the net cash flows are discounted for the time value of money. The discount rate is consistent with 
the long duration of the claims payments and the assumed future indexation of the claims payments. 
In the majority of cases, the inflation agreed in the settlement is the Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings SOC 6115 inflation 
published by the Office for National Statistics, for which the long-term rate is assumed to be 4.0% (2013: 4.0%). The rate of 
interest used for the calculation of present values is 4.0% (2013: 4.0%), which results in a real discount rate of 0.0% (2013: 
0.0%). Since lump sum payments are calculated using a real discount rate of 2.5% (2013: 2.5%) the PPOs reserved cost is 
greater than that of lump sum settlements. 
Details of sensitivity analysis to the discount rate applied to PPO claims are shown in note 3.3.1. 
2.2 Impairment provisions – financial assets 
AFS 
The Group determines that AFS financial assets are impaired when there is objective evidence that an event or events since initial 
recognition of the assets have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset. The determination of 
which events could have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset requires judgement. In 
making this judgement, the Group evaluates, among other factors, the normal price volatility of the financial asset, the financial 
health of the investee, industry and sector performance, changes in technology and operational and financing cash flow or 
whether there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost. Impairment may be 
appropriate when there is evidence of deterioration in these factors. 
On a quarterly basis, the Group reviews whether there is any objective evidence that the direct investments in AFS debt securities 
are impaired based on the following criteria: 
• price performance of a particular AFS debt security, or group of AFS debt securities, demonstrating an adverse trend compared 
to the market as a whole; 
• adverse movements in the credit rating for corporate debt; 
• actual, or imminent, default on coupon interest or nominal; or 
• offer on buyback of perpetual bonds below par value. 
Impairment provision on AFS financial assets in the year ended 31 December 2014 amounted to a £1.3 million release (2013: £nil) . 
Had all the declines in AFS asset values met the criteria above at 31 December 2014, the Group would suffer a further  
£15.8 million loss of which £0.3 million relates to the disposal group (2013: £40.4 million loss), being the transfer of the total 
AFS reserve for unrealised losses to the income statement. These movements represent mark-to-market movements and where there 
is no objective evidence of any loss events that could affect future cash flows, no impairments are recorded for these movements.  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 117
 
www.directlinegroup.com 117
2.3 Fair value 
Financial assets classified as AFS debt securities and derivative financial instruments are recognised in the financial statements  
at fair value determined using observable market input. The fair value of AFS debt securities at 31 December 2014 amounted  
to £5,830.3 million with an additional £706.9 million included in assets held for sale (2013: £7,005.5 million). The fair  
value of derivative financial assets and liabilities amounted to £27.3 million (2013: £40.7 million) and £29.4 million  
(2013: £19.3 million) respectively. 
Freehold and long leasehold properties that are classified as investment properties are recognised in the financial statements  
at fair value. The fair value at 31 December 2014 amounted to £307.2 million (2013: £223.4 million) and was determined 
using a valuation model that includes inputs that are unobservable. 
Estimation of the fair value of assets and liabilities 
In estimating the fair value of financial assets and investment properties, the methods and assumptions used by the Group incor porate: 
Financial assets and liabilities 
For fixed maturity securities, fair values are generally based upon quoted market prices. Where market prices are not readily 
available, fair values are estimated using values obtained from quoted market prices of comparable securities. 
Investment property 
Investment property is recorded at fair value, measured by independent valuers who hold recognised and relevant professional 
qualifications. The valuation model is driven predominantly by unobservable inputs, as although in part the valuations are 
compared with recent market transactions for similar properties, they are adjusted for the specific characteristics of each property. 
For disclosure purposes, fair value measurements are classified as Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which fair value  
is observable: 
Level 1 financial assets are measured in whole or in part by reference to published quotes in an active market. In an active 
market quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service  
or regulatory agency and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length basis. 
Level 2 financial assets and liabilities are measured using a valuation technique based on assumptions that are supported by 
prices from observable current market transactions. These are assets for which pricing is obtained via pricing services, but where 
prices have not been determined in an active market, or financial assets with fair values based on broker quotes, investments in 
private equity funds with fair values obtained via fund managers or assets that are valued using the Group’s own models whereby 
the majority of assumptions are market-observable. 
Level 3 fair value measurements used for investment properties are those derived from a valuation technique that includes inputs 
for the asset that are unobservable. 
2.4 Deferred acquisition costs 
The Group defers a proportion of acquisition costs incurred during the year to subsequent accounting periods. Management use 
estimation techniques to determine the level of costs to be deferred, by category of business. Judgement is used to determine the 
types of cost that can be deferred and these are referred to in note 1.7. The total deferred acquisition costs at 31 December 
2014 amounted to £208.4 million with an additional £111.1 million included in assets held for sale (2013: £321.5 million). 
During 2014, the Group reviewed these costs included in the calculation of deferred acquisition costs and considers them to  
be appropriate, and has determined that they are recoverable. 
2.5 Goodwill 
The Group capitalises goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses as discussed in note 1.8. The carrying value of goodwill 
at 31 December 2014 was £211.0 million (2013: £211.0 million). 
Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the fair value of its net assets. The determination of the fair value 
of assets and liabilities of businesses acquired requires the exercise of management judgement; for example, those financial 
assets and liabilities for which there are no quoted prices and those non-financial assets where valuations reflect estimates of 
market conditions, such as property. Different fair values would result in changes to the goodwill arising and to the post-
acquisition performance. Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Group’s CGUs or 
groups of CGUs expected to benefit from the combination. Goodwill impairment testing involves the comparison of the carrying 
value of a CGU or group of CGUs with its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the CGU’s fair value 
and its value in use. Value in use is the present value of expected future cash flows from the CGU or group of CGUs. Fair value 
is the amount obtainable from the sale of the CGU in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 118
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 118 
2. Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued 
Impairment testing inherently involves a number of judgemental areas: the preparation of the five-year strategic plan and the 
extrapolation of cash flow forecasts beyond the normal requirements of management reporting; the assessment of the discount 
rate appropriate to the business; estimation of the fair value of CGUs; and the valuation of the separable assets of each business 
whose goodwill is being reviewed. Details of a sensitivity analysis on the recoverable amount in excess of carrying value are 
shown in note 17. 
2.6 Property, plant and equipment 
The Group does not revalue property, plant and equipment. However, it takes appropriate steps to consider whether the 
aggregate value of property, plant and equipment exceeds the balance sheet carrying value of such items. 
The Group is satisfied that the aggregate value of property, plant and equipment is not less than its carrying value. 
3. Risk management 
3.1 Enterprise-wide Risk Management framework 
The ERM framework within the Group is designed to ensure that risk management is a forward-looking discipline, focused on 
facilitating appropriate and fair outcomes on a consistent and reliable basis for all stakeholders. The ERM process provides the 
Group with a consistent and holistic view of risk management. Further information can be found in the Risk management section  
of the Strategic report on page 28. 
3.2 Risk and capital management modelling 
The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Group has sufficient funds to meet its liabilities as they fall due. The 
Group carries out detailed modelling of its assets, liabilities and the key risks to which these are exposed. This modelling includes 
the Group’s own assessment of its capital requirements for solvency purposes. The assessment is submitted to the PRA as the ICA 
in respect of its UK regulated entities. The ICA quantifies the insurance, market, counterparty, liquidity, operational and Group risk 
that the UK regulated entities are undertaking. 
The Board is closely involved in the ICA process and reviews and approves its assumptions and results. 
3.3 Principal risks from insurance activities and use of financial instruments 
The Risk management section of the Strategic report sets out all the risks assessed by the Group as principal risks. Detailed below 
is the Group’s risk exposure arising from its insurance activities and use of financial instruments specifically in respect of insurance 
risk, market risk and counterparty risk. 
3.3.1 Insurance risk 
The Group is exposed to insurance risk as a primary consequence of its business. Key insurance risks focus on the inherent 
uncertainty around the occurrence, amount and timing of insurance liabilities arising through risks accepted during insurance 
operations, as defined in the ERM framework. 
The insurance risks that the Group faces include those referred to below; 
Reserving risk 
Reserving risk relates to both premiums and claims. The risk that technical reserves are incorrectly assessed such that inappropriate 
funds have been retained to handle and pay claims and associated expenses as the amounts fall due, or that a surplus of funds 
has been retained resulting in opportunity costs. 
Reserving risk is controlled through a range of processes: 
• regular periodic reviews of the claims, premium and a regular assessment of the requirement for a liability adequacy provision 
for the main classes of business by the internal actuarial team; 
• the use of external actuaries to review periodically the actuarial best estimate reserves produced internally, either through peer 
review or through provision of independent reserve estimates; 
• accompanying all reserve reviews with actuarial assessment of the uncertainties through a variety of techniques including 
bootstrapping and scenario analysis; 
• oversight of the reserving process by relevant senior management and the Board; 
• regular reconciliation of the data used in the actuarial reviews against general ledger data and reconciliation of the claims 
data history against the equivalent data from prior reviews; and 
• assessing the volatility in the reserves to help the Board set management best estimate reserves. 
The Group’s reserves are particularly susceptible to potential retrospective changes in legislation and new court decisions, for 
example, a change in the Ogden discount rate. This is the discount rate set by the relevant government bodies and used by 
courts to calculate lump sum awards in bodily injury cases. The rate is currently 2.5% per annum but is under review by the MoJ. 
The Group has calculated its estimated reserves based on an assumed Ogden discount rate of 1.5%, in recognition of the 
uncertainty regarding the future rate.  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 119
 
www.directlinegroup.com 119
Uncertainty in claims reserve estimation is larger for claims such as PPOs for which annually indexed payments are made typically 
over the lifetime of the injured party. Claims reserves for PPOs are held on a discounted basis and are sensitive to a change in 
the discount rate. 
The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions  
left unchanged. Other potential risks beyond the ones described in the table and above could have an additional financial 
impact on the Group. 
Increase / (decrease)  
in income statement 
Increase / (decrease)  
in total equity at  
31 December 
2014
£m
2013 
£m 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
PPOs
1
   
Impact of an increase in the discount rate used in the calculation of 
present values of 100 basis points (“bps”) 87.3 81.7 87.3 80.5
Impact of a decrease in the discount rate used in the calculation of  
present values of 100bps (121.8) (118.5) (121.8) (116.8)
Ogden
2
   
Impact of an increase in the Ogden discount rate by 100bps 159.6 169.7 159.6 169.7
Impact of a decrease in the Ogden discount rate by 100bps (224.0) (238.2) (224.0) (238.2)
Notes:  
1. The sensitivities relating to an increase or decrease in the discount rate used for PPOs illustrate a movement in the time value of money from the assumed level  
of 4.0%. An increase in the discount rate reflects a decrease in the time value of money and therefore the present value of future liabilities, which increases the 
total equity which would be reflected in the income statement. 
2. The sensitivities relating to an increase or decrease in the Ogden discount rate illustrate a movement in the value from the current level of 2.5%. The Group holds 
provisions for a reduction in the Ogden discount rate at 31 December 2014 to 1.5%. 
3. The selection of these sensitivities should not be interpreted as a prediction. 
4. The sensitivities set out above reflect one-off impacts at 31 December. 
5. The sensitivities set out above excluded the impact of taxation. 
Pricing and underwriting risks 
The risk of economic loss arising from business being inappropriately accepted (i.e. outside underwriting rules / terms and 
conditions) and / or incorrectly priced. 
The Group predominantly underwrites personal lines insurance including motor, residential property, roadside assistance, 
creditor, travel and pet business. The Group also underwrites commercial risks primarily for low-to-medium risk trades within  
the SME market. Contracts are typically issued on an annual basis which means that the Group’s liability usually extends for a  
12 month period, after which the Group is entitled to decline to renew or can impose renewal terms by amending the premium 
or other policy terms and conditions such as the excess as appropriate. 
Claims management risk 
The risk that claims are reserved or paid inappropriately, including the timing of such activity. 
Claims are managed utilising a range of IT system-driven controls coupled with manual processes outlined in detailed policies 
and procedures to ensure claims are handled in an appropriate, timely and accurate manner. 
Each member of staff has a specified handling authority, with controls preventing them handling or paying claims outside  
their authority, as well as controls to mitigate the risk of paying invalid claims. In addition, there are various outsourced claims 
handling arrangements, all of which are monitored closely by management, with similar principles applying in terms of the 
controls and procedures. 
Loss adjustors are used in certain circumstances to handle claims to conclusion. This involves liaison with the policyholder,  
third parties, suppliers and the claims function. 
Specialist bodily injury claims teams in the UK are responsible for handling these types of losses with the nature of handling 
dependent on the level and type of claim. Claims exceeding a certain threshold are referred to the technical and large loss  
teams who also deal with all other claim types above defined limits or within specific criteria. 
A process is in place in the UK business to deal with major weather and other catastrophic events, known as the ‘Surge Demand 
Plan’. A surge is the collective name given to an incident which significantly increases the volume of claims reported to the 
Group’s claims functions. The plan covers surge demand triggers, stages of incident, operational impact, communication and 
management information monitoring of the impact.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 120
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 120 
3. Risk management continued 
Reinsurance risk 
The risk of inappropriate selection and / or placement of a reinsurance arrangement, with either individual or multiple reinsurers 
which renders the transfer of insurance risk to the reinsurer(s) inappropriate and / or ineffective. Other risks include: 
• Reinsurance capacity being reduced and / or withdrawn; 
• Underwriting risk appetite and reinsurance contract terms not being aligned; 
• Reinsurance contract terms being inappropriate or ineffective resulting in classes or types of business not being  
appropriately reinsured; 
• Non-adherence to the reinsurance policy terms and conditions, in terms of both policy management and claims not being 
handled within the reinsurance contract terms and conditions or paid on an ex-gratia basis resulting in reinsurance recoveries 
not being made in full;  
• Inappropriate or inaccurate management information and / or modelling being used to determine the value for money and 
purchasing of reinsurance (including aggregate modelling); and  
• Changes in the external legal, regulatory, social or economic environment altering the definition and application of reinsurance 
policy wordings or effectiveness / value for money of reinsurance.  
The Group uses reinsurance to: 
• protect the insurance results against low-frequency, high-severity losses through the transfer of catastrophe claims volatility  
to reinsurers; 
• protect the insurance results against unforeseen volumes of, or adverse trends in, large individual claims in order to reduce 
volatility and to improve stability of earnings; 
• reduce the Group’s capital requirements; and / or 
• transfer risk that is not within the Group’s current risk retention strategy. 
Using reinsurance the Group cedes insurance risk to reinsurers but, in return, assumes back counterparty risk against which  
a reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed. The financial security of the Group’s panel of reinsurers is therefore extremely 
important and both the quality and quantum of the assumed counterparty risk are subject to an approval process whereby 
reinsurance is only purchased from reinsurers that hold a credit rating of at least A- at the time cover is purchased. The Group’s 
leading counterparty exposures represent the accumulated counterparty risk for all Group underwriting entities and are reviewed 
on a monthly basis. The Group aims to contract with a diverse range of reinsurers on its contracts to mitigate the credit and / or 
non-payment risks associated with its reinsurance exposures. 
Certain reinsurance contracts have long durations as a result of PPOs, and insurance reserves therefore include provisions beyond 
the levels created for shorter-term reinsurance bad debt. 
Catastrophe risk 
The risk of loss, or of adverse change, in the value of the insurance liabilities resulting from significant uncertainty of pricing and 
provisioning assumptions related to extreme or exceptional events. 
Insurance concentration risk 
The Group is subject to concentration risk in a variety of forms, including: 
• geographic concentration risk – the Group purchases a UK catastrophe reinsurance programme to protect against a modelled 
1 in 200-year loss. The retained deductible is £150 million at 31 December 2014 (2013: £150 million). There are also 
relevant covers to protect the Group’s international businesses; 
• product concentration risk – the Group’s business is heavily concentrated in the UK general insurance market. However,  
the Group offers a diversified portfolio of products and a variety of brands sold through a range of distribution channels  
to its customers; 
• sector concentration risk – the concentration of the Group to any given industry sector is monitored and analysed in respect  
of commercial customers; and 
• reinsurance concentration risk – reinsurance is purchased from a number of providers to ensure that a diverse range  
of counterparties is contracted with, within the desired credit rating range. 
It is important to note that none of these risk categories is independent of the others and that giving due considerations to the 
relationship between these risks is an important aspect of the effective management of insurance risk.  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 121
 
www.directlinegroup.com 121
3.3.2 Financial risk 
The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets and financial liabilities. The Group’s financial risk is 
concentrated within its investment portfolio and reinsurance. 
The strategic asset allocation within the investment portfolio is agreed by the Investment Committee. The Investment Committee 
determines policy and controls, covering such areas as risk, liquidity and performance. The Investment Committee meets at least 
three times a year to evaluate risk exposure, the current strategy, associated policies and investment guidelines and to consider 
investment recommendations submitted to it. Oversight of the implementation of decisions taken by the Investment Committee is 
via the 1st and 2nd
 
Line of Defence. 
The investment management objectives are: 
• to maintain the safety of the portfolio’s principal both in economic terms and from a capital, accounting and reporting perspec tive; 
• to maintain sufficient liquidity to provide cash requirements for operations, including in the event of a catastrophe; and 
• to maximise the portfolio’s total return within the constraints of the other objectives and the limits defined by the investment 
guidelines and capital allocation. 
3.3.2.1 Market risk 
Market risk is the risk associated with the adverse impact of the market risk factors’ movement on the Group’s balance sheet  
due to changes in the fair value or cash flows of its assets or liabilities. 
The Group is mainly exposed to the following market risk factors: 
• interest rate risk; 
• spread risk; 
• foreign currency risk; and 
• property risk. 
The Group has policies and limits approved by the Board for managing the market risk exposure. These set out the principles that 
the business should adhere to for managing market risk and establishing the maximum limits the Group is willing to accept having 
considered strategy, risk appetite and capital resources. 
The Group monitors its market risk exposure on a monthly basis and has established an aggregate exposure limit consistent with its 
risk objective to maintain capital adequacy. Interdependencies across risk types have also been considered within the aggregate 
exposure limit. The allocation of the Group’s investments across asset classes has been approved at the Investment Committee. 
The Group has a property portfolio and has commenced investment in infrastructure debt in order to improve matching to the 
longer duration PPOs.  
The Group uses its internal economic capital model to determine its capital requirements and market risk limits, and monitors its 
market risk exposure based on a 99.5% value-at-risk measure. The Group also applies market risk stressed scenarios testing for 
analysing the economic impact of specific severe market conditions. The results of this analysis are used to enhance the 
understanding of market risk. The market risk policy explicitly prohibits the use of derivatives for speculative or gearing purposes 
however, the Group is able to, and does, use derivatives for hedging its currency risk and interest rate risk exposures. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group’s interest rate risk arises mainly from its debt, floating interest rate investments and assets and liabilities exposed  
to fixed interest rates. 
The fixed interest rate up to 27 April 2022 on the Group’s 30-year maturity £500 million of subordinated guaranteed dated 
notes has been exchanged for a floating rate of interest (note 29). 
The Group also invests in floating rate AFS debt securities, whose investment income is influenced by the movement of the  
short-term interest rate. A movement of the short-term interest rate will affect the expected return on the investments. 
The market value of the Group’s financial investments with fixed coupons are affected by the movement of interest rates. For  
the majority of investments in US Dollar corporate bonds (excluding £300 million of short duration high yield bonds), the Group 
hedges the exposure of this portfolio to the US Dollar interest rate risk using swaps. These derivatives reduce the duration of the 
portfolio to close to zero.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 122
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 122 
3. Risk management continued 
Spread risk 
Spread risk represents the risk of adverse fluctuation of the value of assets due to changes in the level of spreads. The level of 
spread is the difference between the risk free rate and actual rate paid on the asset, with larger spreads being associated with 
higher risk assets. The Group is exposed to spread risk through its investments in investment grade bonds and securitised credit. 
Foreign currency risk 
The exposure to currency risk is generated by the Group’s investments in US Dollar corporate bonds, US Dollar securitised credit 
and its investment in subsidiaries. 
The Group maintains exposure to US Dollar securities through its investments in US Dollar corporate bonds and US Dollar securitised 
credits. The foreign currency exposure of these investments is hedged by foreign currency forward contracts, maintaining a minimal 
unhedged (direct) currency exposure on these portfolios, as well as a low basis currency risk on the hedging. 
The Group is also exposed to currency risk through its investments in subsidiaries in Italy and Germany (that is, investments in 
equity). In September 2013, the Group changed its currency hedging strategy on these investments to accept the long-term 
foreign exchange fluctuation impact on its investment in subsidiaries. 
In September 2014, the Group entered into a forward foreign exchange contract to sell the Euro proceeds in exchange for 
Pounds Sterling, from the potential sale of the Italian and German entities. This mitigates foreign currency exposure in respect  
of the expected proceeds up to the sale settlement date. 
Property risk 
Property risk results from adverse price fluctuations on commercial property investments. At 31 December 2014, the value of 
these property investments was £307.2 million (2013: £223.4 million). The property investments are located in the UK. 
Sensitivity analysis 
The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions  
left unchanged. Other potential risks beyond the ones described in the table could have an additional financial impact on  
the Group. 
Increase / (decrease)  
in income statement 
Increase / (decrease)  
in total equity at  
31 December 
2014
£m
2013 
£m 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Spread   
Impact of a 100bps increase in spreads on financial investments  
and derivatives
1,2,4
  – –  (163.5) (187.8)
Interest rate   
Impact of a 100bps increase in interest rates on financial investments  
and derivatives
1,3,4
  19.1 18.0 (122.8) (170.5)
Investment property   
Impact of a 15% decrease in property markets  (46.1) (33.5) (46.1) (33.5)
Notes: 
1. The income statement impact on financial investments is limited to floating rate instruments and interest rate derivatives used to hedge a portion of the portfolio.  
The income statement is not impacted in relation to fixed rate instruments, in particular AFS debt securities, where the coupon return is not impacted by a change in 
prevailing market rates, as the accounting treatment for AFS debt securities means that only the coupon received is processed through the income statement with 
fair value movements being recognised through total equity. 
2. The increase / (decrease) in total equity reflects a fair value movement in infrastructure debt that would not be recorded in the financial statements under IFRS as 
they are classified as loans and receivables which are carried at amortised cost. This result has been included in the table above to provide a comprehensive 
analysis of the fair value impact of this sensitivity. 
3. The sensitivities set out above reflect one-off impacts at 31 December with the exception of the income statement interest rate sensitivity on financial investments 
and derivatives, which projects a movement in a full year’s interest charge as a result of the increase in the interest rate applied to these assets / liabilities on those 
positions held at 31 December. 
4. The subordinated liabilities and associated interest rate swap are excluded from the sensitivity analysis. 
5. The selection of these sensitivities should not be interpreted as a prediction. 
6. The sensitivities set out above have not considered the impact of the general market changes on the value of the Group’s insurance liabilities or retirement  
benefit obligations. 
7. The sensitivities set out above exclude the impact of taxation. 
8. The sensitivities calculated above exclude the impact of assets held in the disposal group.  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 123
 
www.directlinegroup.com 123
The tables below analyse the maturity of the Group’s derivative assets and liabilities. 
 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value 
At 31 December 2014 £m
Less than 
1 year
£m
1 – 5 years 
£m 
Over  
5 years 
£m 
Total 
£m
Derivative assets   
At fair value through the income statement:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 54.4 0.3 – – 0.3
Interest rate swaps 696.6 0.9 1.2 22.5 24.6
Designated as hedging instruments:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 435.6 1.9 0.5 – 2.4
Total 1,186.6 3.1 1.7 22.5 27.3
 
 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value 
At 31 December 2014 £m
Less than 
1 year
£m
1 – 5 years 
£m 
Over  
5 years 
£m 
Total 
£m
Derivative liabilities   
At fair value through the income statement:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 1,892.3 22.9 – – 22.9
Interest rate swaps 424.9 1.3 0.5 4.6 6.4
Interest rate futures
1
 540.5 – – – –
Designated as hedging instruments:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 5.0 0.1 – – 0.1
Total 2,862.7 24.3 0.5 4.6 29.4
Note: 
1. Interest rate futures are settled daily with variation margin and therefore have a fair value of £nil. The notional value is included in the above table to reflect the 
fact that the Group has exposure to open positions. 
 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value 
At 31 December 2013 £m
Less than 
1 year
£m
1 – 5 years 
£m 
Over  
5 years 
£m 
Total 
£m
Derivative assets   
At fair value through the income statement:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 1,315.8 23.8 – – 23.8
Interest rate swaps 370.1 (1.0) 1.7 8.9 9.6
Interest rate futures 561.3 7.3 – – 7.3
Total 2,247.2 30.1 1.7 8.9 40.7
 
 
 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value 
At 31 December 2013 £m
Less than 
1 year
£m
1 – 5 years 
£m 
Over  
5 years 
£m 
Total 
£m
Derivative liabilities   
At fair value through the income statement:   
Interest rate swaps 739.9 (1.1) 0.4 18.5 17.8
Designated as hedging instruments:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 9.6 0.8 0.7 – 1.5
Total 749.5 (0.3) 1.1 18.5 19.3
The Group has a number of open interest rate and foreign exchange derivative positions. Collateral management arrangements 
are in place for significant counterparty exposures. At 31 December 2014 the Group has pledged £17.3 million in cash  
(2013: £4.9 million in cash and £20.0 million UK Gilts) to cover out of the money derivative positions. At 31 December 2014 
counterparties have pledged £21.5 million in UK Gilts (2013: £18.0 million in cash) to the Group to cover in the money 
derivative positions. 
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 124
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 124 
3. Risk management continued 
The terms and conditions of collateral pledged for both assets and liabilities are market standard. When securities are pledged 
they are required to be readily convertible to cash, and as such no policy has been established for the disposal of assets not 
readily convertible into cash. 
3.3.2.2 Counterparty risk 
Counterparty risk arises from the potential that losses are incurred from the failure of counterparties to meet their credit obligations,  
due to either their failure and / or their inability to pay or their unwillingness to pay amounts due. 
Counterparty risk is primarily managed by the 1st line of defence and monitored by the Credit Risk Forum. The main responsibility 
of this forum is to ensure that all material aspects of counterparty risk within the Group are identified, monitored and measured. 
The main sources of counterparty risk for the Group are: 
• investment counterparty – this arises from the investment of monies in the range of investment vehicles permitted by the 
investment policy; and 
• reinsurance recoveries – counterparty exposure to reinsurance counterparties arises in respect of reinsurance claims against 
which a reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed. PPOs have the potential to increase the ultimate value of a claim and, by 
their very nature, to significantly increase the length of time to reach final payment. This has increased reinsurance counterparty 
risk in terms of both amount and longevity. 
The following tables analyse the carrying value of financial and insurance assets that bear counterparty risk between those assets 
that have not been impaired by age in relation to due date, and those that have been impaired. 
At 31 December 2014 
Neither 
past due nor 
impaired
£m
Past due 
1 – 90 days
£m
Past due  
more than  
90 days 
£m 
Assets that  
have been 
impaired 
£m 
Carrying value 
in the balance 
sheet
£m
Reinsurance assets  862.5 – – – 862.5
Insurance and other receivables 907.3 52.0 0.6 – 959.9
Derivative assets  27.3 – – – 27.3
AFS debt securities 5,830.3 – – – 5,830.3
Deposits with credit institutions with maturities > three months 54.7 – – – 54.7
Infrastructure debt 76.2 – – – 76.2
Short-term deposits with credit institutions 729.1 – – – 729.1
Cash at bank and in hand 151.3 – – – 151.3
Total
1
 8,638.7 52.0 0.6 – 8,691.3
 
At 31 December 2013 
Neither 
past due nor 
impaired
£m
Past due 
1 – 90 days
£m
Past due  
more than  
90 days 
£m 
Assets that  
have been 
impaired 
£m 
Carrying value in 
the balance 
sheet
£m
Reinsurance assets 1,011.0 – – – 1,011.0
Insurance and other receivables 1,075.8 42.8 3.4 – 1,122.0
Derivative assets 40.7 – – – 40.7
AFS debt securities 7,001.2 – – 4.3 7,005.5
Deposits with credit institutions with maturities > three months 435.7 – – – 435.7
Short-term deposits with credit institutions 600.8 – – – 600.8
Cash at bank and in hand 307.5 – – – 307.5
Total 10,472.7 42.8 3.4 4.3 10,523.2
Note: 
1. The carrying value of the financial and insurance assets for 2014 excludes the assets held for sale. 
Within the analysis of AFS debt securities above are bank debt securities at 31 December 2014 of £1,328.3 million  
(2013: £1,625.2 million), that can be further analysed as: secured £104.1 million (2013: £135.9 million); unsecured 
£1,058.3 million (2013: £1,297.4 million); and subordinated £165.9 million (2013: £191.9 million).  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 125
 
www.directlinegroup.com 125
The following tables analyse the credit quality of AFS debt securities that are neither past due nor impaired. 
At 31 December 2014 
AAA
£m
AA+ to AA-
£m
A+ to A-
£m
BBB+ to BBB- 
£m 
BB+ and below 
£m 
Total 
£m
Corporate 235.2 556.6 2,096.5 935.2 293.6 4,117.1
Supranational 166.9 9.4 – – – 176.3
Local government 42.6 62.8 15.3 – – 120.7
Sovereign – 988.1 – 5.7 – 993.8
Securitised credit
1
 339.4 83.0 – – – 422.4
Total
2
 784.1 1,699.9 2,111.8 940.9 293.6 5,830.3
 
At 31 December 2013 
AAA
£m
AA+ to AA-
£m
A+ to A-
£m
BBB+ to BBB- 
£m 
BB+ and below 
£m 
Total 
£m
Corporate 321.3 695.6 2,722.7 1,134.2 – 4,873.8
Supranational 317.3 48.4 – – – 365.7
Local government 75.7 44.0 14.8 – – 134.5
Sovereign 4.3 1,369.0 – 26.2 – 1,399.5
Securitised credit
1
 193.4 22.1 8.4 – 3.8 227.7
Total 912.0 2,179.1 2,745.9 1,160.4 3.8 7,001.2
Notes: 
1. Securitised credit is all in the form of prime mortgage backed securities, collateralised loan obligations, securitised student loans and commercial mortgage 
backed securities. 
2. The credit quality of AFS debt securities in 2014 excludes assets held for sale. 
The following tables analyse the credit quality of financial and insurance assets that are neither past due nor impaired (excluding 
AFS debt securities analysed above). The tables include reinsurance exposure, after provision. Note 3.3.1 details the Group’s 
approach to reinsurance counterparty risk management. 
At 31 December 2014 
AAA 
£m 
AA+ to AA−
£m
A+ to A−
£m
BBB+ to BBB-
£m
BB+ and below 
£m 
Not rated 
£m 
Total
£m
Reinsurance assets – 654.1 196.3 4.3 – 7.8 862.5
Insurance and other receivables
1
– 17.3 17.4 15.5 0.4 856.7 907.3
Derivative assets – 2.5 0.8 24.0 – – 27.3
Deposits with credit institutions 
with maturities > three months – 54.7 – – – – 54.7
Infrastructure debt – – – 76.2 – – 76.2
Short-term deposits with credit 
institutions  729.1 –––– – 729.1
Cash at bank and in hand – – 81.4 69.9 – – 151.3
Total
2
 729.1 728.6 295.9 189.9 0.4 864.5 2,808.4
 
At 31 December 2013 
AAA 
£m 
AA+ to AA−
£m
A+ to A−
£m
BBB+ to BBB-
£m
BB+ and below 
£m 
Not rated 
£m 
Total
£m
Reinsurance assets 0.3 710.9 289.0 0.7 – 10.1 1,011.0
Insurance and other receivables
1
– 9.2 25.7 2.4 – 1,038.5 1,075.8
Derivative assets – 5.7 35.0 – – – 40.7
Deposits with credit institutions 
with maturities > three months – 55.0 380.7 – – – 435.7
Short-term deposits with credit 
institutions 545.8 5.0 50.0 – – – 600.8
Cash at bank and in hand – 0.2 255.4 51.7 – 0.2 307.5
Total 546.1 786.0 1,035.8 54.8 – 1,048.8 3,471.5
Notes: 
1. Other loans and receivables due from policyholders, agents, brokers and intermediaries generally do not have a credit rating.  
2. The credit quality of financial and insurance assets in 2014 excludes assets held for sale.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 126
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 126 
3. Risk management continued 
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the potential that obligations cannot be met as they fall due as a consequence of having a timing mismatch  
and / or an inability to raise sufficient liquid assets or cash without suffering a substantial loss on realisation. 
The measurement and management of liquidity risk within the Group is undertaken within the limits and other policy parameters  
of the Group’s liquidity risk appetite and is detailed within the liquidity risk minimum standard. Compliance is monitored in 
respect of both the minimum standard and the regulatory requirements of local regulators. 
In the event that one or more liquidity stresses or scenarios crystallises, or should any other event that may impact liquidity occur, 
the Group ensures a rapid and controlled response to the event. In such an event, a liquidity crisis management team will be 
formed to assess the nature and extent of the threat and to develop an appropriate response. 
The following tables analyse financial investments, cash and cash equivalents, insurance and financial liabilities by remaining 
duration, in proportion to the cash flows expected to arise during that period, for each category. 
At 31 December 2014 
Total
£m
Within
1 year
£m
1 – 3 years
£m
3 – 5 years 
£m 
5 – 10 years 
£m 
Over 
10 years
£m
AFS debt securities 5,830.3 938.3 1,663.4 1,175.3 1,669.8 383.5
Deposits with credit institutions with  
maturities in excess of three months 54.7 54.7 – – – –
Infrastructure debt 76.2 2.8 9.4 7.5 23.3 33.2
Short-term deposits with credit institutions 729.1 729.1 – – – –
Cash at bank and in hand  151.3 151.3 – – – –
Total
2
 6,841.6 1,876.2 1,672.8 1,182.8 1,693.1 416.7
 
At 31 December 2014 
Total
£m
Within
1 year
£m
1 – 3 years
£m
3 – 5 years 
£m 
5 – 10 years 
£m 
Over 
10 years
£m
Subordinated liabilities 526.3 8.3 – – 518.0 –
Insurance liabilities
1
 4,674.1 1,396.8 1,181.6 651.2 530.5 914.0
Borrowings 69.8 69.8 – – – –
Trade and other payables including insurance 
payables 660.6 659.4 1.2 – – –
Total
2
 5,930.8 2,134.3 1,182.8 651.2 1,048.5 914.0
 
At 31 December 2013 
Total
£m
Within
1 year
£m
1 – 3 years
£m
3 – 5 years 
£m 
5 – 10 years 
£m 
Over 
10 years
£m
AFS debt securities 7,005.5 1,018.4 1,953.0 1,920.9 1,794.9 318.3
Deposits with credit institutions with  
maturities in excess of three months 435.7 435.7 – – – –
Short-term deposits with credit institutions 600.8 600.8 – – – –
Cash at bank and in hand 307.5 307.5 – – – –
Total 8,349.5 2,362.4 1,953.0 1,920.9 1,794.9 318.3
 
At 31 December 2013 
Total
£m
Within 
1 year
£m
1 – 3 years
£m
3 – 5 years 
£m 
5 – 10 years 
£m 
Over 
10 years
£m
Subordinated liabilities 486.6 8.2 – – 478.4 –
Insurance liabilities
1
 5,757.4 1,817.3 1,469.9 687.1 630.9 1,152.2
Borrowings 55.1 55.1 – – – –
Trade and other payables including insurance 
payables 818.3 794.3 6.4 1.9 6.4 9.3
Total 7,117.4 2,674.9 1,476.3 689.0 1,115.7 1,161.5
Notes: 
1. Insurance liabilities exclude unearned premium reserves as there are no liquidity risks inherent in them.  
2. The assets and liabilities remaining duration tables for 2014 excludes assets and liabilities held for sale.   Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 127
 
www.directlinegroup.com 127
Concentration risk 
Concentration risk on investments arises through excessive exposure to particular industry sectors, groups of business undertakings 
or similar activities. The Group may suffer significant losses in its investment portfolio as a result of over-exposure to particular 
sectors engaged in similar activities or similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations  
to be similarly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions. 
The table below analyses the distribution of AFS debt securities and infrastructure debt by geographical area. 
At 31 December 2014 
Corporate
£m
Local
 government
£m
Sovereign
£m
Securitised 
 credit 
£m 
AFS debt 
securities total 
£m 
Infrastructure debt 
£m
Australia 120.2 – – – 120.2 –
Belgium 33.8 – 3.6 – 37.4 –
Canada 60.8 34.3 – – 95.1 –
Cayman Islands 19.3 – – 218.8 238.1 –
China 6.1 – – – 6.1 –
Denmark 25.1 – – – 25.1 –
Finland – 14.3 – – 14.3 –
France 275.1 23.4 – – 298.5 –
Germany 310.3 5.0 – – 315.3 –
Hong Kong 8.5 – – – 8.5 –
Italy 15.5 – – – 15.5 –
Japan 46.9 – – – 46.9 –
Luxembourg 6.8 – – – 6.8 –
Mexico 12.6 – 5.7 – 18.3 –
Netherlands 154.4 – – – 154.4 –
New Zealand 3.6 – – – 3.6 –
Norway 24.4 10.1 – – 34.5 –
Singapore 25.5 – – – 25.5 –
South Korea 7.5 7.6 – – 15.1 –
Spain 30.6 – – – 30.6 –
Sweden 73.1 13.0 – – 86.1 –
Switzerland 82.6 – – – 82.6 –
UAE – 7.0 – – 7.0 –
UK 1,334.8 – 984.5 69.4 2,388.7 76.2
USA 1,439.6 6.0 – 134.2 1,579.8 –
Supranational – ––– 176.3 –
Total
1
 4,117.1 120.7 993.8 422.4 5,830.3 76.2
Note: 
1. The distribution of AFS debt securities and infrastructure debt by geographical area excludes assets held for sale.   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 128
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 128 
3. Risk management continued 
The table below analyses the distribution of AFS debt securities by geographical area. 
At 31 December 2013 
Corporate
£m
Local
 government
£m
Sovereign 
£m 
Securitised 
 credit 
£m 
Total
£m
Australia 249.8 – – – 249.8
Belgium 48.7 – 4.4 – 53.1
Brazil 2.9 – 1.4 – 4.3
Canada 59.2 52.2 – – 111.4
China 1.7 – – – 1.7
Czech Republic 6.3 – – – 6.3
Denmark 38.2 – – – 38.2
Finland 13.3 – – – 13.3
France 364.9 8.1 1.8 8.4 383.2
Germany 407.3 24.3 – 33.5 465.1
Hong Kong 8.5 – – – 8.5
Ireland 0.3 – – 3.8 4.1
Italy 49.3 – 20.4 – 69.7
Japan 44.5 – – – 44.5
Mexico 10.8 – 3.0 – 13.8
Netherlands 227.3 – 4.3 – 231.6
New Zealand 24.0 – – – 24.0
Norway 36.4 24.9 – – 61.3
Russia 5.3 – – – 5.3
Singapore 24.4 – – – 24.4
South Africa – – 1.4 – 1.4
South Korea 7.1 – – – 7.1
Spain 31.2 – – – 31.2
Sweden 150.0 19.1 – – 169.1
Switzerland 118.5 – – – 118.5
UAE 6.6 – – – 6.6
UK 1,671.4 – 1,362.8 35.1 3,069.3
USA 1,270.2 5.9 – 146.9 1,423.0
Supranational – – – – 365.7
Total 4,878.1 134.5 1,399.5 227.7 7,005.5 Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 129
 
www.directlinegroup.com 129
The table below analyses the distribution of AFS debt securities by industry sector classifications. 
2014 2013 
At 31 December £m % £m %
Basic materials 151.9 3% 196.5 3%
Communications 298.5 5% 394.1 6%
Consumer, cyclical 230.7 4% 192.9 3%
Consumer, non-cyclical 363.4 6% 451.0 6%
Diversified 65.9 1% 82.3 1%
Energy 225.7 4% 249.9 4%
Financial 1,842.4 32% 2,163.3 31%
Industrial 250.7 4% 274.9 4%
Mortgage and other asset backed securities 422.4 7% 227.7 3%
Sovereign, supranational and local government 1,290.7 22% 1,899.7 27%
Technology 67.8 1% 51.5 1%
Transport 15.2 0% 18.0 0%
Utilities 605.0 11% 803.7 11%
Total
1
 5,830.3 100% 7,005.5 100%
Note: 
1. The distribution of AFS debt securities by industry sector in 2014 excludes assets held for sale.  
The table below analyses the distribution of infrastructure debt by industry sector classifications (2013: £nil). 
 2014 
At 31 December  £m %
Social infrastructure 56.6 74%
Transport 19.6 26%
Total
1
 76.2 100%
Note: 
1. The distribution of infrastructure debt by industry sector in 2014 excludes assets held for sale.  
3.4 Capital adequacy 
The Group defines its capital requirement in accordance with the regulations prescribed by the PRA, other regulatory bodies  
and the credit rating agencies. Capital is managed in accordance with the Group’s capital management minimum standard,  
the objectives of which are to manage capital efficiently and maintain an appropriate level of capitalisation and solvency. 
The Group determines the appropriate level of capital on the basis of a number of criteria, including its risk-based capital 
requirement, the maintenance of a prudent excess capital over its regulatory capital requirements and its rating agency capital. 
The Group seeks to hold capital coverage in the range of 125% to 150% of its risk-based capital requirement and to hold capital 
resources consistent with an ‘A’ range credit rating. 
The UK regulated insurance entities of the Group carry out an assessment of the adequacy of their overall financial resources in 
accordance with the PRA’s ICA methodology. The UK insurance capital requirement is calculated on an internal model which is 
calibrated to a 99.5% confidence interval and considers business written to date and one year of future business. Additionally, 
the model allows for the uncertainty around the run-off of this business. The risk-based capital model also supports decision 
making in the business. The Group also monitors its financial resources with reference to the requirements of the IGD. 
The capital for European entities is maintained in accordance with the local regulatory solvency requirements. The Group 
manages its subsidiaries on an ongoing basis to ensure that capital resources exceed regulatory minima in accordance with  
its risk appetite. 
The Group has an IGD surplus at 31 December 2014 of approximately £1.9 billion (2013: £1.8 billion). From 1 January 2016, 
the Group’s regulatory capital position will be assessed against the Solvency II framework. 
The Group’s capital requirements and solvency position are produced and presented to the Board on a regular basis.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 130
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 130 
4. Segmental analysis 
The Directors manage the Group primarily by product type and present the segmental analysis on that basis. The segments reflect 
the management structure whereby a member of the Executive Committee is accountable to the Chief Executive Officer for each 
of the following operating segments: 
Motor 
This segment consists of personal car insurance cover together with the associated legal expenses business. The Group sells 
motor insurance through its own brands – Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege – and through partnership brands directly to 
customers or through PCWs. As a result, the Group has a brand and product offering that covers most major retail customer 
segments for motor insurance in the UK. 
Home 
This segment consists of the underwriting of home insurance together with associated legal expenses cover. The Group sells home 
insurance through its own brands – Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege – and through partnerships or PCWs. The Group’s brand 
and product offering covers most of the major retail customer segments for home insurance in the UK. 
Rescue and other personal lines 
This segment consists of the underwriting of rescue and recovery insurance products and other personal lines business, including 
travel, pet, life (conducted by Direct Line Life Insurance Company Limited which was sold on 28 November 2013) and creditor. 
The Group sells rescue and recovery insurance as a stand-alone product through the Green Flag brand or as an insurance  
add-on to all Group own brand and certain partner motor policies, or as part of packaged bank accounts sold through our  
bank partnership channel. Rescue insurance policies range from basic roadside rescue to a full Europe-wide breakdown  
recovery service. 
The Group sells its other personal lines insurance through its own brands – Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege – and  
through partnerships. 
Commercial 
This segment consists of the underwriting of commercial insura nce for micro businesses and SMEs in the UK. The Group sells comm ercial 
products through its own brands – NIG, Direct Line for Business and Churchill – and through its partnership with RBS and NatWest. 
Certain income and charges are not allocated to the specific operating segments above as they are considered by management 
to be outside underlying business activities by virtue of their one-off incidence, size or nature. Such income and charges are 
categorised as either run-off, described below, or restructuring and other one-off costs. 
Run-off 
The segment consists of two principal lines, policies previously written through the personal lines broker channel and Tesco 
business. These residual businesses are now in run-off. 
Discontinued operations – International 
This segment consists primarily of personal motor car insurance cover sold in Italy and Germany using a multi-channel strategy 
through the Direct Line brand and through partnerships and PCWs. On 25 September 2014, the Group entered into a binding 
agreement for the sale, subject to regulatory approval, of this segment and accordingly its results have been treated as a 
discontinued operation. The segmental analysis of revenues and results on pages 131 to 132 has been re-presented to reflect 
this treatment with the revenue and results of the discontinued operations separately disclosed in note 5. The assets and liabilities 
of the International segment have been presented as a disposal group and have been classified as held for sale. 
No inter-segment transactions occurred in the year ended 31 December 2014 (2013: £nil). If any transaction were to occur, 
transfer prices between operating segments would be set on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third 
parties. Segment income, expenses and results will include those transfers between business segments which will then be 
eliminated on consolidation. 
For each operating segment, there is no indi vidual policyholder or customer that represents 10% or more of the Group’s total re venue.  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 131
 
www.directlinegroup.com 131
The table below is an analysis of the Group’s revenue and results for continuing operations by reportable segment in the year 
ended 31 December 2014. 
 
Motor
1
£m
Home
£m
Rescue and 
other
 personal lines
£m
Commercial
£m
Total  
ongoing 
£m 
Run-off
£m
Continuing 
operations
£m
Gross written premium 1,342.0 898.6 371.8 487.0 3,099.4 (0.4) 3,099.0
Gross earned premium 1,372.6 920.4 370.5 481.1 3,144.6 (0.4) 3,144.2
Reinsurance premium ceded (76.7) (45.1) (1.4) (34.3) (157.5) – (157.5)
Net earned premium 1,295.9 875.3 369.1 446.8 2,987.1 (0.4) 2,986.7
Investment return 144.8 25.7 6.1 34.0 210.6 4.5 215.1
Instalment income 69.6 24.0 1.5 5.3 100.4 – 100.4
Other operating income 32.9 0.7 10.8 2.5 46.9 – 46.9
Total income 1,543.2 925.7 387.5 488.6 3,345.0 4.1 3,349.1
Insurance claims (931.5) (445.1) (211.9) (261.7) (1,850.2) 71.6 (1,778.6)
Insurance claims recoverable from reinsurers 63.4 0.8 – 6.4 70.6 (19.4) 51.2
Net insurance claims (868.1) (444.3) (211.9) (255.3) (1,779.6) 52.2 (1,727.4)
Commission expenses (41.4) (190.3) (34.5) (87.8) (354.0) – (354.0)
Operating expenses (336.6) (177.2) (93.1) (98.5) (705.4) (1.0) (706.4)
Total expenses (378.0) (367.5) (127.6) (186.3) (1,059.4) (1.0) (1,060.4)
Operating profit before restructuring and other 
one-off costs 297.1 113.9 48.0 47.0 506.0 55.3 561.3
Restructuring and other one-off costs
2
  (69.6)
Operating profit  491.7
Finance costs  (37.2)
Gain on disposal of subsidiary  2.3
Profit before tax  456.8
Underwriting profit  49.8 63.5 29.6 5.2 148.1 
Loss ratio 67.0% 50.8% 57.4% 57.1% 59.6% 
Commission ratio 3.2% 21.7% 9.4% 19.7% 11.8% 
Expense ratio 26.0% 20.2% 25.2% 22.0% 23.6% 
Combined operating ratio 96.2% 92.7% 92.0% 98.8% 95.0% 
Notes: 
1. The Group’s revenue and results for the year ended 31 December 2014 relating to the Tracker business, which was disposed of on 5 February 2014,  
were recorded in the Motor segment (other operating income: £1.4 million and operating loss: £0.4 million). 
2. Restructuring costs are costs which have been incurred in respect of the business activities which have a material effect on the nature and focus of the Group’s 
operations. One off costs are costs that are non-recurring in nature.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 132
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 132 
4. Segmental analysis continued 
The table below is an analysis of the Group’s revenue and results for continuing operations by reportable segment in the year 
ended 31 December 2013. 
 
Motor
1
£m
Home
£m
Rescue and 
other
 personal lines
2
£m
Commercial
£m
Total  
ongoing 
£m 
Run-off
2
£m
Continuing 
operations
3
£m
Gross written premium 1,421.1 943.1 383.4 474.5 3,222.1 7.9 3,230.0
Gross earned premium 1,498.4 958.9 383.1 468.7 3,309.1 7.9 3,317.0
Reinsurance premium ceded (53.6) (50.0) (17.3) (34.1) (155.0) (5.2) (160.2)
Net earned premium 1,444.8 908.9 365.8 434.6 3,154.1 2.7 3,156.8
Investment return 122.8 24.1 8.2 29.6 184.7 13.0 197.7
Instalment income 78.3 25.2 1.3 6.2 111.0 – 111.0
Other operating income 48.5 0.7 9.1 3.3 61.6 – 61.6
Total income 1,694.4 958.9 384.4 473.7 3,511.4 15.7 3,527.1
Insurance claims (978.3) (476.7) (240.0) (274.8) (1,969.8) 88.0 (1,881.8)
Insurance claims recoverable from reinsurers 38.1 (13.7) 20.2 4.2 48.8 (37.9) 10.9
Net insurance claims (940.2) (490.4) (219.8) (270.6) (1,921.0) 50.1 (1,870.9)
Commission expenses (36.3) (177.9) (27.3) (92.2) (333.7) (0.8) (334.5)
Operating expenses (370.2) (184.4) (90.8) (101.4) (746.8) (1.4) (748.2)
Total expenses (406.5) (362.3) (118.1) (193.6) (1,080.5) (2.2) (1,082.7)
Operating profit before restructuring and other 
one-off costs 347.7 106.2 46.5 9.5 509.9 63.6 573.5
Restructuring and other one-off costs
4
  (140.5)
Operating profit  433.0
Finance costs  (37.7)
Gain on disposal of subsidiary  12.0
Profit before tax  407.3
Underwriting profit / (loss) 98.1 56.2 27.9 (29.6) 152.6 
Loss ratio 65.1% 53.9% 60.1% 62.3% 60.9% 
Commission ratio 2.5% 19.6% 7.5% 21.2% 10.6% 
Expense ratio 25.6% 20.3% 24.8% 23.3% 23.7% 
Combined operating ratio 93.2% 93.8% 92.4% 106.8% 95.2% 
Notes: 
1. The Group’s revenue and results for the year ended 2013 relating to the Tracker business, which was disposed of on 5 February 2014, were recorded in the 
Motor segment (other operating income: £18.4 million and operating loss: £1.4 million). 
2. The Group’s revenue and results for the year ended 2013 relating to the Life business, which was disposed of on 28 November 2013, were recorded in two 
segments: Rescue and other personal lines (net earned premium: £11.8 million, net insurance claims: £1.8 million and operating profit: £6.4 million) and  
Run-off (net earned premium: £2.8 million, net insurance claims: £0.7 million and operating profit: £1.2 million). 
3. The segmental results set out above have been re-presented from those presented in the 2013 Annual Report as a consequence of the transfer of the International 
segment to discontinued operations (note 5). 
4. Restructuring costs are costs which have been incurred in respect of the business activities which have a material effect on the nature and focus of the Group’s 
operations. One off costs are costs that are non-recurring in nature. 
The tables below analyse the Group’s assets and liabilities by reportable segment. 
At 31 December 2014 
Motor
£m
Home
£m
Rescue and
 other 
personal lines
£m
Commercial
£m
Run-off  
£m 
Disposal 
group 
£m 
Total 
£m
Goodwill 126.4 45.8 28.7 10.1 –  – 211.0
Disposal group – assets held for sale
1
 – – – – – 1,205.4 1,205.4
Other segment assets 6,392.5 746.2 170.6 1,453.3 1,046.6 – 9,809.2
Disposal group – liabilities held for sale
1
 – – – – – (964.4) (964.4)
Other segmental liabilities (4,796.8) (559.9) (128.0) (1,090.5) (875.5) – (7,450.7)
Reportable segment net assets 1,722.1 232.1 71.3 372.9 171.1 241.0 2,810.5
Note: 
1. Comprise the assets and liabilities of International.  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 133
 
www.directlinegroup.com 133
 
At 31 December 2013
1
 
Motor
£m
Home
£m
Rescue and 
other 
personal lines
£m
Commercial
£m
Run-off 
£m 
International 
£m 
Total 
£m
Goodwill 126.4 45.8 28.7 10.1 –  – 211.0
Other segment assets 6,558.5 847.6 164.9 1,448.6 1,266.4 1,290.8 11,576.8
Segment liabilities (4,988.0) (644.6) (125.4) (1,101.7) (1,077.4) (1,060.7) (8,997.8)
Reportable segment net assets 1,696.9 248.8 68.2 357.0 189.0 230.1 2,790.0
Note: 
1. The allocation of other segment assets and segment liabilities has been revised from the values disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts for 2013. 
All continuing operations are in the UK. The reportable segment net assets do not represent the Group’s view of the capital 
requirements for its operating segments. 
5. Discontinued operations and disposal group 
Following a strategic review of the International segment, the Board concluded that, although the operations in Italy (represented 
by Direct Line Insurance S.p.A) and Germany (represented by Direct Line Versicherung AG) occupied strong positions, a disposal 
would be likely to generate the most value to shareholders. 
On 25 September 2014, the Group entered into a binding agreement with Mapfre International S.A., a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of Mapfre, S.A., for the sale of International. Accordingly the Group has treated this segment as discontinued 
operations and a disposal group.  
A) Discontinued operations 
The following table analyses performance relating to the discontinued operations. 
 
 2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Gross written premium 567.6 604.5
Gross earned premium 555.8 579.3
Reinsurance premium ceded (226.0) (212.8)
Net earned premium 329.8 366.5
Investment return 22.1 23.4
Instalment income 4.8 6.8
Other operating income 1.0 0.8
Total income 357.7 397.5
Insurance claims (404.2) (453.0)
Insurance claims recoverable from reinsurers 159.5 169.6
Net insurance claims (244.7) (283.4)
Commission expenses (63.0) (57.9)
Operating expenses (29.0) (39.6)
Total expenses (92.0) (97.5)
Profit before tax from discontinued operations 21.0 16.6
Tax charge (7.7) (14.6)
Profit after tax from discontinued operations 13.3 2.0
Underwriting loss (6.9) (14.4)
Loss ratio 74.2% 77.3%
Commission ratio 19.1% 15.8%
Expense ratio 8.8% 10.8%
Combined operating ratio 102.1% 103.9% Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 134
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 134 
5. Discontinued operations and disposal group continued 
The following table analyses the other comprehensive loss relating to discontinued operations, included in the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income. 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement:  
Exchange differences on the translation of foreign operations (15.5) 4.2
Fair value gain / (loss) on available-for-sale investments 26.1 (3.8)
Less: realised net gains on available-for-sale investments included in income statement (6.6) (5.0)
Tax relating to items that may be reclassified (6.9) 2.4
Other comprehensive loss for the year net of tax (2.9) (2.2)
The following table analyses the cash flows relating to the discontinued operations included in the consolidated cash flow statement. 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Net cash generated from operating activities 12.6 23.7
Net cash used by investing activities (8.4) (3.9)
Net cash generated from financing activities – 8.4
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (6.1) (0.3)
Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents (1.9) 27.9
B) Disposal group 
The following table analyses the assets and liabilities of the disposal group at 31 December 2014 (2013: nil). For comparison 
purposes the relevant assets and liabilities of the entities comprising the disposal group have been included in the table. 
 
2014 
£m 
For comparison 
purposes only
2013
£m
Assets  
Intangible assets 5.6 4.6
Property, plant and equipment 5.9 4.7
Reinsurance assets 183.0 202.9
Deferred tax assets 9.2 16.9
Current tax assets 1.4 1.3
Deferred acquisition costs 111.1 98.2
Insurance and other receivables 91.1 92.4
Prepayments and accrued income  3.6 1.3
Financial investments 706.9 779.0
Cash and cash equivalents 87.6 89.5
Total assets 1,205.4 1,290.8
Liabilities  
Insurance liabilities 553.4 609.4
Unearned premium reserve 326.2 339.3
Trade and other payables including insurance payables 82.0 109.7
Deferred tax liabilities 0.8 2.3
Current tax liabilities 2.0 –
Total liabilities 964.4 1,060.7
In addition to the above assets and liabilities of the disposal group held for sale, the Group has a property asset held for sale  
at 31 December 2014 of £3.0 million (2013: £1.0 million).   Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 135
 
www.directlinegroup.com 135
6. Net earned premium 
Continuing operations 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Gross earned premium:  
Gross written premium 3,099.0 3,230.0
Movement in unearned premium reserve 45.2 87.0
 3,144.2 3,317.0
Reinsurance premium ceded:  
Premium payable (182.5) (159.5)
Movement in reinsurance unearned premium reserve 25.0 (0.7)
 (157.5) (160.2)
Total 2,986.7 3,156.8
7. Investment return 
Continuing operations 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Investment income:  
Interest income from AFS debt securities 154.0 151.9
Cash and cash equivalent interest income 5.2 6.9
Rental income from investment property 16.2 11.4
Interest income from infrastructure debt 0.1 –
 175.5 170.2
Net realised (losses) / gains:  
AFS debt securities 16.2 20.7
Derivatives (86.2) 21.5
Investment property (note 19) 2.3 –
 (67.7) 42.2
Net unrealised gains / (losses):  
Impairments of AFS debt securities
1
 1.3 –
Derivatives 79.6 (22.2)
Investment property (note 19) 26.4 7.5
 107.3 (14.7)
Total 215.1 197.7
Note: 
1. The impairment reversal relates to an AFS debt security originally impaired in 2011. 
The table below analyses the realised and unrealised gains / (losses) on derivative instruments included in investment return. 
 Realised Unrealised Realised Unrealised
Continuing operations 
2014
£m
2014 
£m  
2013 
£m  
2013
£m 
Derivative (losses) / gains   
Foreign exchange forward contracts (59.3) (46.4) 21.2 12.0
Associated foreign exchange risk (7.4) 115.9 2.0 (33.3)
Net (losses) / gains on foreign exchange forward contracts (66.7) 69.5 23.2 (21.3)
Interest rate derivatives (20.4) (22.1) (0.8) 19.6
Associated interest rate risk 0.9 32.2 (0.9) (20.5)
Net (losses) / gains on interest rate derivatives (19.5) 10.1 (1.7) (0.9)
Total (86.2) 79.6 21.5 (22.2) Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 136
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 136 
8. Other operating income 
Continuing operations 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Vehicle replacement referral income 15.8 15.7
Revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services
1
 18.0 31.8
Fee income from insurance intermediary services 2.1 1.7
Other income 11.0 12.4
Total 46.9 61.6
Note: 
1. This includes £1.4 million (2013: £18.4 million) in relation to the Tracker business disposed of on 5 February 2014. 
9. Net insurance claims 
 2014 2013 
Continuing operations 
Gross
£m
Reinsurance
£m
Net
£m
Gross 
£m 
Reinsurance 
£m 
Net
£m
Current accident year claims paid 1,086.4 – 1,086.4 1,079.0 (17.4) 1,061.6
Prior accident year claims paid 1,165.8 (21.8) 1,144.0 1,383.3 (22.6) 1,360.7
Movement in insurance liabilities (473.6) (29.4) (503.0) (580.5) 29.1 (551.4)
Total 1,778.6 (51.2) 1,727.4 1,881.8 (10.9) 1,870.9
Claims handling expenses for the year ended 31 December 2014 of £226.3 million (2013: £239.5 million) have been 
included in the claims figures above. 
10. Commission expenses 
Continuing operations 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Commission expenses 263.3 275.4
Expenses incurred under profit participations 90.7 59.1
Total 354.0 334.5
11. Operating expenses 
Continuing operations 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Staff costs 263.6 356.4
Marketing 123.9 159.2
Depreciation 22.6 18.5
Amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets 66.4 33.7
Other operating expenses 299.5 320.9
Total 776.0 888.7
Staff costs attributable to claims handling activities are allocated to the cost of insurance claims. 
The table below analyses restructuring and other one-off costs included in operating expenses. 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Staff costs
1
 15.5 57.9
Other operating expenses 54.1 82.6
Total 69.6 140.5
Note: 
1. Staff costs in 2013 include redundancy costs of £40.9 million.  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 137
 
www.directlinegroup.com 137
The table below analyses the average monthly number of persons employed by the Group’s operations. 
Continuing operations 2014 2013
Operations 9,959 10,892
Support 1,278 1,773
Total 11,237 12,665
The Group’s discontinued operations employed an average monthly number of 1,275 people in 2014 (2013: 1,295). 
The aggregate remuneration of those employed by the Group’s operations comprised: 
Continuing operations 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Wages and salaries 348.7 395.0
Social security costs 37.7 43.7
Pension costs 19.2 24.3
Share-based payments 6.6 4.1
Total 412.2 467.1
The aggregate remuneration of those employed by the Group’s discontinued operations was £32.9 million in 2014  
(2013: £33.9 million).  
The table below analyses Auditor’s remuneration in respect of the Group’s operations. 
Continuing operations 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Fees payable for the audit of:  
The Company’s annual accounts  0.4 0.4
The Company’s subsidiaries  1.5 1.4
Total audit fees 1.9 1.8
Fees payable for non-audit services:  
Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1
Taxation advisory services 0.2 –
Other services 0.1 –
Total non-audit services 0.4 0.1
Total 2.3 1.9
The audit fees in respect of the Group’s discontinued operations were £0.4 million in 2014 (2013: £0.3 million). 
Aggregate Directors’ emoluments 
The table below analyses the total amount of Directors’ remuneration, all of which is in relation to continuing operations, 
in accordance with Schedule 5 to the Accounting Regulations. 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Salaries, fees, bonuses and benefits in kind 3.4 3.2
Gains on exercise of share options  1.2 0.5
Defined contribution pension scheme contributions 0.1 0.1
Total  4.7 3.8
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
At 31 December 2014, one Director (2013: one) had retirement benefits accruing under the defined contribution pension 
scheme in respect of qualifying service. 
During the year ended 31 December 2014, two Directors exercised share options (2013: two Directors exercised share options) 
in relation to RBS Group LTIP awards and incentive deferral plans.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 138
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 138 
12. Finance costs 
Continuing operations 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Interest expense on subordinated liabilities
1
 37.2 37.7
Note: 
1. As described in note 29, on 27 April 2012 the Group issued subordinated guaranteed dated notes with a nominal value of £500 million at a fixed rate of 
9.25%. On the same date, the Group also entered into a 10-year hedge to exchange the fixed rate of interest on the notes for a floating rate of three-month LIBOR 
plus a spread of 706 bps which increased to 707 bps with effect from 29 July 2013. 
13. Tax charge 
Continuing operations 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Current taxation:  
Charge for the year 87.2 91.9
Under provision in respect of prior year 3.9 2.8
 91.1 94.7
Deferred taxation (note 14):  
Charge for the year 14.0 4.7
Over provision in respect of prior year (7.6) (2.9)
 6.4 1.8
  
Current taxation 91.1 94.7
Deferred taxation (note 14) 6.4 1.8
Tax charge for the year 97.5 96.5
The following table analyses the difference between the actual income tax charge and the expected income tax charge 
computed by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%). 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Profit before tax 456.8 407.3
Expected tax charge 98.2 94.7
Effects of:  
Realised gains on disposal of subsidiaries (0.5) (2.8) 
Disallowable expenses 3.4 4.4
Non-taxable items – 0.6
Effect of change in UK taxation rate 0.1 (0.3)
Over provision in respect of prior year (3.7) (0.1)
Tax charge for the year 97.5 96.5
  
Effective income tax rate 21.3% 23.7%
Note: 
1. The UK Government enacted a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% effective from 1 April 2014 in the Finance Act 2013 and enacted 
further reductions to 20% effective from 1 April 2015. As a consequence the closing deferred tax assets and liabilities have been recognised at the tax rates 
expected to apply when the assets or liabilities are settled. The impact of these changes on the tax charge for the year is set out in the table above.  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 139
 
www.directlinegroup.com 139
14. Current and deferred tax 
Current tax 
. 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Per balance sheet:  
Current tax assets
1
 0.1   1.3
Current tax liabilities
1
 (35.7) (21.1)
Note: 
1. Included in the disposal group (note 5B) are current tax assets of £1.4 million and current tax liabilities of £2.0 million which were transferred from current tax 
assets and current tax liabilities at 31 December 2014. 
Deferred tax 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Per balance sheet:  
Deferred tax assets
1
 – 19.3
Deferred tax liabilities
1
 (20.6) (19.3)
 (20.6) –
Note: 
1. Included in the disposal group (note 5B) are deferred tax assets of £9.2 million and deferred tax liabilities of £0.8 million which were transferred from deferred 
tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2014. 
The table below analyses the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon. 
Provisions and 
other  
temporary 
differences 
£m 
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations
£m
Depreciation 
in excess of 
capital 
allowances
£m
Non-
distributable 
reserve
£m
Investment 
properties  
£m 
Share-based 
payments 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 18.0 (0.6) 0.4 (15.4) – (0.8) 1.6
Credit / (charge) to the income 
statement on continuing 
operations 0.5 (0.5) 0.7 (3.5) (1.5) 2.5 (1.8)
Charge to the income statement 
on discontinued operations (5.0) – – – – – (5.0)
Credit to other comprehensive 
income 2.4 1.5 – – – – 3.9
Credit direct to equity – – – – – 0.2 0.2
Other movements 1.4 – (0.7) 0.4 – – 1.1
At 31 December 2013 17.3 0.4 0.4 (18.5) (1.5) 1.9 –
Credit / (charge) to the income 
statement on continuing 
operations 2.6 (0.5) 0.5 (6.5) (3.3) 0.8 (6.4)
Credit to the income statement 
on discontinued operations 2.1 – – – – – 2.1
Charge to other comprehensive 
income (7.4) (0.6) – – – – (8.0)
Credit direct to equity – – – – – 1.0 1.0
Other movements (0.8) – (0.1) – – – (0.9)
Transfer to liabilities / assets held 
for sale (note 5B) (8.4) – – – – – (8.4)
At 31 December 2014 5.4 (0.7) 0.8 (25.0) (4.8) 3.7 (20.6) Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 140
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 140 
15. Dividends 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:  
2013 final dividend of 8.4p per share paid on 15 May 2014 125.7 –
2012 final dividend of 8.0p per share paid on 11 June 2013 – 120.0
2014 first interim dividend of 4.4p per share paid on 12 September 2014 65.8 –
2013 interim dividend of 4.2p per share paid on 26 September 2013 – 62.8
2014 first special interim dividend of 10.0p per share paid on 12 September 2014 149.7 –
2013 first special interim dividend of 4.0p per share paid on 31 December 2013 – 59.9
2013 second special interim dividend of 4.0p per share paid on15 May 2014 59.9 –
 401.1 242.7
Proposed dividends:  
2014 final dividend
1
 of 8.8p per share  132.0 –
2013 final dividend of 8.4p per share – 126.0
2014 second special interim dividend of 4.0p per share 60.0 –
2013 second special interim dividend of 4.0p per share – 60.0
Note: 
1. The Board has resolved this year to pay an interim dividend in lieu of a final dividend. The second special dividend is referred to separately from the final 
dividend. This enables more appropriate comparison to the 2013 final dividend. 
The proposed final and second special interim dividends for 2014 have not been included as liabilities in these financial statements. 
The trustees of the employee share trusts waived their entitlement to dividends on shares, which are not held for the benefit of 
employees (except for free share awards), which reduced the total dividend paid by £0.9 million (2013: £0.3 million). 
16. Earnings and net assets per share, return on equity 
Earnings per share is calculated by dividing earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average 
number of Ordinary Shares during the period. 
Basic 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted 
average of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share during the period, excluding Ordinary Shares held as 
employee trust shares. 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Earnings attributable to owners of the Company arising from:  
Continuing operations 359.3 310.8
Discontinued operations 13.3 2.0
Continuing and discontinued operations 372.6 312.8
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share (millions) 1,495.0 1,495.4
Basic earnings per share (pence):  
Continuing operations 24.0 20.8
Discontinued operations 0.9 0.1
Continuing and discontinued operations 24.9 20.9
  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 141
 
www.directlinegroup.com 141
Diluted 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted 
average of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share during the period adjusted for the dilutive potential 
Ordinary Shares. The Company has share options and contingently issuable shares as categories of dilutive potential  
Ordinary Shares. 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Earnings attributable to owners of the Company arising from:  
Continuing operations 359.3 310.8
Discontinued operations 13.3 2.0
Continuing and discontinued operations 372.6 312.8
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share (millions) 1,495.0 1,495.4
Effect of dilutive potential of share options and contingently issuable shares (millions) 12.9 5.8
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share (millions) 1,507.9 1,501.2
Diluted earnings per share (pence):  
Continuing operations 23.8 20.7
Discontinued operations 0.9 0.1
Continuing and discontinued operations 24.7 20.8
Net asset value and tangible net asset value per share 
Net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders’ equity divided by the number of Ordinary Shares at the end of  
the period excluding shares held by employee share trusts. 
Tangible net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders’ equity less goodwill and other intangible assets divided  
by the number of Ordinary Shares at the end of the period excluding shares held by employee share trusts. 
The table below analyses net asset and tangible net asset value per share. 
At 31 December 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Net assets 2,810.5 2,790.0
Goodwill and other intangible assets (517.5) (500.1)
Disposal group – intangible assets (note 5B) (5.6) –
Tangible net assets 2,287.4 2,289.9
Number of Ordinary Shares (millions) 1,500.0 1,500.0
Shares held by employee share trusts (millions) (6.4) (5.2)
Closing number of Ordinary Shares (millions) 1,493.6 1,494.8
Net asset value per share (pence) 188.2 186.6
Tangible net asset value per share (pence) 153.1 153.2
Return on equity 
The table below details the calculation of return on equity. 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Earnings attributable to owners of the Company 372.6 312.8
Opening shareholders’ equity 2,790.0 2,831.6
Closing shareholders’ equity 2,810.5 2,790.0
Average shareholders’ equity 2,800.2 2,810.8
Return on equity 13.3% 11.1% Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 142
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 142 
17. Goodwill and other intangible assets  
Goodwill 
£m 
Other 
 intangible 
 assets 
£m 
Total
£m
Cost   
At 1 January 2013 344.6 329.4 674.0
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment –  0.8 0.8
Additions –  115.5 115.5
Disposal of subsidiary (1.8) – (1.8)
At 31 December 2013 342.8 445.7 788.5
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment – (2.6) (2.6)
Additions – 92.8 92.8
Disposal of subsidiary
1
 (110.1) (1.6) (111.7)
Disposals and write-off
2
 – (67.2) (67.2)
Transfer to assets held for sale (note 5B) (21.7) (38.6) (60.3)
At 31 December 2014 211.0 428.5 639.5
Accumulated amortisation and impairment   
At 1 January 2013 133.6 118.9 252.5
Charge for the year relating to continuing operations –  33.7 33.7
Charge for the year relating to discontinued operations – 3.5 3.5
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment –  0.5 0.5
Disposal of subsidiary (1.8) – (1.8)
At 31 December 2013 131.8 156.6 288.4
Charge for the year relating to continuing operations – 56.9 56.9
Charge for the year relating to discontinued operations – 2.2 2.2
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment – (2.2) (2.2)
Disposal of subsidiary
1
 (110.1) (0.9) (111.0)
Disposals and write-off
2
 – (67.2) (67.2)
Impairment losses – 9.6 9.6
Transfer to assets held for sale (note 5B) (21.7) (33.0) (54.7)
At 31 December 2014 – 122.0 122.0
   
Carrying amount   
At 31 December 2014 211.0 306.5 517.5
At 31 December 2013 211.0 289.1 500.1
Notes: 
1. Disposal of subsidiary relates to the Tracker business. 
2. Disposals and write-off include fully amortised intangible assets no longer utilised by the Group in its operating activities. 
Goodwill arose on the acquisition of U K Insurance Limited (£141.0 million) and Churchill Insurance Company Limited  
(£70.0 million), which is allocated across Motor, Home, Rescue and other personal lines and Commercial. 
The Group’s goodwill is reviewed annually at 30 September for impairment by comparing the recoverable amount of each  
CGU to which goodwill has been allocated with its carrying value and updated at each reporting date in the event of indications 
of impairment.  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 143
 
www.directlinegroup.com 143
The table below analyses the goodwill of the Group by CGU. 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Motor 126.4 126.4
Home 45.8 45.8
Rescue and other personal lines 28.7 28.7
Commercial 10.1 10.1
Total 211.0 211.0
There have been no impairments in goodwill in the year ended 31 December 2014 (2013: nil). 
The recoverable amount is the higher of the CGU fair value less the costs to sell and its value-in-use. Value-in-use is the present 
value of expected future cash flows from the CGU. Fair value is the amount obtainable for the sale of the CGU in an arm’s  
length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties. 
The recoverable amounts of all CGUs at 30 September were based on the value-in-use test, using the Group’s five-year  
strategic plan. The long-term growth rates have been based on GDP rates adjusted for inflation. The risk discount rates 
incorporate observable market long-term government bond yields and average industry betas adjusted for an appropriate  
risk premium based on independent analysis. 
The table below details the recoverable amounts in excess of carrying value for the CGUs where goodwill is held. 
 Assumptions  
Sensitivity: Impact on  
recoverable amount of a: 
CGU 
Terminal
growth
 rate
%
Pre-tax
 discount
 rate
%
Recoverable 
amount in excess 
of carrying value
£m
1% decrease in 
terminal growth 
rate 
£m 
1% increase in 
pre-tax discount 
rate 
£m 
1% decrease 
in forecast
pre-tax profit
1
£m
Motor 3.0 11.8% 914.2 (189.0) (262.2) (25.8)
Home 3.0 11.8% 644.4 (67.8) (93.2) (8.8)
Rescue and other personal lines 3.0 11.8% 622.1 (55.7) (76.3) (7.0)
Commercial 3.0 11.8% 133.4 (37.4) (51.7) (4.9)
Note: 
1. Reflects a 1% decrease in the profit for each year of the five-year forecast.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 144
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 144 
18. Property, plant and equipment 
Freehold land 
and buildings 
£m 
Other  
equipment 
£m 
Total
£m
Cost   
At 1 January 2013 4.4 138.0 142.4
Additions 10.9 28.2 39.1
Disposals – (6.3) (6.3)
Disposal of subsidiary – (0.2) (0.2)
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment – 0.3 0.3
At 31 December 2013  15.3 160.0 175.3
Additions 43.4 43.3 86.7
Disposals – (16.6) (16.6)
Acquisition of subsidiary 25.1 – 25.1
Disposal of subsidiary – (3.5) (3.5)
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment – (1.7) (1.7)
Transfer to assets held for sale (note 5B) – (27.2) (27.2)
At 31 December 2014  83.8 154.3 238.1
Accumulated depreciation and impairment   
At 1 January 2013 0.9 49.1 50.0
Depreciation charge for the year relating to continuing operations 0.2 18.3 18.5
Depreciation charge for the year relating to discontinued operations – 2.5 2.5
Disposals – (3.4) (3.4)
Impairment losses – 5.5 5.5
Disposal of subsidiary – (0.2) (0.2)
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment – 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 2013  1.1 71.9 73.0
Depreciation charge for the year relating to continuing operations 0.6 22.0 22.6
Depreciation charge for the year relating to discontinued operations – 3.0 3.0
Disposals – (16.3) (16.3)
Impairment losses – 0.1 0.1
Disposal of subsidiary – (2.9) (2.9)
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment – (1.4) (1.4)
Transfer to assets held for sale (note 5B) – (21.3) (21.3)
At 31 December 2014  1.7 55.1 56.8
   
Carrying amount   
At 31 December 2014 82.1 99.2 181.3
At 31 December 2013  14.2 88.1 102.3
19. Investment property 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
At 1 January 223.4 128.9
Additions 76.2 87.0
Increase in fair value during the year 28.7 7.5
Disposals (21.1) –
At 31 December 307.2 223.4
Note: 
1. The cost included in carrying value at 31 December 2014 is £279.5 million (2013: £220.7 million).  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 145
 
www.directlinegroup.com 145
The investment properties are measured at fair value which was arrived at on the basis of a valuation carried out at the balance 
sheet date by independent valuers. 
The valuation conforms to international valuation standards. The fair value was determined using a methodology based on recent 
market transactions for similar properties, which have been adjusted for the specific characteristics of each property within the 
portfolio. This approach to valuation is consistent with the methodology used in the year ended 31 December 2013. 
Lease agreements with tenants are drawn up in line with local practice and the Group has no exposure to leases that include  
contingent rents. 
20. Subsidiaries 
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group are shown below. Their capital consists of ordinary shares which are unlisted. 
Direct Line Versicherung AG, DL Insurance Services Limited and U K Insurance Limited are owned directly by Direct Line Insurance 
Group plc. Direct Line Insurance S.p.A is owned indirectly through intermediary holding companies. All subsidiaries are included 
in the Group’s consolidated financial information. 
Name of subsidiary 
Place of incorporation  
and operation 
Type of  
ownership interest 
(share type) 
Proportion of  
voting power held Principal activity 
Direct Line Insurance S.p.A Italy Ordinary 100% General insurance 
Direct Line Versicherung AG Germany Ordinary 100% General insurance 
DL Insurance Services Limited Great Britain Ordinary 100% Management services 
U K Insurance Limited Great Britain Ordinary 100% General insurance 
The above information is provided in relation to principal related undertakings as permitted by Section 410(2) of the Companies 
Act 2006. Full information on all related undertakings is included in the Annual Return available from Companies House by 
visiting www.companieshouse.gov.uk . 
On 25 September 2014, the Group entered into a binding agreement for the sale, subject to regulatory approval, of its 
International business comprising Direct Line Insurance S.p.A and Direct Line Versicherung AG for a cash consideration of 
€550.0 million (£430.1 million). 
The Group sold 100% of the share capital of Tracker Network (UK) Limited on 5 February 2014. The fair value of the identifiable 
assets sold was £9.2 million (including cash and cash equivalents of £2.4 million) and the fair value of the identifiable liabilities 
was £8.8 million. The total cash consideration received was £2.7 million, generating a profit on disposal of £2.3 million. 
Tracker generated other income of £1.4 million up to the point of sale (full year 2013: £18.4 million) and an operating loss  
of £0.4 million (2013: £1.4 million). 
The Group sold 100% of the share capital of Direct Line Life Insurance Company Limited on 28 November 2013. The fair  
value of the identifiable assets sold was £159.4 million (including cash and cash equivalents of £20.5 million) and the fair  
value of identifiable liabilities was £132.1 million. The total cash consideration received was £39.3 million, generating a profit 
on disposal of £12.0 million. The Life business, in 2013, generated a gross earned premium of £35.9 million, net earned 
premium of £14.6 million and operating profit of £7.6 million up to the point of sale.  
The Group did not dispose of any other subsidiaries in the two years ended 31 December 2014. 
The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of 10-15 Livery Street, Birmingham UK Limited on 22 December 2014 for  
£26.1 million. The fair value of the identification assets acquired was £26.2 million (including cash and cash equivalents of 
£1.1 million and the fair value of identifiable liabilities was £0.1 million). The total cash consideration paid was £26.1 million. 
10-15 Livery Street, Birmingham UK Limited owns a property occupied by the Group and has no other trading activities.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 146
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 146 
21. Reinsurance assets 
 2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Reinsurers’ share of general insurance liabilities (including unearned premium reserve) 928.9 1,064.2
Impairment provision (66.4) (53.2)
Total
1
  862.5 1,011.0
Note: 
1. Included in the disposal group (note 5B) is £183.0 million which has been transferred from reinsurance assets at 31 December 2014. 
Movements in reinsurance asset impairment provision 
 2014 
£m 
2013
£m
At 1 January (53.2) (60.7)
Additional provision (14.1) (3.5)
Utilisation of provision – 2.0
Release to income statement 0.9 9.0
At 31 December  (66.4) (53.2)
22. Deferred acquisition costs 
 2014 
£m 
2013
£m
At 1 January 321.5 327.6
Net increase / (decrease) in the year 5.4 (7.3)
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment (7.4) 1.2
Transfer to assets held for sale (note 5B) (111.1) –
At 31 December 208.4 321.5
23. Insurance and other receivables 
 2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Receivables arising from insurance and reinsurance contracts:  
Due from policyholders 790.7 927.9
Impairment of policyholder receivables (0.6) (7.6)
Due from agents, brokers and intermediaries 53.7 53.4
Impairment of agent, broker and intermediary receivables (0.7) (0.5)
Due from reinsurers 31.4 19.3
Other loans and receivables:  
Accrued interest – 1.2
Receivables from related parties – 0.9
Other debtors
1
 85.4 127.4
Total
2
  959.9 1,122.0
Notes: 
1. 2013 included £42.1 million in respect of a deposit for the purchase of owner-occupied property. 
2.  Included in the disposal group (note 5B) is £91.1 million which has been transferred from insurance and other receivables at 31 December 2014.  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 147
 
www.directlinegroup.com 147
24. Derivative financial instruments 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Derivative assets  
At fair value through the income statement 24.9 40.7
Designated as hedging instruments 2.4 –
Total 27.3 40.7
Derivative liabilities  
At fair value through the income statement 29.3 17.8
Designated as hedging instruments 0.1 1.5
Total 29.4 19.3
The Group entered into a foreign currency hedge contract in September 2014, converting Euro to Pounds Sterling in respect of 
the expected proceeds in relation to the binding agreement for the sale of the International business. Other designated hedging 
instruments have been entered into relating to supplier payments.  
25. Financial investments 
 
2014 
 £m 
2013
£m
AFS debt securities  
Corporate 4,117.1 4,878.1
Supranational 176.3 365.7
Local government 120.7 134.5
Sovereign 993.8 1,399.5
Securitised credit 422.4 227.7
Total 5,830.3 7,005.5
AFS debt securities  
Fixed interest rate 5,147.3 6,468.4
Floating interest rate 683.0 537.1
Total 5,830.3 7,005.5
Loans and receivables  
Deposits with credit institutions with maturities in excess of three months 54.7 435.7
Infrastructure debt 76.2 –
Total
1
 5,961.2 7,441.2
Note: 
1.  Included in the disposal group (note 5B) is £706.9 million which has been transferred from financial investments at 31 December 2014. 
26. Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings 
 
2014  
£m 
2013
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 151.3 307.5
Short-term deposits with credit institutions 729.1 600.8
Total 880.4 908.3
The effective interest rate on short-term deposits with credit institutions for the year ended 31 December 2014 was 0.61%  
(2013: 0.41%) and average maturity was 10 days (2013: 14 days). 
The table below details cash and bank overdrafts for the purposes of the cash flow statement. 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 880.4 908.3
Bank overdrafts
1
 (69.8) (55.1)
Cash and cash equivalents in assets held for sale (note 5B) 87.6 –
Total 898.2 853.2
Note: 
1. Bank overdrafts represent short-term timing differences between transactions posted in the records of the Group and transactions flowing through the accounts at 
the bank.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 148
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 148 
27. Share capital 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Issued and fully paid: equity shares  
1.5 billion Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each 150.0 150.0 
Employee trust shares 
The Group satisfies share-based payments under the Group’s share plans primarily through shares purchased in the market and 
held by employee share trusts. 
At 31 December 2014, 6,391,506 Ordinary Shares (2013: 5,204,771) were owned by the employee share trusts with a  
cost of £13.6 million (2013: £10.2 million) with an undertaking to satisfy the awards of shares in the Company under the 
Group’s share plans. 
These shares were purchased by the employee share trusts and are carried at cost. At 31 December 2014, they had an 
aggregate nominal value of £0.6 million (2013: £0.5 million) and a market value of £18.6 million (2013: £13.0 million). 
28. Other reserves 
Movements in the revaluation reserve for AFS investments 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
At 1 January 58.8 158.8
Revaluation during the year – gross 97.2 (108.2)
Revaluation during the year – tax (23.2) 27.7
Realised gains – gross (22.8) (23.9)
Realised gains – tax 5.6 5.8
Realised gain on disposal of subsidiary – gross – (1.8)
Realised gain on disposal of subsidiary – tax – 0.4
At 31 December 2014 115.6 58.8
Movements in the non-distributable reserve 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
At 1 January 92.8 63.2
Transfer from retained earnings 32.1 29.6
At 31 December  124.9 92.8
The non-distributable reserve relates to a UK statutory claims equalisation reserve that is calculated in accordance with the rules  
of the PRA. 
29. Subordinated liabilities 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Subordinated guaranteed dated notes  526.3 486.6
The subordinated guaranteed dated notes were issued on 27 April 2012 at a fixed rate of 9.25%. On the same date, the 
Group also entered into a 10-year hedge to exchange the fixed rate of interest for a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus a 
spread of 706 bps. 
During 2013, a credit value adjustment was made to the interest rate hedge to reflect the market value of counterparty credit risk 
resulting from the majority divestment from RBS Group. This has resulted in an increase in the floating rate to three-month LIBOR 
plus a spread of 707 bps with effect from 29 July 2013. 
The nominal £500 million notes have a redemption date of 27 April 2042. The Group has the option to repay the notes on 
specific dates from 27 April 2022. If the notes are not repaid on that date, the rate of interest will be reset at a rate of the  
six-month LIBOR plus 7.91%. 
The notes are unsecured, subordinated obligations of the Group, and rank pari passu without any preference among themselves.  
In the event of a winding-up or of bankruptcy, they are to be repaid only after the claims of all other senior creditors have been met. 
The Group has the option to defer interest payments in certain circumstances on the notes but to date has not exercised this right.  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 149
 
www.directlinegroup.com 149
30. Insurance liabilities, unearned premium reserve and reinsurance assets 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Insurance liabilities 4,674.1 5,757.4
Gross insurance liabilities (including unearned premium reserve)  
Gross insurance liabilities 4,674.1 5,757.4
Unearned premium reserve 1,434.2 1,818.7
Total 6,108.3 7,576.1
Reinsurers’ share of insurance liabilities (including reinsurance unearned premium reserve)  
Reinsurers’ share of insurance liabilities  (775.5) (917.3)
Unearned premium reserve (87.0) (93.7)
Total  (862.5) (1,011.0)
Net insurance liabilities (including unearned premium reserve)  
Net insurance liabilities 3,898.6 4,840.1
Unearned premium reserve 1,347.2 1,725.0
Total  5,245.8 6,565.1
 
Gross insurance liabilities 
Accident year 
2005 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2008
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2012 
£m 
2013 
£m 
2014
£m
Total
£m
Estimate of ultimate 
claims costs:      
At end of accident 
year 4,007.5 4,091.6 4,390.5 3,878.1 4,148.0 4,261.9 3,080.5 2,797.3 2,652.5 2,498.0
One year later (175.8) (266.1) (62.0) 23.2 120.0 (98.1) (80.3) (168.7) (128.5) – 
Two years later (141.7) (42.0) (1.1) 43.9 (42.5) (115.3) (99.5) (121.3) –  – 
Three years later (57.9) (17.6) 49.4 (38.3) (24.2) (55.1) (93.4) –  –  – 
Four years later (59.5) 10.1 (7.0) (22.0) (101.8) (105.3) – –  –  – 
Five years later 15.3 (21.6) (17.8) (57.9) (40.7) – – –  –  – 
Six years later 7.8 (9.1) (26.3) (45.3) – – – –  –  – 
Seven years later 5.4 (13.4) (20.1) – – – – –  –  – 
Eight years later (34.4) 2.3 – – – – – –  –  – 
Nine years later 0.3 –  – – – – – –  –  – 
Current estimate of 
cumulative claims 3,567.0 3,734.2 4,305.6 3,781.7 4,058.8 3,888.1 2,807.3 2,507.3 2,524.0 2,498.0
Cumulative payments 
to date (3,456.4) (3,533.9) (4,056.5) (3,570.9) (3,679.4) (3,462.0) (2,340.6) (2,029.9) (1,734.0) (1,150.0)
Transfer to liabilities 
held for sale (4.9) (18.6) (11.4) (20.0) (16.5) (22.9) (45.1) (61.5) (97.2) (208.6)
Liability recognised in 
balance sheet 105.7 181.7 237.7 190.8 362.9 403.2 421.6 415.9 692.8 1,139.4 4,151.7
2004 and prior
1
      417.6
Claims handling 
provision
1
      104.8
Total       4,674.1
Note: 
1. Included in the disposal group (note 5B) in 2014 liabilities held for sale is £46.7 million (£28.5 million relating to 2004 and prior and £18.2 million relating to 
claims handling provision) which has been transferred from insurance liabilities. 
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 150
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 150 
30. Insurance liabilities, unearned premium reserve and reinsurance assets continued 
Net insurance liabilities 
Accident year 
2005 
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2008
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2012 
£m 
2013 
£m 
2014
£m
Total
£m
Estimate of ultimate 
claims costs:      
At end of accident 
year 3,869.6 4,030.8 4,341.3 3,816.0 4,113.0 4,219.3 2,946.1 2,570.1 2,401.5 2,209.7
One year later (159.3) (249.7) (81.7) 24.1 70.0 (109.7) (119.3) (157.8) (128.3) – 
Two years later (159.4) (52.7) (23.3) 8.2 (23.0) (136.4) (88.1) (109.5) –  – 
Three years later (62.0) (28.2) 17.7 (24.5) (64.2) (48.5) (78.3) –  –  – 
Four years later (61.6) 9.9 (10.4) (51.2) (67.5) (92.8) – –  –  – 
Five years later 7.2 (43.5) (22.4) (51.2) (30.8) – – –  –  – 
Six years later (0.4) (21.0) (21.2) (31.1) – – – –  –  – 
Seven years later (12.2) (14.2) (16.7) – – – – –  –  – 
Eight years later (27.1) 3.8 – – – – – –  –  – 
Nine years later 2.4 –  – – – – – –  –  – 
Current estimate of 
cumulative claims 3,397.2 3,635.2 4,183.3 3,690.3 3,997.5 3,831.9 2,660.4 2,302.8 2,273.2 2,209.7
Cumulative payments 
to date (3,325.9) (3,485.1) (3,990.3) (3,531.1) (3,646.1) (3,444.0) (2,244.3) (1,905.4) (1,611.4) (1,053.4)
Transfer to liabilities / 
assets held for sale (4.9) (12.6) (11.5) (17.7) (16.5) (22.7) (31.9) (41.3) (61.5) (140.4)
Liability recognised in 
balance sheet 66.4 137.5 181.5 141.5 334.9 365.2 384.2 356.1 600.3 1,015.9 3,583.5
2004 and prior
1
      210.3
Claims handling 
provision
1
      104.8
Total       3,898.6
Note: 
1. Included in the disposal group (note 5B) in 2014 liabilities held for sale is £46.7 million (£28.5 million relating to 2004 and prior and £18.2 million relating to 
claims handling provision) and assets held for sale of £14.1 million (relating to 2004 and prior reinsurance) which have been transferred from insurance liabilities 
and reinsurance assets respectively.  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 151
 
www.directlinegroup.com 151
Movements in insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 
 
Gross 
£m 
Reinsurance 
£m 
Net
£m
Claims reported 3,969.3 (397.8) 3,571.5
Incurred but not reported 2,153.9 (511.6) 1,642.3
Claims handling provision 163.8 –  163.8
Liability adequacy provision 4.3 –  4.3
At 1 January 2013 6,291.3 (909.4) 5,381.9
Cash paid for claims settled in the year (2,852.1) 149.1 (2,703.0)
Increase / (decrease) in liabilities:   
Arising from current-year claims 2,894.2 (250.9) 2,643.3
Arising from prior-year claims (583.9) 96.7 (487.2)
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 12.2 (2.8) 9.4
Decrease in liability adequacy provision (4.3) –  (4.3)
At 31 December 2013 5,757.4 (917.3) 4,840.1
Claims reported 3,636.4 (467.5) 3,168.9
Incurred but not reported 1,992.7 (449.8) 1,542.9
Claims handling provision 128.3 – 128.3
At 31 December 2013 5,757.4 (917.3) 4,840.1
Cash paid for claims settled in the year (2,671.6) 181.2 (2,490.4)
Increase / (decrease) in liabilities:   
Arising from current-year claims 2,721.3 (288.3) 2,433.0
Arising from prior-year claims (538.5) 77.6 (460.9)
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment (41.1) 11.5 (29.6)
Transfer to (liabilities) / assets held for sale (note 5B) (553.4) 159.8 (393.6)
At 31 December 2014  4,674.1 (775.5) 3,898.6
Claims reported 2,791.1 (315.3) 2,475.8
Incurred but not reported 1,778.2 (460.2) 1,318.0
Claims handling provision 104.8 – 104.8
At 31 December 2014  4,674.1 (775.5) 3,898.6
Movement in prior-year net claims liabilities by operating segment 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Motor (278.4) (291.9)
Home (49.8) (43.3)
Rescue and other personal lines (15.7) (9.0)
Commercial (53.7) (51.6)
Total ongoing (397.6) (395.8)
Run-off (53.2) (52.1)
Discontinued – International (10.1) (39.3)
Total (460.9) (487.2)
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 152
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 152 
30. Insurance liabilities, unearned premium reserve and reinsurance assets continued 
Movement in unearned premium reserve 
 
Gross 
£m 
Reinsurance 
£m 
Net
£m
At 1 January 2013 1,872.9 (97.9) 1,775.0
Net movement in the year (61.8) 5.0 (56.8)
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 7.6 (0.8) 6.8
At 31 December 2013 1,818.7 (93.7) 1,725.0
Net movement in the year (33.4) (18.6) (52.0)
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment (24.9) 2.1 (22.8)
Transfer to (liabilities) / assets held for sale (note 5B) (326.2) 23.2 (303.0)
At 31 December 2014 1,434.2 (87.0) 1,347.2
31. Life insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 
Movements in life insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 
 
Gross 
£m 
Reinsurance 
£m 
Net
£m
At 1 January 2013 102.9 (91.1) 11.8
Provisions in respect of new and existing business 34.5 (21.4) 13.1
Expected change in existing business provisions (19.8) 17.3 (2.5)
Variance between actual and expected experience (3.0) (5.0) (8.0)
Other movements (3.7) –  (3.7)
Disposal
1
 (110.9) 100.2 (10.7)
At 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014 – – –
Note: 
1.  The Group’s Life business was sold on 28 November 2013. 
32. Retirement benefit obligations 
Defined contribution scheme 
The pension charge for continuing operations in respect of the defined contribution scheme for the year ended 31 December 2014 
was £19.2 million (2013: £23.9 million). The charge for discontinued operations was £1.8 million (2013: £1.4 million). 
Defined benefit scheme 
The Group’s defined benefit pension scheme was closed in 2003 although the Group remains the sponsoring employer for 
obligations to current and deferred pensioners based on qualifying years’ service and final salaries. The defined benefit scheme is 
legally separated from the Group with trustees who are required by law to act in the interests of the scheme and of all the rel evant 
stakeholders. The trustees of the pension scheme are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the scheme. 
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2014 is 20 years (2013: 20 years) using 
accounting assumptions. 
The table below sets out the principal assumptions used in determining the defined benefit scheme obligations. 
 
2014 
% 
2013
%
Rate of increase in pension payment 2.1 2.1
Rate of increase of deferred pensions 2.1 2.6
Discount rate 3.4 4.4
Inflation rate 3.1 3.5
No assumption has been made for salary growth as there are no obligations in the scheme that are linked to future increases  
in salaries.  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 153
 
www.directlinegroup.com 153
Post-retirement mortality assumptions 
 2014 2013
Life expectancy at age 60 now:  
Males 88.5 88.4
Females 90.2 90.1
Life expectancy at age 60 in 20 years’ time:  
Males 90.4 90.3
Females 92.3 92.2
The table below analyses the fair value of the scheme assets by type of asset. 
  
 2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Equities  3.0 3.5
Index-linked bonds  22.2 13.1
Government bonds  12.8 5.7
Corporate bonds  44.4 42.9
Other  0.7 0.8
Total   83.1 66.0
The majority of debt and equity instruments have quoted prices on active markets.  
Movement in net pension surplus / (deficit)  
Fair value of 
defined benefit 
scheme assets 
£m  
Present value of  
defined benefit 
scheme 
obligations 
£m 
Net pension 
surplus
/ (deficit)
£m
At 1 January 2013 63.7 (61.2) 2.5
Income statement:   
Net interest income / (cost)
1 
 2.3 (2.7) (0.4)
Statement of comprehensive income:   
Actuarial losses arising from experience adjustments (1.3) (0.2) (1.5)
Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions – (4.4) (4.4)
Actuarial losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions – (1.0) (1.0)
Contributions by employer 2.8 – 2.8
Benefits paid (1.5) 1.5 –
At 31 December 2013 66.0 (68.0) (2.0)
Income statement:   
Net interest income / (cost)
1
 2.9 (3.0) (0.1)
Statement of comprehensive income:   
Actuarial gains arising from experience adjustments 12.9 1.0 13.9
Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions – (11.1) (11.1)
Contributions by employer 2.8 – 2.8
Benefits paid (1.5) 1.5 –
At 31 December 2014 83.1 (79.6) 3.5
Note: 
1. The income / (cost) in the income statement has been included under other operating expenses. 
The table below details the history of the scheme for the current and prior years. 
 
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m
Present value of defined benefit scheme obligations (79.6) (68.0) (61.2) (54.1) (54.5)
Fair value of defined benefit scheme assets 83.1 66.0 63.7 56.7 54.4
Net surplus / (deficit) 3.5 (2.0) 2.5 2.6 (0.1)
Experience adjustment gains / (losses) on scheme liabilities 1.0 (0.2) (0.1) 0.4 0.5
Experience adjustment gains / (losses) on scheme assets 12.9 (1.3) 2.2 (2.6) 3.1 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 154
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 154 
32. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
Sensitivity analysis 
The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions  
left unchanged. Other potential risks beyond the ones described in the table could have an additional financial impact on the 
Group. This sensitivity analysis has been selected to reflect the changes to discounted cash flows as a result of changes to the 
discount rate, inflation rate and mortality assumptions. The methodology adopted involves actuarial techniques. 
 Impact on pension cost 
Impact on present value 
of defined benefit 
scheme obligations 
 
2014
£m
2013 
£m 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Discount rate   
0.25% increase in discount rate (0.2) (0.2) (4.1) (3.5)
0.25% decrease in discount rate 0.1 0.1 4.1 3.6
Inflation rate   
0.25% increase in inflation rate – – 2.1 1.8
0.25% decrease in inflation rate – – (2.1) (1.8)
Life expectancy   
1 year increase in life expectancy 0.1 0.1 1.8 1.5
1 year decrease in life expectancy (0.1) (0.1) (1.8) (1.6)
The Group is currently undertaking a funding valuation of the defined benefit scheme at 1 October 2014, the results of which are 
due to be presented to the Group in 2015. The Group agreed with the trustees after the funding valuation of 1 October 2011 to 
make contributions of £2.8 million per annum until 2016 to meet the scheme’s funding requirements. Any changes arising from 
the valuation at 1 October 2014 will be discussed with the trustees. 
33. Share-based payments 
The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans in the form of a Long-Term Incentive Plan, Restricted Shares 
Plan, Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans, including both the Free Share awards and Buy-As-You-Earn Plan, and the Deferred 
Annual Incentive Plan, details of which are set out below together with their financial impact: 
Long-Term Incentive Plan 
Senior management are eligible to participate in the LTIP and awards are granted in the form of nil-cost options. Under the plan, 
the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon the following: continued employment by the Group and 
achieving predefined performance conditions associated with TSR and RoTE. 
Awards were made in the year ended 31 December 2014 over 2.2 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value at 
grant of £4.3 million in March 2014 (2013: 3.0 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value at grant of £4.9 million) 
and 2.0 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value at grant of £4.7 million in August 2014 (2013: 2.5 million 
Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value at grant of £4.3 million). 
The estimated fair value of the LTIP share awards with market-based performance conditions was calculated using the Monte-Carlo 
simulation model. 
The table below details the inputs into the model. 
 2014 2013
Weighted average assumptions during the year:  
Share price  270p 208p
Exercise price  0p 0p
Volatility of Company share price  26% 26%
Average comparator volatility  30% 32%
Expected life  3 years 3 years
Risk-free rate  1.1% 0.5%
As only limited historic data is available for the Group, expected volatility was determined by calculating the median historic 
volatility for a group of comparable companies using daily share price data over a period commensurate with the expected life 
assumption. These comparable companies are classified as being in the insurance sector in the FTSE 350.   Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 155
 
www.directlinegroup.com 155
Plan participants are entitled to receive additional shares in respect of dividends paid to shareholders over the vesting period. 
Therefore no deduction has been made from the fair value of awards in respect of dividends. 
Expected life was based on the contractual life of the awards and adjusted based on management’s best estimate, for the effects 
of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
Restricted Shares Plan 
The purpose of the Restricted Shares Plan is to enable share-based awards to be made to employees of the Group who are 
newly recruited and to enable ad-hoc share awards to existing employees. These awards can be granted at any time during the 
year, generally have no performance criteria attached and vest over periods ranging between one and three years from the date 
of the grant, subject to continued employment. During the year awards were made over 0.5 million Ordinary Shares (2013: nil) 
under this plan with an estimated fair value of £1.4 million (2013: nil) estimated using the market value at the date of grant.  
RBS Group LTIP awards 
Prior to IPO in October 2012, certain employees benefited from share-based awards originally granted by RBS Group. RBS 
Group indemnified Direct Line Group for all future costs in respect of RBS Group share-based awards made to Direct Line Group 
employees. All costs in respect of these share awards for Direct Line Group employees have since been borne by RBS Group. 
In accordance with the above, the RBS Group Remuneration Committee has agreed that RBS Group would be responsible for  
the settlement of the outstanding LTIP awards in the year ended 31 December 2012, expected to vest in March 2015, with no 
charge to be made to Direct Line Group. These 2012 LTIP awards will be settled with Company Ordinary Shares currently held 
by RBS Group. Further details of the RBS Group legacy share-based payments are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans – Free Share awards 
During the year ended 31 December 2012, upon listing on the London Stock Exchange, the Group offered all employees a  
Free Share award granting shares to the value of £250 to each eligible employee free of charge. These awards have no 
performance criteria attached, vest on the third anniversary of the award grant date subject to completion of three years’ 
continuing employment (or on leaving employment in certain circumstances) and will be satisfied using market-purchased shares. 
The number of shares initially granted was 1.9 million with an estimated fair value of £3.9 million. 
In addition to the above, the Group announced its intention during December 2014 to offer a Free Share award with a value of 
£400 to all UK based employees. This award will be made during March 2015 and will be satisfied using market-purchased shares.  
Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans – Buy-As-You-Earn Plan 
The Buy-As-You-Earn Plan in the UK and an International plan for Italy, mirroring the UK plan, were both launched during the year 
ended 31 December 2013. 
This plan entitles employees to purchase shares from pre-tax pay for between £10 and £125 per month, or Euro equivalent,  
and receive one matching share for every two shares purchased. The limit of £125 per month was subsequently increased to 
£150 per month in January 2015 following changes in legislation during 2014. 
In the year ended 31 December 2014, matching share awards were granted over 0.3 million Ordinary Shares  
(2013: 0.3 million Ordinary Shares) with an estimated fair value of £0.8 million (2013: £0.6 million). The fair value  
of each matching share award is estimated using the market value at the date of grant. 
Under the plan the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon the following: continued employment with the 
Group (or on leaving employment in certain circumstances) and continued ownership of the associated purchased shares up to 
the point of vesting. 
Deferred Annual Incentive Plan  
Executive Directors and certain members of senior management are eligible for awards under the Annual Incentive Plan, of which 
at least 40% is granted in the form of a nil-cost option under the Deferred Annual Incentive Plan. 
In March 2014 awards were made over 1.1 million Ordinary Shares (2013: 1.1 million Ordinary Shares) under this plan with 
an estimated fair value of £2.6 million (2013: £2.2 million) estimated using the market value at the date of grant. 
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2014 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the 
employee remains in employment with the Group for three years from the date of award.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 156
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 156 
33. Share-based payments continued 
The following table details the outstanding number of share awards in issue (all nil-cost options). 
 
Number of  
share options 
million 
2014 
Number of 
share options
million
2013
At 1 January 11.4 5.1
Granted during the year 6.1 6.9
Forfeited during the year (0.8) (0.4)
Exercised during the year (0.3) (0.2)
At 31 December 16.4 11.4
Exercisable at 31 December 0.3 0.2
In respect of the outstanding options at 31 December 2014, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 1.66 years 
(2013: 2.20 years). No share options expired during the year (2013: nil). 
The weighted average share price for awards exercised during the year ended 31 December 2014 was £2.56 (2013: £2.17). 
The Group recognised total expenses in the year ended 31 December 2014 of £6.6 million (2013: £4.1 million) relating  
to equity-settled share-based compensation plans. 
Further information on share-based payments in respect of Directors is provided in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
34. Trade and other payables including insurance payables 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Due to agents, brokers and intermediaries 19.3 6.2
Due to reinsurers 57.0 81.0
Due to insurance companies 5.3 13.6
Due to related parties – 58.7
Trade creditors and accruals 342.8 255.8
Other creditors 96.5 174.3
Other taxes 55.0 80.6
Provisions 79.4 134.9
Deferred income 5.3 13.2
Total
1
 660.6 818.3
Note: 
1. Included in the disposal group (note 5B) is £82.0 million which has been transferred from trade and other payables including insurance payables at 31 
December 2014. 
Movement in provisions during the year 
 
Regulatory levies
 £m
Restructuring  
£m 
Other
1
 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2014 27.3 33.6 74.0 134.9
Additional provision 33.4 13.7 47.2 94.3
Utilisation of provision (34.2) (31.4) (43.7) (109.3)
Released to income statement – (7.5) (33.0) (40.5)
At 31 December 2014 26.5 8.4 44.5 79.4
Note: 
1. Other provisions include £1.9 million (2013: £22.5 million) for costs associated with onerous contracts in respect of leasehold properties.  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 157
 
www.directlinegroup.com 157
35. Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Profit for the year 372.6 312.8
Adjustments for:  
Investment income (191.0) (188.6)
Instalment income (105.2) (117.8)
Other operating losses 6.6 0.7
Investment property revaluations (26.4) (7.5)
Finance costs 37.2 37.7
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 6.6 4.1
Tax charge 105.2 111.1
Depreciation and amortisation expenses 84.8 58.2
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets 9.6 5.5
Reversal of impairment losses on financial investments (1.3) –
Impairment movements on reinsurance contracts 13.2 (7.5)
Impairment losses on assets held for sale 9.6 –
Profit on sale of AFS financial investments (22.8) (25.7)
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.3 2.9
Profit on sale of investment property (2.3) –
Profit on disposal of subsidiary (2.3) (12.0) 
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 294.4 173.9
Movements in working capital:  
Net decrease in net insurance liabilities including reinsurance assets and deferred acquisition costs (589.0) (594.8)
Net increase in prepayments and accrued income and other assets (19.1) (13.1)
Net decrease in insurance and other receivables 59.2 34.3
Net (decrease) / increase in trade and other payables including insurance payables (57.9) 175.9
Contribution to retirement benefit obligations (2.8) (2.8)
Cash used by operations (315.2) (226.6)
Taxes paid (94.8) (80.2)
Cash flow hedges (0.6) (0.2)
Net cash flow used by operating activities before investment of insurance assets (410.6) (307.0)
Interest received 358.5 574.2
Rental income received from investment property 16.2 11.4
Purchases of investment property (76.2) (87.0)
Proceeds on disposal of investment property 21.1 –
Proceeds on disposal / maturity of AFS financial investments 3,141.0 3,147.8
Net decrease in investment loans and receivables 304.8 209.3
Purchases of AFS financial investments (2,644.3) (3,422.7)
Cash generated from investment of insurance assets 1,121.1 433.0
36. Contingent liabilities 
The Group did not have any contingent liabilities at 31 December 2014 (2013: none).  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 158
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 158 
37. Commitments 
Operating lease commitments 
The Group has entered cancellable and non-cancellable operating lease agreements for properties, vehicles and other assets. 
Continuing operations 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 25.6 32.2
The minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year in relation to discontinued operations 
is £2.5 million (2013: £2.8 million). 
The following table analyses the outstanding commitments under cancellable and non-cancellable operating leases by the period 
in which they fall due. 
Continuing operations 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Within one year 17.1 26.9
In the second to fifth years inclusive 55.1 78.6
After five years 176.2 241.1
Total 248.4 346.6
The outstanding commitments in relation to discontinued operations are £11.5 million (2013: £17.1 million) of which £1.6 
million (2013: £2.9 million) is payable within one year, £5.4 million (2013: £6.4 million) is payable in the second to fifth years 
and £4.5 million (2013: £7.8 million) is payable after five years. 
Operating lease commitments where the Group is the lessor 
The following table analyses future aggregate minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases in 
respect of property leased to third-party tenants. 
Continuing operations 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Within one year 14.6 13.3
In the second to fifth years inclusive 51.7 45.3
After five years 99.6 85.9
Total  165.9 144.5
There were no commitments by third parties to make lease payments to the Group’s discontinued operations at 31 December 2014 
(2013: £nil).  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 159
 
www.directlinegroup.com 159
38. Fair value 
The methodology adopted by the Group for fair value measurement of investment properties, financial assets and liabilities and 
the basis for determining fair value hierarchy are explained in note 2.3. 
Comparison of carrying value to fair value of financial instruments 
The following table compares the carrying value and the fair value of financial instruments (excluding the disposal group – note 
5B). Differences arise where the measurement basis of the asset or liability is not fair value (e.g. assets / liabilities carried at 
amortised cost).  
 Fair value Carrying value Fair value Carrying value
 
2014
£m
2014 
£m 
2013 
£m 
2013
£m
Financial assets   
Derivative assets (note 24) 27.3 27.3 40.7 40.7
AFS debt securities
1
(note 25) 5,830.3 5,830.3 7,005.5 7,005.5
Deposits with credit institutions with maturities in excess of three months 
(note 25) 54.7 54.7 435.7 435.7
Infrastructure debt (note 25)  76.0 76.2 – –
Financial liabilities   
Subordinated liabilities (note 29) 651.9 526.3 625.4 486.6
Derivative liabilities (note 24) 29.4 29.4 19.3 19.3
Note: 
1. Included in the disposal group (note 5B) in 2014 are AFS debt securities with a fair value and carrying value of £706.9 million that are excluded from the  
AFS debt securities above. 
Fair values of the following assets and liabilities (including assets and liabilities held in the disposal group – note 5B) approximate 
their carrying values: 
• Insurance and other receivables 
• Cash and cash equivalents 
• Borrowings 
• Trade and other payables including insurance payables (excluding provisions) 
Fair value hierarchy analysis 
The following tables analyse the Group’s assets and liabilities carried at fair value (excluding the disposal group – note 5B)  
by reference to the Group’s fair value hierarchy.  
At 31 December 2014 
Level 1
£m
Level 2 
£m 
Level 3 
£m 
Total
£m
Investment property (note 19) – – 307.2 307.2
Derivative assets (note 24) – 27.3 – 27.3
AFS debt securities
1
(note 25) 985.6 4,844.7 – 5,830.3
Total 985.6 4,872.0 307.2 6,164.8
Derivative liabilities (note 24) – 29.4 – 29.4
Total – 29.4 – 29.4
Note: 
1. Included in the disposal group (note 5B) in 2014 are AFS debt securities of £706.9 million, that are excluded from the categorisation of AFS debt securities 
above, of which £31.9 million is categorised as level 1 and £675.0 million is categorised as level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. 
At 31 December 2013 
Level 1
£m
Level 2 
£m 
Level 3 
£m 
Total
£m
Investment property (note 19) – – 223.4 223.4
Derivative assets (note 24) – 40.7 – 40.7
AFS debt securities (note 25) 1,393.7 5,611.8 – 7,005.5
Total 1,393.7 5,652.5 223.4 7,269.6
Derivative liabilities (note 24) – 19.3 – 19.3
Total – 19.3 – 19.3
The movements in assets classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy are all within Investment property which are analysed  
in note 19. There were no changes in the categorisation of assets between Levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year for assets and 
liabilities held at 31 December 2013.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 160
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 160 
39. Related parties 
On 27 February 2014, RBS Group announced the completion of the sale of its remaining interest of 423.2 million Ordinary 
Shares in the Company. 
RBS Group has now sold all its Ordinary Shares in the Company except for the shares held to satisfy long-term incentive plan 
awards granted by RBS Group to Direct Line Group management. 
Transactions with RBS Group in the year ended 31 December 2014 were similar in nature to those for the year ended  
31 December 2013. However, following the sale on 27 February 2014, transactions with RBS Group are no longer included  
in the tables below, as the related party relationship ceased from the sale date. 
Transactions with related parties 
 
 2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Sale of insurance contracts and other services  0.3 3.2 
Purchase of services  19.7 145.8
Sale and purchase of products and services are conducted on an arm’s length basis. 
Year end related balances arising from cash and investment transactions with related parties 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Cash at bank – 64.7
Bank overdrafts – (55.1)
Derivative financial assets  – 20.0
Derivative financial liabilities – (18.5)
Term deposits – 35.0
AFS debt securities – 48.6
Total – 94.7
Year end balances arising from sales and purchases of products and services to and from related parties 
 Amounts owed by related parties Amounts owed to related parties
 
2014
£m
2013 
£m 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Total 0.2 0.9 25.4 58.7
Movement in amounts owed by / to related parties 
 Amounts owed by related parties Amounts owed to related parties
 
2014
£m
2013 
£m 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
At 1 January 0.9 5.1 58.7 34.7
Transactions in the year 0.1 0.2 19.1 147.1
Settled in the year (0.8) (4.4) (52.4) (123.1)
At 31 December 0.2 0.9 25.4 58.7
Compensation of key management 
 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Short-term employee benefits 10.2 9.1
Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.2
Termination benefits 0.4 0.2
Share-based payments 3.4 1.9
Total 14.3 11.4
40. Post balance sheet events 
On 13 January 2015 the Group announced its intention to close its sites at Pudsey and vacate the premises, with all roles being 
transferred to the Group’s Leeds offices. These sites which are owned by the Group have been impaired in 2015 by 
approximately £22.0 million. Marketing of these sites will begin shortly. 
  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 161
Parent Company balance sheet 
As at 31 December 2014 
www.directlinegroup.com 
161
 
 Notes 
2014  
£m 
2013 
£m
Assets   
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 2 3,065.0 3,181.5
Other receivables 4 523.3 528.8
Current tax assets 5 1.2 1.6
Derivative financial instruments 6 2.4 –
Financial investments 7 5.1 –
Cash and cash equivalents 8 51.2 6.8
Assets held for sale 3 114.8 –
Total assets  3,763.0 3,718.7
 
Equity   
Share capital 9 150.0 150.0
Capital redemption reserve  1,450.0 1,450.0
Share-based payment reserve  9.5 3.9
Cash flow hedging reserve  1.2 –
Retained earnings  1,647.5 1,611.9
Total equity  3,258.2 3,215.8
 
Liabilities   
Subordinated liabilities 10 503.1 502.4
Derivative financial instruments 6 0.6 –
Trade and other payables 11 1.1 0.5
Total liabilities  504.8 502.9
Total equity and liabilities  3,763.0 3,718.7
The attached notes on pages 163 to 166 form an integral part of these separate financial statements. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 2 March 2015. They were signed 
on its behalf by: 
 
 
John Reizenstein 
Chief Financial Officer 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc 
Registration No. 02280426 
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 162
Parent Company statement of comprehensive income 
For the year ended 31 December 2014  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 162 
  
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Profit for the year 436.7 193.1
Other comprehensive income  
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement:  
Cash flow hedges 1.2 –
Other comprehensive income net of tax 1.2 –
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to owners of the Company 437.9 193.1
 
Parent Company statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2014 
 
Parent Company cash flow statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2014 
 Notes 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Net cash used by operating activities 13 (0.1) (3.0)
Cash flows from investing activities   
Interest received on loans to subsidiary undertakings  47.6 47.5
Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings  446.7 220.8
Acquisition of investments in subsidiary undertakings  – (9.1)
Disposal of investments in subsidiary undertakings 2 2.7 39.3
Cash flows from net investment hedges  – (5.3)
Purchase of AFS financial investments  (5.1) –
Net cash generated from investing activities  491.9 293.2
Cash flows from financing activities   
Dividends paid  (401.1) (242.7)
Finance costs  (46.3) (46.3)
Repayment of borrowings from related parties  – (255.0)
Net increase in loans advanced to subsidiary undertakings  – (7.7)
Net cash used by financing activities  (447.4) (551.7)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  44.4 (261.5)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 8 6.8 268.3
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 8 51.2 6.8
The attached notes on pages 163 to 166 form an integral part of these separate financial statements 
 
Share
capital
£m
Capital 
reserves
£m
Share-based 
payment
reserve
£m
Foreign 
exchange 
translation 
reserve  
£m 
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Total 
shareholder 
equity 
£m
Balance at 1 January 2013 150.0 1,450.0 0.3 – 1,661.5 3,261.8
Total comprehensive income for the year –––– 193.1 193.1
Dividends paid – – – – (242.7) (242.7)
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based 
payments – – 4.1 – – 4.1
Shares distributed by employee trusts – – (0.5) – – (0.5)
Balance at 31 December 2013 150.0 1,450.0 3.9 – 1,611.9 3,215.8
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 1.2 436.7 437.9
Dividends paid – – – – (401.1) (401.1)
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based 
payments – – 6.6 – – 6.6
Shares distributed by employee trusts – – (1.0) – – (1.0)
Balance at 31 December 2014 150.0 1,450.0 9.5 1.2 1,647.5 3,258.2 Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 163
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements 
 
www.directlinegroup.com 
163
1. Accounting policies 
1.1 Basis of preparation 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc, incorporated in the UK, is the ultimate parent company of the Direct Line Group. The principal 
activity of the Company is managing its investments in subsidiaries, providing loans to those subsidiaries, raising funds for the 
Group and the receipt and payment of dividends. 
The Company’s financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB and are presented in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006. In accordance with the exemption permitted under section 408 of Companies  
Act 2006, the Company’s income statement and related notes have not been presented in these separate financial statements. 
The accounting policies that are used in the preparation of these separate financial statements are consistent with the accounting 
policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Direct Line Insurance Group plc as set out in those 
financial statements. 
The additional accounting policies that are specific to the separate financial statements of the Company are set out below. 
1.2 Investment in subsidiaries 
Investment in subsidiaries is stated at cost less any impairment. 
1.3 Dividend income 
Dividend income from investment in subsidiaries is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. 
2. Investment in subsidiary undertakings 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
At 1 January 3,181.5 3,226.1
Additions 6.6 13.2
Disposals (4.0) (50.7)
Impairments (4.3) (10.8)
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment – 3.7 
Transfer to assets held for sale (114.8) –
At 31 December 3,065.0 3,181.5
The Company sold 100% of the share capital of its subsidiary Tracker Network (UK) Limited on 5 February 2014. The carrying 
value of the investment in Tracker was £4.0 million at the date of sale. The total cash consideration received was £2.7 million 
generating a loss on disposal of £1.3 million. 
The Company sold 100% of the share capital of its subsidiary Direct Line Life Insurance Company Limited on 28 November 
2013. The carrying value of the investment in the Life business was £50.7 million at the date of sale. The total cash 
consideration received was £39.3 million generating a loss on disposal of £11.4 million. 
Full details of investments in principal subsidiaries are set out in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. 
3. Assets held for sale 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Investment in subsidiary undertaking  114.8 –
On 25 September 2014, the Company entered into a binding agreement for the sale, subject to regulatory approval, of its 
German subsidiary Direct Line Versicherung AG for a cash consideration of €292.0 million (£228.3 million).  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 164
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements continued 
 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 164 
4. Other receivables 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Loans to subsidiary undertakings
1
 518.9 528.8
Receivables from subsidiary undertakings 2.9 –
Other debtors 1.5 –
Total 523.3 528.8
Current 23.3 28.8
Non-current 500.0 500.0
Total 523.3 528.8
Note: 
1.  Included in loans to subsidiary undertakings is a £500 million unsecured subordinated loan to U K Insurance Limited. The loan was advanced on 27 April 2012 
at a fixed rate of 9.5% with a repayment date of 27 April 2042. There is an option to repay the loan on specific dates from 27 April 2022. If the loan is not 
repaid on 27 April 2022, the rate of interest will be reset at a rate of the six-month LIBOR plus 8.16%.  
5. Current tax assets 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Corporation tax recoverable 1.2 1.6
6. Derivative financial instruments 
 Notional Amount Fair Value
 
2014 
£m 
2014
£m
Derivative assets   
Designated as hedging instruments – third parties 435.6 2.4
Derivative liabilities   
Designated as hedging instruments – subsidiary undertakings 8.3 0.6
The Company entered into a foreign currency hedge contract in September 2014, converting Euro to Pounds Sterling, in relation  
to the proposed sale of the International business. The Company has also entered into foreign exchange hedge contracts relating to 
supplier payments on behalf of its Group subsidiaries. The Company had no derivative financial instruments at 31 December 2013. 
7. Financial investments 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
AFS debt securities 5.1 –
8. Cash and cash equivalents 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 0.1 0.1
Short-term deposits with credit institutions 51.1 6.7
Total 51.2 6.8
9. Share capital 
Full details of the share capital of the Company are set out in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.  Financial statements
www.directlinegroup.com 165
 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 165 
10. Subordinated liabilities 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Subordinated guaranteed dated notes  503.1 502.4
The subordinated guaranteed dated notes were issued on 27 April 2012 at a fixed rate of 9.25%. The nominal £500.0 million 
notes have a redemption date of 27 April 2042. The Company has t he option to repay the notes on specific dates from 27 April 
2022. If the notes are not repaid on 27 April 2022, the rate of in terest will be reset at a rate of the six-month LIBOR plus 7.91%.  
The notes are unsecured, subordinated obligations of the Company, and rank pari passu without any preference among 
themselves. In the event of a winding up or of insolvency, they are to be repaid only after the claims of all other senior creditors 
have been met. 
The notes are guaranteed by U K Insurance Limited, a principal subsidiary of the Company. 
The Company has the option in certain circumstances, to defer interest payments on the notes but to date has not exercised this right. 
The aggregate fair value of subordinated guaranteed dated notes is £651.9 million (2013: £625.4 million). 
11. Trade and other payables 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Payables to subsidiary undertakings 1.0 0.5 
Payables to third parties 0.1 –
Total 1.1 0.5
12. Dividends 
Full details of the dividends paid and proposed by the Company are set out in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.  
13. Cash generated from operations 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Profit for the year 436.7 193.1
Adjustments for:  
Impairment in subsidiary undertakings 4.3 10.8
Investment income (494.5) (268.4)
Other operating gains (0.6) (0.2)
Finance costs 46.9 47.1
Loss on disposal of subsidiary undertakings 1.3 11.4
Tax credit (1.2) (1.3) 
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital (7.1) (7.5)
Movements in working capital:  
Net decrease in other receivables 4.8 0.8
Net increase in trade and other payables 0.6 –
Tax received 1.6 4.2
Finance costs – (0.5)
Cash used by operations (0.1) (3.0) Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 166
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements continued 
 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 166 
14. Related parties 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc, which is incorporated in England and Wales, is the ultimate parent undertaking of the Direct Line 
Group of companies.  
On 27 February 2014 RBS Group announced the completion of the sale of its remaining interest of 423.2 million Ordinary 
Shares in the Company. 
RBS Group has now sold all its Ordinary Shares in Direct Line Group except for the shares held to satisfy long-term incentive plan 
awards granted by RBS Group to Direct Line Group management. Full details of related parties are set out in note 39 to the 
consolidated financial statements. 
The following transactions were carried out with related parties: 
Sales of services 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Interest received from subsidiary undertakings 47.6 47.4
Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings 446.7 220.8
Interest income from loans to subsidiary undertakings was charged at rates ranging from 0.5% to 9.50% (2013: 0.5% to 9.50%). 
Purchases of services 
 
2014 
£m 
2013
£m
Management fees payable to subsidiary undertakings 7.3 7.7
Interest payable to subsidiary undertakings – 0.1
Total 7.3 7.8
Interest charged on borrowings from related parties were at rates ranging from 0.5% to 0.6% (2013: 0.5% to 2.0%). 
15. Share-based payments 
Full details of share-based compensation plans are provided in note 33 to the consolidated financial statements. 
16. Risk management 
The risks faced by the Company are considered to be from its investment in subsidiaries. The Company also holds, on behalf of 
its subsidiaries, designated hedging instruments which relate to the sale of the Group’s International business and foreign currency 
supplier payments. 
Its risks are considered to be the same as those in the operations of the Group itself and details of the key risks to the Group and 
the steps taken to manage them are disclosed in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.  
17. Directors and key management remuneration 
The Directors and key management of the Group and the Company are the same. The aggregate emoluments of the Directors 
are set out in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements, the compensation for key management is set out in note 39 to the 
consolidated financial statements and the remuneration and pension benefits payable in respect of the highest paid Director, are 
included in the Directors’ remuneration report in the Governance section of the Annual Report & Accounts.  Other information
www.directlinegroup.com 167
Additional information 
 
Version 10.1  Draft and Secret  www.directlinegroup.com  167 
Corporate website 
The Group’s corporate website is www.directlinegroup.com.  
It contains additional useful information for the Company’s 
investors and shareholders, including press releases, 
forthcoming events, essential shareholder information, dividend 
history, a financial calendar, and details of the Company’s 
AGM. You can also subscribe for email news alerts. 
Market 
The Company has a premium listing on the UK Listing 
Authority’s Official List. The Company’s Ordinary Shares, 
exchange price information code (“EPIC”): DLG, are admitted 
to trading on the London Stock Exchange. 
Share ownership 
Share capital 
You can find details of the Company’s share capital in note 27 
to the consolidated financial statements. 
Dividends 
The Group aims to generate long-term sustainable value for 
shareholders, while balancing operational, regulatory, rating 
agency and policyholder requirements. The Board has adopted 
a progressive dividend policy for the Company. This will aim to 
increase the dividend annually in real terms to reflect its cash 
flow generation and long-term earnings potential. 
It is expected that one-third of the annual dividend will 
generally be paid in the third quarter as an interim dividend, 
and two-thirds will be paid as a final dividend in the second 
quarter of the following year. The Board may revise the 
dividend policy from time to time. 
Additionally, if the Board believes the Group has capital surplus 
to the Board’s view of its requirements, it is intended that such 
excess capital will be returned to shareholders. The Company 
may consider a special dividend and/or a repurchase of its 
own shares to distribute surplus capital to shareholders. 
The Company pays its dividends in Pounds Sterling to 
shareholders registered on its register of members at the 
relevant record date. 
Shareholders may have their cash dividends paid directly into 
a bank or building society by completing a dividend mandate 
form. This is available from the Company’s registrar, 
Computershare Investor Services PLC (“Registrar”), in the UK. 
You can find the Registrar’s contact details on page 172. 
Alternatively, shareholders may access their shareholdings 
online and download a dividend mandate form from the 
Investor Centre. You can find details of this on page 172. 
Dividend Reinvestment Plan 
The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan (“DRIP”) that 
gives shareholders the opportunity to use their cash dividends 
to buy the Company’s Ordinary Shares in the market. You can 
find further details on the Company’s website. 
Shareholder enquiries 
Shareholders with queries on any matter relating to their shares 
can contact our Registrar using the contact details listed on 
page 172 of this Annual Report & Accounts. 
Shareholders should notify the Registrar of any change in 
shareholding details, such as their address, as soon as possible. 
Shareholders can also access their current shareholding details 
online at www.investorcentre.co.uk/directline . Investor Centre 
is a free-to-use, secure, self-service website that enables 
shareholders to manage their holdings online. The website 
allows shareholders to: 
• Check their holdings 
• Update their records (including address and direct  
credit details) 
• Access all their securities in one portfolio by setting up a 
personal account 
• Vote online 
• Register to receive electronic shareholder communications 
The website requires shareholders to quote their Shareholder 
Reference Number, which can be found on their share 
certificate, to access this information. 
Shareholder warning 
Five thousand people contact the FCA about share fraud each 
year, with victims losing an average of £20,000. 
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure 
investors into scams. They may offer to sell shares that transpire 
to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated 
price in return for an upfront payment. While high profits are 
promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way, you will 
probably lose your money. 
How to avoid share fraud 
• Remember that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to 
contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares 
• Do not start conversing with them. Note the name of the 
person and firm contacting you, then end the call 
• Check the Financial Services Register at www.fca.org.uk to 
see if the person and firm contacting you are authorised by 
the FCA 
• Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, 
copying its website or giving you false contact details 
• Use the firm’s contact details listed on the Register if you 
want to call them back 
• Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have 
contact details on the Register or you are told they are out  
of date 
• Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at 
www.fca.org.uk/scams  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 168
Additional information continued 
168  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014  Version 10.1  Draft and Secret 
• Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised 
firm, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
• Think about getting independent financial and professional 
advice before you hand over any money 
• Remember, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is 
Report a scam 
If fraudsters approach you, please tell the FCA using the share 
fraud reporting form at www.fca.org.uk/scams . This web 
page also provides more information about investment scams. 
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on  
0800 111 6768. 
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters, contact 
Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. 
Tips on how you can protect your shares 
• Keep all your certificates in a safe place. Alternatively, 
consider holding your shares in the UK’s electronic 
registration and settlement system for equity, CREST, or via  
a nominee 
• Keep correspondence from the Registrar that shows your 
shareholder reference number in a safe place, and shred 
unwanted correspondence 
• Inform the Registrar as soon as you change your address 
• If you receive a letter from the Registrar regarding a change 
of address and you have not recently moved, contact  
them immediately 
• Be aware of when the dividends are paid and contact the 
Registrar if you do not receive your dividend 
• Consider having your dividends paid directly into your bank 
account. You will need to fill out a dividend mandate form 
and send it to the Registrar. This reduces the risk of cheques 
being stolen or lost in the post 
• If you change your bank account, inform the Registrar of 
your new account details immediately 
• If you are buying or selling shares, deal only with brokers 
registered in the UK or in your country of residence 
• Be aware that the Company will never call you concerning 
investment matters. If you receive such a call from a person 
purporting to represent the Company, please contact the 
Company Secretary immediately 
Electronic communications and voting 
The Group produces a range of communications which 
shareholders can view online, download or receive a paper 
copy by contacting the Registrar. You can find the Registrar’s 
contact details on page 172. 
Shareholders who register their email address with our 
Registrar or at the Investor Centre can learn of events by email, 
such as the AGM, and receive shareholder communications 
like the Annual Report & Accounts, and Notice of Meeting. 
Dealing facilities 
Shareholders can buy, sell or transfer their shares through a 
stockbroker or a high street bank, or through the Registrar’s 
share dealing facility. 
You can call or email the Registrar regarding its share-dealing 
facility using the following contact information: 
• For telephone sales, call +44 (0)870 703 0084 between 
8.30 am and 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday, excluding  
public holidays 
• For internet sales log on to 
www.investorcentre.co.uk/directline. You will need your 
Shareholder Reference Number as shown on your share 
certificate or your welcome letter from the Chairman 
Financial calendar 
2015 
Date Event 
3 March Preliminary Results Announcement 2014
12 March ‘Ex-dividend’ date for 2014 interim
1
 
and second special interim dividends 
13 March Record date for 2014 interim
1
 and 
second special interim dividends 
17 April Payment date for 2014 interim
1
 and 
second special dividends 
6 May
2
 Interim Management Statement for the 
first quarter of 2015 
13 May Annual General Meeting 
4 August
2
 Half Year Report 2015 
13 August
2
 ‘Ex-dividend’ date for 2015 interim 
dividend 
14 August
2
 Record date for 2015 interim dividend 
11 September
2
 Payment date for 2015 interim dividend
3 November
2
 Interim Management Statement for the 
third quarter of 2015 
Annual General Meeting 
The 2015 AGM will be held on 13 May 2015 at The 
Auditorium, Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London 
E1 6AD, starting at 11.00 am. All shareholders will receive a 
separate notice convening the AGM, which will explain the 
resolutions to be put to the meeting. 
 
Note: 
1. The Board has resolved this year to pay an interim dividend in lieu of a final dividend. 
2. These dates are subject to change.  Other information
www.directlinegroup.com 169
Glossary  
 
Version 10.1  Draft and Secret  www.directlinegroup.com  169 
Term Definition 
Actuarial best estimate The probability-weighted average of all future claims and cost scenarios calculated using 
historical data, actuarial methods and judgement. A best estimate of reserves will therefore 
normally be designed to include no margin for optimism or, conversely, caution. 
AIP Annual Incentive Plan 
Available-for-sale (“AFS”) 
investment 
Financial assets that are classified as available for sale. Please refer to the accounting policy 
note 1.12 on page 111. 
BAYE Buy-As-You-Earn 
Capital The funds invested in the Group, including funds invested by shareholders and retained profits. 
Claims frequency The number of claims divided by the number of policies per year. 
Claims reserve (provision 
for losses and loss-
adjustment expense) 
Funds the Group sets aside to meet the estimated cost of claims payments and related 
expenses that the Group considers it will ultimately need to pay. 
Clawback The ability of the Company to claim repayment of paid amounts. 
Combined operating 
ratio (“COR”) 
The sum of the loss, expense and commission ratios. The ratio is a measure of the amount of 
claims costs and expenses compared to net earned premium generated. A ratio of less than 
100% indicates profitable business. 
Commission Amounts paid to brokers, partners and PCWs for generating business. 
Commission ratio The ratio of commission expense divided by net earned premium. 
Current-year attritional 
loss ratio 
The loss ratio for the current accident year, excluding the impact of movement of claims 
reserves relating to previous accident years, and claims relating to major weather events in the  
Home division. 
DAIP Deferred Annual Incentive Plan 
Discontinued operations The Group reached a binding agreement with Mapfre, S.A. to sell the Group’s International 
division, see notes 1 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements, on pages 108 and 133 
respectively. 
DL4B Direct Line for Business is an extension of the Direct Line brand. It is our direct commercial 
insurance brand for small-sized businesses in the UK that have straightforward commercial 
insurance requirements. 
Earnings per share The amount of the Group’s profit allocated to each Ordinary Share of the Company. 
ERB Employee Representative Body 
Expense ratio The ratio of operating expenses divided by net earned premium. 
Finance costs The cost of servicing the Group’s external borrowings. 
Financial Conduct 
Authority (“FCA”) 
The independent body that regulates firms and financial advisers. It helps put the interests of 
customers and the integrity of the market at the core of what insurance, and other financial 
service, providers do. 
FRC Financial Reporting Council 
Gross written premium The total premiums from contracts that began during the period. 
IASB International Accounting Standards Board 
Incurred but not reported 
(“IBNR”) 
Funds set aside to meet the cost of claims for accidents that have taken place, but have not yet 
been reported to us. 
Incurred loss Claims that have been paid plus claims advised by a policyholder, but not yet paid. Does not 
include IBNR, see above. 
ICA Individual capital assessment 
ICAS Individual capital adequacy standards 
ICAS+ Introduced by the PRA in 2013, ICAS+ is an extension of the ICAS regime. It allows firms to 
use their developing Solvency II frameworks, particularly the internal model. 
In-force policies The number of policies on a given date that are active and against which the Group will pay, 
following a valid insurance claim. 
Initial public offering 
(“IPO”) 
The first sale of shares by a previously unlisted company to investors on a securities exchange. 
Insurance reserves This comprises insurance liabilities and the liability-adequacy reserve. Together, these amount 
to the reserves an insurance company maintains to meet current and future claims. 
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 170
Glossary continued 
 
170  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014  Version 10.1  Draft and Secret 
 
Term Definition 
Investment income yield The annualised investment income earned through the income statement during the period, 
divided by the average assets under management (“AUM”) for each asset class during the 
same period. Investment income excludes unrealised and realised gains and losses, 
impairments and fair-value adjustments, while the average AUM for the period is derived  
from the period’s opening and closing balances. 
Investment return The income earned from the investment portfolio. This includes unrealised and realised gains 
and losses, impairments and fair-value adjustments. 
Investment return yield The total annualised investment return earned through the income statement during the period. 
This includes items such as unrealised and realised gains and losses, impairments and fair-
value adjustments, divided by the average AUM for each asset class during the same period. 
Loss ratio Net insurance claims divided by net earned premium. 
LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan 
Malus An arrangement that permits the forfeiture of unvested remuneration awards, in circumstances 
the Company considers appropriate. 
Net asset value The net asset value of the Group is calculated by subtracting total liabilities from total assets. 
Net claims The cost of claims incurred in the period less any claims costs recovered under reinsurance 
contracts. It includes claims payments and movements in claims reserves. 
Net earned premium The element of gross earned premium less reinsurance premium ceded for the period where 
insurance cover has already been provided. 
Ogden discount rate The discount rate set by the relevant government bodies, the Lord Chancellor and Scottish 
Ministers, and used to calculate lump-sum awards in bodily injury cases. 
Ongoing operations Includes the Group’s ongoing segments: Motor, Home, Rescue and other personal lines, and 
Commercial. It excludes the International division, the Run-off segment and restructuring and 
other one-off costs. 
Operating profit The pre-tax profit generated by the Group’s activities, including insurance and investment 
activity, but excluding finance costs. 
ORSA Own Risk and Solvency Assessment 
Periodic payment order 
(“PPO”) 
These are claims payments as awarded under the Courts Act 2003. PPOs are used to settle 
large personal injury claims. They generally provide claimants who require long-term care with 
a lump sum award plus inflation-linked annual payments. 
Prudential Regulation 
Authority (“PRA”) 
The Prudential Regulation Authority is a part of the Bank of England. It is responsible for the 
prudential regulation and supervision of insurers and financial institutions in the UK. 
RBS Group The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and its subsidiary companies. 
Reinsurance Contractual arrangements where the Group transfers part or all of the insurance risk accepted 
to another insurer. 
Reserves Funds that have been set aside to meet outstanding insurance claims and IBNR. 
Return on equity Return on equity is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the owners of the Company 
by average ordinary shareholders’ equity for the period. 
Return on tangible equity 
(“RoTE”) 
Return on tangible equity is adjusted profit after tax from ongoing operations divided by the 
Group’s average shareholders’ equity less goodwill and other intangible assets. Profit after tax 
is adjusted to exclude the International division, which is classified as discontinued operations, 
the Run-off segment and restructuring and other one-off costs, and is stated after charging tax 
(using the UK standard tax rate). 
Risk mix Risk mix reflects the expected level of claims from the portfolio. It measures the estimated 
movement based on risk models used in that period and is revised when risk models  
are updated. 
Run-off Where the Group no longer underwrites new business, but continues to meet its claims 
liabilities under existing contracts. 
SME Small and medium-sized enterprises 
Solvency II The proposed capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry to become 
effective on 1 January 2016, which establishes a revised set of EU-wide capital requirements 
and risk-management standards. It comprises three pillars: Pillar I, which sets out capital 
requirements for an insurer; Pillar II, which focuses on systems of governance; and Pillar III, 
which deals with disclosure requirements. 
Total Shareholder Return 
(“TSR”) 
Compares the movement in the share price together with reinvested dividends as a percentage 
of the share price at the beginning of the period. 
Underwriting result  
(profit / loss) 
The profit or loss from operational activities, excluding investment performance. It is calculated 
as net earned premium less net insurance claims and total expenses. 
  Other information
www.directlinegroup.com 171
Forward-looking statements disclaimer 
 
Version 10.1  Draft and Secret  www.directlinegroup.com  171 
This Annual Report & Accounts has been prepared for, and  
only for, the members of the Company as a body, and no  
other persons. The Company, its Directors, employees, agents  
or advisers do not accept responsibility to any other person to 
whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come 
and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. 
Certain information contained in this document, including any 
information as to the Group’s strategy, plans or future financial 
or operating performance, constitutes “forward-looking 
statements”. These forward-looking statements may be 
identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including 
the terms “aims”, “anticipates”, “aspire”, “believes”, 
“continue”, “could”, “estimates”, “expects”, “guidance”, 
“intends”, “may”, “outlook”, “plans”, “predicts”, “projects”, 
“seeks”, “should”, “targets” or “will” or, in each case, their 
negative or other variations or comparable terminology, or by 
discussions of strategy, plans, objectives, goals, future events 
or intentions. These forward-looking statements include all 
matters that are not historical facts. They appear in a number 
of places throughout this document and include statements 
regarding the intentions, beliefs or current expectations of the 
Directors concerning, among other things: the Group’s results 
of operations, financial condition, prospects, growth, strategies 
and the industry in which the Group operates. Examples of 
forward-looking statements include financial targets which are 
contained in this document specifically with respect to RoTE, 
risk-based capital coverage ratio, the Group’s COR and cost 
savings. By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve 
risk and uncertainties because they relate to events and 
depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the 
future or are beyond the Group’s control. 
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future 
performance. The Group’s actual results of operations, 
financial condition and the development of the business sector 
in which the Group operates may differ materially from those 
suggested by the forward-looking statements contained in this 
document, for example directly or indirectly as a result of, but 
not limited to, UK domestic and global economic business 
conditions, market-related risks such as fluctuations in interest 
rates and exchange rates, the policies and actions of 
regulatory authorities (including changes related to capital and 
solvency requirements or the Ogden discount rate), the impact 
of competition, currency changes, inflation and deflation, the 
timing impact and other uncertainties of future acquisitions, 
disposals, joint ventures or combinations within relevant 
industries, as well as the impact of tax and other legislation 
and other regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Group and 
its affiliates operate. In addition, even if the Group’s actual 
results of operations, financial condition and the development 
of the business sector in which the Group operates are 
consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this 
document, those results or developments may not be indicative 
of results or developments in subsequent periods. 
The forward-looking statements contained in this document 
reflect knowledge and information available as of the date of 
preparation of this document. The Group and the Directors 
expressly disclaim any obligations or undertaking to update or 
revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a 
result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless 
required to do so by applicable law or regulation. Nothing in 
this document should be construed as a profit forecast. 
Neither the content of Direct Line Group’s website nor the 
content of any other website accessible from hyperlinks on  
the Group’s website is incorporated into, or forms part of,  
this document. 
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 172
Contact information 
 
172  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014  Version 10.1  Draft and Secret 
Registered office 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc 
Churchill Court 
Westmoreland Road 
Bromley 
BR1 1DP 
Registered in England No. 02280426 
Company Secretary: Roger C Clifton 
Telephone: +44 (0)1132 920 667 
Website: www.directlinegroup.com 
Registrar 
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol 
BS99 6ZZ 
Shareholder helpline: +44 (0)870 873 5880 
Shareholder fax: +44 (0)870 703 6101 
Telephone number for the hard of hearing: 
+44 (0)870 702 0005 
Website: www.computershare.com 
Investor Centre: 
To find out more about Investor Centre, go to 
www.investorcentre.co.uk/directline 
Auditor 
Deloitte LLP 
Hill House 
1 Little New Street 
London 
EC4A 3TR 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7936 3000 
Website: www.deloitte.com 
Legal advisers 
Allen & Overy LLP 
One Bishops Square 
London 
E1 6AD 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 3088 0000 
Website: www.allenovery.com 
Slaughter and May 
One Bunhill Row 
London 
EC1Y 8YY 
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7600 1200 
Website: www.slaughterandmay.com 
Principal banker 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 
280 Bishopsgate 
London 
EC2M 4RB 
Telephone: +44 (0)131 556 8555 
Website: www.rbs.com 
Corporate brokers 
Goldman Sachs International 
Peterborough Court 
133 Fleet Street 
London 
EC4A 2BB 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7774 1000 
Website: www.goldmansachs.com 
Morgan Stanley & Co International plc 
25 Cabot Square 
Canary Wharf 
London 
E14 4QA 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7425 8000 
Website: www.morganstanley.com 
RBC Europe Ltd 
Riverbank House 
2 Swan Lane 
London 
EC4R 3BF 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7653 4000 
Website: www.rbccm.com  This report is printed on mixed source paper which is FSC
®
 certified  
(the standards for well-managed forests, considering environmental, social and economic issues). 
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc
Printed by Pureprint Group
More information 
In conjunction with this report, we have produced  
a separate online version of key sections.
  For more information, go to 
ara2014.directlinegroup.com
  To download the app search  
Direct Line Group Investor Relations
Our app houses the most  
up-to-date financial information  
about the Group which includes  
the following sections:
• Results and presentations
• Share price information
• Financial calendar
• Company and regulatory news Direct Line Insurance Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Direct Line Insurance Group plc ©
Registered in England & Wales No. 02280426  
Registered Office: Churchill Court, Westmoreland Road, Bromley, BR1 1DP
