 Direct Line Insurance Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Our strategy supports our  
aspiration to be the leading  
personal and small business 
general insurer in the UK. 
That is why our customers are  
at the centre of everything we do.
For all the latest news  
and announcements visit
www.directlinegroup.com
To make insurance
much easier and 
better value for  
our customers
Our mission Strategic report
2 Group highlights
4 Group at a glance
6 Market overview
8 Business model
10 Chairman’s statement
12  Chief Executive Officer’s review
14 Our strategy
24 Our key performance indicators
26 Risk management
30 Corporate social responsibility
34 Operating review
38 Finance review
Governance
46 Chairman’s introduction
48 Board of Directors
50 Executive Committee
51 Corporate governance report
58 Committee reports
70 Directors’ remuneration report
96 Directors’ report
Financial statements
100 Contents
101 Independent Auditor’s report
1 0 6  C o n sol i d a t e d  
financial statements
1 1 1  Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements
1 6 4  P ar e n t C o mp an y  
financial statements
167  Notes to the Parent Company 
financial statements
Other information
172 Additional information
174 Glossary
1 7 6  F o r w a r d - lo o ki n g  
statements disclaimer
 Contact information
p22 p20 p18
Our strategic pillars
Contents
Great retailer
Smart & efficient 
manufacturer
Lead & disrupt  
the market
www.directlinegroup.com 1 Group highlights
Delivering for our  
customers and shareholders
We achieved good results in 2015 while making progress on implementing our strategy. 
We remained focused on operating efficiency and disciplined underwriting which helped 
us to improve operating profit from ongoing operations.
Financial highlights
• Gross written premium from ongoing operations
1
 up 1.7% to £3,152.4 million,  
with 4.8% growth in Motor for 2015 and 7.1% in the fourth quarter. Motor and  
Home own brands in-force policies
1
 up 1.4%
• Operating profit from ongoing operations increased to £520.7 million for 2015 
(2014: £506.0 million). Combined operating ratio
1
 from ongoing operations  
of 94.0% for 2015, an improvement of 1.0 percentage point
• Return on tangible equity
1
 of 18.5% for 2015 (2014: 16.8%). Profit before tax  
for continuing operations
1
 increased to £507.5 million (2014: £456.8 million)
• Results benefited from our disciplined underwriting, prior-year reserve releases from 
ongoing operations of £378.9 million (2014: £397.6 million) which were higher  
than expected, together with lower costs, partially offset by higher claims from  
major weather events and lower volumes
• 4.5% increase in final dividend per share to 9.2 pence per share and additional 
special dividend of 8.8 pence per share. Total dividends for 2015, including  
special interim dividend of 27.5 pence per share following sale of International 
division, of 50.1 pence per share (2014: 27.2 pence per share)
Strategic and operational highlights
• Investment in brand differentiation through further enhancements, a succession  
of initiatives to Direct Line proposition and improved trading capability across  
Churchill and Privilege, particularly on price comparison websites
• Improved customer retention rates for motor and home products, and Net Promoter 
Score for Direct Line brand
• Reduced total costs
1
 for ongoing operations by 4.6% in 2015 while investing  
in technical pricing, claims management and self-service initiatives
• Doubled Motor telematics insurance in-force policies; and growth in Commercial  
in-force policies through eTrade and direct channels
• Invested in digital capability, including the roll out of new quote and buy journeys  
for Home and Green Flag insurance products, and development of next generation  
of customer systems
Note:
1. See glossary on pages 174 and 175
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 2  18.5%
15y 14y 13y
Return on tangible equity
1
(%) 
18.5 
Target
At least 15%
16.0
16.8 
15y 14y 13y
£3,152.4m
Gross written premium
1
Ongoing operations (£m)  
3,222.1 
3,099.4 
3,152.4
50.1p
Dividend per share
2
(pence) 
15y 14y 13y
14.0
8.0 
27.5
12.6
13.2
8.8 13.8
94.0%
15y 14y 13y
Combined operating ratio
1
Ongoing operations
1 
(%) 
95.2 
95.0 
94.0 
£520.7m
15y 14y 13y
Operating proﬁt
Ongoing operations (£m) 
509.9 
506.0 
520.7
26.6p
15y 14y 13y
Adjusted diluted earnings 
per share
1
 
(pence) 
25.0 
25.5 
26.6
£884.7m
15y 14y 13y
Total costs
1 
Ongoing operations (£m) 
985.0
927.7
884.7
27.9p
15y 14y 13y
Basic earnings per share
 
Continuing operations (pence) 
20.8 
24.0 
27.9
£507.5m
15y 14y 13y
Proﬁt before tax
Continuing operations
1
 (£m) 
407.3 
456.8 
507.5
Notes:
1. See glossary on pages 174 and 175
2. The Board is proposing a final dividend of 9.2 pence per share, making a total regular dividend for 2015 of 13.8 pence per share.  
A first special dividend of 27.5 pence per share was paid in relation to the sale of the International division. In addition, the Board has resolved  
to pay a further special interim dividend of 8.8 pence per share.
www.directlinegroup.com 3
Strategic report Financial statements Governance Group at a glance
Protecting our customers
We have multiple brands, products and distribution channels. Each allows our customers to  
choose the right cover to protect their cars, homes, holidays, businesses and pets.
Motor
We are Britain’s leading personal motor insurer measured  
by in-force policies
1
, mainly represented through our highly 
recognised brands Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and  
also through our partners. We insure around one in seven  
cars on the road, representing 3.7 million in-force policies.
Home
We are Britain’s leading personal home insurer measured  
by in-force policies
1
. We reach our customers by selling  
home insurance products through our brands, Direct Line, 
Churchill and Privilege, and our partners – Sainsbury’s Bank, 
RBS, NatWest and Prudential.
We protect small and medium-sized enterprises (“SMEs”) 
through our brands, NIG, Direct Line for Business and 
Churchill, and through our partners RBS and NatWest.  
NIG sells its products exclusively through brokers operating 
across the UK. Direct Line for Business provides business,  
van and landlord insurance products direct to customers. 
Churchill sells van insurance direct to customers and through 
price comparison websites (“PCWs”).
Personal lines
Commercial
£1,406.7m
Gross written premium
92.4%
Combined operating ratio
3.7m
In-force policies
£338.0m
Operating profit
Rescue and other personal lines
We are one of the leading providers of rescue and other 
personal lines insurance in the UK
2,3
 with 8.3 million in-force 
policies. This includes providing roadside assistance and 
recovery for customers through Green Flag, the UK’s third-
largest roadside recovery provider
2
. We also offer customers 
protection for their pets and holidays, and we are the third 
largest insurer in the UK for these insurance products
3
.
£394.1m
Gross written premium
91.2%
Combined operating ratio
8.3m
In-force policies
£52.0m
Operating profit
£866.3m
Gross written premium
92.2%
Combined operating ratio
3.4m
In-force policies
£109.9m
Operating profit
£485.3m
Gross written premium
104.5%
Combined operating ratio
655k
In-force policies
£20.8m
Operating profit
Notes:
1. Includes Direct Line, Churchill, Privilege and partner brands: RBS, Nationwide (home only), NatWest, Prudential and Sainsbury’s © GfK Financial  
Research Survey (FRS) 6 months ending December 2015, 13,729 adults interviewed for motor insurance and 13,148 for home insurance
2. Mintel Vehicle Recovery – UK, September 2015
3. Mintel Pet Insurance – UK, August 2015 and Mintel Travel Insurance – UK, February 2015
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 4 Direct Line has maintained its brand 
heritage by selling products direct  
to customers exclusively by phone  
and internet. We target customers  
with a high affinity to the brand,  
and focus on providing a fast and 
straightforward service.
www.directline.com
NIG is our specialist 
commercial insurance brand, 
focused on SMEs. We sell 
our products through brokers, 
including an in-house 
intermediary that arranges 
RBS
1
 and NatWest 
commercial insurance.
www.nig.com
Green Flag is our roadside 
rescue and recovery provider. 
We sell it as a standalone 
service and an additional 
optional product alongside 
motor insurance. 
 
www.greenflag.com
Brand Partners is the 
Group’s partnerships arm. 
We specialise in providing 
personal lines insurance, 
and roadside rescue and 
recovery products to some 
well-known brands.
Direct Line for Business  
is an extension of our Direct 
Line brand. It is our direct 
commercial insurance brand 
for small businesses that have 
straightforward commercial 
insurance requirements. 
www.directlineforbusiness.co.uk
Churchill is a household name. 
We market our products by phone 
and internet, including PCWs.  
We target customers who have  
a high affinity to the brand, and  
who need an extra helping hand. 
www.churchill.com
Privilege targets customers who  
mainly buy through PCWs. We focus  
on making sure they experience  
a quick service at the best price. 
 
 
www.privilege.com
Our brands
Note:
1. The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, including National Westminster Bank plc 
www.directlinegroup.com 5
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Notes:
1. Deloitte report – UK Insurance Disrupted
2. Department for Transport – Statistical Release published on 4 February 2016 for year ending September 2015
Market overview
Our changing environment
We operate in a dynamic environment and the way we interact with customers is evolving. 
Customer expectations of insurance are being shaped by changes both inside and outside  
the industry with technology and regulation important parts of this. Providing excellent customer 
service and managing claims remain key aspects.
3%
reduction of casualties  
from all severities
2
Motor claims trends
Managing bodily injury claims  
costs remains key
UK road accidents have fallen for a number of years, but this trend has recently 
reversed. The cost per claim is also climbing, with bodily injury and repair  
costs being aspects of this increase. The UK still has one of the highest whiplash 
claims rates in Europe, over double that of many other European countries.  
This raises the potential for claims fraud. Insurers need to keep focusing on anti-fraud 
activities, without compromising service for genuine claimants. Civil justice reforms 
in 2013 have helped, but the industry and Government need to do more to tackle 
this fully. The recently announced Government intention to change the approach  
to soft tissue injury claims should be a step in the right direction.
Digitalisation
New services and escalating risk
The retail world continues to digitalise. Insurance needs to keep pace  
with customers who expect great service using different types of  
devices, and to interact directly with products and services themselves.  
Customers are willing to buy multiple products from one source,  
where businesses can provide what the customer needs and wants.
The digital economy creates new data sources. These are useful  
for marketing and underwriting, but come with new risks. Cyber risk  
affects insurers like any other online business. However, it also gives  
the industry new protection product opportunities.
77%
of 25 to 34 year olds willing to 
buy insurance via smartphone
1
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 6 Customer expectations
Every customer is different
Some see buying motor insurance as a way of staying  
on the right side of the law. Others see it as vital  
for protecting their livelihoods. People tend to view  
home and pet insurance as a more personal purchase,  
and the flooding in December has shown that home  
insurance can be invaluable. Whatever customers’  
needs, it is essential we offer them the best products  
and services, at the right price.
Notes:
1. Association of British Insurers (“ABI”) Agenda 2015-2020 Insurance matters
2. ABI news release 18 December 2015
3. Thatcham, Autonomous Emergency Braking: The Facts, January 2016
90%
UK households with one  
or more insurance products
1
Car technology
Disruptive technologies emerging  
now and in the future
This is an exciting time for the motor industry, creating opportunities  
and challenges for supporting companies. Telematics and diagnostics  
products are available through third-party and manufacturer-produced  
devices. The cost of these devices continues to drop as take-up increases.  
Advanced safety technologies, such as autonomous emergency braking,  
are here today and will advance in the next few years. Connected car 
technologies are still developing and are likely to become more common  
in future models. In time, the world may see fully autonomous cars.  
The insurance industry will need to be ready.
41%
of new vehicles on sale have the available option  
of an autonomous emergency braking system
3
Regulation
The pace of change remains rapid
The regulatory environment has changed significantly over the  
last few years. We expect this to continue. Solvency II’s arrival, 
changes to add-on selling practices and Flood Re’s expected 
introduction in 2016 are major developments for the industry.  
The Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) has indicated that 
consumer data will be an area of interest in the future. It remains 
important for us to continue communicating with regulatory  
bodies and to be ready to adapt in our changing world.
£3bn
industry expenditure  
on Solvency II
2
www.directlinegroup.com 7
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Business model
Creating value  
for our customers
Our multi-brand, multi-product and multi-distribution channel business offers different 
propositions to distinct customers. We believe this approach should enable us to generate 
value for customers and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
Read more about our key performance indicators on page 24
Read more about our risk management on page 26
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 8
Costs
Our people
Proﬁt Reinvest in the business
Dividends
Servicing
Our customers
Managing 
ﬁnances
Capital
Our shareholders
Claims
Investment and 
other income 
Premiums
Managing risk Making insurance much easier and better value for our customers
Our focused processes
Our disciplined approach
Customers are at the centre of our business model. So our 
mission is clear: we want to make insurance much easier and 
better value for them. We aspire to give them products that 
best suit their needs, and exceptional service throughout their 
relationship with us. We also strive to adapt to their changing 
needs. From the moment customers choose our products,  
to the time they claim or need to resolve an event, we treat 
every step of the customer journey as an opportunity to provide 
excellent service and outcomes.
We seek to make sure our business is well governed and 
controlled. We manage our finances carefully and balance 
this with targeting a suitable and sustainable return for 
our shareholders.
We hold assets that exceed our expected liabilities as capital. 
This is intended to absorb unexpected losses that might occur 
and is important to meet our regulatory capital requirements.
We prefer to adopt a conservative approach to claims 
reserving in order to hold sufficient funds to pay customer 
claims. This may result in subsequent releases from these 
reserves, which contribute to our annual profit. 
We aim to make it easy for our customers to access  
our products, and to give them what they are looking for. 
We want to make sure they have appropriate cover  
to protect against the unexpected.
Customers can buy products online – including through 
PCWs – by phone, and indirectly through our partners. 
In our Commercial business, they also buy our products 
through brokers.
Each brand provides products for one or more insurance 
segments: motor, home, rescue, pet, travel and commercial. 
By tailoring the mix of distribution channels for each product, 
we offer customers a blend of brands, products and  
services that best suit their needs.
Everyone, from our front-line staff to employees in support 
and central functions, helps ensure we meet customers’ 
needs. Without our people, we could not generate value 
for customers and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
Our shareholders are a big part of our business model. 
They invest in the business expecting to achieve a good 
level of return. So we aim to give our shareholders value 
by generating sustainable business profits. We reinvest 
part of this profit in the business or add to capital and, 
where appropriate, distribute the remainder to shareholders  
as dividends.
We ensure our products meet regulatory standards and 
that customers understand what they are buying from us. 
We also aim to price our policies accurately and invest 
our assets appropriately to minimise potential losses.
We transfer insurance risk through reinsurance in our normal 
business activities. External experts review our insurance 
claims reserves regularly. We mitigate risks by implementing 
our Group policies and minimum standards. These are 
reviewed regularly to ensure we are in line with the risk 
appetite that the Board sets.
Our business has operated on a large scale for almost  
30 years, giving us a deep insight into the risks we 
underwrite. This insight enables us to make our pricing  
more accurate. It also allows us to invest substantially  
in data and increase efficiencies. Again, this means  
we are better able to set accurate prices for the risks  
we underwrite.
Customers experience the value of their cover when they 
come to claim. So we aim to settle claims as quickly and 
easily as possible by engaging closely with our customers. 
This helps us demonstrate why our products and services 
are valuable, and to manage our claims costs.
www.directlinegroup.com 9
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chairman’s statement
Focused on creating  
long-term value
“ Returns to shareholders remained  
a key priority for the Board.  
Cumulative dividends represent  
approximately 60% of the share  
price at the initial public offering.”
Mike Biggs
Chairman
Dear shareholders,
The Group achieved another good set of results in 2015, 
through our focus on operating efficiency and our disciplined 
approach to underwriting in competitive markets. This enabled 
us to deliver an improvement in operating profit from ongoing 
operations to £520.7 million (2014: £506.0 million). This was 
despite higher than normal claims from major weather events 
following three storms in December.
Strategy update
Our mission is to make insurance much easier and better value 
for our customers. During 2015, our business progressed on 
delivering its strategic objectives and building future capability 
in line with this mission. We recognise that the changes  
we have planned are ambitious. They require substantial 
investment to deliver a step change in our digital capability 
together with an enhancement of core systems, which 
combined will be for our customers’ benefit.
Dividends
Under our progressive dividend policy, see page 96, we aim 
to increase the dividend annually in real terms. This aim reflects 
the potential of the Company’s cash-flow generation and 
long-term earnings. We are recommending a final dividend  
of 9.2 pence per share. If approved, the total regular dividend 
of 13.8 pence per share would represent 4.5% growth on 
2014’s regular dividend (13.2 pence per share), which is 
consistent with this policy.
Earlier in 2015, the Group completed the sale of its 
International division to Mapfre, S.A. and shareholders approved 
an 11-for-12 consolidation of the Company’s shares.  
This consolidation was to maintain comparability of share  
price and earnings per share before and after the payment  
of a special interim dividend. A special interim dividend  
of 27.5 pence per share, being substantially all of the net 
proceeds from the sale, was then paid on 24 July 2015.  
In addition, the Board has resolved to pay a further special 
interim dividend of 8.8 pence per share. This takes the total 
special interim dividends for 2015 to 36.3 pence per share.
Linking remuneration to performance
The Executive Directors guided the business in achieving 
another good performance in 2015, with operating profit  
from ongoing operations ahead of our financial targets.  
The Group has also made progress on its strategic objectives, 
including improving customers’ satisfaction with the service  
they experience. The delivery of these objectives is linked  
to the Executive Directors’ 2015 annual incentive plan  
(“AIP”) awards.
The Group achieved a return on tangible equity (“RoTE”) of 
18.5% for 2015. An increase of 39.9% in the share price to  
407.5 pence at 31 December 2015, together with dividend 
payments, provided a total shareholder return (“TSR”) of  
46.9% for the year. Since the initial public offering (“IPO”),  
the Group has delivered good results each year, enabling  
the Board to declare cumulative dividends, including special 
interim dividends, equivalent to approximately 60% of the  
IPO price. The delivery of this level of return to shareholders  
is reflected in the level of awards vesting under the long-term 
incentive plan (“LTIP”). More information on awards is given  
in the letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee,  
see page 70.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 10 Leadership
Your Board seeks to ensure that decisions are of the highest 
standard. It challenges strategic proposals, performance 
delivery and management responsibilities. See page 51.
Effectiveness
The effectiveness of your Board’s and its Committees’ 
performance is considered annually in effectiveness  
reviews. See page 53.
Accountability
Your Board provides shareholders with an assessment  
of the Group’s position and prospects. We monitor and 
review the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control systems. See pages 26 and 56.
Remuneration
Your Remuneration Committee ensures a close correlation 
between creating value for shareholders, and remunerating 
Executive Directors and senior executives appropriately.  
See pages 57 and 70.
Engagement
Your Board maintains strong relationships and regular 
interaction with our shareholders. Their continued support 
for our strategic aims is important. See page 57.
Solvency II
We are assessing the Group’s solvency capital requirements 
(“SCR”) using the standard formula until such time that the 
Group-wide partial internal model is approved by the Prudential 
Regulation Authority (“PRA”). At 31 December 2015, the Group 
held a capital surplus of £794.6 million above its capital 
requirements. This was equivalent to a pro forma
1
 Solvency II 
capital coverage ratio of 147.4%. Following approval, which 
is expected in mid-2016, we will disclose the recalibrated  
risk appetite range based on our Solvency II internal model 
which will take into account the sensitivities of the Group’s 
capital position on this basis. Whilst receiving internal model 
approval will remove a key uncertainty in relation to the 
Group’s capital position, the Board does not currently expect 
the recalibration of the risk appetite range to lead to a step 
change in the appropriate level of capital to be held.
Migrating IT infrastructure
The migration of our IT infrastructure away from RBS Group, 
while giving rise to many challenges, is now essentially 
complete. Your Board provided oversight of this substantial 
change. Ongoing focuses of the Board’s supervision include 
the development of future capability and the monitoring  
of risks associated with IT systems’ stability, cyber security  
and the internal control environment.
Regulation, conduct and culture
We maintain active relationships with our regulators. Your Board 
oversees the Group’s conduct risk policy and culture, which 
aim to ensure that we treat customers appropriately and  
that employees behave with integrity. We recognise that  
we have more to do to improve processes for our customers; 
however, your Board is pleased with improvements derived 
from our customer programmes. We continue to focus on this, 
as we develop new digital capabilities, core systems and  
new ways of interacting with our customers.
Board and Committee membership changes
Glyn Jones, our former Senior Independent Director (“SID”), 
stood down as a Director after the Company’s 2015 Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”), having decided to reduce the 
number of his non-executive directorships after becoming 
Chairman of a second listed company. I wish Glyn well  
and thank him for his dedicated commitment and excellent 
contribution to the Board.
I am grateful to Andrew Palmer, an Independent Non-Executive 
Director (“NED”) and Chair of our Audit Committee, for  
having agreed to act as our SID while a search for a new  
SID was undertaken. At the same time, Priscilla Vacassin,  
NED and Chair of the Remuneration Committee, was 
appointed as a member of the Nomination Committee.  
Clare Thompson, NED and Chair of the Corporate Social 
Responsibility (“CSR”) Committee, was appointed as Chair  
of the Investment Committee, of which she was already  
a member.
On 18 January 2016, I was delighted to welcome Dr Richard 
Ward to the Board as our new SID. Your Board will benefit 
from his deep knowledge of the insurance industry and his 
experience as Chairman and NED of other firms in the sector. 
Further details about Richard are to be found on page 49.
Governance highlights
As we announced on 16 February, Priscilla Vacassin  
has decided to step down from the Board with effect from  
1 March 2016. Priscilla has made a crucial contribution  
to the Board, exercising effective stewardship of the Group’s 
executive remuneration arrangements, and I wish her every 
success for the future. Clare Thompson has agreed to act as 
interim Chair of the Remuneration Committee from 1 March.  
At the same time she will step down as Chair and member  
of the CSR Committee and the Investment Committee and  
as a member of the Board Risk Committee. Andrew Palmer  
will be appointed as Chair of the Investment Committee  
and Sebastian James as Chair of the CSR Committee with 
effect from the same date.
Employees
I would also like to thank our employees for their hard  
work and commitment this year. I am always struck by their 
positive attitudes and energy. Their pride and dedication  
to supporting our customers helped our business progress  
in 2015, and has put us in a strong position.
Michael N Biggs
Chairman
www.directlinegroup.com 11
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chief Executive Officer’s review
Building our  
future capability 
“ Our customers are benefiting from the many 
improvements we’ve been making including  
new propositions and enhanced customer service.  
This has resulted in more customers coming  
to our brands and renewing with us.”
Paul Geddes
Chief Executive Officer
Overview of financial performance
As we celebrate our third year as a listed company, I am 
pleased with our performance in 2015. A focus on operating 
efficiency and disciplined underwriting in competitive  
markets enabled us to deliver an improved performance. 
Operating profit from ongoing operations increased 2.9%  
to £520.7 million, despite higher than normal claims  
following the floods that hit northern parts of the UK towards 
the end of 2015. This result included prior-year reserve 
releases of £378.9 million (2014: £397.6 million) which 
were higher than expected.
Desmond, Eva and Frank storms
We recognise that events like the flooding across the North  
of England and parts of Scotland are a reminder of just  
how important it is to have the right insurer and it gives us  
the opportunity to show our customers the benefit of being 
insured by one of our brands. When the floods hit we 
immediately put our emergency response plan into action.  
We had a visible presence on the ground with a network  
of almost 200 claims advisers and loss adjustors assessing 
damage, distributing emergency payments and putting 
customers in alternative accommodation as quickly as  
possible. Following the efforts of our people, who worked 
tirelessly on the ground and on the phones to process over 
5,000 claims, the cost to our business was approximately 
£130 million, but I am very proud of the way we responded 
and supported our customers during this time.
Being a great retailer
Throughout 2015 we have focused on differentiating our 
brands and improving our propositions. Customers have 
responded well to the Direct Line brand’s new positioning  
and propositions and helped strengthen our retention rates, 
which are over 80%.
We also refreshed the Churchill brand, emphasising the 
‘depend on the dog’ strapline in new TV advertisements.  
The refresh also highlighted its protective nature, such as the 
promise to pay a claim even if our customers are hit by  
an uninsured driver.
Additionally, we have improved our trading capability. This 
boosted our competitiveness significantly, including on PCWs. 
Together, this activity has led to us improving performance,  
with Motor and Home in-force policies up 1.4% in 2015  
in our own brands.
Operating as a smart and efficient manufacturer
We know that staying efficient and flexible is key to increasing 
our competitiveness and improving our customers’ experience. 
Everyone working together to improve efficiency reduced our 
costs by 4.6% this year. Furthermore, our strategic leaders are 
spearheading a programme that will get the entire organisation 
thinking differently about how we spend our money.
We have also simplified and improved our claims services.  
For example, customers can now upload images of damage  
in their homes for assessors; track vehicle repairs on an online 
portal; and use Direct Line’s seven-day car repair service. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 12 Additionally, we invested in our pricing capabilities across our 
Personal Lines and Commercial businesses. This is aimed at 
broadening our footprint and improving our competitiveness.
Leading and disrupting our marketplace
We have a strong heritage in leading and disrupting our 
marketplace, and we want to build on our strong market 
positions. We will do this by identifying and investing in market 
developments that we believe can drive future growth.
We have continued growing our telematics offering, more  
than doubling our policy numbers in 2015. Our work analysing 
data for over 400 million miles of motoring is giving us pricing 
insights, which we expect will benefit us and our customers.
Within Commercial, we have been recognised for our leading 
capabilities in eTrade and direct. To meet our customers’ 
evolving needs, we have launched Professional Indemnity 
cover for Direct Line for Business and a cyber insurance 
product through NIG.
We believe we are making great progress, but know we  
have more to do to stay at the front of our markets.
Investing in data and technology
Consumers are surrounded by emerging technologies.  
So we want to make sure our systems can support future 
developments. We have now essentially finished the migration 
of our IT systems from RBS Group. This has been a complex 
and challenging programme, and we are still working to 
improve the performance of our IT systems across the board.  
At the same time, we are building the next generation of 
systems that can help us interact with our customers in a 
digitally efficient way. Furthermore, like businesses worldwide, 
we are increasing our focus on cyber security.
Developing our culture and capability
Our people continue to be a foundation of our business.  
They have been instrumental in delivering the changes we 
needed to realise our goals. In 2014, to mark three years 
since our IPO and recognise their dedication, we told our 
employees that they would receive free shares, on top of the 
shares they received at the time of the IPO. In view of our 
performance in 2015, we made a further award of around 
£250 of free shares to all eligible employees. We are  
pleased that overall our people are engaged in developing 
our business and can share in its success.
Our latest total engagement levels have risen to 60%,  
which is a 15 percentage points rise compared to 2014.  
We have a series of action plans evolving, so we will  
continue gathering feedback from our people to ensure  
we are focusing on areas where we need to improve.
We have also invested in training and developing our 
customer-facing employees, helping them interact with 
customers in a new and refreshing way. This is delivering  
good results and resonating well with our customers.  
Our satisfaction rating tool, MyCustomer, has shown  
an improvement of 23% and our Net Promoter Score  
for the Direct Line brand has increased by 7.5 points,  
a good reflection of this success.
Our people are working hard and providing benefits for  
our business and customers. We have continued recognising their 
outstanding achievements through our Chief Executive Awards.
We also introduced a new initiative which rewards employees 
for proposing ideas that reduce Group costs or make insurance 
easier for customers. This has generated excitement throughout 
the organisation and, to date, we have received over  
4,000 entries.
Strategic priorities for 2016
Following the rearticulation of our strategy in 2015, many  
of our 2016 priorities build on initiatives begun in 2015. 
Improving customer experience remains key, with a focus  
on cross channel distribution, while reducing complaints and 
improving the customer renewal process. We will continue  
to strive to improve operating efficiency.
Outlook
Our markets remained highly competitive during 2015 and  
in early 2016. While premium rates in the motor market  
have increased, this should be viewed in the context of rising 
claims costs and higher levels of insurance premium tax (”IPT”).  
The home market experienced premium deflation in 2015 
overall, although underlying market pricing was broadly stable 
towards the end of 2015 as IPT increases were reflected. 
Overall, the increase in IPT has seen shopping in the market 
increase modestly. The rescue and commercial markets also 
experienced increased competitor activity during the year.
Against this backdrop, we continue to adopt a disciplined 
approach to managing the trade-off between margin and 
volumes, whilst continuing to seek opportunities to improve 
efficiency. We aim to reduce total costs in absolute terms in 
2016 compared to 2015. The rate of reduction is expected  
to be lower in 2016 than in 2015 due in part to the cost  
of the Flood Re levy. Meanwhile, we are continuing  
to invest in building future capability.
For 2016, we expect to achieve a COR in the range of  
93% to 95% for ongoing operations, assuming a normal 
annual level of claims from major weather events.
My thanks go to our people for their hard work and support 
throughout the year. I am excited by their passion and 
dedication, and by how everyone works tirelessly to make 
insurance much easier and better value for our customers.
Paul Geddes
Chief Executive Officer
www.directlinegroup.com 13
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our strategy
Great  
retailer
Smart & efficient 
manufacturer
Lead & disrupt  
the market
Make insurance much easier  
and better value for our customers
Data & technology
Culture & capability
Capital & risk management
Our mission
Our strategic pillars
Long-term ambition: 
Sustainable growth  
and at least 15% RoTE
Our key enablers
Our clear and concise 
strategic direction
We have articulated our strategy around a simple mission: to make insurance much easier 
and better value for our customers. We believe that delivering this strategy will allow us  
to grow sustainably, whilst targeting at least a 15% return on tangible equity.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 14 Great  
retailer
Smart & efficient 
manufacturer
We aim to make it easy for our customers to access our 
products and services at every stage. This includes increasing 
online servicing for customer policies and claims, and evolving 
telephone sales and servicing by investing in next-generation 
customer systems. We focus on training our contact centre 
employees to understand customer needs better.
How we performed in 2015
Work to differentiate our brands has continued with enhancements 
for the Direct Line brand’s customers. Following a succession  
of initiatives during 2015, Direct Line customers now benefit 
from a seven day car repair service, guaranteed hire car  
as standard on comprehensive motor policies, an eight hour 
turnaround to dispatch certain lost or damaged household 
goods and the removal of amendment fees from all Direct Line 
branded products.
Churchill’s branding has also been refreshed with a campaign 
to highlight its dependability. We have reinforced the product 
and service to differentiate it from other brands, including  
on PCWs. This, together with an increased trading capability 
across Churchill and Privilege, has contributed to an improvement 
in Motor and Home own brands PCW sales.
These improved propositions, as well as a focus on improving 
customer experience and reducing complaints, have contributed 
to an increase in our Direct Line brand’s Net Promoter Score, 
along with further improvements in retaining customers in our 
Motor and Home own brands.
Our investment in digital capability continued with the roll  
out of smartphone and tablet optimised websites, including 
new quote and buy journeys, for Home and Green Flag 
insurance products. These have built on last year’s successful 
implementation of a new quote and buy journey for Motor. 
Quote and buy journeys have continued to be optimised  
to take account of customer preferences depending on brand 
and distribution channel.
Our objectives for 2016
Improving customer experience remains a key target,  
with a focus on cross-channel distribution, while reducing 
complaints and improving the customer renewal process.
We aim to improve efficiency and effectiveness across  
the organisation. We intend doing this by delivering 
transformational initiatives, and making sure we provide  
quality and value for money every day. This goes beyond 
reducing costs. We always seek to design and deliver  
new capabilities in a cost-efficient way.
How we performed in 2015
We continued to improve efficiency in 2015 with a reduction 
in total costs of 4.6% while continuing to invest in capability. 
Reductions in underlying costs have been achieved in a 
number of areas including marketing, technology and property.
New pricing projects have been implemented which aim  
to broaden our competitive quote footprint for Motor and 
Home products. We continue to invest in and to evolve the 
sophistication of our telematics pricing.
We have given our customers additional self service options 
within claims management where certain stages of Motor, 
Home, pet and travel claims can be managed online.  
This has improved efficiency and led to faster settlement times. 
We’re continuing to aim to beat market claims inflation.
We are importing relevant Personal Lines capabilities into  
our Commercial operations, including improved Van technical 
pricing and the launch of webchat for the broker market.
Our objectives for 2016
We continue to strive to improve operating efficiency and  
aim to reduce total costs in absolute terms in 2016 compared 
to 2015. The rate of reduction will be lower in 2016 than  
in 2015 due in part to the cost of the Flood Re levy.
Partnerships remain strategically important and we will look  
to build on our improving manufacturing capability to deliver 
what we aim to be market leading propositions to current 
partners, as well as to build relationships with future partners.
Compelling brands, propositions and customer 
experience to meet diverse and long-term 
customer needs
Efficiency and flexibility to deliver better  
claims and customer service at lower cost
www.directlinegroup.com 15
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our strategy continued
Lead & disrupt  
the market
Data &  
technology
We aim to remain a leading competitor in our chosen markets 
by providing quality propositions and value for money.  
Where there are opportunities, we will look to launch new  
and exciting products and services. These will aim to put  
us at the forefront of disruptive market changes.
How we performed in 2015
We continue to build on our current strong market position  
by identifying and investing in market developments we believe 
can contribute to future growth. In particular, we’re focusing  
on growing our telematics-based motor insurance product, 
more than doubling our telematics customers in the year to 
78,000. As of the fourth quarter of 2015, 28% of our under 
25 year olds’ driver Motor premium was from telematics 
products. This growth has been achieved with the help of 
wider market appreciation of the benefits of telematics for 
younger drivers, recognition of our straightforward, self-install 
product and improved distribution through PCWs. Retention 
has proved strong amongst better drivers. Furthermore, the 
Group has launched an app-based over 25s offering and  
has supported a major motor manufacturer by using telematics 
as a key part of a new car customer proposition.
In Commercial, we continue to be recognised for our leading 
capabilities in eTrade and direct Commercial insurance,  
both of which are expected to be growing parts of the 
commercial market place. Commercial products are now  
more widely available to customers directly, with the launch  
of Churchill Van on two of the major PCWs. Commercial’s 
product offering has been extended with the roll-out of 
professional indemnity for Direct Line for Business and cyber 
cover for NIG’s customers distributed through the broker 
channel. These new products are fully reinsured.
Our objectives for 2016
New car technology centred on improving safety is emerging 
at a fast pace and the Group aims to take a lead by 
becoming the insurer of choice for the owners of these cars. 
The Group is the insurance partner to the Move UK research 
consortium which is looking at analysing the development  
and deployment of automated driving systems, as well as 
investigating the motor liability legal framework in the future.
In Commercial, the Group is looking at ways to leverage its 
leading capabilities in eTrade and direct Commercial insurance 
as these markets adapt to evolving distribution trends.
Maximise existing growth opportunities while 
creating and driving future areas of value
We aim to harness the power of technology to make things 
easier for our customers and our people. By implementing 
integrated systems that are flexible and efficient, we can 
reduce costs while improving customer interactions such as 
self-service. We also enjoy a wealth of data from being a major 
insurer for a number of years, which we can use to make our 
business better for our customers.
How we performed in 2015
We have now essentially finished the migration of our  
IT systems from RBS. This has been a complex and challenging 
programme for the business.
Our investment in digital capability continued with the build, 
roll out and support of smartphone and tablet optimised 
websites for our Home and Green Flag insurance products. 
These have built on last year’s successful implementation  
and support of a new website for Motor.
Consumers are surrounded by emerging technologies,  
so we continued to develop our next generation of systems  
that can help us interact with our customers in a digitally 
efficient way.
Our objectives for 2016
We are targeting improved performance and cost effectiveness 
from our IT systems.
Harness the power of technology  
and scale of our data
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 16 We are continuing to invest in our employees’ skills. This will 
help us to improve effectiveness and customer experiences, 
and get the best from our new systems. We aim to create 
excellent Group-wide employee engagement by focusing  
on leadership and people management at all levels. This has 
helped improve our employee engagement metrics year  
on year.
How we performed in 2015
Our people engagement scores improved during 2015  
and we made progress in preparing our staff for new  
systems and processes. We launched a number of people 
engagement events over the course of the year, including:
• ‘Launch pad’ event, communicating our new strategy 
framework to our people managers
• ‘Idea Lab’ launched with more than 6,000 employees 
active on it. They submitted more than 1,500 business 
development ideas in the first month alone and  
4,000 entries have been received to date
Our objectives for 2016
We will aim to sustain high performance whilst building 
on our improvements in people engagement in 2015. 
Improving efficiency and effectiveness across the organisation  
will also be an important part of our 2016 plans.
Unlock and accelerate our people’s potential
Our capital management policy seeks to maintain an 
appropriate level of capital and solvency to support our 
business, whilst growing dividends annually in real terms.
How we performed in 2015
Our hard work throughout 2015 meant we were well 
positioned for Solvency II’s introduction at the start of 2016. 
We submitted an application to the PRA for the Group’s 
principal underwriter, U K Insurance Limited (“UKI”), to use  
its internal economic capital model, validated by external 
experts, as part of a Group-wide partial internal model.
We have a strong culture of considering customers’ perspectives.
Our objectives for 2016
We aim to embed further and build on our risk management 
decision-making processes developed in 2015, and to 
continue to identify and mitigate risks. Additionally, and subject 
to PRA approval, we plan to operate from mid-2016 using our 
internal model for calculating solvency capital requirements.
Sound foundation of capital and 
risk management
Culture &  
capability
Capital & risk 
management
www.directlinegroup.com 17
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 18 www.directlinegroup.com 19
We’re delivering 
improved customer 
experience  
and satisfaction
This year, we built on Direct Line’s new 
positioning. For example, we made the 
bold move to include a guaranteed hire 
car as standard for all Direct Line Motor 
customers, a benefit that customers can 
only get with our motor insurance product.
In addition, we introduced or continued  
the following Direct Line propositions: the 
proposition to repair vehicles within seven 
days; replace stolen or damaged essential 
household items with cash or a brand  
new replacement within eight hours; and 
remove amendment fees.
Our strategic pillars
Great  
retailer
96,000
social media interactions
1,100
homes affected by floods visited
These initiatives have helped strengthen 
retention of customers.
Aside from introducing new propositions, 
we were also there for our customers  
at their time of need during the floods that 
hit homes in the northern parts of England 
and in parts of Scotland towards the end 
of 2015. The robust plans that we have  
in place for handling these types of events 
meant we were able to respond quickly  
to the needs of our customers. Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 20
We’re delivering 
efficiency and 
improving processes 
for our customers
We aim to reduce costs by improving and 
embedding efficiency throughout the business.
Delivering efficiency in our claims methods 
and processes benefits us and our 
customers. This year, we introduced new 
propositions that helped us drive down 
claims inflation and improve efficiency. 
Our strategic pillars
Smart & efficient 
manufacturer
10%
increase in productivity from  
nitro-thermal painting spraying system
300,000
vehicle repair SMS text updates sent
Motor customers can now upload images 
of damage to their vehicles and track 
repairs on an online portal, plus we have 
also introduced a service to repair cars 
within seven days for Direct Line customers. www.directlinegroup.com 21 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 22 www.directlinegroup.com 23
We’re focused 
on delivering 
innovation to meet
customer needs
Direct Line for Business targets the UK’s 
growing number of small businesses.  
It appeals to customers who want to buy 
robust and clear cover quickly and easily.
Our award-winning Landlord Insurance  
is delivering on this promise.
This highly flexible cover for landlords and 
buy-to-let owners gives them the confidence 
of knowing their properties are protected.
Customers also receive support from  
a dedicated claims handler, who manages 
claims efficiently from start to finish.
Our strategic pillars
Lead & disrupt  
the market
71,000
new Landlord insurance in-force policies
4,000
downloads of smartphone Landlord app Our key performance indicators
Defining and measuring  
our performance
These key performance indicators assess our performance against our strategy.
 Read more about our rewards for performance on page 70, and for definitions see the glossary on pages 174 and 175.
 18.5%
15y 14y 13y
Return on tangible equity
 
(%) 
16.0 
16.8 
18.5
Target
At least 15%
50.1p
Dividend per share
1
(pence) 
15y 14y 13y
14.0
8.0 
27.5
12.6
13.2
8.8 13.8
27.9p
15y 14y 13y
Basic earnings per share
Continuing operations
(pence) 
20.8 
24.0 
27.9
94.0%
15y 14y 13y
Combined operating ratio
Ongoing operations
 
(%) 
95.2 
95.0 
94.0 
Definition
The return generated on the capital 
that shareholders have in the business. 
This is calculated by dividing adjusted 
earnings by average tangible equity.
The amount of cash paid to 
shareholders from the Group’s profit.
This is calculated by dividing the 
earnings attributable to shareholders 
by the weighted average number  
of Ordinary Shares in issue.
A measure of financial year underwriting 
profitability. It is the sum of the claims, 
commissions and expenses divided by 
net earned premium. This excludes 
instalment and other operating income, 
and investment return. A COR of less than 
100% indicates profitable underwriting.
Aim
We aim to achieve at least a  
15% RoTE. We achieved this  
in 2015.
We have a progressive dividend 
policy and aim to grow the dividend 
in real terms each year. Additionally, 
we look to return surplus capital  
to shareholders when appropriate.
We have not set a target. 
However, growing earnings per 
share is considered an indicator 
of a healthy business.
We aim to make an underwriting 
profit. For 2016, we expect  
to achieve a COR in the range  
of 93% to 95% for ongoing 
operations, assuming a normal  
annual level of claims from major 
weather events.
Performance
See Finance review page 41. See Finance review page 42. See Finance review page 41. See Finance review page 39.
Link to Directors’ remuneration
We base LTIP awards partly on RoTE 
over a three-year performance period.
We base LTIP awards partly on 
relative TSR performance, which 
includes dividends. Directors also 
receive dividends on their beneficial 
shareholdings and accrue these  
on unvested LTIP awards.
This is a broad measure of earnings 
and reflects the results of the Run-off 
segment and restructuring and other 
one-off costs, in addition to underlying 
operating profit. The AIP awards  
have a weighting to these other 
financial measures.
We base part of the AIP awards  
on ongoing operating profit.  
COR is closely linked to this.
Note:
1. See note 2 on page 3.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 24 £884.7m
15y 14y 13y
Total costs
 
Ongoing operations (£m) 
985.0
927.7
884.7
15y 14y 13y
148.7
148.2
147.4
147.4%
Capital coverage
1  
Total Group (%) 
15y 14y 13y
0.33
0.35
0.33
0.33%
Complaints
 
Principal underwriter
3
 (%) 
15y 14y 13y
100.0
110.8
118.3
7.5pts increase
Net Promoter Score
2 
Direct Line brand (points) 
Definition
The cost of doing business, including 
paying our people, marketing expenses, 
and spending on infrastructure and IT. 
This includes the costs we incur handling 
claims, but excludes any commissions 
we pay to brokers or partners, and 
restructuring and other one-off costs.
A measure to show the level of  
capital held compared to the level  
that is required, taking into account 
the risks we face.
Net Promoter Score is an index that 
measures the willingness of customers 
to recommend products or services  
to others. It is used to gauge customers’ 
overall experience with a product  
or service and the customer’s loyalty  
to a brand.
The number of complaints we received 
during the year as a proportion of the 
average number of in-force policies.
Aim
Our aim for 2015 was to reduce  
the level of overall costs by improving 
efficiency, which we achieved. We will 
continue to strive to improve operating 
efficiency and aim to reduce total costs 
in absolute terms in 2016 compared 
to 2015. The rate of reduction will be 
lower than previous years, due in part 
to the cost of the Flood Re levy.
We target capital coverage to remain 
within our risk appetite. We also aim 
to maintain a rating in the ‘A’ range 
from our credit rating agencies. Both 
of these aims were satisfied in 2015.
Our aim is to improve this 
incrementally to achieve high  
levels of customer loyalty and  
retention rates.
This measure indicates the level  
of customer service we provide.  
We aim to improve this over time.
Performance
See Finance review page 40. See Finance review pages 44 and 45. Customer claims experience 
programmes and improved 
propositions have contributed to an 
increase in our overall brand score.
While the proportion of complaints 
received improved on 2014,  
we recognise that we have more  
to do to reduce these.
Link to Directors’ remuneration
AIP awards relating to 2015 include 
a weighting relating to cost targets.
Risk management within risk appetite, 
which includes an assessment of capital 
strength, acts as a gateway for the  
AIP awards.
The AIP awards include a weighting 
to a balance of customer metrics.
The AIP awards include a weighting 
to a balance of customer metrics.
Notes:
1. Pro forma based on Solvency II standard formula estimated preliminary regulatory returns for 31 December 2015 and adjusted for final and second special 
interim dividends.
2. On an aggregated 12 months rolling basis, with 2013 rebased to 100.
3. For the Group’s principal underwriter, U K Insurance Limited; it excludes discontinued operations.
www.directlinegroup.com 25
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Managing our risks
Our business is risk, so managing this effectively and efficiently is critical to the success  
of our strategy.
Managing risk in line with our strategy
Management, and ultimately the Board, are responsible  
for developing our strategy. Our strategic planning process 
aims to ensure we have developed clear objectives and 
targets, and identified the actions needed to deliver them, 
including the management of risks. These clear objectives are 
consistent with our overall long-term ambition of sustainable 
growth and at least a 15% RoTE within our risk appetite.  
To find out more about our strategy, see page 14.
Our risk governance structure
The Board sets and monitors adherence to the risk strategy,  
risk appetite and risk framework. It has established a risk 
management model that separates responsibilities into  
Three Lines of Defence.
Our First Line of Defence is responsible for ownership  
and management of risks to the achievement of business 
objectives on a day-to-day basis. The Second Line of Defence 
is responsible for the provision of proportionate oversight  
and challenge of risks, events and management actions. 
Group Audit are the Third Line of Defence and provides  
an independent view of the effectiveness of risk management 
and controls – see diagram below.
Risk appetite
Our risk appetite statements define the opportunities and 
associated risks we are prepared to accept to achieve our 
business objectives – see table on the next page. To monitor 
whether the business remains within risk appetite, the statements 
are aligned to key risk indicators (“KRIs”) which are used  
to drive risk-aware decision making.
These KRIs are qualitative and quantitative, and both forward 
and backward looking. We review our risk appetite statements 
and KRIs annually, using outputs from the internal economic 
capital model.
The Group is recalibrating its risk appetite range in relation  
to the Solvency II internal model and expects to disclose  
the output of this later in 2016.
Board
Executive
Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer
 Disclosure 
Committee
Risk Management 
Committee
Third Line of Defence
Independent assurance
Second Line of Defence
Risk and Compliance oversight, challenge 
and support of First Line
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
CSR
Committee
Investment
Committee
Audit
Committee
Specialist functions 
with Second Line 
responsibilities for certain 
policies and 
minimum standards: 
Finance
Chief Information Ofﬁce
Claims (Business Services)
Human Resources
Legal Company Secretariat
 
Tools:
High level controls and 
systems of governance
Enterprise Risk Management
Strategy and Framework
Delegated authorities Policies
Minimum standards
Risk appetite
Assurance and monitoring
Oversight and governance
Own Risk and Solvency Assessment
First Line of Defence
Risk ownership
Group Audit
Board Risk
Committee
Board
Personal Lines
Commercial
Claims
Finance
Chief Information Ofﬁce
Human Resources
Legal Company Secretariat
Our risk governance structure
Risk management
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 26 Our Enterprise Risk Management Strategy 
and Framework
This sets out, at a high level, our approach to setting risk 
strategy and the Enterprise Risk Management Framework (“ERMF”) 
for managing risks. It documents the high-level principles and 
practices to achieve appropriate risk management standards, 
and demonstrates the inter-relationships between components 
of the ERMF – see diagram.
The ERMF enables us to run the business with the requisite 
understanding of our risks and controls, as well as having 
appropriate oversight in place to manage risks proactively.  
It is aligned to the Three Lines of Defence model and is intended 
to provide a coherent, robust, fit for purpose, end-to-end 
approach for managing all material risks. A central component 
of the ERMF is our policy framework, which includes policies 
and minimum standards. These inform the business how  
it needs to conduct activities to remain within risk appetite.
The Board approves our strategy, risk appetite and policies, 
and the Board Risk Committee approves the Enterprise Risk 
Management Strategy and Framework.
Our risk culture
Our risk culture underpins our business and decision-making, 
and helps us embed a robust approach to risk management. 
Our risk culture is demonstrated in the understanding and 
business-wide use of the risk management systems and processes, 
and through risk-aware decision making. The Board is committed 
to promoting a culture of high standards of corporate governance, 
business integrity, ethics and professionalism in all of our activities.
Our risk objectives and appetite
Risk objective Risk appetite statement
Overarching risk objective
The Group recognises that its long-term sustainability is dependent on having sufficient 
economic capital to meet its liabilities as they fall due, thus protecting its reputation  
and the integrity of its relationship with policyholders and other stakeholders.
As part of this, its appetite is for general insurance risk, focusing on personal lines  
retail and SME insurance in the UK. The Group has appetite for non-insurance risks,  
as appropriate, to enable and assist it to undertake its primary activity of insurance.
1. Maintain capital adequacy The Group seeks to maintain sufficient economic capital consistent with our strategic  
aim of achieving a standalone credit rating in the ‘A’ range.
2.  Stable and efficient access  
to funding and liquidity
The Group aims to meet both planned and unexpected cash outflow requirements, including 
those requirements that arise following a one-in-200 years insurance, market or credit risk event.
3.  Maintain stakeholder  
confidence
The Group has no appetite for material risks resulting in reputational damage, regulatory  
or legal censure, fines or prosecutions and other types of non-budgeted operational risk 
losses associated with Group conduct and activities. The Group will maintain a robust  
and proportionate internal control environment. 
Risk  
profile
Reporting & 
monitoring
Group strategy
Risk appetite
Policy framework
Principal risks
Identify
Assess
Manage
Monitor
Report
Risk management
www.directlinegroup.com 27
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Principal risks Owner Management and mitigation examples
Insurance risk
• Reserve
• Underwriting
• Distribution
• Pricing
• Reinsurance
The risk of loss due to fluctuations  
in the timings, amount, frequency  
and severity of an insured event relative 
to the expectations at the time of 
underwriting. See pages 123 to 124.
Chief Financial 
Officer,  
Managing Directors 
of Personal Lines  
and Commercial
• We estimate technical reserves using various actuarial and 
statistical techniques. Management’s best estimate of total 
reserves is set at not less than the actuarial best estimate
• Third parties carry out reviews of our reserves
• Underwriting guidelines are set for all transacted business  
and pricing refined by analysing comprehensive data
• Catastrophe and motor excess of loss reinsurance limits  
our exposure to events and large losses
• We invest in enhanced external data to analyse and  
mitigate exposures
Market risk
• Spread
• Interest rate
• Property
The risk of loss resulting from  
fluctuations in the level and in the 
volatility of market prices of assets, 
liabilities and financial instruments.  
See pages 124 to 126.
Chief Financial 
Officer
• We manage and control the risks in our investment  
portfolio through:
− investment strategy approved by the Board
− diversification of the types of assets, limits on the amount  
of illiquid investments, and tight control of individual  
credit exposures
− risk-reduction techniques, such as hedging foreign currency 
exposures with forward contracts and hedging exposure  
to US interest rates with swap contracts
Credit risk
• Counterparty default
• Concentration
The risk of loss resulting from fluctuations 
in the credit standing of issuers of 
securities, counterparties and any 
debtors to which we are exposed.  
See pages 126 to 130.
Chief Financial 
Officer
• Credit limits are set for each counterparty and we actively 
monitor credit exposures
• We only purchase reinsurance from reinsurers with at least  
an ‘A-’ rating
Operational risk
• Information security
• IT and business continuity
• Partnership contractual obligations
• Change
• Financial reporting
• Model
• Outsourcing
The risk of loss due to inadequate  
or failed internal processes, people, 
systems or from external events.
Specific members  
of the Executive
• We have appropriate operational processes and systems, 
including detection systems for fraudulent claims
• We are working to improve the performance of our IT systems 
across the board, while focusing on the development of future 
systems capability. With significant change underway,  
we are monitoring risks associated with our IT systems’  
stability, cyber security and the internal control environment
• Our risk management system is designed to enable us to 
capture risk information in a robust and consistent way
• We monitor performance of outsourced activities
Risk management continued
Principal risks and uncertainties
We carry out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing us. Principal risks are defined as having a residual risk impact  
of £40 million or more on profit before tax or net asset value on a one-in-200 years basis, taking into account customer,  
financial and reputational impacts. We believe that the risk profile remains broadly unchanged over the last year.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 28 Principal risks Owner Management and mitigation examples
Regulatory and conduct risk
• Regulatory
• Conduct
• Compliance
The risks leading to reputational 
damage, regulatory or legal censure, 
fines or prosecutions and other  
types of non-budgeted operational  
risk losses associated with our  
conduct and activities.
Chief Financial 
Officer,  
Chief Risk Officer  
and Managing 
Director of  
Personal Lines
• We maintain a constructive and open relationship with  
our regulators
• Specific risk management tools and resources are used  
to help manage our exposure to regulatory risk
• Risk-based monitoring is designed to ensure we use  
our resources effectively
• We have a strong culture of considering customers’ 
perspectives, and delivering the right outcomes for our 
customers is central to how we operate
• Robust customer conduct risk management is intended  
to minimise our exposures
Strategic risk
• Strategy formulation
• Strategy implementation
The risk of direct or indirect adverse 
impact on the earnings, capital, or 
value of our business as a result of the 
strategies not being optimally chosen, 
implemented or adapted to changing 
conditions.
Chief Executive 
Officer
• We agree, monitor and manage strategic targets
• An annual strategy process is run which considers our 
performance, competitor positioning and strategic opportunities
• Emerging risks are identified and managed using established 
governance processes and fora
Brand and reputational risk is now considered within the drivers of other risk types such as regulatory and conduct,  
operational and strategic risks.
Emerging risks
Our definition of emerging risk is newly developing or changing risks that are often difficult to quantify, but may materially  
affect our business. We have further defined emerging risks as highly uncertain risks that are external to our business.  
We record emerging risks within an Emerging Risk Register. These are reported to the Risk Management Committee and  
Board Risk Committee for them to review, challenge, approve and feed into the Board’s strategic planning process.
Our emerging risks processes aim to:
• Achieve ‘first mover advantage’ by recognising risks and associated opportunities early
• Reduce the uncertainty and volatility of our business’s results
• Manage emerging risks proactively
We consider our main emerging risks to be the following:
Technological change in driving habits reduces consumer need for motor insurance
New car technologies, such as crash-prevention technologies and driverless cars, could significantly affect the size and nature  
of the insurance market, and the role of insurers.
Changes to traditional insurance business models
New market entrants and changes in consumer expectations could result in significant changes to the structure of the general 
insurance market and require us to update our business model.
New methods of gathering and using customer data
Using ‘big data’ as part of our strategy could create new data management risks and issues; for example, complying with 
regulations relating to third-party access to telematics data.
www.directlinegroup.com 29
Strategic report Governance Financial statements  
Helping to make  
our society safer
Proud to be here
Recognised as part of  
our communities
Reduce, Reuse  
and Recycle
Corporate social responsibility
Connecting with society
We seek to serve our customers in a way which recognises our wider commitment to society. 
We do this both through providing insurance and other services and through an understanding  
of the different ways in which our business connects with society.
Approach 
Our CSR strategy provides the framework for managing the 
different ways we connect with society. The strategy has four 
strands. As shown in the graphic, they are ‘Helping to make 
our society safer’, ‘Proud to be here’, ‘Recognised as part  
of our communities’ and ‘Reduce, Reuse and Recycle’.
We manage our strategy through our CSR Advisory Group, 
which comprises senior managers from across the business. 
Our sustainability team supports the Advisory Group.  
Individual members of our Executive Committee are 
accountable for each strand of the strategy. The CSR 
Committee’s role is to oversee our approach. See page 63.
You can find more details of our approach, including our  
CSR Charter, policy framework, performance against last 
year’s targets, and targets for 2016, on the Group’s website  
at www.directlinegroup.com.
Helping to make our society safer
We recognise that our products, services and operations  
affect our many stakeholders, and we seek to make our society 
safer for everyone. We contribute to many aspects of the  
road safety agenda, and aim to inspire a generation of safer 
young drivers.
Road safety
Despite increasing traffic on our roads, the number of serious 
accidents has reduced significantly since the turn of the century. 
Unfortunately, this trend has stalled in 2014. As Britain’s 
biggest car insurer, we believe we can have a vital role  
to play in making our roads safer.
During 2015, we worked with various partners to address 
road safety.
Brake
We have worked with Brake, the road safety charity, for  
13 years. In this time, we have produced survey reports on 
driver behaviour, attitudes and understanding, and released  
the results to the media to raise awareness of safe driving.  
This year’s reports have covered ‘driving offences and 
deterrents’, ‘crash protection and vehicle selection’, ‘winter 
driving’ and ‘use of head restraints’. Brake uses this research 
for its wider campaigning, education, community and 
professional engagement activities. We held an event in 
Westminster with parliamentarians to showcase this research. 
We also sponsored Brake’s Parliamentarian of the Year 
Awards, which recognise Members of Parliament who  
have campaigned on road safety issues.
PACTS
We launched the Road Safety Dashboard with the 
Parliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safety (“PACTS”). 
This pioneering tool uses Department of Transport statistics  
to produce an index that ranks the road safety record of 
individual parliamentary constituencies. This is the first time  
the data has been used to this level. We aim to encourage 
Members of Parliament to do more for road safety in their  
local constituencies.
We also sponsored PACTS’ Road Safety Summit. This saw 
practitioners, civil servants, academics and enforcement 
services discussing changes to the law associated with drink, 
drugs and using mobile phones while driving. Additionally, 
policymakers and campaigners attended the annual PACTS 
Westminster lecture.
To find out more about our CSR Committee, see page 63.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 30 Department for Transport
We have proactively engaged with the Department for 
Transport on various topics, including telematics technology, 
driverless cars and the concept of a graduated driving licence.
Young drivers
Last year, the CSR Committee held a strategy session to 
consider how we might best use our expertise and experience 
to reduce deaths and life-changing injuries on the UK’s roads.
In the UK, 490,000 drivers pass their test each year. It is still  
a significant rite of passage for many young people. However, 
it is also often a time when young drivers are at their most 
vulnerable.
Our data shows that accident rates among young drivers  
spike during their first year of driving, with one in four young 
drivers crashing in this time. Young drivers are also hugely  
over-represented in the most serious accidents. The impact  
on them, their passengers, their families and other road users 
can last a lifetime and has a huge effect on society generally.
There are various reasons why young drivers crash.  
These include over-confidence, a natural human urge to test 
personal boundaries and take risks, and hidden hazards. 
Using road-safety data and our knowledge of driver behaviour 
collected through telematics, we’ve identified contextual  
speed as a significant cause of fatal crashes involving  
young drivers.
New drivers only tend to fine-tune their decision-making when 
they no longer have an instructor in the car. In particular, deciding 
how fast they should or can go relies on experience of road 
conditions and predicting how other road users behave.
Young drivers’ first 1,000 miles are key. This is when the gap 
between perceived and actual driving competence, and hence 
risk, is greatest. So we have set ourselves the ambitious goal  
of cutting deaths in the first 1,000 miles to zero.
The biggest barrier to addressing this issue is that young  
drivers may feel immune to the risks. Our goal of inspiring  
a generation of safe careful drivers sits at odds with many of 
their motivations. They are pro-risk (although less than previous 
generations), competitive and relish the freedom of being  
a new driver. They may believe that most people drive faster 
than the speed limit and that good driving means travelling  
as fast as you can. To change behaviour, we have to change 
this perspective.
Safer young drivers
We want to cut deaths in the first 1,000 miles  
of driving to zero
Young drivers have an unacceptably high risk  
of death when they first take to the road:
• 1.5% of drivers are 17 to 19 years old, but they 
are involved in 12% of all fatal crashes
• A typical new driver becomes more dangerous  
in their first 1,000 miles of driving, even though  
they feel invincible
As Britain’s biggest motor insurer, we believe that  
every driver in Great Britain should have a safe first  
1,000 miles. We are planning to:
• Proactively use our brands, knowledge and 
expertise to find new ways to fix this problem
• Find ways to engage all audiences that can  
influence the situation including young drivers,  
parents, carmakers, road safety educators and 
policymakers, traffic planners and other insurers
We’ll start by developing a behavioural change 
campaign aimed directly at young drivers in 2016.
Manifesto
We believe talking at young people or trying to shock them 
does not work. To engage them we need to find a way  
to add to their driving experience. So we are looking to use  
our telematics technology to produce a smartphone app.  
We will support this with a communication and reward 
campaign that leverages peer pressure. It will also engage 
young drivers by making road safety conversations more 
relevant to them. If successful, we aim to make the app 
available to all newly-qualified young drivers in the UK.
www.directlinegroup.com 31
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate social responsibility continued
Reduce, Reuse and Recycle
We aim to manage our operations sustainably. As outlined 
below, we have progressed well. Looking ahead, we are 
focusing on our property and claims supply chain, where  
there is potentially more opportunity to improve.
Emissions
You can find information on Group-wide greenhouse gas 
(“GHG”) emissions in the chart – and more details of our 
emissions in the Directors’ report on page 98. We were 
delighted to win two awards at the Carbon Disclosure  
Project UK Results event last year. The awards recognised  
how we improved our performance and enhanced our 
disclosure of our emissions-related information.
Energy use is the main cause of our emissions. In absolute 
terms, we have reduced our emissions following the exit  
of several office buildings. Furthermore, our Property 
Management team has developed an energy-saving plan.  
This seeks to optimise our buildings’ heating, ventilation  
and air-conditioning systems, and invest in energy-efficient 
devices, such as lighting. Throughout 2015, 100% of the 
Group’s UK electricity was purchased on a green tariff.
Waste
Our system of sorting waste at source and introducing  
new signage has helped us increase the waste we recycle.  
In 2015, we recycled approximately 40% of waste from  
our office sites. We also recycled 54% of waste from our  
17.2%
15y 14y 13y
Greenhouse gas 
emissions
1
 (tonnes)
29,127
27,308
22,611
Waste recycled 38.7
Diverted from landﬁll 51.3
Ofﬁce waste 
(%)
Waste to landﬁll 10.0
90%
recycled or
diverted
UK Accident Repair Centres. By the end of 2015, we were 
diverting 100% of waste away from landfill including recycling.
Paper use
We have used new technology to reduce the amount of printer 
and copier paper we use. Our office paper is made from 
recycled material.
We are now focusing on reducing the paper we use to 
produce customer policy documents and are looking at ways 
to send customers these documents electronically. In 2015,  
we used 829 tonnes of paper for policy documents.
Suppliers
Our Ethical Code for Suppliers sets out our approach  
to managing CSR-related matters across our supply chain.  
For example, we have developed our partnership with ‘Anyjunk’. 
Following a claim, Anyjunk provide a waste-collection service 
that seeks to recycle household waste and is currently recycling 
almost 90% of waste that it collects from our customers.
Proud to be here
We approved a new people strategy in 2015. This supports 
our new business strategy, particularly regarding culture and 
our employees’ capabilities. In 2015, we focused on pride  
in Direct Line Group, encouraging and celebrating the strength 
of our workforce.
Engagement
In 2015, we continued developing and championing our 
various volunteer groups, such as Employee Representative 
Bodies, Community and Social Committees (“CASCs”),  
Local Coordination Teams, Health and Safety Representatives, 
and the Diversity Network Alliance. This has helped increase 
our employees’ voice and enabled the Group to serve 
customers better.
Employee feedback remains an important gauge of how our 
many varied initiatives affect change. In 2014, we began  
using a new and more challenging methodology that is aligned 
to our ambition to be a top employer.
In 2015, our people managers created over 460 individual 
action plans to improve their teams’ experience. This has played 
a major part in significantly improving our engagement score 
from 45% in 2014 to 60%. The percentage of our employees 
who are proud to work for the Group also increased from 68% 
in 2014 to 80%, while 70% tell others that the Group is a great 
place to work (up from 55% in 2014).
Note:
1. Emissions for continuing operations. This excludes discontinued operations, the Group’s former International division. Total Group scope 1  
and 2 emissions including discontinued operations were 23,143 tonnes (2014: 28,759 tonnes; 2013: 30,624 tonnes).
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 32 Diversity, inclusion and human rights
We continue to work towards an environment based  
on meritocracy and inclusion, where every employee can 
achieve their full potential, whatever their characteristics.
Our diversity and inclusion practices are in line with the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our Ethical Code  
for Suppliers requires that all our suppliers adhere to the  
core International Labour Organization standards.
During 2015, our Diversity Network Alliance became more 
visible throughout the business and externally. The team had  
a branded presence at various Pride events and a week-long 
internal focus on work-life balance. It also placed articles  
on our intranet and discussions on other internal platforms 
covering many diversity and inclusion issues. Many of our 
locations organised health and wellbeing events to advise  
on health and raise mental health awareness.
You can find the ratio of female-to-male employees  
at 31 December 2015 in the charts below.
To make it easier for our deaf and profoundly deaf  
customers to communicate with us, we introduced a Video 
Relay Service. This enables customers to connect to a sign 
interpreter. The interpreter then contacts our call centre  
and relays the conversation.
Living wage
We comply with the principles of the Living Wage Foundation, 
relating to our employees.
Recognised as part of our communities
We believe that our people’s feelings about working for the 
Group link to our reputation in the community. So we seek  
to align our giving with our employees’ interests.
Community and social committees
To engage our people, we run a network of CASCs, which 
comprise local volunteers. The CASCs receive central funding 
and support. Within an agreed framework, they are free to 
create their own programme of events and activities at their 
sites. They are also free to build relationships with local charities 
and voluntary organisations. Examples of events include:
• 450 employees from seven offices spending an evening 
manning phone lines for Comic Relief, taking 8,000 calls. 
Hundreds more fundraised on the day
• A masquerade ball in Leeds in aid of Cancer Research, 
Leeds MIND, Sue Ryder and Leeds Haven
• 50 employees from Manchester running 10 kilometres 
around the city centre to raise £5,000 for various  
local causes
Volunteering
We encourage all employees to volunteer individually or as  
a team through our ‘One Day initiative’. For example, our 
Finance team supported the Brook Lane Community Garden  
in Bromley. The team spent a day renovating the open space. 
This supported the Garden’s aim to enable people of all ages 
to learn cultivation skills and manage habitats that support 
wildlife. Our Employee Opinion Survey revealed that 32%  
of staff volunteered or fundraised in company time last year.
Matched giving and grants
In 2015, our employees donated £144,000 through our 
payroll giving scheme and we donated a further £97,000  
in matched giving. We also provided £51,000 in grants to 
organisations for which our employees fundraise or volunteer.
Male 5,512
Female 4,798
Gender diversity of all employees 
Male 5
Female 3
Gender diversity of Board of Directors
Male 103 
Female 29
Gender diversity of senior managers 
www.directlinegroup.com 33
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Operating review 
34   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
 
Motor 
Highlights 
• Retained position as Britain’s leading personal motor  
insurer ranked by in-force policies 
• In-force policies increased by 1.0% during 2015 with 
growth in each quarter following enhancement to own 
brands propositions 
• Gross written premium increased by 4.8% as premium 
inflation returned to the motor market, with growth 
accelerating during the year 
• COR improved by 3.8 percentage points reflecting a better 
current-year attritional loss ratio from a refinement in the risk 
margin approach and reduced large bodily injury claims 
• Operating profit improved by 13.8% to £338.0 million 
Performance highlights 
2015 2014
In-force policies (thousands) 3,707 3,672
Gross written premium £1,406.7m £1,342.0m
Loss ratio 63.6% 67.0%
Commission ratio 2.6% 3.2%
Expense ratio 26.2% 26.0%
Combined operating ratio 92.4% 96.2%
Operating profit £338.0m £297.1m
Performance 
Total in-force policies increased by 1.0% during 2015.  
Own brands grew by 1.3% whilst partner in-force policies  
fell by 3.5%. Gross written premium increased by 4.8% in 
comparison to 2014, as premium inflation returned to the 
market alongside ongoing claims inflation. 
Effect on premium income of changes in price and risk mix
1
 
 
Q4  
2015 
Q3  
2015 
FY 
2015
Change in price 7.7% 7.0% 5.8%
Change in risk mix (1.0%) 0.1% (0.7%)
Improvements in the Group’s trading capability across Churchill 
and Privilege, and better price competitiveness in an inflating 
market all contributed to the improved performance. The 
growth in gross written premium accelerated during the year 
with growth of 7.1% in the fourth quarter. Risk-adjusted prices 
increased by 7.7% compared with the fourth quarter of 2014, 
whilst for the full year risk-adjusted prices were 5.8% higher 
than in 2014. Annual premium inflation in 2015 reflected 
expected claims inflation in addition to a catch up for higher 
than expected claims inflation during the previous period. 
The market experienced continued high levels of shopping 
behaviour, especially during the fourth quarter following the 
 
 
rise in IPT. In this context, Motor’s retention ratio remained 
strong and for 2015 was 1.0 percentage point higher than  
for 2014. 
One of Motor’s partners, Sainsbury’s, has reviewed its 
insurance arrangements and Motor will no longer write  
new business from February 2017. Arrangements for the 
Sainsbury’s renewal book will follow contractual terms.  
In 2015, Sainsbury’s accounted for 3.5% of Motor’s gross 
written premium. 
The COR for the Motor division improved by 3.8 percentage 
points reflecting a better loss ratio while the expense and 
commission ratios were stable. The loss ratio improvement was 
due to a lower current-year attritional loss ratio. Stable prior-
year reserve releases represented a similar percentage of net 
earned premium, and primarily relate to large bodily injury 
claims. Prior-year reserve releases in 2015 were £266.8 
million (2014: £278.4 million) and are expected to be  
lower in 2016. 
The current-year attritional loss ratio improved by 3.5 
percentage points to 85.0%. Of this improvement, 2.0 points 
related to the refinement in approach to determining the level 
of risk margin above the actuarial best estimate for the current 
year. The underlying loss ratio, excluding the change in risk 
margin, improved by 1.5 points compared to last year, 
primarily arising from lower levels of large bodily injury claims 
which were elevated in 2014. Motor’s experience in relation 
to large bodily injury claims has improved during the second 
half of 2015 versus 2014 and the first half of 2015, but 
remains elevated versus 2013. In addition, Motor has 
experienced a modest increase in accident frequency during 
the second half of 2015. Operating profit improved by  
13.8% to £338.0 million in 2015, reflecting better 
underwriting performance on lower net earned premium. 
Regulatory 
During November, the Government announced plans designed 
to reduce the cost of soft tissue damage whiplash claims. 
These plans, which will be subject to consultation, include 
increasing the value of claims settled through the small claims 
track and removing general damages for certain claims. The 
Group has been calling for reform in this area for some time 
and is working with the Government and industry bodies on 
how these reforms should be implemented. The reforms are  
not expected to be in place before 2017. 
Outlook 
The market remained highly competitive during 2015 and  
in early 2016. While premium rates in the market have 
increased, this should be viewed in the context of rising claims 
costs and higher levels of IPT. Against this backdrop, Motor 
continues to adopt a disciplined approach to managing the 
trade-off between margin and volumes, whilst continuing to 
identify opportunities to improve efficiency. Meanwhile,  
Motor is continuing to invest in building future capability. 
  
Note: 
1. Risk mix reflects the expected level of claims from the portfolio. It measures the estimated movement based on risk models used in that period and is revised when 
risk models are updated. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 34
Personal lines  
www.directlinegroup.com   35 
 
Home 
Highlights 
• Britain’s leading home insurer ranked by in-force policies 
• In-force policies overall decreased 3.1% following a 
reduction in partner in-force policies, while own brands 
increased by 1.5% with strong retention 
• Gross written premium was 3.6% lower primarily due to 
partnerships, while own brands fell 1.9% 
• COR improved by 0.5 percentage points, despite higher 
than normal claims from major weather events, and current-
year attritional loss ratio improved 3.5 percentage points 
• Operating profit was broadly stable at £109.9 million, 
despite higher than normal claims from major weather events 
Performance highlights 
2015 2014
In-force policies (thousands) 3,418 3,526
Gross written premium £866.3m £898.6m
Loss ratio 51.5% 50.8%
Commission ratio 20.9% 21.7%
Expense ratio 19.8% 20.2%
Combined operating ratio 92.2% 92.7%
Operating profit £109.9m £113.9m
Performance 
In-force policies for Home own brands increased by 1.5% to 
1.7 million over 2015, while partner in-force policies reduced 
by 7.3%. Gross written premium was 3.6% lower than for 
2014 primarily due to partnerships which were 5.1% lower, 
while own brands experienced a smaller reduction of 1.9%. 
Effect on premium income of changes in price and risk mix – 
own brands 
 
Q4  
2015 
Q3 
2015 
FY
2015
Change in price (3.0%) (1.6%) (2.4%)
Change in risk mix (2.6%) (0.5%) (1.1%)
Home’s strong own brands maintained their competitiveness  
in a deflationary market supported by previous investments  
in claims and pricing initiatives. Risk-adjusted Home prices 
decreased by 3.0% in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared 
with the same quarter last year, while risk mix decreased by 
2.6%. Own brands retention continued to be strong, supported 
by previous investments in propositions. 
Two of the Group’s Home partners, Nationwide Building 
Society (“NBS”) and Sainsbury’s have recently reviewed their 
insurance arrangements. In respect of NBS, Home will no 
longer underwrite home insurance for its customers from early 
2017, while in respect of Sainsbury’s, Home will no longer 
write new business from February 2017. Arrangements for 
 
 
the Sainsbury’s renewal book will follow contractual terms. 
Whilst these developments are disappointing, it is the nature  
of the partnership market that relationships will be reviewed 
periodically and in the case of Sainsbury’s, it is reviewing its 
current insurance operating arrangements. In 2015, NBS  
and Sainsbury’s accounted for 25.5% of Home’s gross  
written premium, albeit they contributed a considerably  
lower proportion of Home’s operating profit. 
Partnerships remain strategically important and Home will look 
to build on its improving manufacturing capability to deliver 
what it aims to be market leading propositions to current 
partners, as well as to build relationships with future partners. 
Consistent with this, Home is in discussion with RBS on a three-
year extension to its insurance partnership, which includes the 
RBS and NatWest brands. 
In Home, the COR improved to 92.2% despite higher than 
normal claims costs from major weather events. The weather 
impact in 2015 was higher than expected with claims costs 
from major weather events of approximately £90 million 
(2014: £63 million). The Home division normally expects in 
the region of £80 million of annual claims from major weather 
events. Prior-year reserve releases were lower than last year  
at £41.9 million (2014: £49.8 million). 
The current-year attritional loss ratio, excluding claims costs 
from major weather events, improved by 3.5 percentage 
points on 2014. This reflected the strength of Home’s pricing 
approach and retention performance. Home claims trends 
remained benign with 2015 underlying inflation, excluding 
major weather events, lower than the long-term average.  
In particular, claims from accidental damage and theft 
remained low. 
Operating profit of £109.9 million was broadly stable in 
comparison to the prior year, despite a deflationary market 
and higher than normal claims from major weather events. 
Flood Re 
From 1 April 2016, Flood Re, the Government and industry-
backed scheme to provide affordable home insurance to 
households at high risk of flooding, is planned to become 
operational. The Group has supported Flood Re’s formation 
and is expected to be ready to cede chosen risks to Flood Re 
on its inception. Home’s share of the annual levy, based on its 
market share, is expected to be in the region of £24 million  
for 2016 and will be charged to operating expenses. 
Outlook 
The market remained highly competitive during 2015 and  
in early 2016. The market experienced deflation in 2015 
overall, although underlying market pricing was broadly  
stable in the fourth quarter after adjusting for the change in  
IPT. Overall, the increase in IPT has increased shopping in  
the market modestly. Home continues to adopt a disciplined 
approach to managing the trade-off between margin and 
volumes, and the effect on retention.  
 
www.directlinegroup.com 35
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Operating review continued 
36   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
 
Rescue and other personal lines 
Highlights 
• Retained position as one of the UK’s leading providers  
of rescue and other personal lines insurance ranked by  
in-force policies 
• In-force policies for Rescue declined by 3.5% to 3.9 million 
through lower partner volumes and packaged bank  
account volumes 
• Gross written premium for Rescue and other personal lines 
experienced growth of 6.0%, mainly due to Green Flag 
direct sales, and travel partnerships pricing and cover levels 
• COR for Rescue and other personal lines was stable at 91.2% 
• Operating profit increased by 8.3% to £52.0 million 
Performance highlights 
2015 2014
In-force policies (thousands)  
Rescue
1
 3,932 3,976
Other personal lines 4,356 4,517
Total in-force policies 8,288 8,493
Gross written premium £394.1m £371.8m
Loss ratio 59.9% 57.4%
Commission ratio 6.4% 9.4%
Expense ratio 24.9% 25.2%
Combined operating ratio 91.2% 92.0%
Operating profit £52.0m £48.0m
Performance 
In-force policies for Rescue declined by 1.1% to 3.9 million  
in comparison to the prior year through lower partner volumes. 
The reduction in in-force policies for other personal lines of 
3.6% across 2015 primarily reflected lower packaged bank 
account volumes. 
Gross written premium for Rescue and other personal lines 
experienced growth of 6.0% compared with 2014. Rescue 
gross written premium increased by 4.1% compared with 
2014, mainly due to Green Flag direct sales. Refreshed web 
content, a new quote and buy journey and additional PCW 
distribution, together with take up of higher levels of cover  
and competitive propositions, supported this. Gross written 
premium for other personal lines rose 7.4% compared to 
2014, driven primarily by pricing and upgraded levels of 
cover on travel partnerships. 
 
 
The COR for Rescue and other personal lines was stable  
at 91.2% (2014: 92.0%). The Rescue COR was 82.3% 
(2014: 81.5%) with a higher loss ratio reflecting changes  
in the partner channel following favourable experience in the 
prior year being broadly offset by an improvement in the 
commission ratio. 
Operating profit increased by 8.3% to £52.0 million. Within 
Rescue and other personal lines, Rescue operating profit 
improved to £42.2 million (2014: £41.5 million). 
Outlook 
Rescue and other personal lines continued to create additional 
value for the Group and represent an opportunity to meet 
customers’ broader insurance needs. While competition  
was recently stronger in the rescue market, initiatives aim to 
position Green Flag well for 2016. We also aim to roll out 
improvements to our claims capability in Pet and Travel to 
enhance our service while updating our customer propositions. 
  
Note: 
1. Rescue in-force policies have been revised to exclude partner post-accident vehicle recoveries. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 36  
www.directlinegroup.com   37 
 
 
Highlights 
• Commercial in-force policies grew by 7.2% and Direct Line 
for Business in-force policies now exceed 400,000 
• Gross written premium was broadly stable reflecting 
competitive pressures. Direct Line for Business gross written 
premium surpassed £100 million 
• COR increased by 5.7 percentage points and operating 
profit decreased by £26.2 million, both impacted by higher 
than normal claims from weather 
• Adjusting for a normal level of claims from weather and 
other large claims, COR was approximately 99% 
Performance highlights 
2015 2014
In-force policies (thousands) 655 611
Gross written premium £485.3m £487.0m
Loss ratio 62.7% 57.1%
Commission ratio 19.6% 19.7%
Expense ratio 22.2% 22.0%
Combined operating ratio 104.5% 98.8%
Operating profit £20.8m £47.0m
Performance 
Commercial in-force policy growth across 2015 was achieved 
by increased sales through the Direct Line for Business and 
eTrade channels. Gross written premium was broadly stable  
at £485.3 million in comparison to 2014. In the first half of 
2015, gross written premium decreased following competitive 
pressures in the regional broker market, while growth of  
1.9% was achieved in the second half primarily through the 
eTrade and direct channels. 
Premium rates have been under pressure from a competitive 
market place across all channels, especially during the fourth 
quarter following the rise in IPT. Commercial continues to 
maintain its underwriting discipline and seeks to balance the 
retention of customers with rate inflation. 
Commercial has further enhanced its product coverage with  
the launch of Professional Indemnity cover for Direct Line for 
Business’s customers, and Cyber cover for NIG’s customers 
distributed through the broker channel. These products are  
fully reinsured. 
The Commercial COR of 104.5% was 5.7 percentage points 
higher than 2014 and affected by above average claims  
from weather events, including those in December which cost 
approximately £40 million. Overall, weather-related claims 
and large claims were approximately £25 million more than 
expected. Adjusting for this, the COR would have been 99% 
as underlying claims and the loss ratio have remained broadly 
stable in comparison to the previous year. Prior-year reserve 
releases of £56.6 million increased on the previous year 
(2014: £53.7 million). 
 
 
Overall, operating profit was £20.8 million, a reduction of 
£26.2 million compared with 2014, as higher than normal 
claims from weather impacted profitability. Adjusting for 
weather-related claims and large losses, operating profit  
would have been similar to 2014. 
Regulatory 
The Insurance Act 2015 will come into effect on 12 August 
2016, which represents a significant change to commercial 
insurance contract law. Commercial is working through the 
requirements of the Act and aims to deliver these appropriately 
for customers and brokers. 
Outlook 
The Commercial market became more competitive during the 
year. In the fourth quarter, rate increases on renewed business 
across the division’s main lines were at the lowest level for a 
number of years. The market trend towards direct and etrade 
channels for small business insurance is expected to continue 
and Commercial is well placed to take advantage of this. 
 
www.directlinegroup.com 37
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Commercial Finance review 
38   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
 
 
 
 
John Reizenstein 
Chief Financial Officer 
Highlights 
• Operating profit from ongoing operations
1
 increased  
to £520.7 million for 2015 (2014: £506.0 million). 
COR
1
 from ongoing operations of 94.0% for 2015,  
an improvement of 1.0 percentage point 
• Return on tangible equity
1
 of 18.5% for 2015 (2014: 
16.8%). Profit before tax for continuing operations 
increased to £507.5 million (2014: £456.8 million) 
• Results benefited from disciplined underwriting, prior-year 
reserve releases from ongoing operations of £378.9 million 
(2014: £397.6 million) which were higher than expected, 
together with lower costs, partially offset by higher claims 
from major weather events and lower volumes 
• Reduced total costs
1
 by 4.6% in 2015 while building  
on technical pricing and claims management initiatives 
• 4.5% increase in final dividend per share of 9.2 pence  
per share and additional special dividend of 8.8 pence  
per share. Total dividends for 2015, including special 
interim dividend of 27.5 pence per share following sale  
of International division, of 50.1 pence per share  
(2014: 27.2 pence per share) 
 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Ongoing operations
1
  
In-force policies
1
 (thousands) 16,068  16,302 
Gross written premium
1
 3,152.4  3,099.4 
Net earned premium
1
 2,920.8  2,987.1 
Underwriting profit 175.2  148.1 
Instalment and other 
operating income 150.8  147.3 
Investment return
1
 194.7  210.6 
Operating profit
1
 – ongoing 520.7  506.0 
Run-off
1
 73.1  55.3 
Restructuring and other 
one-off costs (48.7) (69.6)
Operating profit 545.1  491.7 
Finance costs
1
 (37.6) (37.2)
Gain on disposal of subsidiary −  2.3 
Profit before tax 507.5  456.8 
Tax (108.3) (97.5)
Profit from discontinued 
operations, net of tax 181.2  13.3 
Profit after tax 580.4  372.6 
Of which is ongoing 
operations 385.3  368.0 
Key metrics   
Loss ratio
1
 59.5% 59.6%
Commission ratio
1
 10.9% 11.8%
Expense ratio
1
 23.6% 23.6%
COR
1
 94.0% 95.0%
Investment income yield
1
 – 
continuing operations
1
 2.4% 2.4%
Investment return
1
 – 
continuing operations 2.9% 2.9%
Basic earnings per share – 
continuing operations (pence) 27.9  24.0 
Adjusted diluted earnings per 
share
1
 (pence) 26.6  25.5 
Return on tangible equity
1
 18.5% 16.8%
Net asset value per share 
(pence) 192.2  188.2 
Tangible net asset value 
per share (pence) 153.8  153.1 
Dividend per share  
– interim (pence) 4.6  4.4 
– final (pence) 9.2  8.8 
– regular (pence) 13.8  13.2 
– first special (pence) 27.5  10.0
– second special (pence) 8.8 4.0 
– total (pence) 50.1  27.2 
Note: 
1. See glossary on pages 174 and 175 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 38
Improved 
operational 
efficiency  
www.directlinegroup.com   39 
Performance 
Operating profit – ongoing operations 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Underwriting profit 175.2 148.1
Instalment and other operating 
income 150.8 147.3
Investment return 194.7 210.6
Operating profit 520.7 506.0
In 2015, operating profit from ongoing operations increased 
to £520.7 million (2014: £506.0 million) primarily due to  
an improvement in the underwriting result, while the investment 
return decreased. The underwriting result improved significantly 
to £175.2 million (2014: £148.1 million) principally due to a 
better current-year attritional claims performance and reduced 
costs, partially offset by a higher level of claims costs from 
major weather events and lower volumes. This result included 
higher than expected prior-year reserve releases of £378.9 
million (2014: £397.6 million). Investment return was lower 
primarily due to lower assets under management (“AUM”) 
impacting investment income and a reduction in net realised 
and unrealised gains. 
In-force policies and gross written premium 
In-force policies – ongoing operations (thousands) 
At 31 December 2015  
2014 
Revised
1
Own brands 3,459  3,415 
Partnerships 248  257 
Motor total 3,707  3,672 
Own brands 1,719  1,693 
Partnerships 1,699  1,833 
Home total 3,418  3,526 
Rescue 3,932  3,976 
Other personal lines 4,356  4,517 
Rescue and other personal lines 8,288  8,493 
Commercial 655  611 
Total ongoing 16,068  16,302 
Gross written premium – ongoing operations 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Own brands 1,307.5 1,248.4
Partnerships 99.2 93.6
Motor total 1,406.7 1,342.0
Own brands 408.4 416.2
Partnerships 457.9 482.4
Home total 866.3 898.6
Rescue 163.3 156.9
Other personal lines 230.8 214.9
Rescue and other personal lines 394.1 371.8
Commercial 485.3 487.0
Total ongoing 3,152.4 3,099.4
Total in-force policies for ongoing operations during 2015 
reduced by 1.4% to 16.1 million (31 December 2014:  
16.3 million). The fall primarily related to other personal lines, 
within the Rescue and other personal lines division, and  
Home partnerships. Commercial grew in-force policies by 
7.2% across the period, while Motor increased marginally. 
Gross written premium of £3,152.4 million increased by  
1.7% compared with 2014 (£3,099.4 million). 
Underwriting profit – ongoing operations 
 2015 2014
Underwriting profit (£ million) 175.2 148.1
Loss ratio 59.5% 59.6%
Commission ratio 10.9% 11.8%
Expense ratio 23.6% 23.6%
COR 94.0% 95.0%
The COR for ongoing operations improved by 1.0 percentage 
point to 94.0% (2014: 95.0%). The loss and expense ratios 
were stable, whereas the commission ratio decreased by  
0.9 percentage points. 
At the start of the year, the Group set 2015 COR guidance  
for ongoing operations in the range of 94% to 96%. This 
assumed a normal level of claims from major weather events. 
The range reflected uncertainty surrounding claims inflation 
versus motor market pricing. This guidance, which assumed 
normal weather, was subsequently updated in the year to 
between 92% and 94%. Following higher than expected  
prior-year reserve releases, a COR of approximately 93%, 
normalised for weather, was achieved. 
Within the stable headline loss ratio, the attritional loss ratio 
improved, but this was offset by a lower contribution from  
prior-year reserve releases and higher weather-related claims. 
The reduction in the commission ratio primarily reflected lower 
payments to partners, particularly in Home, following higher 
weather-related claims. 
The Group’s expense ratio remained stable at 23.6%, with  
the effect of the reduction in operating expenses offset by  
the impact of lower net earned premium. 
Current-year attritional loss ratio – ongoing operations 
 2015 2014
Reported loss ratio 59.5% 59.6%
Prior-year reserve releases 13.0% 13.3%
Major weather events – Home
2
(3.1%) (2.1%)
Current-year attritional  
loss ratio 69.4% 70.8%
Notes: 
1. Rescue in-force policies have been revised to exclude partner post-accident vehicle recoveries. 
2. Home claims from major weather events, including inland and coastal flooding, and storms. 
www.directlinegroup.com 39
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Finance review continued 
40   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Analysis by division 
  
 Motor Home
Rescue and other 
personal lines Commercial Total ongoing
For the year ended 31 December 2015   
COR 92.4% 92.2% 91.2% 104.5% 94.0%
Current-year attritional loss ratio 85.0% 45.8% 63.5% 75.5% 69.4%
Prior-year reserve releases (£ million) 266.8 41.9 13.6 56.6 378.9
For the year ended 31 December 2014   
COR 96.2% 92.7% 92.0% 98.8% 95.0%
Current-year attritional loss ratio 88.5% 49.3% 61.7% 69.2% 70.8%
Prior-year reserve releases (£ million) 278.4 49.8 15.7 53.7 397.6
 
The movement in the current-year attritional loss ratio is a  
key indicator of underlying accident year performance as it 
excludes prior-year reserve movements and claims from major 
weather events in the Home division. The Group’s current-year 
attritional loss ratio improved by 1.4 percentage points to 
69.4% in 2015 (2014: 70.8%) with improvements in Motor 
and Home partially offset by a deterioration in Rescue and 
other personal lines, and in Commercial primarily because of 
higher weather claims. 
Prior-year reserve releases from ongoing operations continued 
to be significant at £378.9 million (2014: £397.6 million) 
and were equivalent to 13.0% of net earned premium (2014: 
13.3% of net earned premium). Reserve releases were higher 
than expected in 2015 and the overall level for 2016 is 
expected to remain significant, albeit lower than in 2015. 
By division, the COR improved in Motor, Home and Rescue  
and other personal lines compared with 2014, but deteriorated 
in Commercial, primarily due to the December 2015 storms. 
Total costs 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Staff costs 254.2 247.6
Other operating expenses 219.0 244.9
Marketing 117.8 123.9
Amortisation and impairment 
of other intangible assets 67.4 66.4
Depreciation 30.7 22.6
Total operating expenses 689.1 705.4
Claims handling expenses 195.6 222.3
Total costs 884.7 927.7
The total costs for ongoing operations of £884.7 million were 
4.6% lower than the previous year (2014: £927.7 million). 
The Group’s expense ratio was stable at 23.6%, with the 
effect of the reduction in operating expenses offset by the 
impact of lower net earned premium. Reductions in underlying 
costs have been achieved in a number of areas including 
marketing, technology and property. The reduction in claims 
handling expenses was primarily as a result of improved 
efficiencies in a number of areas, including head office 
functions that support claims operations. Costs in the second 
half of 2015 were lower than the prior year, but higher than  
in the first half. This was mainly due to write offs on redundant 
software, property, plant and equipment. 
Instalment and other operating income – ongoing operations 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Instalment income 100.1 100.4
Other operating income:  
Vehicle replacement referral 
income 12.5 15.8
Revenue from vehicle recovery 
and repair services
1
 15.5 18.0
Other income 22.7 13.1
Other operating income 50.7 46.9
Total ongoing 150.8 147.3
Instalment and other operating income from ongoing 
operations of £150.8 million increased 2.4% on the prior year 
(2014: £147.3 million). Other operating income increased, 
while instalment income was stable. The increase in other 
income was due primarily to the inclusion of a full year of  
legal services income in 2015. 
Investment return – ongoing operations 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Investment income 165.6 171.7
Net realised and unrealised 
gains 29.1 38.9
Investment return – ongoing 194.7 210.6
The total investment return for ongoing operations decreased  
to £194.7 million compared to £210.6 million in 2014. This 
was driven by a decrease in net realised and unrealised gains 
and a small reduction in investment income. Investment income 
was £165.6 million, a 3.6% decrease from 2014, primarily 
as a result of lower average AUM (31 December 2015: 
£6,818.7 million; 31 December 2014: £7,051.3 million). 
Net realised and unrealised gains for ongoing operations  
of £29.1 million were lower than the comparative period  
(2014: £38.9 million) due primarily to lower realised gains  
on disposals of fixed income debt securities and a small 
decrease in unrealised property gains, which were  
£24.2 million for the year (2014: £25.9 million). 
Note: 
1. Vehicle recovery includes post-accident and pay-on-use recovery. Repair services constitute the provision of non-insurance related repairs. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 40  
www.directlinegroup.com   41 
Investment yields – continuing operations 
2015 2014
Investment income yield
1
 2.4% 2.4%
Investment return
2
 2.9% 2.9%
The investment income yield for continuing operations in  
2015 was 2.4%, in line with the yield achieved in 2014. 
Portfolio actions to diversify the portfolio in 2015 and prior 
years, including infrastructure debt, commercial property and 
high yield debt instruments, have helped offset yield pressure 
from the continuing low interest rate environment. The Group 
will continue to diversify its investment portfolio appropriately 
and based on current yield curves, which reflect delays in 
market expectations for a base rate rise, the Group currently 
forecasts an investment income yield of 2.5% for 2016 and 
2.6% for 2017. 
Operating profit – ongoing operations 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Motor 338.0 297.1
Home 109.9 113.9
Rescue and other personal lines 52.0 48.0
Commercial 20.8 47.0
Total ongoing 520.7 506.0
All divisions were profitable in 2015, with Motor and Rescue 
and other personal lines improving operating profit on 2014. 
Home operating profit was broadly stable, while Commercial 
reduced compared to the previous year, primarily due to the 
storms in December. 
Reconciliation of operating profit 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Operating profit – ongoing 
operations 520.7 506.0
Run-off 73.1 55.3
Restructuring and other one-off 
costs (48.7) (69.6)
Operating profit 545.1 491.7
Finance costs (37.6) (37.2)
Gain on disposal of subsidiary − 2.3
Profit before tax 507.5 456.8
Tax (108.3) (97.5)
Profit from discontinued 
operations, net of tax 181.2 13.3
Profit after tax 580.4 372.6
Run-off 
The Run-off segment generated a profit of £73.1 million in 
2015 compared with £55.3 million in 2014. Improved 
experience from large bodily injury claims led to higher prior-
year reserve releases in comparison to the previous year. It is 
expected that the Run-off segment will continue to contribute 
positively to operating profit in future years, albeit at a lower 
level than in 2015. 
Restructuring and other one-off costs 
Restructuring and other one-off costs for 2015 of £48.7 million 
(2014: £69.6 million) primarily reflected the costs associated 
with the exit of one location announced at the beginning of  
the year and IT migration. Over the three-year period 2015  
to 2017, the Group expects cumulative restructuring and  
other one-off costs to continue to be substantially offset by  
the operating profit from the Run-off segment. 
Finance costs 
Finance costs remained stable at £37.6 million  
(2014: £37.2 million). 
Gain on disposal of subsidiaries 
The gain on disposal of £2.3 million in 2014 relates to the 
sale of the Group’s stolen vehicle recovery business, Tracker. 
Taxation 
The effective tax rate for continuing operations in 2015 was 
21.3% (2014: 21.3%), which was higher than the standard 
UK corporation tax rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%), primarily 
due to disallowable expenses. 
Discontinued operations 
On 29 May 2015, the Group completed the sale of its 
International division, which comprised its Italian and German 
operations, to Mapfre, S.A. Accordingly, this division is  
treated as discontinued operations. The gain on disposal of 
£167.1 million is included in profit after tax from discontinued 
operations of £181.2 million. Operating profit includes  
£29.9 million of realised net gains on divisional available-for-
sale (“AFS”) investments reclassified through the income 
statement on disposal. Further details on discontinued 
operations are presented in note 5 to the consolidated 
financial statements, see page 136. 
Profit for the year and return on tangible equity 
Profit for the year amounted to £580.4 million (2014: 
£372.6 million), a significant increase on the previous  
year following the gain on the disposal of the Group’s 
International division. 
RoTE increased to 18.5% (2014: 16.8%) due to a lower 
equity base, from the sale of the Group’s International  
division, and higher profit from ongoing operations. 
Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share for continuing operations of  
27.9 pence increased by 16.3% (2014: 24.0 pence).  
This reflected the reduction in restructuring and other one-off 
costs and the improved operating profits from the Run-off 
segment and ongoing operations. 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share, from ongoing operations, 
increased by 4.3% to 26.6 pence (2014: 25.5 pence) 
reflecting the increase in operating profit. 
Notes: 
1. Investment income yield excludes net gains and is calculated on income divided by the average AUM based on the opening and closing balance for  
Group – continuing operations. 
2. Investment return includes net gains and is calculated on income divided by the average AUM based on the opening and closing balance for  
Group – continuing operations. 
www.directlinegroup.com 41
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Finance review continued 
42   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Dividends 
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 9.2 pence per 
share making the total regular dividends for 2015 13.8 pence 
per share. This represents 4.5% growth over the 2014 regular 
dividends and is in line with the Group’s aim to grow the 
regular dividends annually in real terms, see page 96 for the 
Group’s dividend policy. 
In addition, the Board has resolved to pay a further special 
interim dividend of 8.8 pence per share. This takes the total 
special interim dividends for 2015 to 36.3 pence per share 
and includes the 27.5 pence per share dividend in relation to 
the sale of the International division. 
Cash flow 
Net cash generated from operating activities totalled £42.6 
million (2014: £410.6 million used by operating activities). 
This reflected an increase in cash generated from operations  
to £149.8 million (2014: £315.2 million used by operations), 
primarily due to a decrease in insurance payables of current 
and prior-year claims. 
The movement in net cash generated from investing activities  
in 2015 of £190.8 million from £216.0 million used in 2014 
primarily represented the sale of discontinued operations. 
Dividends paid amounted to £666.0 million (2014: £401.1 
million) resulting in net cash used by financing activities of 
£722.0 million (2014: £443.4 million). 
Overall, cash and cash equivalents increased by £14.0 
million (2014: £51.1 million increase) across the year to 
£902.4 million (31 December 2014: £898.2 million). 
Net asset value 
At 31 December 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Net assets 2,630.0 2,810.5
Goodwill and other intangible 
assets (524.8) (517.5)
Disposal group – intangible 
assets − (5.6)
Tangible net assets 2,105.2 2,287.4
Net asset value per share 
(pence) 192.2 188.2
Tangible net asset value per 
share (pence) 153.8 153.1
The net asset value at 31 December 2015 was £2,630.0 million 
(31 December 2014: £2,810.5 million) with a tangible net asset 
value of £2,105.2 million (31 December 2014: £2,287.4 
million). The decrease since the beginning of the year reflected  
the payment of dividends and reduction of the AFS investments 
reserve, partially offset by profit in 2015. 
Financial management 
Accessing sufficient funding as liabilities fall due is central to 
the Group’s long-term sustainability. The Group’s integrity and 
brand reputation for customers and other stakeholders relies  
on this sustainability. The Group’s key financial risks are 
reserving for insurance liabilities and market risk connected  
to the investment portfolio. 
Reserving 
Financial management includes the central aspect of estimating 
claims reserves. Uncertainty is an inherent part of insurance  
and requires judgement when assessing claims liabilities.  
The Group considers the class of business, the length of time  
to notification of a claim, the validity of the claim against a 
policy, and the claim value. Claims reserves could settle at  
a range of outcomes, and settlement certainty increases over 
time. However, for bodily injury claims, the uncertainty is greater 
due to the length of time taken to settle these claims. Annuity 
payments for injured parties also increase this uncertainty. 
The Group seeks to adopt a conservative approach to 
assessing liabilities, as evidenced by the favourable 
development of historical claims reserves. Reserves are based 
on management’s best estimate which incorporates a prudent 
margin in excess of the internal actuarial best estimate. This 
margin is made in reference to a range of actuarial scenario 
assessments and percentiles and also considers other short  
and long-term risks not reflected in the actuarial inputs. For 
more information, see pages 152 to 154. 
The significant level of prior-year reserve releases in recent 
years (2015: £378.9 million; 2014: £397.6 million) has 
arisen primarily from reductions in the actuarial best estimate. 
Over these time periods, the percentage margin above 
actuarial best estimate has been broadly maintained or 
increased. Looking forward, the Group will continue to set  
its initial management best estimate for future accident years 
conservatively, and provided that the risk outlook remains 
stable, it does not expect to need to increase the overall 
margin further. Over time, the share of the Group’s 
underwriting profit attributable to current year is expected  
to increase. Assuming current claims trends continue, the 
contribution from prior-year reserve releases is expected  
to remain significant, albeit lower than in 2015. 
Claims reserves net of reinsurance 
At 31 December 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Motor 2,125.9 2,355.1
Home 387.7 335.2
Rescue and other personal lines 79.3 77.0
Commercial 627.3 607.5
Total ongoing 3,220.2 3,374.8
Run-off 382.4 523.8
Discontinued operations − 393.6
Total Group 3,602.6 4,292.2
Reinsurance 
The objectives of the Group’s reinsurance strategy are to 
reduce the volatility of earnings, facilitate effective capital 
management and transfer risk outside of the Group’s risk 
appetite. This is achieved by the transfer of risk exposure 
through various reinsurance programmes: 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 42  
www.directlinegroup.com   43 
• Catastrophe reinsurance to protect against an accumulation 
of claims arising from a natural peril event. The retained 
deductible is £150 million and cover is purchased up to a 
modelled one-in-200 years loss event of £1,350 million 
• Motor reinsurance to protect against a single or an 
accumulation of large claims. The retained deductible has 
been reduced to an indexed level of £1 million per claim 
providing an enhanced and substantial level of protection 
against large motor bodily injury claims 
• Commercial risk reinsurance to protect against large 
individual claims with a retained deductible of £4 million 
Taxation 
The Board recognises that the Group has an important 
responsibility to its stakeholders to manage its tax position 
effectively. The Board has delegated day-to-day management 
of taxes to the Chief Financial Officer and oversight is 
provided by the Audit Committee. 
These arrangements are intended to ensure that the Group: 
complies with applicable laws and regulations, and meets 
its obligations as a contributor of taxes and a collector of 
taxes on behalf of the tax authorities; and manages its tax 
affairs efficiently, claiming reliefs and other incentives 
where appropriate. 
Investment portfolio 
The investment strategy is designed to deliver several 
objectives, which are summarised below: 
• To ensure there is sufficient liquidity available within the 
investment portfolio to meet stressed liquidity scenarios 
determined by the Risk function 
• To duration match non-PPO liabilities 
• To back inflation-linked PPO liabilities with growth assets 
and other appropriate long-term assets expected to 
generate long-term returns in line with the inflating cost  
of claims 
• To deliver a suitable risk adjusted investment return 
commensurate with the Group’s risk appetite 
Asset and liability management 
The following table summarises the Group’s high level 
approach to asset and liability management. 
Liabilities Assets Characteristics 
More than 10 years, 
for example PPOs 
Property and 
infrastructure debt 
Inflationary linked 
or floating 
Short and medium 
term − all other 
claims 
Investment-grade 
credit and short-
term high yield 
Key rate duration 
matched 
Tier 2 sub-debt 
(swapped fixed to 
floating) 
Securitised credit, 
commercial real 
estate loans and 
cash 
Floating 
Surplus − tangible 
equity 
Investment-grade 
credit, cash and 
government debt 
securities 
Fixed or floating 
Asset allocation and benchmarks 
The current strategic asset benchmarks for the Group are 
detailed in the following table: 
At 31 December 
Current 
benchmark 
holding 2015
Investment-grade credit 54.0% 59.5%
High yield 6.0% 4.8%
Investment-grade private placements 4.0% 0.2%
Credit 64.0% 64.5%
Securitised credit 5.0% 5.2%
Sovereign 9.0% 6.5%
Total debt securities 78.0% 76.2%
Infrastructure debt 6.0% 4.8%
Commercial real estate loans 3.0% −
Cash and cash equivalents 7.0% 13.9%
Investment property 6.0% 5.1%
Total 100.0% 100.0%
At 31 December 2015, total investment holdings of £6,818.7 
million were 3.3% lower, reflecting operating cash flows and 
dividends paid. Total debt securities were £5,194.4 million  
(31 December 2014: £5,802.5 million), of which 14.6% were 
rated as ‘AAA’ and a further 59.4% were rated as ‘AA’ or ‘A’. 
Corporate, supranational and local government debt securities 
account for 64.5% of the portfolio. The average duration at  
31 December 2015 of total debt securities was 2.3 years  
(31 December 2014: 2.1 years). 
At 31 December 2015, total unrealised gains, net of tax,  
on AFS investments were £5.4 million (31 December 2014: 
£94.4 million). Due to the reduction in unrealised gains, net 
realised gains from the fixed income debt securities portfolio 
for 2016 are expected to be lower than in 2015. 
During 2015, the Group reviewed its investment strategy 
resulting in approval to implement mandates in commercial 
real estate loans, subordinated financial debt and global 
credit. The subordinated debt mandate replaces holdings  
of similar securities previously contained in the Group’s  
general investment grade mandates. All new mandates will  
be investment grade. In addition, a further 2% allocation to  
the existing high-yield mandate was approved, increasing this 
to a maximum of 6%. The mandates are funded primarily from 
reductions in government debt securities and existing holdings 
in investment grade securities. In 2015, the primary addition  
to the investment portfolio was the £253.4 million further 
investment in infrastructure debt. Given market pricing, 
additional investment in commercial property during 2015  
was limited to one property acquisition. 
Investment risk is, in part, mitigated by the following 
characteristics within the investment portfolio: 
• All holdings within the short duration US Dollar high-yield 
portfolio have a credit rating of BB or B. The Group’s 
strategy does not permit any debt securities to be held 
below B-. At year end, actual exposure to the energy  
and midstream sector was 8.4% of the high-yield portfolio 
• The infrastructure debt portfolio is made up of UK assets 
only, which are purchased via the secondary market  
post the construction phase of the project concerned.  
www.directlinegroup.com 43
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Finance review continued 
44   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
The portfolio is weighted heavily towards social 
infrastructure with 88% of the year-end portfolio invested  
in projects across this sector (38% in healthcare, 45%  
in education and 5% in other). At year end, 88% of 
investments were underpinned by availability based 
payment schedules 
• The investment property portfolio consists presently of 26  
UK based properties. The Group’s strategy does not permit 
any overseas holdings. The portfolio is predominantly based 
in the South East and invested mainly in the prime (rather 
than secondary) sector of the market. The mandate targets  
a real return objective resulting in 41% of current leases 
producing inflation-linked rental income 
• The securitised credit portfolio was restructured in 2015  
in line with Solvency II risk retention requirements. At year end, 
88% was invested in AAA tranches, 7% in AA tranches and 
5% held in cash. The primary sectors the portfolio was invested 
in were mortgage backed securities (46%), collateralised loan 
obligations, where the underlying borrowers are rated sub-
investment grade (30%), and asset backed securities secured 
on Federal Family Education Loan Program student loans (14%) 
Derivatives are permitted only for risk mitigation and  
efficient portfolio management within the investment portfolio. 
Derivatives used include interest rate swaps, for example to 
hedge exposure to US Dollar interest rate movements, and 
forward currency contracts to hedge assets denominated in  
US Dollars back to Sterling. Separately, interest rate swaps 
have also been used to change the interest rate liability on  
the Group’s debt issuance to a floating-rate basis. 
 
Investment holdings and yields – total Group 
2015 2014 
£m Allocation Income
1
 Allocation
1
Income
1
Corporate
2
 4,155.9 117.1  4,092.7 118.2 
Supranational
2
 140.1 2.6  176.2 4.9 
Local 
government
2
 104.9 1.7  120.3 2.4 
Credit 4,400.9 121.4  4,389.2 125.5 
Securitised 
credit
2
 350.8 6.0  419.6 6.1 
Sovereign
2
 442.7 12.7  993.7 22.4 
Total debt 
securities 5,194.4 140.1  5,802.5 154.0 
Infrastructure 329.6 4.4  76.2 0.1 
Cash
3
 947.3 6.8  865.4 5.2 
Investment 
property 347.4 17.8  307.2 16.2 
Total Group 6,818.7 169.1  7,051.3 175.5 
  
 Weighting Yield Weighting Yield
Corporate 60.9% 2.8% 58.0% 2.8%
Supranational 2.1% 1.7% 2.5% 1.9%
Local government 1.5% 1.5% 1.7% 1.9%
Credit 64.5% 2.8% 62.2% 2.8%
Securitised credit 5.2% 1.6% 6.0% 2.0%
Sovereign 6.5% 1.8% 14.1% 1.9%
Total debt 
securities 76.2% 2.6% 82.3% 2.6%
Infrastructure 4.8% 2.2% 1.1% 0.3%
Cash 13.9% 0.8% 12.3% 0.5%
Investment 
property 5.1% 5.4% 4.3% 6.1%
Total Group 100.0% 2.4% 100.0% 2.4%
Capital management 
Capital management policy 
The Group seeks to manage its capital efficiently, maintaining 
an appropriate level of capitalisation and solvency, while 
aiming to grow its dividend annually in real terms. 
In determining the appropriate level of capitalisation and 
solvency, the Group considers capital across a number of 
metrics. These include economic capital, regulatory capital 
and rating agency capital. The Group targets holding capital 
sufficient to maintain a credit rating in the ‘A’ range. 
Where the Board believes the Group has capital that is surplus 
to requirements, it looks to return it to shareholders. 
Solvency II 
Solvency II is the new solvency framework of the capital 
adequacy regime for the European insurance industry. It 
establishes a revised set of EU-wide capital requirements  
and risk management standards with the aim of increasing 
protection for policyholders. Solvency II was implemented on 
Notes: 
1. Continuing operations 
2. Asset allocation at 31 December 2015 includes investment portfolio derivatives, which have been netted and have a mark-to-market liability value of £45.7 
million of which £40.0 million is in corporate debt securities, £0.4 million in local government and £5.3 million in securitised credit (31 December 2014: mark-
to-market liability value of £27.8 million of which £24.4 million is in corporate debt securities, £0.1 million in supranationals, £0.4 million in local government, 
£2.8 million in securitised credit and £0.1 million in sovereign). This excludes non-investment derivatives that have been used to hedge subordinated debt, 
operational cash flows and the disposal of the International division. 
3. Net of bank overdrafts and including term deposits with financial institutions with maturities exceeding three months. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 44
Investment portfolio at 31 December 2015
(%)
Investment portfolio at 31 December 2014
(%)
Corporate debt securities 60.9
Supranational 2.1
Local government 1.5
Securitised credit 5.2
Sovereign 6.5
Infrastructure debt 4.8
Cash and cash equivalents 13.9
Investment property 5.1
Corporate debt securities 58.0
Supranational 2.5
Local government 1.7
Securitised credit 6.0
Sovereign 14.1
Infrastructure debt 1.1
Cash and cash equivalents 12.3
Investment property 4.3  
www.directlinegroup.com   45 
1 January 2016 and the Group is presenting pro forma 
information at 31 December 2015 for the first time on  
that basis. 
The Group is regulated by the PRA on both a Group basis and, 
for the Group’s principal underwriter, UKI, on a solo basis. 
Initially, the Group (including UKI) will assess its capital 
requirements using the standard formula. UKI has applied  
for its internal economic capital model to be approved as its 
internal model and approval is expected from the PRA in mid-
2016. From this point, UKI will calculate its capital requirement 
using the internal model which will form part of a Group-wide 
partial internal model. 
Capital position 
At 31 December 2015, the Group held a capital surplus  
of £794.6 million above its pro forma
1
 regulatory capital 
requirements on a Solvency II standard formula basis. This was 
equivalent to a pro forma capital coverage ratio of 147.4%. 
Comparative figures are on a risk-based capital basis. 
At 31 December 
Solvency II
2 
2015  
Risk-based capital
2014
Pro forma
1
 solvency capital 
requirement (£ million) 1,676.2  n/a
Capital surplus above pro forma 
solvency capital requirement  
(£ million) 794.6  n/a
Pro forma capital coverage ratio 147.4%  n/a
Risk-based capital coverage 
ratio (adjusted for dividends
3
) n/a  148.2%
Tier 1 capital after foreseeable dividends represents 72.8%  
of own funds and 107.2% of pro forma solvency capital 
requirement (“SCR”). Tier 2 capital relates solely to the  
Group’s £500 million subordinated debt issue in 2012. 
The following table splits the Group’s own funds by tier on a 
Solvency II basis. 
At 31 December  
2015
2
£m 
Tier 1 capital before 
foreseeable dividends  2,045.2 
Foreseeable dividends  (247.5) 
Tier 1 capital  1,797.7 
Tier 2 capital  614.9 
Tier 3 capital  58.2 
Own funds  2,470.8 
Reconciliation of IFRS shareholders’ equity to Solvency II  
own funds 
At 31 December  
2015
2
£m 
Shareholders’ equity 2,630.0 
Goodwill and intangible assets (524.8) 
Change in valuation of technical provisions 202.9 
Other asset and liability adjustments (262.9) 
Foreseeable dividends (247.5) 
Tier 1 capital 1,797.7 
Tier 2 capital: subordinated debt 614.9 
Tier 3 capital: deferred tax asset 58.2 
Own funds 2,470.8 
Leverage 
The Group’s financial leverage continues to be conservative. 
During 2015, the leverage increased from 15.8% to 16.5%  
due mainly to the sale of the Gr oup’s International operations and 
subsequent special dividend which reduced shareholders’ equity. 
At 31 December 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Shareholders’ equity 2,630.0 2,810.5
Financial debt − subordinated 
guaranteed dated notes 521.1 526.3
Total capital employed 3,151.1 3,336.8
Financial-leverage ratio
4
 16.5% 15.8%
Credit ratings 
Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service provide 
insurance financial-strength ratings for UKI. UKI is currently 
rated ‘A’ (strong) with a stable outlook by Standard & Poor’s 
and ‘A2’ (good) with a stable outlook by Moody’s. 
 
Statement of the Directors in respect of the Strategic report 
The Board reviewed and approved our Strategic report on pages 1 to 45 on 29 February 2016. 
By order of the Board 
 
Paul Geddes   John Reizenstein 
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer 
29 February 2016   29 February 2016 
Notes: 
1. Calculated on a pro forma basis, assuming expected changes to hedging 
arrangements were in effect at 31 December 2015 
2. Figures are estimated and based on preliminary regulatory returns for  
31 December 2015. 
3. Adjusted for final and second special interim dividends 
4. Total financial debt as a percentage of capital employed 
www.directlinegroup.com 45
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chairman’s introduction 
46   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
 
 
 
Mike Biggs 
Chairman 
Dear shareholders and other 
stakeholders 
Our commitment to good corporate governance 
An important part of the Board’s role and mine as Chairman is 
to oversee the good governance of the Group. It is now more 
than three years since the Group was floated through an IPO. 
In that time, we have continued developing and refining our 
governance processes and procedures so that they remain fit  
for a FTSE 100 company. 
Board and Committee structure and membership 
The Board has established Committees to focus on specific 
governance areas and to help it to meet its obligations and 
discharge its duties. The following Committees have been 
established with effect from the IPO: Audit, Board Risk, 
Remuneration, CSR, Nomination and Investment. You can find 
a report from each Committee in the Governance section of 
this Annual Report & Accounts. Other than the CSR Committee, 
all Committees only have Non-Executive Directors as members.  
Following Glyn Jones’ resignation after the 2015 AGM, we 
changed the Committees’ membership. Clare Thompson became 
the Chair of the Investment Committee and Priscilla Vacassin  
was appointed a member of the Nomination Committee. 
I am pleased to report that Dr Richard Ward was appointed  
a Non-Executive Director (“NED”) and the Senior Independent 
Director (“SID”) on 18 January 2016. He brings a deep 
knowledge of the insurance industry to the Group. I would also 
like to thank Andrew Palmer for agreeing to act as SID while 
we were in the process of completing Richard’s appointment. 
As we announced on 16 February, Priscilla Vacassin has 
decided to step down from the Board with effect from 1 March 
2016. Clare Thompson has agreed to act as interim Chair  
of the Remuneration Committee from 1 March. At the same 
time she will step down as Chair and member of the CSR 
Committee and the Investment Committee and as a member of 
the Board Risk Committee. Andrew Palmer will be appointed 
as Chair of the Investment Committee and Sebastian James as 
Chair of the CSR Committee with effect from the same date. 
Key matters 
I highlight the following key governance and shareholder 
matters from the Corporate Governance report, which the 
Board considered during the year. 
Change and IT migration 
The Board oversaw the Group’s major change programmes 
and associated risks and challenges relating to the migration  
of IT infrastructure from RBS Group and development of the 
next generation of customer systems, including focusing on risks 
relating to IT systems’ stability, cyber security and the internal 
control environment. 
Solvency II  
Preparation for the transition to the Solvency II regulatory 
regime was a priority for the Board, the Board Risk Committee 
and the Audit Committee during the year. Additionally, the 
Remuneration Committee considered how Solvency II might 
affect senior managers’ remuneration.  
Sale of the International division 
The sale of the International division completed at the end  
of May. The Board resolved to return substantially all of  
the net proceeds to shareholders through a special dividend,  
which was paid on 24 July 2015. 
Succession planning 
The Nomination Committee focused on succession planning  
for the Board and Executives, and on recruiting Richard Ward 
as the SID. 
Our Code of Business Conduct 
Business practices 
We shall engage in honest, 
professional and ethical  
conduct and maintain effective 
procedures to prevent 
confidential information  
being misused. 
Dealing with customers
We shall treat customers  
fairly, openly and honestly,  
and operate an effective 
complaints process to address 
any perceived departure  
from these standards. 
Dealing with shareholders 
and other stakeholders 
We shall seek to maximise 
shareholder value over time, 
recognising that wealth 
generated also benefits 
customers, employees and  
the communities where  
we operate. 
Dealing with employees
We shall maintain a working 
environment that attracts, 
motivates and retains 
employees, and shall be 
intolerant of any type of 
discrimination, harassment  
or victimisation. 
 
www.directlinegroup.com   47 
Final dividend 2014 
As explained in last year’s Annual Report & Accounts, due to the 
uncertainty around the timing of the completion of the sale of the 
International division, the Board decided to pay an additional 
interim dividend for 2014 on 17 April 2015 in place of a final 
dividend. We will ask shareholders to approve a final dividend 
for 2015 at the Annual General Meeting in May 2016. 
Share consolidation 
The Board proposed a share consolidation based on a 
consolidation ratio of 11 new shares for 12 existing shares 
due to the size of the special dividend relating to the sale  
of the International division, and to maintain comparability  
of share price and earnings per share before and after 
payment of the special dividend. Shareholders approved  
this on 29 June 2015.  
Vesting of LTIPs 
The Remuneration Committee considered and approved the 
first vesting of the Direct Line Group LTIP on 9 November 
2015, at 89.2% of the potential maximum award, which 
reflected good progress against the objectives set at the time  
of the IPO. 
UK Corporate Governance Code 
We, the Board of Direct Line Group, are committed to the 
principles of the UK Governance Code issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council. I am pleased to report that we have 
complied with substantially all of the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (September 2014). You can 
find further details in the Corporate Governance report. 
The way we do business 
The way we do business and our underlying values are central 
to the Group’s success. Our Code of Business Conduct 
governs the way we treat our stakeholders, and our values 
determine our behaviours. Both determine how we do business 
throughout the Group and define our corporate identity. They 
also influence our business relationships and reputation, which 
are key to our long-term success. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
Michael N Biggs 
Chairman  
 
 
 
Our values
 Do the right thing 
For our people, our customers, our shareholders and our wider 
stakeholders; make decisions based on what is right, not what is 
easy; demonstrate personal and professional integrity; do what’s 
right for the long-term sustainability of our business. 
  Aim higher 
Strive to be the best in every area of the business; be ambitious, 
courageous and innovative; relentlessly challenge and improve; 
seek and embrace change; learn from our mistakes; persevere, 
always deliver our promises and don’t settle for second best.
Work together
Collaborate across all levels and across all functions; leverage 
the skills, knowledge and experience, irrespective of hierarchy, 
to deliver the best possible results; develop relationships based 
upon trusting each other, partnerships and win-wins; recognise 
and celebrate success.
Take ownership 
Treat it like it’s OUR business; take the initiative, if you can  
see a better way, go and make a difference; take decisions, 
be accountable for your actions in whatever role you carry  
out; take responsibility for your own personal development  
and performance.
 Say it like it is 
Be real, authentic and true to self; have adult to adult 
conversations with all audiences; listen, seek to understand 
and respect diversity of views; be open, call out issues we  
see; share information and keep things as simple as possible.
 Bring all of yourself to work 
Be the best you can be, the real and whole you; celebrate our 
diversity of skills, experiences and personalities; be a role model 
to others, demonstrate ‘can do’ spirit, have fun and make this  
a great place to be; be excited about our Company and our 
future; believe in yourself, feel confident and empowered.
Dealing with suppliers of 
goods and services and 
business partnerships 
We shall maintain the 
highest possible standards  
of integrity in business 
relationships with suppliers 
and partners by treating them 
honestly and with respect, 
and avoiding compromising 
offers of gifts and hospitality. 
Dealing with communities 
and the environment 
We shall contribute to the 
social and economic well-
being of those communities 
where we are an employer, 
and encourage employees  
to participate in projects  
and initiatives to strengthen  
those communities. 
Dealing with competitors
We shall compete with 
competitors honestly and  
in accordance with the 
relevant competition law. 
Dealing with regulators
We shall maintain a 
constructive and open 
relationship with our regulators 
to foster mutual trust, respect 
and understanding, and will 
not offer anything to officials in 
return for favourable treatment. 
Corporate 
governance
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 46  
www.directlinegroup.com   47 
Final dividend 2014 
As explained in last year’s Annual Report & Accounts, due to the 
uncertainty around the timing of the completion of the sale of the 
International division, the Board decided to pay an additional 
interim dividend for 2014 on 17 April 2015 in place of a final 
dividend. We will ask shareholders to approve a final dividend 
for 2015 at the Annual General Meeting in May 2016. 
Share consolidation 
The Board proposed a share consolidation based on a 
consolidation ratio of 11 new shares for 12 existing shares 
due to the size of the special dividend relating to the sale  
of the International division, and to maintain comparability  
of share price and earnings per share before and after 
payment of the special dividend. Shareholders approved  
this on 29 June 2015.  
Vesting of LTIPs 
The Remuneration Committee considered and approved the 
first vesting of the Direct Line Group LTIP on 9 November 
2015, at 89.2% of the potential maximum award, which 
reflected good progress against the objectives set at the time  
of the IPO. 
UK Corporate Governance Code 
We, the Board of Direct Line Group, are committed to the 
principles of the UK Governance Code issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council. I am pleased to report that we have 
complied with substantially all of the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (September 2014). You can 
find further details in the Corporate Governance report. 
The way we do business 
The way we do business and our underlying values are central 
to the Group’s success. Our Code of Business Conduct 
governs the way we treat our stakeholders, and our values 
determine our behaviours. Both determine how we do business 
throughout the Group and define our corporate identity. They 
also influence our business relationships and reputation, which 
are key to our long-term success. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
Michael N Biggs 
Chairman  
 
 
 
Our values
 Do the right thing 
For our people, our customers, our shareholders and our wider 
stakeholders; make decisions based on what is right, not what is 
easy; demonstrate personal and professional integrity; do what’s 
right for the long-term sustainability of our business. 
  Aim higher 
Strive to be the best in every area of the business; be ambitious, 
courageous and innovative; relentlessly challenge and improve; 
seek and embrace change; learn from our mistakes; persevere, 
always deliver our promises and don’t settle for second best.
Work together
Collaborate across all levels and across all functions; leverage 
the skills, knowledge and experience, irrespective of hierarchy, 
to deliver the best possible results; develop relationships based 
upon trusting each other, partnerships and win-wins; recognise 
and celebrate success.
Take ownership 
Treat it like it’s OUR business; take the initiative, if you can  
see a better way, go and make a difference; take decisions, 
be accountable for your actions in whatever role you carry  
out; take responsibility for your own personal development  
and performance.
 Say it like it is 
Be real, authentic and true to self; have adult to adult 
conversations with all audiences; listen, seek to understand 
and respect diversity of views; be open, call out issues we  
see; share information and keep things as simple as possible.
 Bring all of yourself to work 
Be the best you can be, the real and whole you; celebrate our 
diversity of skills, experiences and personalities; be a role model 
to others, demonstrate ‘can do’ spirit, have fun and make this  
a great place to be; be excited about our Company and our 
future; believe in yourself, feel confident and empowered.
Dealing with suppliers of 
goods and services and 
business partnerships 
We shall maintain the 
highest possible standards  
of integrity in business 
relationships with suppliers 
and partners by treating them 
honestly and with respect, 
and avoiding compromising 
offers of gifts and hospitality. 
Dealing with communities 
and the environment 
We shall contribute to the 
social and economic well-
being of those communities 
where we are an employer, 
and encourage employees  
to participate in projects  
and initiatives to strengthen  
those communities. 
Dealing with competitors
We shall compete with 
competitors honestly and  
in accordance with the 
relevant competition law. 
Dealing with regulators
We shall maintain a 
constructive and open 
relationship with our regulators 
to foster mutual trust, respect 
and understanding, and will 
not offer anything to officials in 
return for favourable treatment. 
www.directlinegroup.com 47
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board of Directors 
 
48   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
1 Mike Biggs (63), Chairman of the Board  
(appointed April 2012) 
(N and R)
 
Biography 
Mike is also Chair of the Nomination Committee. He has over 40 
years’ experience of the UK and international financial services sector. 
He is a respected figure in the insurance industry and well regarded 
by City investors. 
Mike was previously Chairman of Resolution Limited, then a FTSE 100 
UK life assurance business, and has acted as Chief Executive Officer 
and Group Finance Director of Resolution plc. He was previously 
Group Finance Director of Aviva plc. 
He has a Masters degree in History from the University of Oxford, and 
is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England 
and Wales. 
External appointments 
None 
2 Paul Geddes (46), Chief Executive Officer  
(appointed August 2009) 
(C)
 
Biography 
Paul is Chief Executive Officer. He led one of the UK’s largest retail 
banking businesses during a challenging period, improving its 
customer and financial performance against peers. In 2009, this 
experience singled him out as a Chief Executive who could turn 
around Direct Line Group and lead its divestment from RBS Group. 
After joining RBS Group in 2004 as Managing Director responsible 
for products and marketing, he became the Chief Executive Officer of 
RBS Group’s mainland UK retail banking business. Before joining RBS 
Group, Paul held various senior multi-channel retailing roles in the GUS 
and Kingfisher groups. Paul started his career in marketing, with UK 
and European roles at Procter & Gamble. He read Philosophy, Politics 
and Economics at the University of Oxford, and is a Fellow of the 
Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland. 
External appointments 
Paul is the Senior Independent Director of the Association of British 
Insurers Board. 
3 John Reizenstein (59), Chief Financial Officer  
(appointed December 2010) 
Biography 
John is an experienced Chief Financial Officer and former banker.  
He has extensive City and financial services experience. 
John was previously an Executive Director at the Co-operative 
Insurance Society, CIS General Insurance and The Co-operative Bank. 
He was Chief Financial Officer of these organisations between 2003 
and 2007, and subsequently Managing Director, Corporate and 
Markets. Before this, John spent more than 20 years in investment 
banking with UBS and Goldman Sachs. He is an Economics graduate 
of the University of Cambridge. 
External appointments 
John is a trustee and Director of Farm Africa. He is also an alternate 
representative of the Association of British Insurers on the Panel on 
Takeovers and Mergers.  
4 Jane Hanson (48), Non-Executive Director 
(appointed December 2011) 
(A, B, C, I and +)
 
Biography 
Jane is Chair of the Board Risk Committee. She has extensive 
experience of risk management, corporate governance and internal 
control. She also has wide experience in developing and monitoring 
customer and conduct risk frameworks. 
She spent her early years with KPMG, working in the financial sector, 
later becoming responsible for delivering corporate governance, 
internal audit and risk-management services in the north of England. 
Jane has also held a number of executive roles, including Director of 
Audit, and Risk and Governance Director at Aviva’s UK Life business. 
She is a graduate of the University of York with a degree in Music, 
and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England  
and Wales. 
External appointments 
Jane is Chair of Reclaim Fund Ltd and a Non-Executive Director  
and Chair of the Board Risk Committee of Old Mutual Wealth 
Management Limited. She is also an Independent Member of  
the Fairness Committee at ReAssure Ltd. 
She has her own financial sector consulting business, which provides 
audit, enterprise risk management and corporate governance advisory 
and consulting services. Jane is also a magistrate. 
5 Sebastian James (49), Non-Executive Director  
(appointed August 2014) 
(C, R and +)
 
Biography 
Sebastian has been Group Chief Executive of Dixons Carphone plc 
since 2014. He joined Dixons in April 2008 and held various roles, 
including Group Operations Director, before becoming Group Chief 
Executive in February 2012. 
Before joining Dixons Retail, Sebastian was Chief Executive Officer  
of Synergy Insurance Services Limited and subsequently gained wide 
retail experience as Strategy Director responsible for developing and 
implementing the turnaround strategy at Mothercare. After completing 
an MBA at INSEAD and an MA at the University of Oxford, he started 
his career at The Boston Consulting Group. 
External appointments 
Sebastian is Group Chief Executive of Dixons Carphone plc and  
is also a trustee of the charities Save the Children and Dixons 
Carphone Foundation.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 48
1 2 3 4 5  
www.directlinegroup.com   49 
6 Andrew Palmer (62), Non-Executive Director  
(appointed March 2011) 
(A, B, I, N, R and +)
 
Biography 
Andrew is Chair of the Audit Committee. He was Senior Independent 
Director from the AGM in 2015 until the Group appointed Dr Richard 
Ward on 18 January 2016. He has performed various senior roles  
in the financial services and insurance industries. Additionally, he has 
insight into corporate governance developments and best practice in 
financial reporting. This comes largely through his membership of the 
Financial Reporting Review Panel of the Financial Reporting Council. 
In 2009, Andrew retired from Legal & General Group plc, where  
he was the Group Finance Director. He is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. 
External appointments 
Andrew is a Trustee of the Royal School of Needlework, a Trustee and 
Treasurer of Cancer Research UK, and a Non-Executive Director of Royal 
London Mutual Insurance Society Limited. He is also a member of the 
Financial Reporting Review Panel of the Financial Reporting Council. 
7 Clare Thompson (61), Non-Executive Director  
(appointed September 2012) 
(A, B, C, I and +)
 
Biography 
Clare is Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee  
and the Investment Committee. She has extensive experience and 
knowledge gained from roles across the professional services industry. 
These include Lead Audit Partner at PwC, where she guided companies 
through change and advised insurance organisations. In her later role, 
she gained significant experience of general and life insurance. 
Clare was a partner at PwC from 1988 to 2011. During her 23 years 
as a partner, she held several senior and high-profile roles, particularly 
in the insurance sector. She is a graduate of the University of York with 
a degree in Mathematics, and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales. 
External appointments 
Clare is a Non-Executive Director of British United Provident 
Association (Bupa) and Retail Charity Bonds plc. She is also a Non-
Executive member of the partnership board of Miller Insurance Services 
LLP, and Treasurer of the Disasters Emergency Committee. 
8 Priscilla Vacassin (58), Non-Executive Director  
(appointed September 2012) 
(B, N, R and +)
 
Biography 
Priscilla is Chair of the Remuneration Committee. She has extensive 
experience developing organisational values, and creating the 
leadership, succession, development and remuneration structures 
required to support corporate strategy. As she has worked as a 
practitioner and an adviser, Priscilla understands the technical and 
market complexity of remuneration. 
Priscilla was most recently Group Human Resources Director at 
Prudential plc, and a Non-Executive Director at the Ministry of 
Defence. Priscilla has previously held senior human resources positions 
in various financial services and customer-facing industries. These 
include roles at Abbey National plc, where she was Executive 
Director, Human Resources; BAA plc, where she was Group Human 
Resources Director; and Kingfisher plc. She graduated in Law from  
the University of North East London. 
External appointments 
Priscilla has her own search and consultancy business. 
9 Dr Richard Ward (59), Non-Executive Director and Senior 
Independent Director (appointed January 2016) 
(N and +)
 
Biography 
Dr Richard Ward joined Cunningham Lindsey as Executive Chairman 
in June 2014. Cunningham Lindsey is the leading global provider of 
claims management and risk service solutions. 
Prior to this, Richard was Chief Executive of Lloyd’s of London, from 
2006 to 2013. 
Richard previously worked for over ten years at the London-based 
International Petroleum Exchange (“IPE”), the second largest energy 
trading exchange, re-branded ICE Futures, as both Chief Executive 
Officer and Vice-Chairman. Prior to the IPE, Richard held a range of 
senior positions at British Petroleum and was Head of Marketing & 
Business Development for energy derivatives worldwide at Tradition 
Financial Services. 
Richard has a 1st Class Honours degree in Chemistry, and a PhD  
in Physical Chemistry from Exeter University. 
External appointments 
Richard is Executive Chairman of Cunningham Lindsey and Non-
Executive Chairman of Brit plc. He also serves as a Non-Executive 
Director of Partnership Assurance Group plc and is a member of the 
PRA Practitioner Panel, Bank of England. 
 
Key: 
(A) Audit Committee 
(B) Board Risk Committee 
(C) Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
(I) Investment Committee  
(N) Nomination Committee 
(R) Remuneration Committee 
(+) Independent 
www.directlinegroup.com 49
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
6 7 8 9 Executive Committee 
 
50   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Paul Geddes chairs the Executive Committee. In addition to Paul 
Geddes and John Reizenstein, the committee comprises the following: 
1 Jonathan Greenwood, Managing Director of Commercial  
(joined 2000) 
Experience and qualifications 
Jonathan joined the Group in 2000 as Product and Pricing Director for 
UK partnerships. After the Group acquired Churchill, Jonathan became 
Commercial Director and then Managing Director of the Group’s 
household and life businesses. Jonathan was appointed Managing 
Director of Commercial in 2009. 
2 Mike Holliday-Williams, Managing Director of Personal Lines 
(joined 2014) 
Experience and qualifications 
Mike was previously Chief Executive Officer of RSA Group’s 
Scandinavian businesses, Codan A/S and Trygg-Hansa. Before 
joining RSA, Mike worked in the energy, telecoms and retail sectors. 
He started his career at WHSmith plc, before moving to various 
Centrica-owned businesses, including British Gas and Onetel. He  
has also served as Managing Director of MORETH>N and holds  
an EMBA from Ashridge Business School. 
3 Simon Linares, Group Human Resources Director (joined 2014) 
Experience and qualifications 
Simon joined the Group in September 2014. He was previously 
Group HR Director for O2, and responsible for all of Telefonica global 
digital businesses. Before this, he held various senior global HR roles 
at Diageo, including responsibility for Spain, Africa and several UK-
based leadership positions. Before moving into HR, Simon held several 
commercial business roles in the fast-moving consumer goods and 
financial services sectors. 
4 Steve Maddock, Managing Director of Claims, Business Services 
and Technology Services (joined 2010) 
Experience and qualifications 
In addition to leading our Claims and Business Services divisions, 
Steve is currently leading the management of our IT estate, while 
Angela Morrison dedicates herself to our next generation of customer 
systems programme. From 2004, Steve was Director of Strategic and 
Technical Claims at RSA. He has over 20 years’ insurance industry 
experience, including roles as Director of Claims and Customer 
Service at Capita, and as Director of Operations at AMP. Steve holds 
an MBA from the University of Reading, and is Chairman of the Motor 
Insurers’ Bureau and Insurance Database Services Limited. 
5 Angela Morrison, Chief Information Officer (joined 2010) 
Experience and qualifications 
Since completing the migration of systems from RBS Group, Angela 
has been focusing on our next generation of customer systems. She 
was previously Chief Information Officer at J Sainsbury and a member 
of its Operating Board. She previously worked for ASDA/Wal-Mart. 
Her roles included European Strategy Director; Chief Information 
Officer through the ASDA/Wal-Mart integration; and e-Commerce 
Director, which involved establishing ASDA’s home grocery business. 
Angela holds a degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from 
the University of Bristol. 
6 Humphrey Tomlinson, General Counsel (joined 2011) 
Experience and qualifications 
Humphrey was previously Group Legal Director at RSA and is a 
solicitor with over 25 years’ experience. His experience includes 
advising on corporate and commercial matters, steering corporate 
transactions in the UK and internationally, managing legal risk, and 
dealing with corporate governance issues. Before joining RSA, he 
worked at the City law firm, Ashurst Morris Crisp. He is a graduate  
of the University of Oxford. 
7 José Vazquez, Chief Risk Officer (joined 2012) 
Experience and qualifications 
José was previously Global Chief Risk Officer at HSBC Insurance. 
Before joining HSBC, José held senior actuarial roles at Zurich 
Insurance and was a consultant with KPMG in London. José is a 
Mathematics graduate from Brunel University and a Fellow of the 
Institute of Actuaries. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 50
1
6
2
7
3 4 5 Corporate governance report 
www.directlinegroup.com   51 
This report explains the Board’s role and activities, and how 
corporate governance operates throughout the Group. 
The UK Corporate Governance Code 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc (the “Company”) has complied 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014’s principles 
and provisions (the “Code”) throughout the financial year. The 
exception is the recommendation contained in Provision E.1.1 
of the Code that the Senior Independent Director should attend 
sufficient meetings with major shareholders to listen to their 
views. During 2015, the Board received regular updates  
from the Company’s corporate brokers on the views of its 
institutional shareholders and, in addition, the Group’s Investor 
Relations team provided regular updates to the Board. It is 
open to major shareholders to raise any issues they wish with 
the Chairman, the SID and the Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee. On this basis the Board is satisfied that it 
understands the views of major shareholders and it was not 
necessary for the SID to meet them. The Board has therefore 
concluded that it has complied with the main and supporting 
principles under section E.1 of the Code regarding dialogue 
with shareholders. 
You can find details of how the Company applied the Code’s 
principles and complied with its provisions in this report and 
the Directors’ remuneration report. For more information about 
the Code, visit the Financial Reporting Council’s website at 
www.frc.org.uk . 
Leadership 
The Board 
The Board’s main role is to organise and direct the Group’s 
affairs in a way that is most likely to help it succeed in the long 
term for the benefit of shareholders as a whole. The Board 
supervises the Group’s operations, ensuring it is effectively 
managed, that prudent controls are in place, and that risks  
are assessed and managed appropriately. The Board sets the 
Group’s strategy, and monitors management’s performance 
and progress against the strategic aims and objectives. 
The Board’s specific duties are set out in the Schedule  
of Matters Reserved for the Board, which contains items  
reserved for the Board to consider and approve, including: 
• The Group’s strategic aims and objectives 
• The annual operating and capital expenditure budgets 
• Corporate governance matters 
• Capital structure, financial reporting and controls, including 
dividend policy 
• The internal controls and risk-management system, including 
the Group’s risk appetite statements 
• Major capital projects, major investments and contracts that 
are either materially strategic or above the Chief Executive 
Officer’s delegated authority 
• Board and Committee membership and succession planning 
• The remuneration policy for Directors and senior executives 
In addition to the schedule of Matters Reserved, each Board 
Committee has written terms of reference defining its role and 
the standing authority delegated to it. You can find out more 
about the Board Committees in the Board Committees’ section 
from pages 58 to 69. 
Board composition 
As at the date of this report, the Board comprises the 
Chairman, who was independent when appointed to the 
Board; the Chief Executive Officer; the Chief Financial Officer; 
and six independent NEDs. Every current Director served 
throughout the reporting period, except for Richard Ward,  
who was appointed to the Board on 18 January 2016. 
You can find the names of the Directors as at the date of  
this report, and their biographical information, on pages  
48 and 49. 
Glyn Jones, who was a NED and the SID, retired from the 
Board at the end of the Annual General Meeting on13 May 
2015. Following Mr Jones’ stepping down, Andrew Palmer 
was appointed SID while the search for a new NED was 
undertaken. Richard Ward was appointed SID on his 
appointment to the Board. 
Structure of the Board 
The Board and its Committees have been established to  
ensure that an appropriate balance of skills, experience, 
independence, sector knowledge and diversity exists to  
enable the Directors to discharge their duties and 
responsibilities effectively. 
All NEDs must be able to spend enough time in their roles to 
discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively. The letters 
of appointment for the Chairman and every NED set out the 
time the Group anticipates that they will commit to their roles. 
This is at least three days a week for the Chairman and an 
average of three days a month for the NEDs. The Nomination 
Committee reviews this time commitment annually. 
On behalf of the Board, the Nomination Committee assessed 
the NEDs’ independence, skills, knowledge and experience as 
part of its annual review of each Director’s performance. The 
Board concluded that every current NED was independent, 
continued to contribute effectively, and showed they were 
committed to the role. The Nomination Committee’s work 
during the year led to the appointment of Richard Ward as an 
additional NED. It also resulted in changes to the membership 
of the Committees. The Group announced these changes in 
May 2015 and February 2016. You can find out more about 
these activities and the Nomination Committee’s work during 
the year on pages 66 to 67. 
  
www.directlinegroup.com 51
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance report continued 
52   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
The Board has agreed role profiles for the Chairman, Mike 
Biggs, and the Chief Executive Officer, Paul Geddes. These 
clearly define their roles and responsibilities. This is to ensure 
no one person has unlimited powers of decision making. 
The Chairman’s priority is leading the Board and ensuring  
its effectiveness. The Chief Executive Officer’s priorities are 
managing the Group, and delivering the Group’s strategy  
and financial results. 
Senior Independent Director 
Richard Ward is the SID. The role of the SID is: to be a 
sounding board for the Chairman; to act as an intermediary  
for the other Directors when necessary; and to be available  
to shareholders if they have any concerns they cannot resolve 
through normal channels. His responsibilities also include 
evaluating the Chairman’s performance annually. 
NEDs 
The NEDs objectively and constructively challenge 
management. They also use their wider business experience  
to help develop the Group’s strategy. 
NEDs are initially appointed for a term of three years. They  
will normally serve two fixed terms of three years. When 
appropriate, they may be invited to serve up to a further three 
years. The Nomination Committee nominates the Directors for 
appointment. The Board then approves the appointments. NEDs 
are subject to election or re-election annually at the Company’s 
AGM. You can find the standard terms and conditions of the 
NED appointments at www.directlinegroup.com . 
Information and support 
All Directors can access assistance and advice from the 
Company Secretary. The Board is satisfied that it receives 
information of appropriate quality and in a timely manner,  
to enable the Directors to discharge their duties. Directors  
may seek external independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense, if they need it to discharge their duties. 
Conflicts of interest 
The Company’s Articles of Association allow the Board  
to authorise matters where there is, or may be, a conflict 
between the Group’s interests and the direct or indirect  
interests of a Director, or between the Director’s duties to  
the Group and another person. This is in accordance with  
the Companies Act 2006. 
Each Director has a duty to avoid conflicts of interest. They 
must declare any conflict of interest that could interfere with 
their ability to act in the Group’s best interests.  
The Board has authorised various conflicts in this way. However, 
the Board still ensures that it will appropriately deal with any 
actual conflict of interest or duty that might arise. This usually 
involves making sure a Director does not participate in a  
relevant Board or Committee discussion or decision. 
To do this, the Company Secretary maintains a register of 
conflicts, and any conflicts that the Board has authorised.  
The Board reviews this register regularly. 
Board activities during 2015 
At each scheduled meeting, the Board receives updates  
from the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and 
the Chief Risk Officer. The officers update the Board on the 
operational performance against the agreed plan, financial 
performance and risk management. The Board also has an 
annual planner of agenda items. This ensures the Board 
considers matters in a timely manner during the financial year. 
During 2015, the Board’s areas of focus, challenge and 
supervision included: 
• Developing and challenging the Group’s strategic plan 
• Overseeing the prudent management of the Group’s 
capital, ensuring that capital reserves remain robust, while 
enabling the return of surplus capital to investors through 
special dividends 
• Overseeing the change programmes and associated risks 
relating to the IT migration from RBS Group. Furthermore, 
the Board monitored risks relating to IT systems’ stability, 
cyber security and the internal control environment 
• Approving and monitoring a comprehensive programme  
of investment in technology, organisational restructuring and 
cultural change. This programme aims to improve customer 
experience, making it easier to do business with the Group, 
and helping the Group provide outstanding customer service 
• Overseeing the management and reduction of the Group’s 
cost base 
• Overseeing a review of the Group’s governance 
framework, including reviewing and approving  
risk-based policies 
• Encouraging management initiatives for cultural 
transformation 
• Overseeing the Group’s regulatory relationships and 
preparations for implementing Solvency II 
• Overseeing the sale of the International division, the  
effect on shareholders and the distribution of the  
proceeds to shareholders, and the share consolidation 
Meetings 
The Board held nine scheduled meetings in 2015 and five 
additional meetings. The additional meetings were ad hoc  
or Board sub-committee meetings, for example, to consider 
specific matters in relation to the share consolidation. The 
Board also held its annual strategy day in June 2015. 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 52  
www.directlinegroup.com   53 
The Company Secretary attended all Board meetings. At its 
discretion, the Board invited senior executives and external 
advisers to attend Board meetings, and present on business 
developments and governance issues. 
This table sets out attendance at the scheduled meetings in 2015: 
Scheduled   
meetings
1
 
Percentage 
attendance
Chairman  
Mike Biggs 9 of 9  100%
Senior Independent Director  
Andrew Palmer 9 of 9  100%
Glyn Jones 4 of 4  100%
NEDs   
Jane Hanson 9 of 9  100%
Sebastian James 9 of 9  100%
Clare Thompson 9 of 9  100%
Priscilla Vacassin 9 of 9  100%
Executive Directors   
Paul Geddes 9 of 9   100%
John Reizenstein 9 of 9  100%
Board induction, resources and training 
The Board is committed to training and developing all Directors 
and employees. The Company Secretary is responsible for 
helping the Chairman regularly review and organise 
appropriate training for the Directors. The Company Secretary 
also maintains an annual training agenda for the Board and  
its Committees. 
A tailored induction programme, comprising 16 sessions,  
was prepared for Richard Ward. The programme will focus  
on the Group’s businesses, strategic and transformational 
priorities, regulatory and governance frameworks, capital  
and financial management, and risk framework. 
The main Board training and development activities in the  
year under review included: 
• Training on topics including customer behaviour, the 
Group’s investment portfolio, and cyber risk 
• NED visits to operational business units to meet the 
management teams and better understand how the business 
operates. These included visits to the Human Resources, 
Risk, Legal, Audit and Actuarial teams in Bromley 
• Internal training workshops on Solvency II 
• The Company Secretary updating the Board regularly  
on corporate governance 
• The Group’s brokers and financial advisers presenting 
quarterly industry and market updates to the Board 
• The Investor Relations team reporting regularly to the  
Board on the Group’s relationship with institutional  
investors and analysts 
Direct Line Group’s approach to diversity 
The Board carefully considered the diversity of its members 
from various perspectives. It also sought to ensure that  
Directors had the relevant knowledge, skills, experience  
and, where necessary, independence to help the Group 
deliver its strategy. 
The Company believes in the benefits of diversity. At the date 
of this report, of the Board’s nine members, three are women. 
However, while the Board will strive to consider diversity when 
choosing new members, it is committed to appointing the most 
appropriate candidates. 
The Nomination Committee’s terms of reference state that it 
should duly regard the benefits of diversity, including gender 
diversity, when choosing Board candidates. You can find  
more information about the Board’s diversity policy in the 
Nomination Committee report on pages 66 and 67. 
The CSR Committee considers diversity as part of its ‘Proud  
to be here’ work stream. This is to ensure the Group’s talent 
pipeline remains diverse to meet future requirements. The 
Group provides mentoring schemes and associated training 
and development programmes for high-potential candidates. 
You can find numerical data relating to the gender diversity  
of the Board, senior managers and employees in the CSR 
section on page 33. 
Board effectiveness review 
In 2015, the Board chose to conduct its effectiveness review  
in-house. The Company Secretary designed and coordinated 
the process. This involved agreeing a structured questionnaire 
with the Chairman and Board members, distributing it to 
stakeholders, collating responses, and preparing reports.  
The Board and each of its Committees reviewed and  
discussed these reports. 
Relating to the Board, its Committees and individual Directors,  
the questionnaire focused on: 
• The flow of information, including the quality and sufficiency 
of reports, management information and training 
• The behaviour of, and interaction between, the Board or 
Committee and management, including how much time they 
spent on strategic matters; how much NEDs challenged the 
Executive Directors; and the Board’s culture and composition 
• Administration, including how many and how often 
meetings occurred; paper volumes; the quality of systems 
and processes; and Board and Committee support 
The questionnaire also asked respondents to comment on aspects 
they thought worked well in the 2014 review, and areas they 
thought needed to improve. 
The Chairman discussed the outcome of the effectiveness 
review with the NEDs and Chief Executive Officer. The SID 
gave feedback on the Chairman’s performance, with input 
from his fellow NEDs. 
Note: 
1. Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended out of 
the number of such meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend. 
www.directlinegroup.com 53
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance report continued 
54   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Based on the questionnaire responses and resulting reports,  
the Directors are satisfied that the Board and its Committees 
operated effectively in 2015. The Directors are also satisfied 
that they made significant progress in areas identified in 2014 
as needing to improve. The Board and its Committees agreed 
an action plan for improving further, which they will pursue  
in 2016. 
The Board has agreed that external facilitators will conduct  
the 2016 effectiveness review. 
Governance framework and structure 
The Board is responsible for ensuring there is an appropriate 
system of governance throughout the Group. This includes a 
robust system of internal controls and a sound risk management 
framework. The Group’s governance framework is detailed in 
the High Level Control and System of Governance document. 
The Board reviews this document annually.
The core elements are the: 
• Matters Reserved to the Board and the Board Committees’ 
Terms of Reference 
• Regulatory Governance Map 
• Risk Appetite 
• Group Policy Framework, which comprises policies that  
the Board approves. Minimum Standards interpret these 
policies into a set of operational requirements and these  
are implemented throughout the Group 
• Enterprise Risk Management Strategy and Framework. This  
sets out the Group’s approach to managing risks robustly, 
and owning and overseeing risks 
• Executive Governance Framework, which outlines how 
each business function is governed and details the authority 
delegated to Executive Committee members 
The diagram summarises the split of responsibilities for the 
different parts of the Group’s governance framework. 
.
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 54
Business unit and operational area implementation
Board approves
Board
High Level Governance framework, 
risk appetite and Group Policies 
are set by the Board, following 
review by the Board Risk Committee, 
for implementation by the Executive. 
Policies are drafted by Executive 
policy owners.
Board Risk Committee
Enterprise Risk Management framework 
is approved by the Board Risk 
Committee, following review by the 
Risk Management Committee. 
Risk Management Committee
Developed by the Executives within 
the framework approved by the Board. 
Minimum Standards are reviewed 
by the Group’s Policy and Minimum 
Standard owners’ review forum. 
The Executive Governance Framework 
and Minimum Standards are approved 
by Executives within the Risk 
Management Committee.
Board Risk 
Committee approves 
Risk Management 
Committee approves
Policy owner approves, 
subject to non-objection 
from Risk Management 
Committee
High Level Control and System of 
Governance document
Matters Reserved 
to the Board and 
Board Committees’ 
Terms of Reference
Risk Appetite
Group Policies
ERM Strategy and Framework
Regulatory 
Governance Map
Executive Governance Framework
Minimum Standards  
www.directlinegroup.com   55 
 
Board Committees 
The Board has established various Committees to help meet  
its responsibilities. Each Committee plays a vital role in 
ensuring the Board operates efficiently and considers matters 
appropriately. The diagram above details the names of the 
Board Committees and Chairs, as at the date of this report. 
Each Committee has separate terms of reference. The Board 
reviews these annually. You can find details of each 
Committee’s composition, attendance, role and focus on 
pages 58 to 69. 
The Chief Executive Officer 
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Company’s success. 
However, the Board has authorised Paul Geddes, the Chief 
Executive Officer, to manage the Group’s day-to-day 
operations and deliver its strategic objectives. 
In turn, Paul Geddes has delegated certain elements of his 
authority to Executive Committee members. This helps ensure 
that senior executives are accountable and responsible for 
managing their businesses and functions. Such delegation also 
involves ensuring the senior executives have the appropriate 
financial and other authorities needed to manage those 
business areas. 
Executive Committee 
The Executive Committee is the principal management 
committee that helps the Chief Executive Officer manage  
the Group day to day. It helps him: set performance targets; 
implement the Board-determined Group strategy and direction; 
and monitor key objectives and commercial plans to help 
achieve the Group’s targets. It also helps him evaluate new 
business initiatives and opportunities, and considers reports  
on operational matters that are material to the Group or have 
cross business implications. 
The diagram outlines the current executive management structure. 
www.directlinegroup.com 55
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Managing Director
Personal Lines
Mike 
Holliday-Williams
Managing Director 
of Claims, 
Business Services & 
Technology Services
Steve Maddock
Currently also 
leading our 
IT estate
Managing Director
Commercial
Jon
Greenwood
Chief Risk 
Ofﬁcer
José 
Vazquez
Chief Information
Ofﬁcer
Angela 
Morrison
Currently focusing 
on the next 
generation of 
customer systems
Human Resources
Director
Simon
Linares
General 
Counsel
Humphrey
Tomlinson
Chief Financial
Ofﬁcer
John 
Reizenstein
Paul Geddes
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Board of Directors
Mike Biggs
Chairman
Audit Committee
Andrew Palmer
Chair
Board Risk
Committee
Jane Hanson
Chair
Investment
Committee
Clare Thompson
Chair
Nomination
Committee
Mike Biggs
Chair
Remuneration
Committee
Priscilla Vacassin
Chair
Corporate Social
Responsibility
Committee
Clare Thompson
Chair Corporate governance report continued 
56   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Accountability 
Financial and business reporting 
Responsibility for preparing the Annual Report & Accounts 
The Board is responsible for giving shareholders a fair, 
balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s 
position and prospects. The Board is also responsible for 
maintaining adequate accounting records, and ensuring 
compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations. 
You can find an explanation from the Directors about their 
responsibility for preparing the financial statements in the 
statement of Directors’ responsibilities on page 99. The 
Company’s external Auditor explains its responsibilities  
on page 105. 
The Directors confirm that they consider that the Annual Report  
& Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable, and provides the information shareholders need 
to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model 
and strategy. In arriving at this conclusion, the Board was 
supported by a number of processes, including the following: 
• Management drafted the Annual Report & Accounts to 
ensure consistency across sections, and a steering group 
comprising a team of cross-functional senior management 
provided overall governance and co-ordination 
• A verification process, to ensure the content was  
factually accurate 
• Members of the Executive Committee reviewed drafts of  
the Annual Report & Accounts 
• The Company’s Disclosure Committee reviewed an 
advanced draft 
• The Audit Committee reviewed the substantially final  
draft before consideration by the Board 
The Board meets its responsibilities under the Code as follows: 
• How the Company seeks to generate value over the long 
term is explained in the business model on pages 8 and 9, 
and the strategy for delivering Company objectives is on 
pages 14 to 17 
• How the Board has assessed the Group’s longer-term 
viability and the adoption of the going concern basis in  
the financial statements follows below 
• The Board’s arrangements for applying risk management 
and internal control principles follow 
• The Board has delegated the Audit Committee to oversee 
managing the relationship with the Company’s external 
Auditor. You can find details of the Committee’s role, 
activities and relationship with the internal and external 
auditors in the Audit Committee report on pages 58 to 60 
Going concern 
The Group has sufficient financial resources to meet its 
financial needs, including managing a mature portfolio  
of insurance risk. The Directors believe the Group is well 
positioned to manage its business risks successfully in the 
current economic environment. 
The Finance review on pages 44 and 45 describes the 
Group’s capital management strategy, which covers how it 
measures its regulatory and economic capital needs, and 
deploys capital. 
The Group’s financial position is also covered in that section, 
including a commentary on cash and investment levels, 
reserves, currency management, insurance liability 
management, liquidity and borrowings. Additionally, note 3  
to the consolidated financial statements describes capital 
management needs and policies and also covers insurance, 
market, liquidity and credit risks which may affect the Group’s 
financial position. 
After making due enquiries, the Directors reasonably expect 
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for at least 12 months from 
the date of approval of the financial statements. Accordingly, 
they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements. 
Risk management and internal control 
Assessing principal risks 
The Directors confirm that they robustly assessed the principal 
risks facing the Company, including risks that would threaten its 
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. You 
can find a description of these risks, and their management  
or mitigation, on pages 28 and 29. 
This confirmation is based on the Directors’ twice-yearly review 
and challenge of the Group’s Material Risk Assessment 
(“MRA”), and their review and approval of the Group’s risk 
appetite statements. The MRA identifies risks quantified as 
having a residual risk impact of £40 million or more based  
on a 1-in-200-years likelihood period. The quantifications are 
produced through stress and scenario analysis, and the internal 
economic capital model. Each directorate’s bottom-up risk 
identification and assessment supplements the MRA. The  
MRA also plays a key role in developing the Own Risk and 
Solvency Assessment (“ORSA”) and assessing the Group’s 
strategic plan. 
Viability statement 
The Strategic report, on pages 1 to 45, sets out the Group’s 
financial performance, business environment, outlook and 
financial management strategies. It covers how the Group 
measures its regulatory and economic capital needs, and 
deploys capital. You can find discussion about the Group’s 
principal risks and risk management on pages 26 to 29. Note 
3 to the consolidated financial statements starts on page 121 
and sets out financial disclosures relating to the Group’s 
principal risks. This covers insurance, market and credit;  
and the Group’s approach to monitoring, managing and 
mitigating exposures to these risks. 
Every year and on a rolling basis, the Board considers  
a strategic plan for the Group. The plan makes certain 
assumptions in respect of the competitive markets in which the 
Group operates, and the delivery and implementation of the 
next generation of customer systems. Appropriate aspects of 
the strategic plan are stress-tested to understand and help set 
capital and other requirements. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 56  
www.directlinegroup.com   57 
When reviewing the strategic plan, the Board considered the 
Group’s prospects over the one and four-year periods that  
the plan covered. This review includes reviews of solvency, 
liquidity, assessment of principal risks and risk management. 
The one-year planning period has greater certainty, so it was 
used to set detailed budgets across the Group. Outcomes  
for the four-year period are less certain. However, the plan 
provides a robust planning tool for strategic decisions. The 
Board recognises that uncertainty increases over time and, 
therefore, future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or  
accurately predicted. 
Considering the Group’s current position, four-year strategic 
plan and principal risks, the Board has a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group can continue  
in operation and provide the appropriate degree of protection 
to those that are, or may become, policyholders or claimants  
in the period to 31 December 2019. 
Risk management and internal control system 
The Board oversees the Group’s risk management and internal 
control system. It has complied with the Code by establishing  
a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing 
the principal risks the Group faces. 
The Board has established a management structure with 
defined lines of responsibility and clear delegation of authority. 
This control framework cascades through the divisions and 
central functions, detailing clear responsibilities to ensure the 
Group’s operations have appropriate controls. This includes 
controls relating to the financial reporting process. 
The Group operates a Three Lines of Defence model. You can 
find out more about this in the risk management section on 
pages 26 and 27. 
The Board, with the assistance of the Board Risk Committee 
and the Audit Committee as appropriate, monitored the 
Company’s risk management and internal control systems,  
and reviewed their effectiveness. The monitoring and review 
covered all material controls, including financial, operational 
and compliance controls. The Board and its Committees are 
overseeing the ongoing work to improve the performance 
across the board of the Group’s IT systems, including focusing 
on risks relating to IT systems’ stability, cyber security and the 
internal control environment. 
The Board was also supported in its review of the annual 
Control Environment Certification process. As part of this,  
each directorate self-assessed its risks and whether its key 
controls were adequate and effective. The Risk and Group 
Audit functions reviewed and challenged these findings. The 
Group then combined the overall findings into a Group-level 
assessment, which the Chief Executive Officer approved. The 
system reported on the controls’ nature and effectiveness, and 
other management processes that manage these risks. 
The Board Risk Committee regularly reviews significant risks 
and how they might affect the Group’s financial position; 
comparisons to agreed risk appetites; and what the Group 
does to manage risks outside its appetite. 
The Group Audit function supports the Board by providing an 
independent and objective assurance of the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the Group’s controls. It brings a systematic  
and disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the 
effectiveness of its risk management, control and governance 
frameworks, and processes. 
The Directors acknowledge that any internal control system  
can manage, but not eliminate the risk of not achieving business 
objectives. It can only provide reasonable, not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement or financial loss. 
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee regularly reviews 
the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control systems. Its 
monitoring covers all material controls. Principally, it reviews 
and challenges reports from management, the Group Audit 
function and the external Auditor. This enables it to consider 
how to manage or mitigate risk in line with the Group’s  
risk strategy. 
Remuneration 
The Board has delegated responsibility to the Remuneration 
Committee for the remuneration arrangements of the Group’s 
Executive Directors and Chairman. It recommends and 
monitors the remuneration level and structure for senior 
executives. You can find out more about this in the Directors’ 
remuneration report starting on page 70. 
Relations with shareholders 
The Board believes that engaging regularly with the 
Company’s shareholders is vital to the Group’s business. 
Communicating and engaging with investors means the Board 
can stay up to date on opinions. It also gives the Company  
the opportunity to answer questions and concerns. 
The Executive Directors meet frequently with investors and 
inform the Board about shareholder concerns. This gives 
Directors the opportunity to discuss governance and strategy 
with shareholders. The Chairman, SID and NEDs are available 
to attend meetings with major shareholders at their request. 
The Company’s Investor Relations team helps Directors continue 
communicating with institutional investors, fund managers and 
analysts. The Board receives regular updates on investor 
relations, including feedback from analysts. The Company’s 
corporate brokers also regularly attend Board meetings to 
inform the Board of shareholder views. 
Annual General Meeting 
The Board sees the Company’s AGM as a good opportunity 
for private shareholders to talk directly with the Board. All 
shareholders can attend the AGM if they wish. All Directors 
attended the AGM in 2015. 
At the AGM, the Chief Executive Officer presents the Group’s 
financial results. Next, the Chairman proposes the AGM’s 
formal business. The AGM’s facilitators encourage 
shareholders to ask questions about the meeting’s business. The 
Chairman, the Committee Chairs and the remaining Directors 
and members of the Executive team are also available to talk 
with shareholders at the end of the meeting. 
 
www.directlinegroup.com 57
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports 
58   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Audit Committee report 
 
Andrew Palmer 
Chair of the Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee’s role 
The Committee is responsible for overseeing and challenging 
the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of financial and other 
controls. It also monitors the work and effectiveness of the 
Group’s internal and external auditors and actuaries. 
The Committee has unrestricted access to management and 
external advisers to help discharge its duties. It is satisfied that 
in 2015 it received sufficient, reliable and timely information  
to perform its responsibilities effectively. 
Responsibilities 
The Committee’s main responsibilities are to: 
• Monitor the integrity of the Group’s financial statements  
and any other formal announcement relating to its  
financial performance 
• Review and monitor the reserving process and recommend 
the quarterly reserves to the Board 
• Continually review the adequacy and effectiveness of  
the Group’s internal financial controls and internal control 
systems, and the monitoring procedures  
• Monitor and evaluate the Group Audit function’s performance 
• Monitor and manage the relationship with the External 
Auditor, including agreeing the external audit fee, assessing 
effectiveness, and managing any tender process for the 
audit services contract 
You can find the Audit Committee’s terms of reference at 
www.directlinegroup.com . 
Committee composition, skills and experience 
The Committee comprises three independent NEDs: Andrew 
Palmer, Jane Hanson and Clare Thompson. You can find their 
biographies on pages 48 and 49. 
On 13 May 2015, Glyn Jones stepped down as a NED  
and a member of the Committee. 
All Committee members are members of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales. They also have recent and 
relevant financial experience, enabling them to contribute diverse 
expertise to the Committee’s proceedings. To keep their skills 
current and relevant, in addition to Board training, members of 
the Committee have received training by Deloitte LLP focused on 
changes to the Code and in particular the new requirements  
for the longer term viability statement. 
Meetings 
The Audit Committee held five scheduled meetings in 2015,  
at appropriate times in the financial and regulatory reporting 
and audit cycle. This table shows attendance at the  
scheduled meetings: 
 Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Andrew Palmer (Chair) 5 of 5  100%
Jane Hanson 5 of 5  100%
Glyn Jones
1
 2 of 2  100%
Clare Thompson 5 of 5  100%
Sub-committees of the Audit Committee met in May and 
November 2015 to approve the Group’s Interim Management 
Statements for the first and third quarters of 2015. The quorum 
of both sub-committee meetings comprised Andrew Palmer, 
Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein. 
There were four additional meetings to consider outputs and 
approve reports from the Solvency II programme. 
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk 
Officer, Group Financial Controller and Head of External 
Reporting are invited to attend Audit Committee meetings. The 
Actuarial Director, external actuarial advisers, External Auditor 
and Group Head of Audit are also invited to attend meetings 
and meet privately with the Audit Committee, in the absence  
of management. The Managing Director of Claims, Business 
Services and Technology Services is also invited to attend 
appropriate sections of Audit Committee meetings. 
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee 
meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting. 
Main activities during the year 
At every scheduled Committee meeting, the Committee 
receives reports on financial reporting, reserves, internal 
controls, Group Audit and Solvency II. You can find out more 
about this in the following sections. 
Financial reporting 
During the year, the Committee reviewed the preliminary 
announcement of the Group’s 2014 financial results, the 2014 
Annual Report & Accounts, and the 2015 Half Year Report. The 
Committee then recommended them to the Board for approval. 
The review process focused on critical accounting policies  
and practices, emphasising those requiring a major element  
of judgement. The review also considered the going concern 
assumptions, impairment reviews, reserving provisions, unusual 
transactions, clarity of disclosures and significant audit adjustments. 
  Note: 
1. Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended out 
of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 58  
www.directlinegroup.com   59 
The Committee also advised the Board whether the financial 
statements, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and 
understandable and provided sufficient information to  
enable the reader to assess the Group’s performance,  
business model and strategy. 
When considering the Annual Report & Accounts for 2015, the 
Committee focused on the significant risks and judgements which 
could be material to the financial statements. These included: 
Reserve valuation – The Committee reviewed the actuarial 
best estimates of the level of reserves with external consultants. 
Further information on reserves is given below. 
Reinsurance recoverables – The Committee considered the 
proposed methodology for an impairment provision. 
Financial investments – The Committee considered reports  
on the judgements applied to the carrying value of the Group’s 
financial investments and the need for any impairment provision. 
Goodwill and other intangible assets – The Committee 
considered the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible 
assets and whether any impairment provision was required. 
Transformation projects – The Committee considered  
major change projects including the IT migration from  
RBS Group systems. 
Internal control environment – The Committee considered 
reports on the internal control environment and associated 
mitigating actions/remedial action plans. 
The Committee considered reports prepared by management 
on the significant estimates and judgements that were material 
to the financial statements and challenged the judgements 
being made. The Committee also discussed these matters  
with Deloitte, the External Auditor. 
Reserves 
Every quarter, the Committee reviews and challenges the key 
assumptions and judgements, emerging trends, movements, 
and analysis of uncertainties underlying the actuarial best 
estimate of technical provisions. At the same time, the 
Committee considers and challenges the appropriateness of 
the Chief Financial Officer’s proposals for management’s best 
estimate of reserves. These are informed by actuarial analysis, 
wider commercial and risk management insights, and 
principles of consistency from period to period. 
The Committee approves annual plans for reviews of reserves, 
informed by emerging internal and external issues. 
It also considers an appropriate balance between internal and 
external actuarial review. Consultants appointed to provide 
actuarial reviews of reserves are subject to approval by the 
Committee. The external actuarial review was carried out by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the Directors of Direct Line 
Insurance Group plc and its relevant affiliates
1
. 
After reviewing the actuarial best estimate and management’s 
best estimate of reserves, the Committee recommends them to 
the Board. 
Internal control and Group Audit 
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the adequacy 
and effectiveness of the Group’s internal control systems. 
The Group’s Financial Reporting Control Framework (“FRCF”) is 
part of its wider internal controls system. It addresses financial 
reporting risks. The Board delegates supervision of the FRCF to 
the Audit Committee. The Chief Financial Officer is responsible 
for the FRCF on a daily basis. 
During 2015, the Audit Committee received regular reports on 
the FRCF and the testing of it. Part of those reports focused on 
control deficiencies, and mitigating and remedial actions taken. 
The Committee considered the Group’s internal controls and 
processes for identifying and responding to risks. 
The Audit Committee oversees Group Audit’s work and seeks 
to ensure it adopts industry best practice appropriately. The 
Group Head of Audit’s primary reporting line is to the Chair of 
the Committee. The secondary reporting line – for day-to-day 
administration – is to the Chief Financial Officer. Group Audit 
gives the Committee independent and objective reports on  
the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
controls and governance frameworks. The Committee approves 
Group Audit’s annual plan of reviews, and receives quarterly 
reports detailing internal audit activity, key findings, 
management responses, and proposed action plans. Group 
Audit also monitors that these actions are completed. The 
Committee also approves the Group Audit Charter. 
During the year, the Committee assessed whether the Group 
Audit function was effective and concluded that it was. This 
included the Committee satisfying itself that the Group Audit 
function has the appropriate resources. The Committee also 
continued monitoring ongoing actions from 2014’s external 
quality assessment review. 
Solvency II 
During the year, the Committee held four additional meetings 
to consider matters relating to the Solvency II governance and 
Internal Model Approval Process (“IMAP”) application. At  
those meetings, the Committee considered: 
• Reports to the PRA for the preparatory reporting stage of  
Pillar III as at 31 December 2014 and 30 September 2015 
• Reviews by the external auditor, mandated by the PRA  
for the Pillar III reports for 31 December 2014 
External audit 
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the External 
Auditor and agreeing the audit fee. This also involves 
approving the annual audit’s scope. 
The Committee monitored the performance of the work of and 
relationship with the External Auditor during the year. Deloitte 
LLP were appointed as Auditor to the Group at IPO in 2012. 
Deloitte LLP, as the auditor of the RBS Group, audited the 
Group as a division of RBS between 2000 and 2012. The 
Company cannot reappoint Deloitte LLP as its auditor after June 
2023. This complies with the transitional rules for audit tendering 
and auditor rotation, as set out in the Competition & Markets 
Authority’s (“CMA”) Order and the EU Audit Regulation. 
Note: 
1. The relevant affiliates are U K Insurance Limited and Churchill Insurance  
Company Limited. 
www.directlinegroup.com 59
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports continued 
60   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Deloitte LLP must regularly rotate the partner it engages on the 
audit. The current partner is David Rush. He will be rotated 
after completing the 2015 year-end audit. This complies with 
the Group’s Minimum Standard on making sure the external 
audit remains independent. 
The Committee has fully considered how the EU Audit Regulation 
and the CMA’s Order on mandatory audit contract tendering 
affect the Group. Under the CMA Order, the Group will conduct 
a competitive tender and enter into a new audit services contract 
before June 2023. The Committee will tender the audit contract 
for the year ended 31 December 2021 at the latest. The 
Committee considers that this is in the best interests of the 
shareholders as it will coincide with the next audit partner’s 
rotation and therefore limit operational disruption during a time 
of significant regulatory and organisational change over the next 
few years. However, in conjunction with the results of the annual 
assessment of the Auditor’s effectiveness, this position will be 
reviewed again in 2016. 
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Company’s 
choice of external auditor and no auditor liability agreement 
has been entered into. Equally, any recommendation to 
reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company depends  
on continued satisfactory performance. 
Auditor independence and non-audit services policy 
The Group has an Independence of External Audit minimum 
standard. This established parameters for preventing or mitigating 
anything that compromises the External Auditors’ independence or 
objectivity, by virtue of them providing the Group with non-audit 
services. The Committee reviews and refreshes the standard 
annually to make sure it remains appropriate. 
Before each financial year, the Committee formally approves a 
list of audit and non-audit services that the External Auditor will 
provide. This is in accordance with the minimum standard. 
The Group has delegated authority to the Audit Committee’s 
Chair to approve any non-audit services costing up to 
£100,000. Non-audit services costing over £100,000 
require the Committee’s approval. At least twice a year, the 
Committee receives and reviews a report on all consultancy 
spending, including non-audit services. 
During the year, the Committee approved fees of £0.9 million 
to Deloitte LLP for services unrelated to audit work. The 
following is a breakdown of fees paid to Deloitte LLP for the 
year ended 31 December 2015. 
Fees 
£m Proportion
Audit fees
1
 1.9 67.9%
Non-audit fees 0.9 32.1%
Total fees for audit  
and other services 2.8 
The non-audit fee of £0.9 million relates to audit-related 
assurance services, tax services and an IT project. 
The Committee reviewed how the Group applied its minimum 
standard on audit and non-audit services in 2015. It is satisfied 
that the Group has adequate procedures to make sure the 
External Auditors are independent and objective. 
Effectiveness of the external audit process and 
reappointing Deloitte as External Auditors 
In 2015, the Audit Committee assessed the External Auditors’ 
effectiveness. This was in addition to regularly questioning the 
Auditor during its meetings. The Audit Committee assessed  
the Auditor through: a detailed questionnaire which key 
stakeholders completed; discussing matters with the  
Chief Financial Officer; formally reviewing Deloitte LLP’s 
independence; and assessing whether it fulfilled the  
agreed audit plan. 
The Financial Reporting Council’s Audit Quality Review team 
selected to review the audit of the 2014 Group financial 
statements as part of their 2015 annual inspection of audit 
firms. The focus of the review and their reporting was on 
identifying areas where improvements were required rather 
than highlighting areas performed to or above the expected 
level. The Chairman of the Audit Committee received a full 
copy of the findings of the Audit Quality Review team and 
discussed these with Deloitte. The Committee confirms that 
there were no significant areas for improvement identified 
within the report. The Committee is also satisfied that there  
is nothing within the report which might have a bearing on  
the audit appointment. 
The Committee, after taking into account all of the information 
available, concluded that Deloitte LLP had performed its 
obligations effectively and appropriately as External Auditor  
to the Group. 
The Audit Committee subsequently recommended to the Board 
that the Group reappoint Deloitte LLP as External Auditor. The 
Group will put a resolution regarding this to the shareholders  
at the 2016 AGM. 
The Audit Committee’s effectiveness 
The Company Secretary facilitated the Committee’s review  
of its effectiveness during the year. The Company Secretary 
also prepared a report based on responses from Committee 
members and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed 
questionnaire. After reviewing and discussing the report, the 
Committee concluded that it was operating effectively, and  
has access to sufficient resources to perform its duties. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
29 February 2016. 
 
 
 
Andrew Palmer 
Chair of the Audit Committee 
Note:
1. You can find further information in note 11 to the consolidated  
financial statements. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 60  
www.directlinegroup.com   61 
Board Risk Committee report 
 
Jane Hanson 
Chair of the Board Risk Committee 
The Board Risk Committee’s role 
The Committee is responsible for overseeing and advising  
the Board on the Group’s current and potential future risk 
exposures, and its strategic approach to managing risk. The 
Committee recommends risk appetite and tolerance levels to 
the Board, and supports the Board in promoting a risk-aware 
culture across the Group. 
The Committee has unrestricted access to management and 
external advisers to help discharge its duties. It is satisfied  
that during 2015 it received sufficient, reliable and timely 
information to perform its responsibilities effectively. 
Responsibilities 
The Committee’s main responsibilities are to: 
• Consider and recommend the Group’s risk appetite, 
framework and tolerance to the Board for its approval  
• Review and approve the design and implementation of  
the Enterprise Risk Management Framework, and the 
procedures for monitoring its adequacy and effectiveness 
• Consider the Group’s risk profile relative to current and 
future Group strategy, and to risk appetite 
• Approve the Risk Management and Compliance  
Operating Plans 
• Review the governance of, and methodology and 
assumptions used in, the Group’s internal economic  
capital model and approval of changes to the model  
and associated policies and minimum standards 
• Review and recommend the ORSA process and report  
to the Board  
• Review and recommend the High Level Control and  
System of Governance Framework to the Board 
• Review the Group’s procedure for detecting internal  
and external fraud 
You can find the Board Risk Committee’s terms of reference  
at www.directlinegroup.com . 
Committee composition, skills and experience 
The Committee comprised four independent NEDs: Jane 
Hanson, Andrew Palmer, Clare Thompson and Priscilla 
Vacassin. You can find their biographies on pages 48  
and 49. 
Meetings 
The Board Risk Committee held six scheduled meetings  
in 2015. One of these was a joint meeting with the 
Remuneration Committee. Additionally, six sub-committee 
meetings were held to consider Solvency II and IMAP matters. 
This table shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: 
 Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Jane Hanson (Chair) 6 of 6 100%
Andrew Palmer 6 of 6 100%
Clare Thompson 6 of 6 100%
Priscilla Vacassin 6 of 6 100%
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer,  
Chief Risk Officer, Group Head of Audit, General Counsel 
and a representative from the External Auditor are invited to 
attend meetings. In addition to regular one-to-one meetings 
with the Chair, the Chief Risk Officer also met privately with 
the Committee. 
The Board Risk Committee also invites the Director of 
Compliance and Regulatory Risk, Director of Financial Risk and 
Enterprise Risk Director to appropriate sections of its meetings. 
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee 
meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting. 
Main activities during the year 
Risk monitoring 
At each of its scheduled quarterly Committee meetings, the 
Committee receives a report from the Chief Risk Officer. This 
report highlights the outputs of regular risk monitoring and 
provides further detail of specific issues to the Committee. 
The Committee received regular reports regarding the three 
strategic risk appetite statements: maintain capital adequacy; 
stable and efficient access to funding and liquidity; and 
maintain stakeholder confidence. The Committee also received 
reports on the risks pertaining to the lower level risk appetite 
statements that support the three main statements. The 
Committee monitored the Group’s exposure to these appetites, 
and assessed the drivers that affect its risk appetite status. 
The Committee robustly assessed the principal risks facing  
the Company, which you can find listed on pages 28 and 29. 
The Committee achieved this by reviewing and challenging the 
Group’s MRA in the context of the Group’s risk appetite. 
On behalf of the Board, the Committee also monitored the 
Company’s risk management systems, and reviewed their 
effectiveness. The monitoring and review involved examining 
an assessment of the control environment and material controls 
at Group level, based on directorate-level risk and control self-
assessments. These assessments were subject to challenge  
by the Risk and Group Audit functions. 
  
www.directlinegroup.com 61
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports continued 
62   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Additionally, the Committee considered more detailed subjects 
at each scheduled meeting. These related to: compliance and 
regulatory risk including oversight of the Group’s regulatory 
relationships; operational risk; financial risk, Solvency II and 
IMAP; and risk governance. The Committee also requested 
specific reviews of areas of the risk and control environment. 
Compliance and regulatory risk 
During the year, the Committee considered the Group’s 
compliance with regulatory requirements including conduct  
and financial crime. In particular, the Committee reviewed  
how the PRA’s Senior Insurance Managers Regime and the 
FCA’s Approved Persons regime would affect the Group.  
The Committee also reviewed the outputs from conduct and 
compliance assurance activity, including approving the  
Annual Assurance Plan. 
Additionally, the Committee monitored the Group’s actions 
relating to a financial promotions assurance review; and the 
management of ongoing regulatory interactions, in particular 
with the FCA and the PRA. 
The Committee received regular reports on the Group’s whistle-
blowing process; and the Group’s actions to prevent financial 
crime, including review of the Annual Financial Crime Report. 
Operational risk 
The Committee considered and monitored the risks associated 
with the migration of the Group’s IT infrastructure away from 
RBS Group. The Committee monitored the Company’s risk 
management and internal control systems, and reviewed their 
effectiveness. The monitoring and review covered all material 
risks, including financial, operational and compliance, 
reviewing the net risk position after the operation of controls, 
and also considered the effectiveness of any associated 
mitigating actions. The Committee is overseeing the ongoing 
work to improve the performance across the board of the 
Group’s IT systems, including focusing on risks relating to IT 
systems’ stability, cyber security and the internal control 
environment. 
The Committee also received regular updates on the Group’s 
major change programmes, including the next generation of 
customer systems, and considered progress towards the 
planned significant change to the Group’s IT capabilities, 
including the development of new technology and new  
digital tools. 
The Committee considered the Group’s broader operational  
risk control environment and commissioned reviews by the Risk 
function on controls relating to major third-party suppliers and  
the execution of pricing changes. In addition, the Committee 
considered the Group’s cyber risk assessment and associated 
controls, as well as the governance structures across the Group. 
Financial risk 
At each meeting, the Committee monitored the Group’s 
performance against the financial risk appetite through the 
Chief Risk Officer’s report. The Committee also considered 
risks in the strategic plan against risk appetite.
As part of this, the Committee considered the stress and scenario 
testing plan, and monitored and challenged the test results. 
Solvency II and IMAP 
One of the Committee’s main considerations in 2015 was 
preparing for the implementation of Solvency II. This is the 
European Insurance Industry’s new framework for ensuring 
capital adequacy. It involves using a forward-looking risk 
assessment based on ORSA principles. The Committee  
also monitored and challenged progress on the Group’s  
IMAP application. 
During the year, the Committee reviewed and considered 
Solvency II matters, including: 
• The 2015 IMAP validation framework, scope and process, 
including an independent assessment and the resolution of 
validation issues and delivery against regulatory deadlines 
• The Group’s Solvency Capital Requirement (“SCR”), 
including the key assumptions and dependencies within the 
calculation methodology such as the materiality limits and 
the approach to catastrophe modelling 
• Governance around the calculation of the Standard 
Formula, and the justification of this capital requirement 
including a comparison to the IECM SCR 
• Approval of the ORSA including its alignment to the 
business planning process 
• The ongoing application of, and controls over, the IECM 
including recommendation for Board approval of the 
defined management actions and the validation approach 
for 2016 
The Committee also received comprehensive training on  
the requirements of Solvency II. 
Risk governance 
Every year, the Committee reviews and approves the Enterprise 
Risk Management Framework, which includes the Group risk 
policies and minimum standards. The Committee reviewed  
and challenged each Group policy and recommended the 
final versions for approval by the Board. The Committee also 
considered the results from the annual Group assessment of the 
effectiveness of the internal control environment undertaken by 
each business directorate, as well as monitoring controls on  
an ongoing basis. 
The Committee considered, challenged and approved  
the Annual Risk and Compliance Plan. It also reviewed  
an ‘Assessment of Risk Behaviours and Attitudes’ across the 
Group, which is part of an ongoing process to drive continued 
improvement in these areas by providing feedback on current 
state, highlighting areas of good practice and areas for focus. 
Additionally, the Committee held a Risk Strategy day. During 
the event, the Committee considered the Group’s approach  
to the management of risk, the risk oversight model and the 
operation of the Three Lines of Defence model in the Group. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 62  
www.directlinegroup.com   63 
Remuneration 
During the year, the Board Risk and Remuneration Committees 
held a joint meeting. This was to ensure the Group’s 
remuneration arrangements were still appropriate in the light  
of regulatory developments and did not encourage excessive 
risk-taking. As part of this review, the joint Committee also 
considered the Group’s preparedness for Solvency II. This 
followed published requirements, including how the Group 
would assess the performance of individuals in Control 
Functions. This Committee also monitored how incentive 
schemes operated for roles in the insurance sales and service 
contact centres, and for technicians and support staff in the  
UK Assistance Accident and Repair Centres. 
The Board Risk Committee’s effectiveness 
The Company Secretary facilitated the Committee’s review  
of its effectiveness during the year. The Company Secretary 
also prepared a report based on responses from Committee 
members and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed 
questionnaire. After reviewing and discussing the report,  
the Committee concluded that it was operating effectively,  
and has access to sufficient resources to perform its duties. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
29 February 2016. 
 
 
 
Jane Hanson 
Chair of the Board Risk Committee 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee report 
Clare Thompson 
Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee’s role  
The CSR Committee oversees and advises on how the Group 
conducts its business responsibly. This includes matters relating 
to environmental, employee engagement and wellbeing, 
community involvement, and ethics. 
Responsibilities 
The Committee’s main responsibilities are: 
• Approving the Group’s CSR strategy 
• Reviewing the Group’s performance relating to CSR matters 
• Assessing the Group’s role in society 
Committee composition 
The Committee comprised three independent NEDs: Clare 
Thompson, Jane Hanson and Sebastian James. Paul Geddes, 
Chief Executive Officer, and Angela Morrison, Chief 
Information Officer, are also Committee members.  
You can find their biographies on pages 48 to 50. 
Meetings 
The CSR Committee held three scheduled meetings in 2015. 
This table shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: 
 Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Clare Thompson (Chair) 3 of 3 100%
Paul Geddes 3 of 3 100%
Jane Hanson 3 of 3 100%
Sebastian James  3 of 3 100%
Angela Morrison 3 of 3 100%
The Human Resources Director, Head of Public Affairs and 
Sustainability, and CSR Manager are invited to attend CSR 
Committee meetings. The Chair reports on matters dealt with  
at each Committee meeting to the subsequent scheduled  
Board meeting. 
www.directlinegroup.com 63
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports continued 
64   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
CSR strategy 
The Group’s CSR strategy focuses on four areas. A member of 
the Executive Committee sponsors each area. They are: 
• Helping to make our society safer – Mike Holliday-Williams 
• Proud to be here – Simon Linares 
• Being recognised as part of our communities –  
Jon Greenwood 
• Reduce, Reuse and Recycle – Steve Maddock 
You can find out more about the Group’s CSR approach  
and priorities in the CSR section on pages 30 to 33. 
Main activities during the year 
The Committee monitors the implementation of the CSR strategy 
through regular updates on the different focus areas. It 
challenges the robustness of the targets in relation to each 
strand. It receives regular updates on each element of the CSR 
strategy and at each of its meetings the Committee receives a 
report on developments in CSR. 
Helping to make our society safer 
During the year, the Committee held a strategy session to 
consider how the Group could best use its expertise and 
experience to reduce deaths and life-changing injuries on the 
UK’s roads. The overall aim is to cut deaths in the first 1,000 
miles of driving to zero, by engaging young drivers and 
helping them to drive more safely. The Committee received 
regular progress reports on, and provided valuable insight into, 
this initiative. You can find further details on this initiative and 
the manifesto in the CSR section on page 31. 
Proud to be here 
The primary objective of this strand was to improve employee 
engagement in order to support a key enabler of the Group’s 
2015 strategy. The KPIs for this element are linked to the 
People Strategy and focus on employee engagement and 
wellbeing. During the year the Committee discussed and 
challenged the proposed targets and the focus of the work 
stream. It was agreed that the focus should be on (i) pride in 
working for the Group; (ii) telling others that the Group is a 
great place to work; and (iii) employee wellbeing. 
Being recognised as part of our communities 
The Committee received reports about how the Group was 
strengthening the level of support provided to the network  
of Community and Social Committees operating at the  
main Group locations. The main targets which had been  
agreed related to volunteering, fund raising and matched 
payroll giving. 
The ‘One Day’ volunteering initiative and Community 
Cashback scheme were considered to be the two areas  
with the greatest potential for impact. 
Reduce, Reuse and Recycle 
This strand of the strategy considered energy use, waste 
management and resource use within our operations as well  
as environmental matters in the Group’s supply chain. Key 
objectives related to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions 
and diverting waste from landfill. 
The CSR Committee‘s effectiveness 
The Company Secretary facilitated the Committee’s review  
of its effectiveness during the year. The Company Secretary 
also prepared a report based on responses from Committee 
members and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed 
questionnaire. After reviewing and discussing the report,  
the Committee concluded that it was operating effectively,  
and has access to sufficient resources to perform its duties. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
29 February 2016. 
 
 
 
Clare Thompson 
Chair of the CSR Committee 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 64  
www.directlinegroup.com   65 
Investment Committee report 
 
Clare Thompson 
Chair of the Investment Committee 
The Investment Committee’s role 
The Committee is responsible for overseeing how the Group 
develops its investment strategy. It also oversees the management 
and performance of the Group’s investment portfolio. 
Responsibilities 
The Committee’s main responsibilities are to: 
• Examine the rationale for, and the risks and financial 
implications of, any proposed changes to the Group’s 
investment strategy and, where agreed, recommend these 
changes to the Board 
• Consider and approve material changes to the risk 
framework that underpins investment activity, and any 
proposals to change the operating model. This typically 
relates to how outsource service providers are used 
• Review global financial market developments and changes 
to the regulatory environment, and consider the ongoing 
appropriateness of investment activities in light of such 
developments 
• Monitor the results from investment activities, namely 
adequacy of financial results delivered, compliance with 
agreed risk tolerances and external service provider 
performance. The Committee also ensures that any material 
breaches are reported to the Board Risk Committee 
Committee composition, skills and experience 
The Committee comprised three independent NEDs: Clare 
Thompson, Jane Hanson and Andrew Palmer. You can find 
their biographies on pages 48 and 49. 
Clare Thompson was appointed Chair of the Committee on 
13 May 2015, after the AGM and when Glyn Jones stepped 
down as a NED and Committee member. 
 
 
 
 
Note: 
1. Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended  
out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend. 
Meetings 
The Investment Committee held four scheduled meetings in 
2015. This table shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: 
 Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Clare Thompson (Chair) 4 of 4 100 %
Jane Hanson 4 of 4 100 %
Glyn Jones
1
 2 of 2 100 %
Andrew Palmer 4 of 4 100 %
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk 
Officer, Director of Investment Management and Treasury,  
and Director of Financial Risk are invited to attend Investment 
Committee meetings. The Chair reports on matters dealt with  
at each Committee meeting to the subsequent scheduled  
Board meeting. 
Main activities during the year 
Investment strategy 
After considering and challenging, the Committee 
recommended to the Board the following material changes  
to the Group’s investment strategy. The Board approved the 
changes during 2015. 
• A revised minimum requirement for access to liquidity  
in stressed business or economic conditions 
• The introduction of three new asset mandates. Two 
mandates will invest in global credit and subordinated 
financial credit respectively, and the third mandate will 
invest in Sterling commercial real estate loans, a new asset 
class for the Group’s investment portfolio 
• Changes to benchmark allocations for various existing asset 
classes including gilts, investment-grade credit, high-yield 
credit, securitised credit and investment property 
• A revised investment objective for existing investment-grade 
fixed-income mandates 
Risk framework and operating model 
In October, the Committee agreed to proposals to move 
custody and middle-office services to a new provider. During 
the year, the Committee reviewed the credit exposure limits 
framework and agreed changes to issuer and concentration 
limits. It also agreed to limited changes to commercial property 
guidelines during the year. This gave the Group some flexibility 
to invest in property that needs development or major 
refurbishment before letting. 
www.directlinegroup.com 65
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports continued 
66   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Monitoring investment activity and performance 
The Committee monitored the performance of investments every 
quarter. It also received reports from the Director of Investment 
Management and Treasury on various matters. These included: 
key market developments; financial results from investment 
activity; investment performance versus benchmark for internally 
and externally managed portfolios; operational performance 
by the custodian and other service providers; and compliance 
with risk limits and internal delegated authorities. The 
Committee also received presentations from Investment 
Managers on their performance against benchmark. 
Solvency II 
The Committee examined progress on initiatives linked to 
preparing for Solvency II, notably: 
• Preparing a liquidity plan and contingent management 
actions 
• Developing various asset and derivative reports to submit to 
the PRA and European Insurance and Occupational 
Pensions Authority 
• Restructuring the securitised credit portfolio to meet Solvency 
II requirements 
The Investment Committee’s effectiveness 
The Company Secretary facilitated the Committee’s review of 
its effectiveness during the year. The Company Secretary also 
prepared a report based on responses from Committee 
members and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed 
questionnaire. After reviewing and discussing the report, the 
Committee concluded that it was operating effectively, and has 
access to sufficient resources to perform its duties. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
29 February 2016. 
 
 
 
Clare Thompson 
Chair of the Investment Committee 
Nomination Committee report 
Mike Biggs 
Chair of the Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee’s role 
The Committee is responsible for keeping the Board’s structure, 
size, composition, and balance of skills, experience, 
independence and expertise under review. It also provides 
guidance to management on executive succession planning. 
Responsibilities 
The Committee’s main responsibilities are: 
• Considering and recommending to the Board matters 
regarding appointment of Directors, membership and 
chairmanship of Board Committees 
• Succession planning for Directors and other senior 
executives, accounting for the skills and expertise the Group 
needs to deliver its strategy 
• Keeping under review the leadership needs of the Group 
• Reviewing the NEDs continued independence 
• Considering and recommending to the Board Directors’ 
annual re-election and reappointment at the end of their 
term in office 
You can find the Nomination Committee’s terms of reference at 
www.directlinegroup.com . 
Committee composition 
The Committee comprised the Chairman, Mike Biggs, and two 
independent NEDs, Andrew Palmer and Priscilla Vacassin. You 
can find their biographies on pages 48 to 49. 
Priscilla Vacassin was appointed as a Committee member on 
13 May 2015, when Glyn Jones stepped down as a NED 
and Committee member. 
Richard Ward was appointed a member of the Committee on 
25 February 2016. 
Meetings 
The Nomination Committee held three scheduled meetings in 
2015. It also held additional meetings to deal with 
membership of the Board’s Committees and the search for the 
new SID. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 66  
www.directlinegroup.com   67 
This table shows attendance at the scheduled meetings: 
Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Mike Biggs (Chair) 3 of 3 100%
Glyn Jones
1
 2 of 2 100%
Andrew Palmer 3 of 3 100%
Priscilla Vacassin
1
 1 of 1 100%
The Chief Executive Officer is invited to attend Nomination 
Committee meetings. The Human Resources Director is also 
invited to attend appropriate sections of the Nomination 
Committee meetings. The Chair reports on matters dealt with  
at each Committee meeting to the subsequent scheduled  
Board meeting.  
Main activities during the year 
Board composition 
During the year, the Committee: considered the Board’s skills 
and experience; reviewed the structure, size and composition 
of the Board; reviewed the membership and chairmanship of 
the Board’s Committees; and reviewed NEDs’ letters of 
appointment, terms of appointment and time commitment. 
Succession planning 
The Committee acknowledges the importance of Board and 
executive succession planning, monitoring its progress as a 
standing agenda item at each of its scheduled meetings and 
providing guidance on executive succession planning to 
management. 
Board changes 
Glyn Jones stepped down from the Board following the AGM 
on 13 May 2015, due to his increasing responsibilities as 
Chairman of other listed companies. On 18 January 2016, 
the Group appointed Richard Ward as a NED of the 
Company and SID. 
Board appointment and reappointment process 
The Committee oversaw the process to appoint Richard Ward 
as a NED and SID. The Committee reviewed the Board 
members’ expertise and experience. It then produced a 
detailed brief and engaged external search consultants, JCA 
Group, to find suitable candidates. 
JCA Group is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct  
for executive search firms. It is not connected in any way to  
the Company. 
JCA Group prepared a long list of candidates of appropriate 
merit from diverse backgrounds. The Committee agreed a 
shortlist and interviewed candidates. It then approached the 
PRA and FCA for approval, and recommended appointing 
Richard Ward as a NED to the Board. 
As Richard Ward was appointed since the last AGM, he will 
submit himself for election at the Company’s 2016 AGM. He 
is considered independent within the Code’s meaning. 
 
Note: 
1. Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended out 
of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend. 
Electing and re-electing Directors 
Before the proposed re-election of Directors at the 2015 
AGM, the Committee reviewed the independence of NEDs.  
It concluded that Jane Hanson, Sebastian James, Andrew 
Palmer, Clare Thompson and Priscilla Vacassin were all 
independent within the Code’s meaning. Mike Biggs was 
independent when appointed as Chairman. The Committee 
recommended to the Board and shareholders to re-elect all 
serving Directors at the Company’s 2015 AGM. 
Diversity 
The Group celebrates the diversity of its workforce. It seeks  
to recruit the best candidates for all positions throughout the 
business, whatever their gender. At the date of this report, 
three of the Group’s nine Directors are women, which equates 
to 33% of the Board. This is the target set in Lord Davies’ 
Women on Boards Review Five Year Summary published in 
October 2015, to be achieved by 2020. The Board also 
acknowledges the benefit of diversity. The Nomination 
Committee has encapsulated in its terms of reference a 
requirement to consider candidates for appointment to the 
Board on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard 
to diversity, including gender diversity. 
You can find out more about the Group’s approach to diversity 
in the CSR section on page 33. 
The Nomination Committee’s effectiveness 
The Company Secretary facilitated the Committee’s review  
of its effectiveness during the year. The Company Secretary 
also prepared a report based on responses from Committee 
members and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed 
questionnaire. After reviewing and discussing the report, the 
Committee concluded that it was operating effectively, and  
has access to sufficient resources to perform its duties. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
29 February 2016. 
 
 
 
Michael N Biggs 
Chair of the Nomination Committee 
www.directlinegroup.com 67
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee reports continued 
68   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Remuneration Committee report 
 
Priscilla Vacassin 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee’s role 
The Committee is responsible for setting and overseeing how 
the Group implements its remuneration policy. The Committee 
oversees the level and structure of remuneration arrangements 
for senior executives, approves share incentive plans, and 
recommends them to the Board and shareholders. Where 
applicable, it also oversees share plan changes that need 
shareholder approval. 
Responsibilities 
The Committee’s main responsibilities are: 
• Setting the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors 
and Board Chairman and monitoring its operation 
• Recommending and monitoring the level and structure of 
remuneration for senior executives 
• Considering how the Group’s strategy or performance 
might affect its remuneration policy 
• Approving the Group’s remuneration governance framework. 
This includes approving the design and target of any 
performance-related pay arrangements, and liaising with the 
Board Risk and Audit Committees where appropriate 
• Reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for the 
Board and shareholders to approve 
You can find the Remuneration Committee’s terms of reference 
at www.directlinegroup.com . 
Committee composition, skills and experience 
The Committee comprised three independent NEDs: Priscilla 
Vacassin, Sebastian James and Andrew Palmer, and the 
Chairman of the Board, Mike Biggs. You can find their 
biographies on pages 48 and 49. 
Meetings 
The Remuneration Committee held five scheduled meetings in 
2015. One was a joint meeting with the Board Risk 
Committee to discuss matters relating to overlapping remits 
between the two Committees. This table shows attendance at 
the scheduled meetings: 
Scheduled 
meetings 
Percentage 
attendance
Priscilla Vacassin (Chair) 5 of 5 100%
Mike Biggs 5 of 5 100%
Sebastian James 5 of 5 100%
Andrew Palmer 5 of 5 100%
In addition, the Committee actively interacts with the Audit 
Committee and Board Risk Committee when considering the 
setting of targets and payouts. As part of this, the Committee 
receives reports from the Chairs of those Committees at least 
twice a year. The Chair of the Audit Committee serves on the 
Committee. The Chair of the Board Risk Committee attended  
on three occasions. 
The Chief Executive Officer, Human Resources Director and 
senior representatives of the Human Resources function are 
invited to attend Remuneration Committee meetings. FIT 
Remuneration Consultants LLP, who act as independent 
advisers to the Committee, are also invited to attend 
Remuneration Committee meetings. The Chair reports on 
matters dealt with at each Committee meeting to the 
subsequent scheduled Board meeting. 
Main activities during the year 
Annual Incentive Plan 
During the year, the Committee monitored the operation of the 
Annual Incentive Plan (“AIP”). For the 2014 financial year, this 
involved assessing the Group’s performance against the targets 
that the Committee set at the start of the year. It also received 
reports from the Chairs of the Audit Committee and Board Risk 
Committee about whether the Group had achieved the 
required performance within risk appetite. The Committee 
concluded that no clawback of awards was required in 2015. 
For the 2015 financial year, the Committee approved the 
performance metrics and monitored performance against them. 
The Committee also discussed and challenged the AIP’s 
performance metrics for the 2016 financial year and, 
subsequent to the year end, approved the metrics. 
Long-Term Incentives 
In 2015, the first awards, made in November 2012 under the 
Direct Line Insurance Group 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan 
(“LTIP”), vested. These awards were made shortly after the IPO, 
and had two performance metrics based on RoTE and TSR. 
After assessing performance against these metrics, the awards 
vested at a level of 89.2%. Before vesting, the Committee 
considered the LTIP’s financial and risk underpins. The 
Committee considered whether to operate the malus 
provisions. You can find out more about this in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 70 to 95. 
The Committee also determined the quantum of awards in 
2015 under the LTIP in view of business and individual 
performance. 
The Committee advised and supported RBS Group when it 
was assessing the Group’s performance for the purpose of LTIP 
awards it had made. The awards were made under an RBS 
Group LTIP scheme to Direct Line Group employees over  
Direct Line Group shares prior to the IPO. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 68  
www.directlinegroup.com   69 
Directors and other senior executives 
During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved the 
level and structure of the pay and incentives of the Executive 
Directors and other senior executives. Additionally, it oversaw 
remuneration for the strategic leadership team. As part of this 
review, the Committee considered the Share Ownership 
Guidelines for the Executive Directors and Executive  
Committee members. 
The Committee also considered how the 11-for-12 share 
consolidation would affect existing awards under the 
Company’s Share Incentive Plan. 
It also considered how selling the Group’s International division 
would affect overseas participants in the Company’s share 
incentive plans. 
Remuneration strategy 
In addition to the scheduled Committee meetings, the 
Committee held an additional meeting to review the 
remuneration framework and ensure that it was aligned to  
the Group strategy, and to set future priorities. 
Joint Remuneration Committee and Board Risk 
Committee meeting 
During the year, the Remuneration and Board Risk Committees 
held a joint meeting to ensure all remuneration arrangements 
remained appropriate. You can find out more about this in  
the Board Risk Committee report. 
The Remuneration Committee’s effectiveness 
The Company Secretary facilitated the Committee’s review  
of its effectiveness during the year. The Company Secretary 
also prepared a report based on responses from Committee 
members and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed 
questionnaire. After reviewing and discussing the report, the 
Committee concluded that it was operating effectively, and  
has access to sufficient resources to perform its duties. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
29 February 2016. 
 
 
 
Priscilla Vacassin 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
www.directlinegroup.com 69
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report  
70   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
 
Priscilla Vacassin 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
Dear shareholder 
As Chair of the Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) 
I am pleased to introduce our report on Directors’ remuneration 
for the 2015 financial year. We have set out this report in the 
following sections: 
Section Pages
Executive remuneration snapshot – summarising the 
remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors 72 to 73
Annual report on remuneration – covering how the 
Group will implement its remuneration policy in 
2016, and detailing pay outcomes for 2015 74 to 85
Approved policy report 86 to 95
Linking remuneration to performance – pay outcomes 
for 2015 
As highlighted in the Board Chairman’s letter on pages 10 to 
11, 2015 has marked another good performance year for the 
Group with operating profit from ongoing operations ahead  
of target, despite higher than normal claims costs from major 
weather events. The incentive outcomes for our Executive 
Directors as set out in the annual report on remuneration  
reflect this level of performance. 
We base bonuses under the AIP on performance against  
key financial, strategic and personal measures. We awarded 
bonuses of 83% of the maximum to the Chief Executive Officer 
and 86% of the maximum to the Chief Financial Officer for 
2015. This reflects achievement of operating profit from 
ongoing operations ahead of the target set under the AIP, 
strong progress made on customer experience metrics, as 
evidenced by improved Net Promoter Scores in Personal Lines 
and highlighted in the Group highlights section of the Annual 
Report on page 2, and achievement against personal 
objectives. We have provided enhanced disclosure this year 
relating to the AIP outcome for 2015. You can find this on 
page 78. 
November 2015 marked the vesting of the inaugural awards 
under the Direct Line Group LTIP. These LTIP awards were 
granted shortly following the IPO. They were subject to total 
shareholder return (“TSR”) performance over the three years 
since IPO and RoTE performance in 2013 and 2014. Since 
November 2012, grants under the LTIP have been made 
approximately every six months. 
As disclosed last year, the Group achieved an average RoTE 
of 16.4% over the two-year performance period in 2013 and 
2014 which resulted in 82% of the maximum potential vesting 
of the RoTE element, which comprises 60% of the total award. 
A strong share price performance in the three years from 
Admission, together with dividend payments during the period, 
resulted in a TSR of 135.1% for the three-year TSR 
performance period and positioned the Group above the 
upper quintile compared to companies in the FTSE 350 
(excluding investment trusts). This resulted in 100% of the 
maximum potential vesting under the TSR element, which 
comprises 40% of the total award. 
Overall, 89.2% of the total award vested in November 2015, 
which is a good level of achievement and is reflective of the 
business performance and returns to shareholders over the 
same period. 
Awards under the LTIP granted in March and August 2013  
are due to vest during 2016. The RoTE performance period  
for these awards ended on 31 December 2015 and, subject 
to the Committee’s satisfaction that the financial and risk 
underpins have been met at the end of the vesting period, 
awards under the RoTE element are due to vest at 94% of  
the maximum potential, again reflecting the returns delivered  
to shareholders. 
We have included these vesting outcomes in the single 
remuneration figure for both Executive Directors, details of 
which you can find on page 77.  
Consistent with the regulations, the TSR element of the awards 
due to vest during 2016 will be reported separately next year. 
Pay approach for 2016 
Our remuneration policy has worked well since its approval  
by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and is still aligned with  
our key strategic priorities. As such, we will not change the 
approved policy this year. However, we intend to review  
this in 2016 and we will propose a policy for shareholders  
to approve at the 2017 AGM. 
Here are the highlights of our approach to pay for the 
Executive Directors in 2016: 
• The salaries of both Executive Directors will increase by 
2.5% in April 2016, a lower increase compared to the 
average increase to employees across the Group generally 
• Our overall approach to measuring performance under the 
AIP in 2016 will be broadly similar to our approach in 
2014 and 2015. We will continue measuring performance 
using financial, strategic and personal targets and the 
Committee will also use its broader judgement to carefully 
assess payouts. From 2016, to better align AIP outcomes 
with shareholders’ experience, we will assess financial 
performance using profit before tax, as opposed to ongoing 
operating profit. Consequently, we will remove the specific 
allocation of other financial measures not included in the 
definition of ongoing operating profit 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 70  
www.directlinegroup.com   71 
• We continue to build on the focus on customer measures 
and will be increasing the allocated AIP weighting for this 
element from 20% to 25% to reflect this. At the same time, 
we will increase the range of the specific customer 
measures taken into account in order to better reflect the 
focus of the business in the upcoming year 
• We are not proposing to change the performance 
conditions for 2016 awards under the LTIP. The Committee 
has considered the current targets, and has determined that 
the levels of TSR performance (upper quintile) and RoTE 
performance required for full vesting, as increased in 2015, 
remain stretching 
Separately to the executive share plans, we believe it is 
important for all our employees to have the opportunity to 
become shareholders in the Company. We run a Buy-As-You-
Earn Share Incentive Plan (the “SIP”) which allows employees 
to receive one matching share for every two shares they 
purchase. In addition, to recognise the continued contribution 
of our employees to the success of our business, we will be 
granting a further free share award of around £250 to each 
eligible employee during March 2016. This award will be  
the third offer of free shares to employees since the IPO.  
Voting on the annual remuneration report 
As we are not making any changes to our policy, the policy 
report will not be put to shareholders until the 2017 AGM. 
Therefore, the annual report on remuneration will be the only 
report that we put to an advisory shareholder vote at the  
AGM on 12 May 2016. 
I hope you find this report informative and I welcome any 
comments you may have. 
Finally, on a personal note, this will be my last report as Chair 
of the Committee as I step down from the Board on 1 March. 
I hope that you will agree that the work of the Committee, 
which I have chaired since IPO, has struck an appropriate 
balance and served well the interests of shareholders. I know 
that my successor, Clare Thompson, will continue to do so. 
 
 
 
Priscilla Vacassin 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
www.directlinegroup.com 71
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
 
72   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Executive remuneration snapshot 
The information in this section relates to the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and the Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”).  
Implementing the remuneration policy in 2016 
Key elements  
Key operation features 
(For more information, see the policy report on pages 86 to 95) Implementation in 2016 
Base salary • Reviewed annually with any increases taking effect on 1 April 
• The Committee considers all factors including market data 
• 2.5% salary increase for the CEO  
to £794,600. 2.5% salary increase 
for the CFO to £480,900 
AIP • Maximum opportunity level is 175% of salary for the CEO  
and 150% for the CFO 
• 40% of the award is deferred into shares, typically vesting after 
three years  
• At least 50% of bonus is based on financial measures. The 
Committee considers various non-financial and individual 
performance measures. It bases its judgement over the payment 
outcome at the end of the performance period on its assessment  
of the level of stretch inherent in targets  
• Any payment is subject to an additional gateway assessment  
• Malus and clawback conditions apply 
• Reported profit before tax replaces 
ongoing operating profit as primary 
and sole financial measure 
accounting for 55% of the total  
AIP outcome  
• The weighting allocated to the basket 
of customer measures has been 
revised upwards from 20% to 25% 
in line with the Company’s strategic 
objectives and the number of 
measures has been broadened 
LTIP • Awards typically granted as nil-cost options 
• Plan allows for awards with a maximum value of 200% of base 
salary per financial year 
• Awards typically granted every six months at half the annual level 
• Performance is measured over three years and determined by  
RoTE and relative TSR measures 
• Awards vest subject to financial underpin and risk gateway 
• Malus and clawback conditions apply 
• Nil-cost options to be granted in 
March and August 2016 at a total 
annual grant level of 200% of salary
• Performance conditions as per  
2015 awards 
2015 pay decisions reflect performance achieved during the year  
Aligning performance and reward 
The Committee has considered the performance over 2015, as demonstrated by the achievement of key performance indicators 
on pages 24 to 25, which marks the third year of good performance for the Group. As a result of this performance, the 
Remuneration Committee has approved the following incentive outcomes for the Executive Directors. 
Achievement under the AIP  
The actual payouts from the AIP this year reflect performance in 2015, with operating profit from ongoing operations ahead  
of the target set under the AIP, the progress made towards achieving our strategic objectives and the Executives’ achievement  
of personal and shared goals. Further details of the assessment of performance against the targets are provided on page 78. 
  
Maximum 
(% of salary)
Target
(% of salary)
Actual 
(% of salary) 
Actual 
(£’000)
Chief Executive Officer 175% 105% 145% £1,120
Chief Financial Officer 150% 90% 129% £602
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 72  
www.directlinegroup.com   73 
Release of value under the LTIP 
The first award under the 2012 LTIP vested in November 2015. The value of the award on vesting, as illustrated below, reflects 
the significant value generated for shareholders through share price growth and dividends over the three-year period. The value 
of these awards has been captured across both 2014 and 2015 single figures for the RoTE and TSR elements respectively on 
page 77 of the implementation report. The total value of the award vesting at the end of the three-year performance period in 
November 2015, inclusive of shares vesting under both the RoTE and TSR elements, was £1,706,857 to Paul Geddes and 
£1,033,095 to John Reizenstein. This compares with an increase in the value of the Company of over £2.5 billion plus  
£1.3 billion returned to shareholders by way of dividends over the same time period. 
 
Executive Directors’ shareholding at year end 
The interests of shareholders and Executive Directors are closel y aligned through the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financi al Officer 
holding Company shares at multiples of salary levels above the share ownership guidelines of 200% of salary. The Executives  
continue to build on these shareholdings as illustrated below. As at 31 December 20 15, the number of shares beneficially held b y 
the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer represented 249% and 280% of their salaries, respectively. 
 
Note:  
1. Shares held as at 31 December 2015 reflect the impact of the share consolidation on 30 June 2015 in which every 12 existing Ordinary Shares were replaced 
by 11 new Ordinary Shares, meaning the aggregate number of Ordinary Shares in issue was reduced. For the purposes of this chart, holdings include all vested 
but unexercised awards, valued on a basis that is net of applicable personal taxes. 
Executive Directors' total pay – explained further in the single figure table on page 77 
This chart illustrates the components of total remuneration received in 2014 and 2015, as set out in further detail in the single 
figure table on page 77. Salaries increased by 2% in 2015, which was the first increase since the Executive Directors’ salaries 
were set in September 2012. The annual bonus payouts in 2015 were 83% and 86% of the maximum potential for Paul 
Geddes and John Reizenstein, respectively. As disclosed in the 2014 remuneration report, the single figure of remuneration  
for 2014 included the vesting outcomes of the last legacy awards under the RBS Group LTIP.  
www.directlinegroup.com 73
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
15% 47% 38%
Release of value under the LTIP
(£)
Chief 
Executive 
Ofﬁcer
Grant
Vesting
Grant
Vesting
Chief
Financial 
Ofﬁcer
£0m£0.5m £2m £1.5m £1m
 Shares under award       Dividends      Share price growth
 2014       2015
15% 47% 38%
Executive Directors’ shareholding at year end
(Number of shares)
Chief 
Financial 
Ofﬁcer
Chief
Executive 
Ofﬁcer
0m 0.1m 0.4m 0.3m 0.2m 0.5m
 Salary          
    Annual bonus
    Pension and Beneﬁts (including all employee share plans)  
 LTIP
31%
Executive Directors’ total pay
(£’000)
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
2014 2015
1,000
2014 2015
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
0
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Directors’ remuneration report continued 
74   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Introduction 
We have prepared this remuneration report in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and The Large  
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended) (the “Regulations”). The 
report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, and describes how the Board 
has complied with the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to remuneration matters. 
Remuneration tables subject to audit in accordance with the relevant statutory requirements are contained in the annual 
remuneration report. 
Annual remuneration report 
Remuneration Committee members and governance 
The following list details members of the Remuneration Committee during 2015. You can find information about each member’s 
attendance at meetings in the Remuneration Committee report on page 68. You can find their biographies on pages 48 to 49. 
 
 
 
 
Committee Chair 
Priscilla Vacassin 
Non-Executive Directors 
Mike Biggs 
Sebastian James 
Andrew Palmer 
Advisers to the Committee 
The Committee consults with the Chief Executive Officer, the Human Resources Director, and senior representatives of the HR,  
Risk and Finance functions on matters relating to the appropriateness of all remuneration elements for Executive Directors and 
Executive Committee members. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and the Human Resources Director are not present  
when their remuneration is discussed. The Committee works closely with the Chairs of the Board Risk Committee and the Audit 
Committee, including receiving reports from those Chairs regarding the setting of targets and payouts under incentive plans and 
whether it is appropriate to operate malus and clawback. The Chair of the Audit Committee is a member of the Remuneration 
Committee; and the Chair of the Board Risk Committee attended Remuneration Committee meetings on three occasions. 
The Committee retains FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP (“FIT”) as its independent adviser. FIT is a signatory to the Remuneration 
Consultants Group’s Code of Conduct. The Committee appointed FIT when preparing for the IPO and after considering the firm’s 
experience in this sector.  
During the year, FIT advised on market practice, corporate governance, incentive plan design and target setting, regulations, and 
other matters that the Committee was considering. FIT does not provide the Company with any other services. The Committee is 
satisfied that the advice FIT provides is objective and independent. 
FIT’s total fees for remuneration related advice in 2015 were £117,406 exclusive of VAT. FIT charged its fees based on its 
standard terms of business for providing advice. 
Allen & Overy LLP, one of the Group’s legal advisers, also provided legal advice relating to the Group’s executive remuneration 
arrangements. It also provided the Group with other legal services. 
Statement of policy implementation in 2016 
Executive Directors’ salaries in 2016 
The salary increase awarded to the Executive Directors, effective 1 April 2016, is lower than the average increase awarded  
to UK employees. 
Director Position 
2016 base salary
£’000
2015 base salary 
£’000 
Annual change in base
salary
Paul Geddes Chief Executive Officer 795 775 2.5%
John Reizenstein Chief Financial Officer 481 469 2.5%
Annual Incentive Plan 2016 
The maximum annual incentive awards which may be paid to Executive Directors have not changed since the IPO. 
Director Position 
Maximum annual incentive award for 
2016 (% base salary) 
Deferred under the Deferred Annual 
Incentive Plan (% bonus)
Paul Geddes Chief Executive Officer 175% 40%
John Reizenstein Chief Financial Officer 150% 40%
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 74  
www.directlinegroup.com   75 
During 2015, the Committee reviewed the AIP performance measures' weightings and composition. It also reviewed the overall 
framework's operation to make sure it is still fit for purpose. The review concluded that, whilst the framework successfully linked 
Executive Directors' variable pay with the Group's performance, in order to further align the Executive Directors’ interests with 
those of shareholders and the objectives of the business, the Committee would implement the following changes in 2016: 
• To further align Executive Directors with shareholders, profit before tax will replace ongoing operating profit as the primary 
financial measure and will account for 55% of the total AIP outcome, increased from 50% 
• As a result of measuring profit before tax, the Committee decided it was no longer necessary to apply a specific weighting  
to other profit & loss items not reflected in the definition of ongoing operating profit and the allocation of a specific weighting 
to this element will, therefore, be removed. The Committee will instead consider this in determining the overall level of payouts 
in its exercise of judgement 
• The weighting allocated to the basket of customer measures will be increased from 20% to 25% in line with the Company’s 
strategic objectives 
 Measures  Weighting for 2016 Weighting for 2015
Financial Profit before tax (2015: ongoing operating profit) 55% 50%
 Other financial measures not reflected in the definition  
of ongoing operating profit, primarily the performance  
of the Run-off segment and restructuring costs 0% 10%
Strategic Based on a basket of customer measures, including Net 
Promoter Score and complaints 25% 20%
Personal  Objectives for each Executive Director, including shared 
objectives across the Executive Committee 20% 20%
Like previous years, all AIP outcomes will be determined after the Committee determines a payment gateway. To do this, the 
Committee must be satisfied that it is appropriate to permit a bonus award at all, or at a given level. The gateway involves  
some subjectivity about performance. This may result in positive or negative moderation of each AIP performance measure or  
the overall bonus outcome.  
The list below sets out the gateway criteria for the AIP for 2016. There are more criteria than previously. This ensures the 
Committee considers a broader range of criteria when judging the level of AIP payments. 
Gateway criteria for the Annual Incentive Plan for 2016 – outcomes for Executive Directors 
• Year-on-year changes in profit before tax 
• Quality and sustainability of earnings, referring to reserving, gross written premium, costs and loss ratio, and relevant 
lead indicators 
• Additional customer context, for example, conduct, experience, brand and franchise health 
• Capital strength and affordability 
• Risk management within risk appetite 
• The Group’s relative performance to that of its peers 
• The wider economic environment 
• Exceptional events, such as abnormal weather 
• Any regulatory breaches and/or reputational damage to the Group 
• Committee satisfaction that paying the bonus does not cause major reputational concerns 
The Committee may also use its discretion to account for additional factors. These include the quality of financial results;  
the ’direction of travel’ of all measures; more widely considering reputation, risk, and audit. 
In considering such factors, and whether to adjust the overall payouts and/or operate malus and clawback, the Committee 
receives appropriate input from the Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee through receiving reports from and  
discussion with the Chairs of those Committees. 
Performance conditions for LTIP awards 
LTIP awards granted in 2016 will continue to be subject to performance against these performance conditions: 
• 60% based on RoTE over a three-year performance period (2016, 2017 and 2018) 
• 40% based on relative TSR performance against the constituents of the FTSE 350 (excluding investment trusts) over a 
three-year performance period, starting on the date of grant. The starting and closing TSR will be averaged over 
a three-month period 
www.directlinegroup.com 75
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
76   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
For these purposes, we use the Group’s standard definition for RoTE, subject to such other adjustments as the Committee may 
consider appropriate. To find out more about how we calculate RoTE, see page 175. 
The Committee reviewed the performance targets and, in line with its commitment to ensure that awards to Executive Directors 
would only be payable if significant value has been created for shareholders, decided that there should be no change to targets 
for 2016 as they remain appropriately stretching following their increase in 2015. 
  Performance required for threshold vesting Performance required for maximum vesting 
Performance measure 
Vesting for threshold 
performance 
Awards in 2015 
and 2016
Awards in 2013
 and 2014
Awards in 2015  
and 2016 
Awards in 2013 
and 2014
RoTE 
20% of this element  
of the award 
Average annual
RoTE performance of 
14.5%
Average annual
RoTE performance of 
14.0%
Average annual 
RoTE performance of 
17.5% 
Average annual
RoTE performance of 
17.0%
Relative TSR 
20% of this element  
of the award Median Upper quintile 
For the TSR element, there is a straight-line interpolation between threshold and maximum performance, on a ranked basis. For 
the RoTE element, 40% of the award will vest for RoTE of 15.5% for awards to be made in 2016 (which remains unchanged 
from 2015). Otherwise, vesting is similar to TSR: a straight-line interpolation occurs from threshold to target, then from target to 
maximum performance. 
The LTIP awards will also vest only to the extent that the Committee is satisfied that the outcome of the TSR and RoTE performance 
conditions reflects the Group’s underlying financial performance from the date of grant until vesting. When considering these 
matters, the Committee will also deliberate on whether there have been any material risk failings. 
Pension and benefits 
A pension contribution of 25% of base salary will continue to be paid to both Executive Directors in 2016.  
Benefits comprise providing a company car or car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance, income protection  
and health screening. Like all employees, the Executive Directors are also eligible for certain discounted Group products. 
Non-Executive Directors’ fees 
The current fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors were set in 2012 and have not changed since. 
Position 
 Fees for 2016
£’000
Board Chairman fee 400
Basic Non-Executive Director fee 70
Additional fees 
Senior Independent Director fee 30
Chair of Audit, Board Risk and Remuneration Committees 30
Chair of CSR Committee 10
Member of Board Committee (Audit, Board Risk or Remuneration) 10
Member of Board Committee (CSR or Nomination) 5
No additional fees are paid for membership or chairmanship of the Investment Committee.  
External directorships 
The Company encourages Executive Directors to accept, subject to the Chairman's approval, an invitation to join another 
company's board outside the Group in a non-executive capacity. This recognises that such wider experience is valuable. 
Executive Directors can retain any remuneration from their non-executive appointment. Executive Directors are generally limited  
to accepting one external directorship. 
John Reizenstein is a trustee and Director of Farm Africa, for which he receives no fees. Otherwise, the Executive Directors do  
not currently hold any external directorships. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 76  
www.directlinegroup.com   77 
Implementing policy and pay outcomes relating to 2015 performance 
Single figure table (audited) 
 Salary
1
 Benefits
2
 Annual bonus
3
 
Long-term 
incentives
4,5,6,7
 
All employee 
share plans
8
 Pension  Total 
£’000  2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 
Paul Geddes 771 760 18 17 1,120 1,000 2,712 3,389 − − 193 190 4,815 5,356 
John Reizenstein 467 460 15 15 602 518 1,642 1,118 1 1 117 115 2,844 2,227 
Notes: 
1. The Company operates a flexible benefits policy and salary is reported before any personal elections are made.  
2. Benefits include a company car or allowance; private medical and income protection insurance. 
3. Includes amounts earned for performance during the year, but deferred for three years under the Deferred Annual Incentive Plan (“DAIP”). For more information, 
see page 83. These deferred awards are not subject to any conditions, except continuous employment. However, awards remain available for malus  
and clawback. 
4. The expected vesting outcome figures for the RBS Group LTIP awards granted in 2012 and reported in 2014 have been updated. These updates are based  
on the actual vesting share price of £3.39806 on 9 March 2015, compared to the three-month average share price of £2.828 used in reporting this figure in 
the 2014 remuneration report. This results in an adjusted reportable increase of approximately £408,958 for Paul Geddes and £92,016 for John Reizenstein, 
with a corresponding increase to the single figure for 2014 reflected in the table above. 
5. The expected vesting outcome figures for the RoTE portion of the awards granted under the Direct Line Group LTIP in 2012 and reported in 2014 have also been 
updated. These updates are based on the actual vesting of the RoTE portion of the awards and a share price of £3.944 on 9 November 2015, compared to 
the three-month average share price of £2.828 used in reporting this figure in the 2014 remuneration report. The revised figures reflect the impact of the share 
consolidation on 30 June 2015 and actual number of dividends accrued on this portion of the award at vesting. This results in an adjusted reportable increase  
of approximately £323,814 for Paul Geddes and £195,998 for John Reizenstein, with a corresponding increase of the single figure for 2014 reflected in the 
table above. 
6. The long-term incentive figures for 2015 include the estimated vesting outcome for the RoTE portion of the awards made under the Direct Line Group LTIP in 
March and August 2013 as the performance period under this element is now complete. In line with the criteria set at the time of grant, this has been assessed 
by referring to RoTE performance during 2013, 2014 and 2015 in respect of 56.4% of the shares under award (being a 94% vesting outcome of shares 
relating to the RoTE element). For these purposes, an RoTE figure of 17.6% has been used, including the impact of the International division during 2015 until  
the completion of its sale in May 2015. Had the RoTE figure of 18.5% from ongoing operations been used for the purposes of determining LTIP vesting, then full 
vesting under the RoTE element would have been achieved. The corresponding values under long-term incentives, including the value of dividends accrued to  
31 December 2015, are £1,947,016 for Paul Geddes and £1,178,450 for John Reizenstein based on a three-month average Company share price to  
31 December 2015 of £3.97283. Any shares vesting under the Direct Line Group LTIP granted in 2013 will not be delivered until the end of the applicable 
vesting periods in March and August 2016. 
7. The long-term incentive figures for 2015 reflect the actual vesting under the TSR element of awards made under the Direct Line Group LTIP in November 2012.  
In line with the criteria set at the time of grant, this has been assessed by referring to TSR performance to the end of the performance period of 15 October 2015. 
A total of 40% of the shares under award (being the maximum number of shares relating to the TSR element) vested. The corresponding values under long-term 
incentives, including the value of dividends on vesting, are £765,407 for Paul Geddes and £463,271 for John Reizenstein using the share price on  
9 November 2015 of £3.944. 
8. Includes the value of matching shares under the SIP. 
Each Executive Director has confirmed that they have not received any other items in the nature of remuneration, other than  
those already disclosed in the single figure table. 
  
www.directlinegroup.com 77
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
78   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Annual Incentive Plan outcomes for 2015  
The Committee established target performance levels at the start of the year. However, like last year, the Committee did not set  
a formal threshold to maximum range for performance measures. Instead, the Committee believed it more appropriate to carefully 
consider performance relative to AIP targets and to assess over or underperformance by judging overall corporate performance  
at the year-end. 
To be transparent with our shareholders, we are disclosing more information this year about bonus payout levels. As such, in the 
table below, we have included the remuneration targets set at the beginning of the year and performance achieved under the 
financial measures. We have also explained the performance achieved against the non-financial measures which remain 
commercially sensitive to disclose. 
The chart below illustrates the Committee’s assessment of the level of achievement under the AIP. The outcomes reflect strong 
performance during the year, particularly in terms of the financial measures, as highlighted in the Group highlights and Chairman’s 
statement on pages 2 to 3 and 10 to 11 respectively. Notwithstanding this success, the Committee felt that it was appropriate, 
within the wider economic context and our continued ambitions for improvement, to moderate the achievement under the AIP by 
4.4% for each Executive Director, from 87.4% to 83% for Paul Geddes and from 90.4% to 86% for John Reizenstein, as illustrated  
in the chart below. 
 
 
Note: 
1. Profit and loss items excluded from ongoing operating profit, primarily the performance of the Run-off segment and restructuring costs and other one-off costs. 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 78
Financial
Ongoing operating profit 50% 462.8 520.7 Maximum
Other financial measures not 
reflected in the definition of 
ongoing operating profit
1
10% -100.1 -91.5
Above  
target
Strategic
A basket of key  
customer measures
20% See narrative
Above  
target
Personal
Personal objectives  
including shared 
objectives amongst  
all Executive 
Committee members
Paul 
Geddes
20% See narrative
Above  
target
John 
Reizenstein
20% See narrative
Above  
target
Measures
Weight  
(as a % of 
max award)
Achievement against  
performance measures
Target 
performance 
(£m)
Performance 
Assessment
Actual 
performance 
(£m)
Unadjusted achievement  
under the 2015 AIP
Adjusted achievement 
under the 2015 AIP
Director
0%  
Vesting
Target  
60%  
Vesting
Maximum 
100%  
Vesting
100%
94%
75%
80%
65%
Paul  
Geddes
87.4% of maximum 83% of maximum
John 
Reizenstein
90.4% of maximum 86% of maximum  
www.directlinegroup.com   79 
Financial element (60% weighting) 
While there is no pre-set scale around target, the Committee used a range of 90-110% of target as an initial reference point to 
consider vesting levels for the financial measures. The Committee will consider the appropriate range each year and as such this 
scale may not be used in subsequent years. Having considered the actual results against these reference points, the Committee 
agreed that the level of performance warranted the level of payouts shown in the chart above.  
Strategic element (20% weighting) 
As described elsewhere in this Annual Report, during 2015 we have continued to invest in improved customer propositions and 
on improving the customer experience and reducing complaints. This has contributed to an increase in Net Promoter Scores 
across a number of measures, as well as a reduction in complaints. Overall, a strong performance on the basket of customer 
measures considered by the Committee has led to an above target payout of 75% of the maximum available under this element.  
Personal element (20% weighting) 
This element focuses on the individual's personal objectives as well as shared objectives with other Executive Committee 
members, set by the Remuneration Committee. Both Executives demonstrated strong leadership on various strategic initiatives 
during the year. As outlined in the Board Chairman’s letter on pages 10 to 11, during 2015 the Group progressed on delivering 
its strategic objectives and building future capability in line with its mission. These objectives also form part of the Executives’ 
personal and shared objectives and, in acknowledgement of progress made during the year, the Committee determined that Paul 
Geddes and John Reizenstein should each receive awards ahead of an on-target level of performance, of 65% and 80% of the 
maximum available under this element, respectively. In determining the level of personal achievement for the Chief Financial 
Officer, the Committee was particularly mindful to recognise the successful completion of the sale of the International business 
during 2015, in which he played a key role. Whilst the agreement was substantially complete in 2014, the Committee decided 
to wait until all regulatory approvals had been received during 2015 before recognising this exceptional personal performance.  
We anticipate including similar disclosures next year in respect of the 2016 AIP outcome which, consistent with market practice, 
are not included on a prospective basis on the basis of commercial sensitivity. 
Consequently, the annual incentive awards for Executive Directors for the financial year ended 31 December 2015  
were as follows: 
 
Maximum
(% of salary)
Target
(% of salary)
Actual 
(% of salary) 
Actual £’000
(including cash and 
deferred elements)
Paul Geddes, CEO 175% 105% 145% 1,120
John Reizenstein, CFO 150% 90% 129% 602
Non-Executive Directors 
Fees were the only remuneration paid to Non-Executive Directors in 2014 and 2015. Non-Executive Directors may also claim for 
reasonable travel and subsistence expenses, in accordance with the Group’s travel and expenses policy, and, where these are 
classified as taxable by HMRC, they have been shown under Benefits below. The Non-Executive Directors receive no other benefits. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Director 
2015 Fees
1
£’000 
2015 Benefits
2
£‘000 
Total 2015
£’000
2014 Fees
£‘000
2014 Benefits 
£‘000 
Total 2014
£’000
Michael Biggs 400 4 404 400 4 404
Glyn Jones
3
 42 − 42 115 − 115
Jane Hanson 115 22 137 119 24 143
Sebastian James 85 − 85 28 − 28
Andrew Palmer
4
 144 − 144 125 − 125
Clare Thompson 100 − 100 104 − 104
Priscilla Vacassin
5
 113 − 113 110 − 110
Notes: 
1. Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Group's bonus or share incentive schemes, or to join any Group pension scheme. 
2. The values shown under benefits above comprise the value of travel and subsistence expenses reimbursed by the Company (including any potential gross-up for 
tax and NIC due). Similar amounts of taxable benefits have also been identified in respect of the 2012 and 2013 financial years of £4,031 for Mike Biggs 
and £35,516 for Jane Hanson which have not previously been included in the respective accounts but are noted here following HMRC’s clarification of the 
Directors' permanent place of employment for tax purposes issued in 2015. 
3. Glyn Jones stepped down from the Board on 13 May 2015. 
4. Andrew Palmer was appointed as the Senior Independent Director with effect from 13 May 2015. 
5. Priscilla Vacassin was appointed to the Nomination Committee with effect from 13 May 2015. 
  
www.directlinegroup.com 79
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
80   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Percentage change in Chief Executive Officer's pay for 2014 to 2015 
The table below shows the Chief Executive's year-on-year percentage change in salary, taxable benefits and bonus, compared  
to the average pay for all other UK employees. 
 Salary
1
Benefits
2
 
Bonus (including 
 deferred amount)
3
Chief Executive Officer 2% 5%  12% 
All UK employees 3.6% 11%  8% 
Notes: 
1. Based on the change in average pay for UK employees employed in the year ended 31 December 2015 and the year ended 31 December 2014. Salaries 
are not adjusted for number of working hours and the increase therefore partly reflects the increase in working hours for some employees during the year.  
2. There were no changes in benefits provision between 2014 and 2015. The value increase shown above for all employees is mainly due to an increase in  
the average value of matching shares provided to employees taking part in the BAYE plan over this period.  
3. Includes average amounts earned under the AIP and, for employees other than the Chief Executive Officer, other variable incentive schemes, including monthly 
and quarterly incentive schemes operated in certain parts of the Group. 
When determining Directors’ remuneration, the Committee considers employment conditions elsewhere in the Group. The 
Committee particularly reviews overall pay and bonus decisions in aggregate for the wider Group. Through the Chief Executive 
Officer and the HR Director the Committee may, as required, consider input from employee groups, such as the Employee 
Representative Body. 
Distribution statement 
This chart shows the overall pay expenditure across all Group employees compared with the total dividend value paid to 
shareholders for 2014 and 2015.  
 
Note: 
There have been no share buy-backs since the IPO. The overall expenditure on pay has been taken from note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.  
Therefore, consistent with market practice, it has not been calculated in a manner consistent with the single figure in this report. 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 80
15y 14y
445.1 
421.3 
15y 14y
412.2 
408.7 
Overall expenditure on pay
(including International division) (£m)
Overall expenditure on pay 
(excluding International division) (£m)
Dividend (£m)
15y 14y
401.1 
666.0
66.0%
% change:
-5.3%
% change:
-0.8%
% change:  
www.directlinegroup.com   81 
Historical performance of Total Shareholder Return  
This graph shows the Company’s TSR since the Company’s shares began trading on the London Stock Exchange in October 
2012 against the FTSE 350 Index (excluding investment trusts) over the same period. This peer group is the same used for 
measuring relative TSR under the LTIP. 
 
The table below shows historical levels of the Chief Executive Officer’s pay between 2012 and 2015. It also shows vesting 
of annual and long-term incentive pay awards as a percentage of the maximum available opportunity. 
Chief Executive Officer 
Single figure of 
total remuneration 
£'000 
Annual bonus 
payout 
(% of maximum) 
Long-term 
incentive vesting  
(% of maximum)
1
2015 4,815 83% 96% 
2014
2
 5,356 75% 88% 
2013 2,536 63% 55% 
2012 1,908 65% 30% 
Notes: 
1. Based on actual vesting under the 2010, 2011 and 2012 RBS Group LTIP. The value included in the single figures in respect of these awards is £205,000  
in 2012, £728,000 in 2013 and £2,437,428 in 2014. 
2. The 2014 single figure has been revised to reflect the actual vesting of the 2014 awards under the 2012 RBS Group LTIP and actual vesting under the RoTE 
element of the Direct Line Group LTIP granted in 2012. For 2015, the estimated vesting of the RoTE portion of the Direct Line Group LTIP granted in March and 
August 2013 has also been included at a value of £1,947,016. The vesting under the RoTE element of these awards has been calculated with reference to an 
adjusted 2015 RoTE of 17.6% as opposed to 18.5% in order to reflect the impact of the International division during 2015. Any shares vesting under the Direct 
Line Group LTIP granted in 2013 will not be delivered until the end of the applicable vesting periods in March and August 2016. However, they have been 
included in the single figure, as the performance period in respect of the RoTE portion has now been completed. 
www.directlinegroup.com 81
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Total Shareholder Return
16 October 2012
180
220
140
100
260
300
31 December 2012 31 December 2013 31 December 2014
Direct Line Group FTSE 350 (excluding investment trusts)
 31 December 2015 Directors’ remuneration report continued 
82   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Annual General Meeting voting outcomes 
The table shows the percentage of shareholders voting for or against, and the percentage of votes withheld in relation to the 
resolution to approve the Directors’ annual remuneration report, which was put to the 2015 AGM and the resolution to approve 
the Directors’ remuneration policy, which was put to the 2014 AGM. 
 
For Against  
Number Percentage Number Percentage 
Number of votes 
withheld 
(abstentions) 
Percentage of votes 
withheld
(abstentions)
Approval of Directors’ 
remuneration report (2015) 1,108,103,256 96.2% 44,283,445 3.8% 9,502,728 0.8%
Approval of Directors’ 
remuneration policy (2014) 1,064,002,114 97.5% 26,743,783 2.5% 1,945,618 0.2%
Note: 
The percentages of votes for and against are expressed as a percentage of votes cast, excluding votes withheld. The percentage of votes withheld is expressed as a 
percentage of total votes cast, including votes withheld. 
The Committee is grateful for the strong vote in favour of the Directors’ annual remuneration report in 2015. The Committee 
continues to communicate with investors on developments in the remuneration aspects of corporate governance generally and 
changes to the Company’s executive pay arrangements in particular. 
Shareholdings 
This table sets out the share ownership guidelines and share ownership levels: 
Position 
Share ownership  
 guideline
1
 
(% of salary)  
Value of shares held at 
31 December 2015
2,3
(% of salary)
Chief Executive Officer 200%  249%
Chief Financial Officer 200%  280%
Notes: 
1. Executive Directors are expected to retain all the Ordinary Shares they obtain from any of the Company’s share incentive plans until they achieve a shareholding 
level that is equal to 200% of base salary. This is calculated after any disposals necessary to pay personal taxes on acquiring such Ordinary Shares. 
2. For these purposes, holding Ordinary Shares will be treated as including all vested but unexercised awards, valued on a basis that is net of applicable  
personal taxes. 
3. Shares held as at 31 December 2015 reflect the impact of the share consolidation on 30 June 2015 in which every 12 existing Ordinary Shares were  
replaced by 11 new Ordinary Shares, meaning the aggregate number of Ordinary Shares in issue was reduced. 
This table shows each Executive Director's total share interests. 
   
Share plan interests at  
31 December 2015 Beneficial share interests
1
 
Director 
Share plan  
 awards  
 subject to  
 performance  
conditions
2
 
Share plan  
 awards not  
 subject to  
performance  
conditions
3
 
Share plan 
interests 
vested but 
unexercised
Share plan    
interests    
exercised or    
 released
4,5
Shares held at     
31 December     
 2015
6,7
 
Shares held at  
31 December 
2014 restated  
for share 
consolidation 
Shares held at
31 December 
2014
Paul Geddes 1,626,495  271,453  − 1,201,133   474,255    248,849 271,472
John Reizenstein 984,454  183,541  261,941 161,392   183,496    89,231 97,352
Notes: 
1. Shares held as at 31 December 2014 have been restated to reflect the impact of the share consolidation on 30 June 2015 in which every 12 existing Ordinary 
Shares were replaced by 11 new Ordinary Shares, meaning the aggregate number of Ordinary Shares in issue was reduced. These figures have been provided 
to facilitate a like-for-like comparison with shares held as at 31 December 2015. 
2. This includes awards under the Direct Line Group LTIP. As described in the notes to the single figure table, 94% of awards made under the Direct Line Group LTIP 
in March and August 2013 that are subject to the RoTE performance condition measured to 31 December 2015 are expected to vest. This has been calculated 
with reference to an adjusted 2015 RoTE of 17.6% as opposed to 18.5% in order to reflect the impact of the International division during 2015. The 
corresponding values under long-term incentives, including the value of dividends accrued to 31 December 2015, are £1,947,016 for Paul Geddes and 
£1,178,450 for John Reizenstein based on a three-month average Company share price to 31 December 2015. These shares will be delivered to Executive 
Directors in March and August 2016. 
3. Includes matching shares held under the SIP which are subject to forfeiture and deferred shares under the Direct Line Group DAIP. For more information, see page 85. 
4. 20% of the shares awarded to Paul Geddes under the Direct Line Group DAIP in March 2013 vested during the financial year. This is consistent with the policy 
at RBS Group. These vesting shares and related dividend accrual shares were exercised by Paul Geddes on 30 March 2015 (51,060 shares at £3.233949). 
Additionally, under the RBS Group LTIP 2012, 717,300 shares vested to Paul Geddes and 161,392 shares vested to John Reizenstein on 9 March 2015 
(share price £3.39806). 
5. Paul Geddes exercised an award granted on 7 November 2012 under the Direct Line Group LTIP on 9 November 2015 as shown on page 84 (432,773 
shares). The Direct Line Group DAIP and LTIP plan rules provide that all dividends accruing in the vesting period (or until exercise for awards made in 2012  
and 2013) will be added on vesting. The figure of exercised shares accordingly includes all dividends that were accrued in respect of the 2012 LTIP awards. 
6. Includes holdings of connected persons, as defined in section 96B(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, and free and partnership shares held 
under the SIP which are not subject to forfeiture and considered beneficially owned. 
7. Beneficial share interests include partnership shares John Reizenstein purchased under the SIP and free shares held by both Executive Directors under the SIP.  
At 9 March 2016, the number of shares beneficially held by John Reizenstein has increased to 183,575. There was no change to the number of shares held  
by Paul Geddes. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 82  
www.directlinegroup.com   83 
The table shows the Non-Executive Directors' beneficial interests in the Company’s shares. 
Director 
Shares held at     
31 December     
 2015
1,2,3
Shares held at  
31 December 2014 restated   
for share consolidation
4
 
Shares held at
31 December 2014
Mike Biggs −    −  −
Jane Hanson 26,190    26,190  28,571
Glyn Jones
3
 70,159    61,921  67,551
Andrew Palmer 10,475    10,475  11,428
Clare Thompson 35,220    30,960  33,775
Priscilla Vacassin 35,220    30,960  33,775
Sebastian James −    −  −
Notes: 
1. There were no changes to the number of shares held by Directors between the year end and the date of this report. 
2. Includes holdings of connected persons, as defined in section 96B(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. 
3. Glyn Jones stepped down from the Board on 13 May 2015 and this represents his holding at that date. 
4. Shares held as at 31 December 2015 reflect the impact of the share consolidation on 30 June 2015 in which every 12 existing Ordinary Shares were replaced 
by 11 new Ordinary Shares, meaning the aggregate number of Ordinary Shares in issue was reduced.  
Direct Line Group share awards 
Direct Line Group Deferred Annual Incentive Plan awards made in 2015 
This table details the awards made to Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein under the Direct Line Group DAIP relating to the bonus 
in respect of 2014.  
Grant date 
Three-day 
average 
share price for 
grant of 
awards  
£ 
Face value of 
award  
£ 
No. of share 
options as at 
1 January 
2015 
No. of share 
 options 
 granted 
 during the 
 year
1
No. of 
 share 
 options 
vested  
during the 
year
2
No. of share 
 options 
adjusted for 
 share 
consolidation
3
No. of 
dividend 
shares 
acquired at 
vesting
No. of share  
 options  
 exercised
4
 
No. of share 
options  
held at  
31 December 
2015  Vesting date
Paul Geddes      
28-Mar-13 2.0157 380,004 81,406 – 37,704 3,143 7,359 51,060  34,562 
1-Jun-13 to 
28-Mar-16
26-Mar-14 2.433667 333,999 137,241 – – 11,437 – –  125,804 26-Mar-17
25-Mar-15 3.3007 400,000  121,186 – 10,099 – –  111,087 25-Mar-18
   218,647 121,186 37,704 24,679 7,359 51,060  271,453 
John Reizenstein       
28-Mar-13 2.0157 137,999 68,462 – – 5,706 – –  62,756 28-Mar-16
26-Mar-14 2.433667 166,000 68,210 – – 5,685 – –  62,525 26-Mar-17
25-Mar-15 3.3007 207,200  62,774 – 5,232 – –  57,542 25-Mar-18
   136,672 62,774 – 16,623 – –  182,823  
Notes: 
1. Awards are granted as nil-cost options. 
2. The terms on which Paul Geddes’ 2012 bonus outcome was deferred meant that 60% of the outcome was deferred, with deferral split broadly evenly between 
deferral into deferred cash and deferred shares, with phased vestings of the deferred amounts over the three-year deferral period. 
3. Awards adjusted on 30 June 2015 as a result of the share consol idation in which every 12 existing Ordinary Shares were replaced by 11 new Ordinary Shares. 
4. Exercised on 30 March 2015 at £3.233949, resulting in an aggregate gain of £165,125. 
www.directlinegroup.com 83
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
84   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Direct Line Group Long-Term Incentive Plan awards made in 2015 
This table details the Directors’ interests in the Company’s LTIP. For all LTIP awards, 20% of the awards granted would vest if the 
minimum performance was achieved 
Grant date 
Three-day 
average share 
price for grant of 
awards  
£ 
Face value of 
award 
£
No. of  
 options  
 at   
1 January 
2015
1
 
No. of 
 options 
 granted 
 during 
 the year
2
No. of 
 options 
 vested 
 during 
 the year
3
No. of options 
 lapsed for 
 performance
4
No. of options 
 adjusted 
for share 
 consolidation
5
No. of dividend 
shares acquired 
at vesting
No. of options 
exercised 
No. of 
options 
held at 31 
December 
2015 Vesting date
Paul Geddes             
07-Nov-12 1.96 760,000 388,250  – 317,458 38,437 32,355 115,315 432,773 – 09-Nov-15
28-Mar-13 2.0157 760,000 377,040  -– –- –- 31,420 
–
-- 345,620 28-Mar-16
28-Aug-13 2.1564 759,999 352,439  – – –- 29,370 
–
-- 323,069 28-Aug-16
26-Mar-14 2.433667 759,998 312,285  – – –- 26,024 
–
-- 286,261 26-Mar-17
29-Aug-14 2.9020 759,999 261,888  – – 
–- 
21,824 
–
-- 240,064 29-Aug-17
25-Mar-15 3.3007 760,000 –  230,254 – 
–- 
19,188 
–
-- 211,066 25-Mar-18
26-Aug-15 3.517 775,200 –  220,415 – 
–- 
– 
–
-- 220,415 26-Aug-18
 1,691,902  450,669  317,458  38,437 160,181 115,315  432,773  1,626,495   
John Reizenstein      
07-Nov-12 1.96 460,000 234,993  – 192,145 23,265 19,583 69,796
– 
261,941 09-Nov-15
28-Mar-13 2.0157 459,999 228,208  – –- 
–- 
19,018 
– – 
209,190 28-Mar-16
28-Aug-13 2.1564 459,999 213,318  – –- 
–- 
17,777 
– – 
195,541 28-Aug-16
26-Mar-14 2.433667 460,000 189,015  – – -
–- 
15,752 
– – 
173,263 26-Mar-17
29-Aug-14 2.9020 459,999 158,511  – – -
–- 
13,210 
– – 
145,301 29-Aug-17
25-Mar-15 3.3007 460,000 –  139,364 –- 
–- 
11,614 
– – 
127,750 25-Mar-18
26-Aug-15 3.5170 469,200 –  133,409 –- 
–- 
–- 
– – 
133,409 26-Aug-18
   1,024,045  272,773  192,145  23,265  96,954 69,796 – 1,246,395  
Notes: 
The Company’s share price on 31 December 2015 was £4.075 and the range of prices in the year was £2.903 to £4.143. 
1. These awards take the form of nil-cost options over the Company’s shares and are subject to performance conditions to be assessed by the Committee. Awards 
granted before 2014 accrue dividend entitlements until the date of transfer of shares. Awards granted from 2014 accrue dividend entitlement from the grant date 
to the date on which an award vests. 
2. The RoTE targets for awards granted in 2015, applying to 60% of the award, were 14.5% for 20% vesting, 15.5% for 40% vesting and 17.5% for full vesting. 
A straight-line interpolation occurs from threshold to target, and then from target to maximum performance. The remaining 40% of each award is based on TSR 
performance conditions, which are the same as noted on page 76. 
3. The closing market price on the date of the vesting of the award was £3.944.  
4. Awards under the LTIP vested at 89.2% of the maximum potential on 9 November 2015.  
5. Awards lapsed on 30 June 2015 as a result of the share consolidation in which every 12 existing Ordinary Shares were replaced by 11 new Ordinary Shares. 
The Company’s policy is to issue awards twice a year, after the Group announces its full and half-year results. The value of each 
grant of awards is set at 50% of the normal annual policy level. This means the total combined face value of awards to each 
Executive Director during the year equates to 200% of their base salary paid in the year. 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 84  
www.directlinegroup.com   85 
Direct Line Group 2012 Share Incentive Plan 
During 2015, all employees, including Executive Directors, were eligible to invest from £10 to £150 a month from their pre-tax 
pay into the SIP, and receive one matching share for every two shares they purchased. This table details the number of shares h eld 
by John Reizenstein under the SIP. Paul Geddes does not participate in the plan. 
Director  
Matching shares 
granted during the year
Matching shares 
cancelled during 
the year
Value of matching  
 shares granted¹ 
£  
Balance of 
matching shares at 
31 December 2015
2
John Reizenstein 240 – 887  718 
Notes: 
1. The accumulated market value of matching shares at the time of each award. Purchase of the matching shares takes place within 30 days of the contributions 
being deducted from salary. 
2. This balance reflects the impact of the share consolidation on 30 June 2015, in which every 12 existing Ordinary Shares were replaced by 11 new  
Ordinary Shares. 
At the time of the IPO, and under the same terms as other employees, Executive Directors received the opportunity to subscribe for 
143 free Company shares, which vested in November 2015, three years from grant. Both Executive Directors subscribed for this 
offer. They were also eligible to participate in the award of approximately £400 worth of free shares in March 2015. However, 
both waived their eligibility to this award. 
Dilution 
The Company complies with the dilution levels that the Investment Association guidelines recommend. These levels are 10% in 10 
years for all share plans and 5% in 10 years for discretionary plans. This is consistent with the rules of the Company’s share plans.  
The Board reviewed and approved this report on 29 February 2016. 
 
 
 
Priscilla Vacassin 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
www.directlinegroup.com 85
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
86   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Policy report 
A resolution in respect of the Directors’ remuneration policy was approved at the Company’s AGM on 15 May 2014 by a 
significant majority (97.5% in favour). No changes to the policy are proposed. For ease of reference, a copy of the policy 
approved by shareholders is repeated below (subject only to minor referencing updates to assist with the reading of the policy). 
Policy table 
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation 
Base salary 
• This is the core element 
of pay that reflects the 
individual's role and position 
within the Group and is 
payable for doing the 
expected day-to-day job 
• Ensuring we are competitive 
in the market allows us to 
attract, retain and motivate 
high calibre executives with 
the skill sets to achieve our 
key aims while managing 
costs 
• Base salaries are reviewed annually and set in April of each year, although 
the Committee may undertake an out-of-cycle review if it determines that this 
is appropriate 
• Salaries are typically reviewed against: 
− level of skill, experience and scope of responsibilities, individual and business 
performance, economic climate and market conditions; 
− the median market pay in the context of insurance peers and companies of a 
similar size, particularly FTSE 31-100 companies being companies which are 
considered to be reflective of the size and complexity of the Group; and 
− general base salary movement across the Group. 
• The Committee does not strictly follow data but uses it as a reference point 
in considering, in its judgement, the appropriate level having regard to other 
relevant factors including corporate and individual performance and any 
changes in an individual’s role and responsibilities 
• The principles for setting base salary are similar to those applied to other 
employees in the Group, although the specific benchmarking groups used 
to review external market relativities may differ across employee groups 
• Base salary is paid monthly 
Annual Incentive Plan 
(the “AIP”) 
• To motivate Executives and 
incentivise delivery of 
performance over a one-year 
operating cycle, focusing  
on the short to medium-term 
elements of our strategic aims 
• For Executive Directors, at least 40% of the award is deferred into shares under 
the Deferred Annual Incentive Plan (the “DAIP”), typically vesting three years 
after grant (with deferred awards also capable of being settled in cash). The 
remainder of the award is paid in cash following year-end 
• The percentage deferred and the terms of deferral will be kept under review by 
the Committee to ensure that levels are in line with regulatory requirements and 
best practice and may be changed in future years but will not, in the view of the 
Committee, be changed to be less onerous overall 
• Malus and clawback provisions apply to both the cash and deferred elements 
and are explained in more detail in the notes to the policy table 
2012 Long-Term 
Incentive Plan (the 
“LTIP”) 
• To motivate and incentivise 
delivery of sustained 
business performance over 
the long term, aligning 
Executives’ interests with 
those of shareholders 
• To aid long-term retention  
of key executive talent 
• Awards will typically be made in the form of nil-cost options or conditional share 
awards which vest to the extent performance conditions are satisfied over a 
period of at least three years. Under the Plan rules, awards may also be settled 
in cash 
• Vested options will remain exercisable for a period of seven years 
• Malus and clawback provisions apply to the LTIP and are explained in more 
detail in the notes to the policy table 
• Awards under the LTIP may be made at various times during the financial year. 
While the Committee reserves the right to do otherwise, practice has been to 
make awards twice in each financial year following the announcement of the 
Group's annual and half-year results 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 86  
www.directlinegroup.com   87 
 
 
 
 
 
Maximum opportunity Performance measures 
• The Committee has determined that its 
policy will be to only set base salaries 
by reference to the factors set out in the 
previous column for the duration of this 
policy. In any event, no increase will be 
made if it would take an Executive 
Director’s salary above the median level 
of salaries for relevant roles in the FTSE 
100 as determined using data available 
to the Committee at or shortly prior to 
when any increase is considered 
• Where salary increases are awarded, 
the Committee will have regard to the 
increase being awarded to employees 
within the Group more generally, as 
well as the other factors outlined in this  
table under ‘Operation’ 
• Not applicable 
• Maximum and target bonus levels  
for Executive Directors are set by 
reference to practice at other insurance 
and general market comparators 
• The maximum bonus level potential 
under the AIP is 175% of base salary 
per annum. The current maximum bonus 
level applying for each individual 
Executive Director is shown in the 
‘Statement of policy implementation  
in 2016’ section of the annual 
remuneration report 
• Performance over the financial year is assessed against performance measures which  
the Committee considers to be appropriate 
• These may be financial, non-financial (Group, divisional or business line) and individual. Each 
year, at least 50% of the bonus is based on financial measures. The remainder of the bonus will 
be based on a combination of non-financial and individual performance measures 
• Targets are set at the beginning of each financial year by the Committee 
• No more than 10% of the bonus is paid for threshold performance (30% for the individual 
performance element). No more than 60% of the maximum opportunity pays out for target 
performance. However, the Committee retains flexibility to amend the level of payout at different 
levels of performance for future bonus cycles based on its assessment of the level of stretch inherent  
in the targets that have been set and will disclose any such determinations appropriately 
• Before any payment can be made, the Committee will perform an additional gateway 
assessment to determine whether the amount of any bonus is appropriate in view of such facts 
or circumstances as the Committee considers relevant. This assessment may result in 
moderation (either positive or negative) of each AIP performance measure but subject to the 
individual maximum bonus levels 
• The AIP remains a discretionary arrangement and the Committee reserves discretion to adjust  
the out-turn (from zero to the cap) should it consider that to be appropriate. In particular, the 
Committee will operate this discretion as a gateway in respect of any risk concerns 
• The Plan allows for awards over shares 
with an absolute maximum value of 
200% of base salary per financial year 
(although awards of up to 300% of 
base salary are permitted in exceptional 
circumstances in relation to the 
recruitment or retention of an employee, 
as determined by the Committee) 
• The Committee will determine the performance cond itions for each award made under the LTIP,  
with performance measured over a single period of at least three years with no provision to retest 
• Performance is measured against targets set at the beginning of the performance period which 
may be set by reference to the time of grant or financial year 
• Awards vest based on performance against financial and/or share return measures, as 
set by the Committee, to be aligned with the long-term strategic objectives of the Group 
• For awards to be granted in 2016, vesting will continue to be determined based on two 
measures: RoTE and relative Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance against the FTSE 
350 (excluding investment trusts). The Committee may apply different performance measures 
and targets in future years 
• Awards will be subject to a payment gateway such that the Committee must be satisfied that 
there are no material risk failings, reputational concerns or regulatory issues 
• In addition, there is an underpin relating to the Committee’s view of the underlying financial 
performance of the Group 
• Fuller details of the performance conditions and targets for 2016 and prior-year awards are 
set out in the annual remuneration report 
• For both the TSR and RoTE elements, 20% of the award vests for threshold performance with 
100% vesting for maximum performance. The Committee reserves the discretion to make 
changes to these levels which it considers non-material 
• The Committee reserves the right to lengthen (but not reduce) any performance period and/ or 
to introduce a separate holding period 
  
www.directlinegroup.com 87
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
88   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation 
Pension • To remain competitive within 
the market place 
• To encourage retirement 
planning and retain 
flexibility for individuals 
• Pension contributions are paid only in respect of base salary 
• Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the defined contribution 
pension arrangement or alternatively they may choose to receive a cash 
allowance in lieu of pension 
• This is in line with the approach taken for all Group employees 
Benefits • A comprehensive and 
flexible benefits package is 
offered, with the emphasis 
on individuals being able  
to choose the combination 
of cash and benefits that 
suits them 
• Executive Directors receive a benefits package generally set by reference to 
market practice in companies of a similar size and complexity, particularly 
FTSE 31-100 companies. Benefits currently provided include a company car 
or car allowance, private medical insurance, life insurance, health screening 
and income protection 
• The Committee may periodically amend the benefits available to employees. 
The Executive Directors are eligible to receive such additional benefits on 
similar terms to other senior executives 
• In line with our approach to all employees, certain Group products are 
offered to Executive Directors at a discount 
• Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in any of the employee 
share plans operated by the Company, in line with HMRC guidelines (where 
relevant), on the same basis as for other eligible employees. Currently this 
includes the Share Incentive Plan, which was also used to provide an award 
of free shares to all employees (including Executive Directors) at the time of  
the IPO 
Share 
ownership 
guidelines 
• To further align the interests 
of Executive Directors with 
those of shareholders 
• Executive Directors are expected to retain all of the ordinary shares vesting 
under any of the Company’s share incentive plans, after any disposals for 
the payment of applicable taxes, until they have achieved the required level  
of shareholding 
Notes to the policy table 
Stating maximum amounts for each element of remuneration 
Where the table refers to the maximum amounts that may be paid in respect of any element of the policy (as required under 
the Regulations) these will operate simply as caps and not be indicative of any aspiration. 
Malus and clawback 
Malus (being the forfeiture of unvested awards) and clawback (being the ability of the Company to claim repayment of paid 
amounts) provisions apply to the AIP (cash and deferred element) and LTIP if, in the opinion of the Committee, any of the 
following has occurred: 
• There has been a material misstatement of the Company’s financial results which has led to an overpayment 
• The assessment of performance targets is based on an error or inaccurate or misleading information or assumptions 
• Circumstances warranting summary dismissal in the relevant period 
• A material failure of risk management or any other act or omission that has had a sufficiently significant impact on the 
reputation of the Company to justify such action 
Amounts in respect of awards under both plans may be subject to clawback for up to three years post payment or vesting 
as appropriate. 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 88  
www.directlinegroup.com   89 
Maximum opportunity Performance measures 
• Pension contributions for both Executive Directors are set at 
25% of base salary per annum 
• Not performance related 
• The costs of benefits provided may fluctuate from year to year 
even if the level of provision has remained unchanged 
• An annual limit of 10% of base salary per Executive Director 
has been set for the duration of this policy. The Committee 
will monitor the costs in practice and ensure that the overall 
costs do not increase by more than the Committee considers 
to be appropriate in all the circumstances 
• In addition, the limit for any employee share plans in which 
the Executive Directors participate will be in line with the 
caps permitted by HMRC from time to time 
• The Executive Directors may be entitled to retain fees 
received for any directorships held outside the Group 
• Not performance related 
• 200% of salary for both Executive Directors  
• The Committee reserves the discretion to amend these levels 
in future years 
• Not applicable 
Exercise of discretion 
In line with market practice, the Committee retains discretion in relation to the operation and administration of the AIP, DAIP 
and LTIP. This discretion includes, but is not limited to: 
• The timing of awards and payments 
• The size of awards, within the overall limits disclosed in the policy table 
• The determination of vesting 
• The treatment of awards in the case of change of control or restructuring 
• The treatment of leavers within the rules of the plan and the termination policy summary shown on pages 92 to 93 
• Adjustments needed in certain circumstances (for example, rights issue, corporate restructuring or special interim dividend) 
The Committee also retains the discretion to amend the performance measures, weightings and targets after they have been set 
if events make it appropriate to do so. Any changes will be explained in future annual remuneration reports and, if appropriate, 
be the subject of consultation with the Company’s major shareholders. 
  
www.directlinegroup.com 89
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
90   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Adjustment to number of shares under deferred bonus and LTIP 
The number of shares subject to deferred bonus and LTIP awards may be increased to reflect the value of dividends that would 
have been paid in respect of any dates falling between the grant of awards and the date of vesting of awards (the date of 
transfer of shares for awards made prior to 2014). 
The terms of incentive plan awards may be adjusted in the event of a variation of the Company’s share capital, demerger or 
a similar event that materially affects the price of the shares or otherwise in accordance with the plan rules. 
Remuneration payments agreed prior to appointment to the Board 
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office (including, where relevant, 
exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments) notwithstanding that they are not in line with the 
policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed (i) before the policy came into effect or (ii) at a time when the 
relevant individual was not a Director of Direct Line Insurance Group plc and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was 
not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company. For these purposes ‘payments’ include pension 
arrangements, the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of 
the payment are ‘agreed’ at the time the award is granted. 
Selection of performance measures 
Annual Incentive Plan 
The AIP performance measures have been selected by the Committee to incentivise Executive Directors to achieve financial 
targets for the year as well as specific strategic and personal objectives. These measures are aligned with the key performance 
indicators that we use as a business to monitor performance against our strategic priorities, as shown on pages 24 and 25 of 
the Annual Report & Accounts. 
The relevant targets are set at or following the start of each year to ensure that Executive Directors are appropriately focused 
on the key objectives for the next 12 months. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan 
The ultimate goal of our strategy is to provide long-term sustainable returns for our shareholders. 
For 2016, awards under the LTIP will therefore continue to be subject to performance against both RoTE and relative TSR targets, 
which are important KPIs for the business. The Committee believes that this combination provides a balanced approach to the 
measurement of Group performance over the longer term by using both a stated financial KPI that incentivises individuals to keep 
growing the business in an efficient way and a measure based on relative shareholder return. This combination of measures 
achieves an appropriate balance of absolute and relative returns. 
Differences in remuneration policy from broader employee population 
When determining Executive Directors’ remuneration, the Committee takes into account pay throughout the Group to ensure that 
the arrangements in place remain appropriate. 
The Group has one consistent reward policy for all levels of employees. Therefore, the same reward principles guide reward 
decisions for all Group employees, including Executive Directors, although remuneration packages differ to take into account 
appropriate factors in different areas of the business: 
• AIP – approximately 3,200 employees participate in the AIP and the corporate performance measures for all employees are 
consistent with those used for Executive Directors, although the weighting attributable to those factors may differ. The Group’s 
strategic leaders also receive part of their bonus in Company shares deferred for a period of three years 
• LTIP – our strategic leaders participate in the LTIP currently based on the same performance conditions as those for Executive 
Directors, although the Committee reserves the discretion to vary the performance conditions for awards made to employees 
below the Board for future awards 
• All employee share plans – the Committee considers it is important for all employees to have the opportunity to become 
shareholders in the Company. The HMRC-approved Buy-As-You-Earn Share Incentive Plan in the UK and an International plan 
mirroring the UK plan for Italy were both launched during 2013. At year-end, approximately 2,700 employees throughout 
the Group had signed up to the UK plan. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 90  
www.directlinegroup.com   91 
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors 
Element Purpose and link to strategy Approach to setting fees and cap Other items 
Chairman and 
Non-Executive 
Directors’ fees 
To enable the 
Company to recruit 
and retain Non-
Executive Directors of 
the highest calibre, at 
the appropriate cost 
• Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic annual fee 
plus reasonable travel expenses. Additional fees may 
be paid to Non-Executive Directors who chair a Board 
Committee, sit on a Board Committee and for the 
Senior Independent Director. The level of fees for 2016 
is shown in the annual remuneration section 
• Fee levels for Non-Executive Directors are reviewed and 
may be increased at appropriate intervals by the Board, 
with affected individual Directors absenting themselves 
from deliberations 
• In setting the level of fees, the Company takes into 
account the expected time commitment of the role and 
fees at other companies of a similar size, sector and/or 
complexity to the Group 
• The fees paid to the Chairman are inclusive of all Board 
and Committee membership fees and are determined 
by the Remuneration Committee 
• Subject to a Non-Executive Director aggregate fee cap 
in the Articles of Association (currently £2,000,000 per 
annum), the Company reserves the right to change how 
the elements and weightings within the overall fees are 
paid and to pay a proportion of the fees in shares 
within this limit 
• The Non-Executive 
Directors are not 
entitled to receive any 
compensation for loss 
of office, other than 
fees for their notice 
period. They do not 
participate in the 
Group’s bonus, 
employee share plans 
or pension 
arrangements and do 
not receive  
any benefits 
 
Recruitment remuneration policy 
The recruitment remuneration policy aims to give the Committee sufficient flexibility to secure the appointment and promotion 
of high-calibre executives to strengthen the management team and secure the skill sets to deliver the Group’s strategic aims. 
Principles for recruitment remuneration 
• In terms of the principles for setting a package for a new Executive Director, the starting point for the Committee will be to 
look to the policy for Executive Directors as set out in the policy table and structure a package in accordance with that policy. 
Consistent with the Regulations, the caps contained within the policy table for fixed pay do not apply to new recruits, although 
the Committee would not envisage exceeding these caps in practice 
• For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may either continue on its original 
terms or be adjusted to reflect the new appointment, as appropriate 
• For external and internal appointments (including a major change in role), the Committee may agree that the Company will 
meet certain relocation expenses, legal and other fees involved in negotiating any recruitment or pay expatriate benefits in line 
with the Group’s international assignment policy, as appropriate 
Buy-out awards 
• Where it is necessary to make a recruitment-related pay award to an external candidate, the Company will not pay more than 
is necessary, in the view of the Committee, and will in all cases seek, in the first instance, to deliver any such awards under 
the terms of the existing incentive pay structure 
• All such awards for external appointments, whether under the AIP, LTIP or otherwise, to compensate for awards forfeited on 
leaving their previous employer will be capped at the commercial value of the amount forfeited and will take account of the 
nature, time horizons and performance requirements of those awards. In particular, the Committee’s starting point will be to 
ensure that any awards being forfeited which remain subject to outstanding performance requirements (other than where 
substantially complete) are bought out with replacement requirements and any awards with service requirements are bought 
out with similar terms. However, exceptionally the Committee may relax those obligations where it considers it to be in the 
interests of shareholders and those factors are, in the view of the Committee, equally reflected in some other way, for example 
through a significant discount to the face value of the awards forfeited. It will only include guaranteed or non-prorated amounts 
under the AIP where the Committee considers that it is necessary to secure the recruitment 
www.directlinegroup.com 91
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
92   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
The elements of any package for a new recruit, including the maximum level of variable pay, but excluding buy-outs, and 
the approach taken by the Committee in relation to setting each element of the package will be consistent with the Executive 
Directors’ remuneration policy described in this report, as modified by the above statement of principles where appropriate. 
The Committee reserves the right to avail itself of the current Listing Rule 9.4.2 if needed in order to facilitate, in exceptional 
circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director. Awards granted under this provision will only be used for buy-out awards. 
Any commitments made before promotion to the Board (except when made in connection with the appointment to the Board) 
can continue to be honoured under the policy even if they are not consistent with the policy prevailing when the commitment 
is fulfilled. 
In exceptional circumstances, the initial notice period may be longer than the Company’s 12 month policy up to a maximum  
of 24 months. However, this will reduce by one month for every month served, until it has reduced to 12 months in line with  
the Company’s policy position. 
The remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors as set out earlier in this report will apply in relation to 
any recruitments to those positions. 
Service contracts 
Subject to the discretion noted above for new recruits, it is the Company’s policy to set notice periods for Executive Directors of 
no more than 12 months (both by the Director or Company). The Executive Directors’ service agreements summary is as follows: 
Director Effective date of contract 
Notice period  
(by Director or 
Company) Exit payment policy 
Paul Geddes 1 September 2012 12 months Base salary only for unexpired portion of notice period and  
to be paid in a lump sum or monthly instalments, in which  
case instalments are subject to mitigation if an alternative role  
is found. 
John Reizenstein 1 September 2012 12 months Base salary only for unexpired portion of notice period and  
to be paid in a lump sum or monthly instalments, in which  
case instalments are subject to mitigation if an alternative role  
is found. 
There are no further obligations which could give rise to a remuneration or loss of office payment other than those set out in the 
remuneration policy table and termination policy summary. 
Termination policy summary 
It is appropriate for the Committee to retain discretion to consider the termination terms of any Executive Director, having regard 
to all the relevant facts and circumstances available to them at the time. A Director is deemed a ’good leaver‘ if the following 
circumstances are met: 
• Annual Incentive Plan and Long-Term Incentive Plan – death, injury, ill-health, redundancy, retirement, the sale of the 
individual’s employing company or business out of the Group, or in such other circumstances as the Committee determines 
• Deferred Annual Incentive Plan – for any reason other than summary dismissal or resignation unless, in the case of resignation 
only, the Committee determines otherwise 
The table overleaf sets out the general position although it should be noted that the Committee, consistent with most other 
companies, has reserved a broad discretion to determine whether an Executive Director should be categorised as a ‘good leaver’ 
and that discretion forms part of the approved policy. Similarly, while the policy is generally to reduce AIP and LTIP awards on 
a pro-rata basis, the Committee has reserved discretion to disapply such reduction if, in the circumstances, it considers that to 
be appropriate taking into account the performance of the departing Executive and the circumstances of leaving. 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 92  
www.directlinegroup.com   93 
Incentives 
If a leaver is a ‘bad leaver’, for example 
leaving through resignation or summary 
dismissal 
If a leaver is deemed to be 
a ‘good leaver’ 
Other events, for example change in 
control or winding up of Company 
Annual Incentive Plan 
No awards made Bonus paid at the normal time 
and on a time pro-rata basis, 
unless the Committee  
determines otherwise. 
Bonus determined on such basis 
as the Committee considers 
appropriate and paid on a  
time pro-rata basis, unless  
the Committee determines 
otherwise. 
Deferred Annual 
Incentive Plan 
All awards will lapse Deferred shares typically vest  
on the normal vesting date, 
although the Committee  
reserves discretion to accelerate 
vesting. In the case of the 
participant’s death or other 
exceptional circumstances, 
awards may vest immediately. 
Awards will vest in full. 
In the event of a demerger or 
similar event, the Committee may 
determine that awards  
vest on the same basis. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan 
All awards will lapse Awards will vest on the normal 
vesting date subject to 
performance and, unless  
the Committee determines 
otherwise, time pro rating. 
In exceptional circumstances,  
as determined by the Committee, 
for example in the case of the 
participant’s death, awards  
may vest on cessation. 
Awards will vest subject 
to the application of the 
performance conditions 
and, unless the Committee 
determines otherwise, time  
pro rating. 
In the event of a demerger or 
similar event, the Committee may 
determine that awards  
vest on the same basis. 
Service agreements for Executive Directors provide that Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein are not eligible to receive any 
enhanced redundancy terms which may be offered by the Group from time to time. Their rights to a statutory redundancy 
payment are not affected. 
Depending on the circumstances of departure, an Executive Director may have additional claims under relevant employment 
protection laws and the Company may contribute to any legal fees involved in agreeing a termination. It may also agree to incur 
certain other expenses such as the provision of outplacement services. Any such fees would be disclosed as part of the detail of 
any termination arrangements. 
Non-Executive Director letters of appointment 
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three-year term which may be renewed by mutual agreement. In common with the 
Executive Directors, all Non-Executives are subject to annual re-election by shareholders. 
The Directors may appoint additional members to join the Board during the year. Directors appointed in this way will be subject 
to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment. In subsequent years, the Directors are required to submit 
themselves for re-election at each AGM. 
Terms and conditions of appointment of all of the Directors are available for inspection by any person at the Company’s 
registered office and at the AGM. 
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have notice periods of three months from either party, which do not apply in the  
case of a Director not being re-elected by shareholders or retiring from office under the Articles of Association. Other than fees  
for this notice period, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any compensation on exit. 
External directorships 
The Company encourages Executive Directors to accept, subject to the approval of the Chairman, an invitation to join the board 
of another company outside the Group in a non-executive capacity, recognising the value of such wider experience. In these 
circumstances, they are permitted to retain any remuneration from the non-executive appointment. Executive Directors are 
generally limited to accepting one external directorship. 
www.directlinegroup.com 93
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ remuneration report continued 
94   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group 
As explained elsewhere in the Directors’ remuneration report, the Committee reviews the overall pay and bonus decisions  
in aggregate for the wider Group and therefore takes account of pay and conditions in the wider Group in determining the 
Directors’ remuneration policy and the remuneration payable to Directors. Through the Chief Executive Officer, Paul Geddes, 
and other senior management the Committee may receive input provided by employee groups within the Group, such as the 
Employee Representative Body, as required. 
In accordance with prevailing commercial practice, the Committee did not consult with employees in preparing the Directors’ 
remuneration policy. 
Consideration of shareholders’ views 
The Committee takes into account the approval levels of remuneration related matters at the AGM in determining whether the 
current Directors’ remuneration policy remains appropriate. 
The Committee, consistent with its approach of operating within the highest standards of corporate governance, takes significant 
account of guidelines issued by the Investment Association and other shareholder bodies (such as the National Association of 
Pension Funds) when setting the remuneration policy. 
The Committee will also seek to build an active and productive dialogue with investors on developments in the remuneration 
aspects of corporate governance generally and any changes to the Company’s executive pay arrangements in particular. 
The Committee is satisfied that no element of the Directors’ remuneration policy conflicts with the Group’s approach to 
environmental, social or corporate governance matters. 
Performance scenarios 
The Directors’ remuneration policy has been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of total remuneration is delivered 
in the form of variable pay and is therefore dependent on performance against our strategic objectives. 
The Committee has considered the level of remuneration that may be paid under different performance scenarios to ensure that 
it would be appropriate in each situation in the context of the performance delivered and the value created for shareholders. 
The following charts show the potential remuneration that may be earned by Executive Directors under three assumed 
performance scenarios as follows: 
 Total ﬁxed pay  AIP LTIP
15% 2,164
100% 1,011
47%
25%
38%
35% 40% 3,991
CEO – Paul Geddes 
(£’000)
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
£0m£1m £2m£3m £4m
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 94
 Total ﬁxed pay  AIP LTIP
15% 1,242
100% 617
50%
27%
35%
31% 42% 2,300
CFO – John Reizenstein 
(£’000)
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
£0m£1m £2m£3m £4m
42%  
www.directlinegroup.com   95 
The elements of remuneration included in each scenario are as follows. 
Minimum 
Consists of fixed remuneration only (that is, base salary, benefits and pension): 
 
• Base salary is the salary to be paid from 1 April 2016  
• Benefits measured as benefits paid in 2015 as set out in the single figure table on page 77, including the 
value of matching shares under the SIP where relevant  
• Pension measured as the defined contribution or cash allowance in lieu of Company contributions, 
as a percentage of salary (25% of base salary for both Executive Directors) 
On-target 
Based on what the Director would receive if performance was on-target (excluding share price appreciation 
and dividends): 
 
• Fixed remuneration as above  
• AIP – consists of the on-target bonus of 60% of maximum bonus opportunity  
• LTIP – consists of the threshold level of vesting (20% vesting) 
Maximum 
Based on the maximum remuneration receivable (excluding share price appreciation and dividends): 
 
• Fixed remuneration as above  
• AIP – consists of the maximum bonus (175% of base salary for Paul Geddes, 150% for John Reizenstein)  
• LTIP – consists of the face value of awards (200% of base salary) 
 
www.directlinegroup.com 95
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ report 
96   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
The Directors present their report for the financial year ended 
31 December 2015. 
You can find the forward-looking statements disclaimer  
on page 176. 
Strategic report 
The Company’s Strategic report is on pages 1 to 45. It 
includes the following information that would otherwise  
need to be disclosed in this Directors’ report: 
Subject Pages
Use of financial instruments 43 and 44
Important events since  
the financial year end 
10 to 13
Likely future developments in 
the business 
13 and 34 to 37
Employee involvement 32 and 33
Corporate governance statement 
The FCA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules require a 
corporate governance statement in the Directors’ report to 
include certain information. You can find information that fulfils 
the corporate governance statement’s requirements in this 
Directors’ report; the Corporate Governance report; the 
Committee reports; and the Directors’ remuneration report,  
on pages 46 to 95. This information is incorporated in the 
Directors’ report by reference. 
Disclosure of information under Listing Rule 9.8.4R 
Subject Page
Contracts of significance 98
Details of shareholder  
dividend waivers 
97
Significant shareholder 
agreements 
97
Post-balance sheet events 
There were no post-balance sheet events to report. 
Dividends 
The Group aims to generate long-term sustainable value  
for shareholders, while balancing operational, regulatory, 
rating agency and policyholder requirements. The Board has  
a progressive dividend policy for the Company. This aims  
to increase the dividend annually in real terms to reflect  
the Company’s cash flow generation and long-term  
earnings potential. 
The Group expects that one-third of the annual dividend will 
generally be paid in the third quarter as an interim dividend, 
and two-thirds will be paid as a final dividend in the second 
quarter of the following year. The Board may revise the 
dividend policy from time to time. 
Additionally, if the Board believes the Group has capital 
surplus to its view of its requirements, it is intended that such 
excess capital will be returned to shareholders. The Company 
may consider a special dividend and/or a repurchase of its 
own shares to distribute surplus capital to shareholders.
The Board recommends a final dividend of 9.2 pence per 
share to shareholders. Subject to shareholder approval at the 
Company’s 2016 AGM, this will become payable on 19 
May 2016 to all holders of Ordinary Shares on the Register of 
members at close of business on 11 March 2016. A second 
special interim dividend has also been declared of 8.8 pence 
per share and will have the same record and payment dates 
as the final dividend for 2015. 
The final dividend resolution provides that the Board may 
cancel the dividend and therefore payment of the dividend at 
any time prior to payment if it considers it necessary to do so 
for regulatory capital purposes. Detailed explanatory notes can 
be found in the Notice of AGM. 
The Company paid a special interim dividend of 27.5 pence 
per share in July 2015. This represented substantially all of  
the net proceeds from the sale of the International division. 
The Company paid an interim dividend of 4.6 pence per 
share in September 2015. 
Due to uncertainty about the timing of completion of the 
International division sale (and related distribution), the Board 
declared a second interim dividend (in lieu of a final dividend) 
for 2014 of 8.8 pence per share. It also declared a second 
special interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share for the 2014 
financial year, which was paid in April 2015, at the same 
time as the second interim dividend. 
The special interim dividends are consistent with the Group’s 
policy to distribute excess capital. 
Including the special, interim and final dividends, the total 
dividend for the 2015 financial year is 50.1 pence per share 
(2014: 27.2 pence). Of this, 36.3 pence relates to special 
interim dividends (2014: 14.0 pence). 
Further information about dividends and capital management 
can be found in the Finance review on pages 44 and 45,  
and note 15 to the financial statements on page 143. 
Directors 
You can find the current Directors’ biographies on pages 48  
to 49. All Directors will retire and be submitted for election  
or re-election at the 2016 AGM except for Priscilla Vacassin, 
who steps down from the Board on 1 March 2016. This is  
in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and 
the Articles of Association of the Company, which govern the 
appointing and replacing of Directors. 
The Directors listed on pages 48 and 49 were the Directors  
of the Company throughout the year apart from Richard Ward, 
who was appointed on 18 January 2016, and Glyn Jones, 
who resigned as a Director on 13 May 2015 due to 
increasing commitments elsewhere. 
The Company’s Articles of Association set out the Directors’ 
powers. You can obtain a copy of these on the Company’s 
website at www.directlinegroup.com . The Directors’ powers 
are also subject to relevant legislation and, in certain 
circumstances, authority from the Company’s shareholders. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 96  
www.directlinegroup.com   97 
Secretary 
Roger Clifton is the Company Secretary of Direct Line Insurance 
Group plc. He can be contacted at the Company’s Registered 
Office, details of which are on the inside back cover. 
Directors’ interests 
You can find details of the Directors’ remuneration, service 
contracts, employment contracts and interests in the shares  
of the Company in the Directors’ remuneration report on  
pages 70 to 95. 
Directors’ indemnities 
The Articles of Association of the Company permit it to 
indemnify the Company’s officers – and officers of any 
associated company – against liabilities arising from 
conducting Company business, to the extent permitted by law. 
As such, the Company has executed deeds of indemnity for 
each Director’s benefit, regarding liabilities that may attach  
to them in their capacity as Directors of the Company or 
associated companies. These indemnities are qualifying third-
party indemnities as defined by section 234 of the Companies 
Act 2006. No amount was paid under any of these 
indemnities during the year. 
The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance. This provides appropriate cover for legal actions 
brought against its Directors. 
The Company has also provided the directors of DLG Pension 
Trustee Limited with qualifying pension scheme indemnities. 
This is in accordance with section 235 of the Companies  
Act 2006. DLG Pension Trustee Limited acts as trustee for  
two of the Company’s occupational pension schemes. 
Share capital 
The Company has a premium listing on the London Stock 
Exchange. As at 31 December 2015, its share capital 
comprised 1,375,000,000 fully paid Ordinary Shares of  
10 10/11 pence each. 
On 29 June 2015, shareholders approved a share 
consolidation. This resulted in issuing 11 new Ordinary Shares 
of 10 10/11 pence each for every 12 Ordinary Shares of  
10 pence each in issue at close of business on 29 June 2015. 
Shareholders approved certain authorities at the Company’s 
2015 AGM related to the Company’s share capital. As part 
of the share consolidation approved at the General Meeting 
on 29 June 2015, these authorities were refreshed and 
adjusted to account for the share consolidation. Therefore,  
the Directors now have authority to: 
 allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, 
or convert, any security into shares up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £50,000,000;  
 allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£100,000,000, for the purpose of a rights issue; and 
 make market purchases of up to 137,500,000 shares  
in the Company, representing approximately 10% of  
the Company’s issued share capital at the time. 
To date, the Directors have not used these authorities. 
Shareholders will be asked to renew them at the 2016 AGM 
in line with the most recent institutional investors’ guidelines. 
The Company has not held any shares in treasury during the 
period under review. 
You can find out more about the Company’s share capital  
and shares under option at 31 December 2015 in notes 28 
and 34 to the consolidated financial statements. 
Under the Company’s Share Incentive Plan, shares are held  
by a Trustee on behalf of employee participants. The Trustees 
will only vote on those shares and receive dividends that are 
beneficially owned by a participant, in accordance with the 
participant’s wishes. An Employee Benefit Trust is also in 
operation, the Trustee of which has discretion to vote on any 
shares it holds as it sees fit, save for any shares owned 
beneficially by participants, in which case the Trustee will only 
vote on such shares as per instructions from the participant.  
The Trustee of this Trust has waived its right to dividends on  
all shares within the Trust. You can find out more about the 
number of shares held by the employee share plan trusts in 
note 28 on page 150. The Company is only aware of the 
dividend waivers and voting restrictions mentioned above. 
Rights attaching to shares 
All of the Company’s issued Ordinary Shares rank equally in 
all respects. The Company’s Articles of Association set out the 
rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s Ordinary 
Shares. You can obtain a copy of this on the Company’s 
website at www.directlinegroup.com . 
All issued shares are fully paid and free from any restrictions  
on their transfer, except where law requires, such as insider 
trading rules. All employees must conform to the Company’s 
share dealing rules. These rules restrict particular employees’ 
ability to deal in the Company’s shares at certain times, and 
mean they need to obtain permission to deal before doing so. 
Some of the Company’s employee share plans also include 
restrictions on transfer of shares while the shares are held 
within the plans. 
Each general meeting notice will specify the time for 
determining a shareholder’s entitlement to attend and vote at 
the meeting. This will not be more than 48 hours, excluding 
any part of a day that is not a working day, before the time 
fixed for the meeting. To be valid, all proxy appointments must 
be filed at least 48 hours before the meeting’s time. 
Where the Company has issued a notice under section 793  
of the Companies Act 2006 which is in default for at least  
14 days, the person(s) interested in those shares shall not  
be entitled to attend or vote at any general meeting until the 
default has been corrected or the shares sold. 
There is no arrangement or understanding with any 
shareholder, customer or supplier, or any other external party 
that provides the right to appoint a Director or a member of  
the Executive Committee, or any other special rights regarding 
control of the Company. 
Articles of Association 
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of 
Association, they may only be amended by a special resolution 
of the Company’s shareholders at a general meeting. 
www.directlinegroup.com 97
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors’ report continued 
98   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Significant agreements affected by a change of control 
A number of agreements may take effect, alter or terminate 
upon a change of control of the Company. None of these 
agreements are considered to be significant in terms of its 
impact on the business of the Group as a whole. 
All of the Company’s employee share incentive plans contain 
provisions relating to a change of control. Outstanding awards 
would typically vest and become exercisable. This is subject to 
satisfying any performance conditions, and normally with an 
additional time-based pro-rata reduction where performance 
conditions apply, and approval from the Remuneration Committee. 
Substantial shareholdings 
In accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of the FCA’s 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Company has been 
notified of the following indirect interest in the Company’s voting 
rights. The Company has not been notified of any direct interests. 
31 December 
2015 
9 March
2016
BlackRock, Inc.  5.08% 5.08%
Political donations 
The Group made no political donations during the year 
(2014: nil). 
Employees with disabilities 
The Group is committed to promoting diversity across every 
area of the business. At recruitment, we adjust and enhance 
our application and selection process and also guide and 
provide additional training for interviewers, where necessary. 
An element of our Diversity Network Alliance focuses on 
matters important to employees with disabilities. It also 
identifies areas where we can improve. To help people 
continue working for us, we make reasonable adjustments to 
their working environments and equipment, and roles and role 
requirements. We also ensure that everyone can access the 
same opportunities. 
Greenhouse gas emissions 
The Group has followed the 2013 UK Government 
environmental reporting guidance for greenhouse gas  
(“GHG”) emissions, used the UK Government’s greenhouse gas 
conversion factors, and adopted the financial control approach 
to setting the organisational boundaries of responsibilities for 
GHG emissions. GHG emissions are classified as direct or 
indirect, and divided into scope 1 and scope 2 emissions. 
Direct GHG emissions are those from sources that the Group 
owns or controls. Indirect GHG emissions are those that are  
a consequence of the Group’s activities, but occur at sources 
owned or controlled by another organisation. The Group has 
considered the six main GHGs, reported in tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent (“CO2e”), and set 2013 as the base year. 
The Group has included emissions from the International 
division, until its sale in May 2015, under discontinued 
operations in the table opposite. It has not included  
emissions associated with its investment portfolio. 
Scope 1 – direct emissions including fuels used in office 
buildings, accident repair centres and owned vehicles 
Scope 2 – indirect emissions resulting from generating electricity 
purchased for office buildings and accident repair centres 
Total GHG emissions for continuing operations for 2015 were 
22,611 tonnes (2014: 27,308 tonnes), as set out in the table 
below. This primarily comprised emissions from purchased 
electricity and natural gas, diesel fuel and refrigerant gas used. 
In addition to total emissions, the Group also monitors 
emissions per £ million of net earned premium. In 2015,  
this was 7.7 tonnes per £ million of net earned premium for 
continuing operations (2014: 9.1 tonnes). This is a measure  
of how efficiently insurance products are provided and allows 
comparison between our year-on-year performance and 
performance against insurance companies. 
Ecometrica has externally verified the GHG emissions data. 
Verification statements can be found on the Group’s website  
at www.directlinegroup.com . 
You can find further information on the Group’s approach to 
energy and the environment in the CSR section on page 32. 
Greenhouse gas emissions 
CO2e tonnes Continuing operations 
Total Group including 
discontinued operations 
2015 2014 2015 2014
Scope 1 direct 7,643 7,784 7,645 7,787
Scope 2 indirect 14,968 19,524 15,498 20,972
Total gross 
emissions 22,611 27,308 23,143 28,759
Emissions per £ 
million of net 
earned premium 7.7 9.1 8.8 8.7
Longer term viability and going concern basis 
The statements required to be included in the Annual Report 
following the UK Corporate Governance Code provisions 
C.1.3 and C.2.2 can be found on pages 56 and 57,  
and are incorporated here by reference. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 98  
www.directlinegroup.com   99 
Disclosing information to the Auditor 
Each Director at the date of approving this Annual Report & 
Accounts confirms that: 
 as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which Deloitte LLP, the Company’s external 
auditor, is unaware; and 
 they have taken all the steps they ought to have taken  
as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant  
audit information and establish that Deloitte LLP is aware  
of that information. 
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the 
Companies Act 2006. 
Auditor 
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office 
as the external auditor. A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP 
will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM. You can find an 
assessment of the effectiveness and recommendation for 
Deloitte LLP’s reappointment in the Audit Committee report  
on pages 59 and 60. 
Directors’ responsibility statement 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law, the 
Directors must prepare the Group financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRS”), as adopted by the EU and Article 4 of the 
International Accounting Standard (“IAS”) regulation. They 
have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company financial 
statements under IFRS, as adopted by the EU. Under company 
law, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
Company’s state of affairs and profit or loss for that period. 
In preparing these financial statements, IAS 1 requires  
that Directors: 
 Properly select and apply accounting policies 
 Present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information 
 Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users  
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the entity’s financial position  
and financial performance 
 Assess the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose, with reasonable accuracy, the 
Company’s financial position at any time, and enable them to 
ensure the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. Additionally, they are responsible for safeguarding the 
Company’s assets and hence taking reasonable steps to prevent 
and detect fraud and other irregularities. The Directors are 
responsible for maintaining and ensuring the integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website at www.directlinegroup.com . Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on 
pages 48 and 49, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: 
 the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position, and profit or loss of the Company, and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole; and 
 the Strategic report (on pages 1 to 45) and Directors’  
report (on pages 96 to 99) include a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business, and the 
position of the Company and the undertakings included in 
the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face. 
The Board reviewed and approved this report on  
29 February 2016. 
By order of the Board 
 
 
 
 
Roger C. Clifton 
Company Secretary  
 
www.directlinegroup.com 99
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Contents 
100   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report 101
Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated income statement 106
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 107
Consolidated balance sheet 108
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 109
Consolidated cash flow statement 110
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
1. Accounting policies 111
2. Critical accounting estimates and judgements 118
3. Risk management 121
4. Segmental analysis 133
5. Discontinued operations and disposal group 136
6. Net earned premium 138
7. Investment return 138
8. Other operating income 139
9. Net insurance claims 139
10. Commission expenses 139
11. Operating expenses 139
12. Finance costs 141
13. Tax charge 141
14. Current and deferred tax 142
15. Dividends 143
16. Earnings per share 143
17. Net assets per share and return on equity 144
18. Goodwill and other intangible assets 145
19. Property, plant and equipment 147
20. Investment property 147
21. Subsidiaries  148
22. Reinsurance assets 148
23. Deferred acquisition costs 148
24. Insurance and other receivables 149
25. Derivative financial instruments 149
26. Financial investments 149
27. Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings 150
28. Share capital 150
29. Other reserves 151
30. Subordinated liabilities 151
31. Insurance liabilities 152
32. Unearned premium reserve 154
33. Retirement benefit obligations 155
34. Share-based payments 157
35. Trade and other payables including  
insurance payables 
159
36. Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 160
37. Contingent liabilities 160
38. Commitments 161
39. Fair value 162
40. Related parties 163
 
Parent Company financial 
statements 
Parent Company balance sheet 164
Parent Company statement of comprehensive income 165
Parent Company statement of changes in equity 165
Parent Company cash flow statement 166
Notes to the Parent Company 
financial statements 
1. Accounting policies 167
2. Investment in subsidiary undertakings 167
3. Assets held for sale 168
4. Other receivables 169
5. Current tax 169
6. Derivative financial instruments 169
7. Financial investments 169
8. Cash and cash equivalents 169
9. Share capital 169
10. Subordinated liabilities 170
11. Trade and other payables 170
12. Dividends 170
13. Cash generated from operations 170
14. Related parties 171
15. Share-based payments 171
16. Risk management 171
17. Directors and key management remuneration 171
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 100 Independent Auditor’s report to the shareholders of Direct Line Insurance Group plc 
www.directlinegroup.com   101 
Opinion on the financial statements of Direct Line 
Insurance Group plc 
In our opinion: 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2015 and of the Group’s profit for the year 
then ended; 
• the financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union; and 
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and,  
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of  
the International Accounting Standard (“IAS”) Regulation. 
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income 
statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, 
the consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets, the 
consolidated and Parent Company cash flow statements, the 
consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in 
equity and the related notes 1 to 40 on the consolidated 
financial statements, and the related notes 1 to 17 on the Parent 
Company financial statements. The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law  
and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. 
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by  
the IASB 
As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial 
statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation  
to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the  
Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). 
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with 
IFRSs as issued by the IASB. 
Independence 
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting 
Council’s Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm  
that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those 
standards. We also confirm we have not provided any of the 
prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards. 
Going concern and the Directors’ assessment of the 
principal risks that would threaten the solvency or 
liquidity of the Group 
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the 
Directors’ statement on page 56 regarding the appropriateness 
of the going concern basis of accounting to the financial 
statements and the Directors’ statement on the longer-term 
viability of the Group. We have nothing material to add  
or draw attention to in relation to: 
• the Directors’ confirmation on page 56 that they have 
carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing 
the Group, including those that would threaten its business 
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity; 
• the disclosures on pages 28 to 29 that describe those risks 
and explain how they are being managed or mitigated. 
• the Directors’ statement on page 56 about whether they 
considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis 
of accounting in preparing the financial statements and their 
identification of any material uncertainties to the Group’s 
ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 
months from the date of approval of the financial statements; 
• the Director’s explanation on pages 56 to 57 as to how 
they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over  
what period they have done so and why they consider that 
period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether 
they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be 
able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they 
fall due over the period of their assessment, including any 
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary 
qualifications or assumptions. 
We agreed with the Directors’ adoption of the going concern 
basis of accounting and we did not identify any material 
uncertainties. However, because not all future events or 
conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee 
as to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below 
are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy,  
the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts 
of the engagement team. The procedures described in our 
response to each risk are not exhaustive and we have focused 
on those procedures that we consider address areas of 
judgement or subjectivity; see overleaf. 
 
  
www.directlinegroup.com 101
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Direct Line Insurance Group plc continued 
102   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
 
Risk  How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
The methodology and assumptions used in setting  
insurance reserves 
Insurance reserves include the Group’s insurance liabilities  
from continuing business totalling £4.5 billion, as detailed  
in note 31.The determination of the value of the insurance 
reserves requires significant judgement in the selection of key 
assumptions and methodologies. The Group has indicated to 
the market that assuming current claims trends continue, the 
contribution from prior-year reserve releases is expected to 
remain significant, albeit lower than in 2014. Management 
exercises significant judgement in respect of the trends in 
bodily injury claims frequency and severity, the speed of 
recognition of emerging data and trends, the propensity for 
large claims to settle as periodic payment orders (“PPOs”),  
the likely outcome of the Government’s consultation on the 
Ogden discount rate used by the courts to calculate claims  
for long-term damages and other regulatory developments.  
There were a number of weather events at the end of 2015 
which caused severe flooding across the UK. Management has 
exercised judgement in the determination of the full extent of the 
claims. Therefore the scope of this risk was extended to include 
the valuation of the additional provision for these events. 
 We have tested the design and implementation and operating 
effectiveness of the key controls over the end-to-end reserving 
process, including the controls over the inputs and outputs for the 
actuarial best estimate (“ABE”) and the controls for setting of the 
margin above ABE. 
We also tested the completeness and accuracy of the 
underlying data used in the actuarial calculations through 
performing reconciliations on the data back to the financial 
ledger and the actuarial data used by our Deloitte actuarial 
specialists in performing their audit. 
Having done this, we worked with those specialists to: 
• consider the suitability of the methodology used in setting 
insurance reserves against industry benchmarks; 
• challenge management’s key assumptions and judgements 
particularly in relation to the cost per claim for the floods 
against industry benchmarks; 
• assess whether the reserving methodology has been 
applied consistently across periods; 
• evaluate prior-year reserve releases and emerging trends  
for consistency with management’s methodology; and 
• challenge management’s identification of items to be included 
in the margin above ABE, to perform sensitivity analysis on 
the range of potential scenarios and assess the consistency 
of the point within the range that the margin is set. 
In addition to this, we have performed work to understand the 
sensitivity of insurance reserves to changes in key assumptions 
and methodology, as well as reviewed the actuarial disclosure 
in the Annual Report. 
The valuation of investments held at fair value, derivatives and 
loan loss provisioning 
The Group’s financial investments shown in note 26 represent 
the largest number on the balance sheet, £5.6 billion. As the 
Group’s investments portfolio has diversified, the risk associated 
with valuation has increased over instruments where market 
prices are not always readily available, such as securitised 
credit assets or infrequently traded assets. These investments  
are typically more illiquid, resulting in reduced availability of 
observable inputs and therefore increased judgement in their 
valuation. The valuation of the Group’s derivatives, held in  
order to hedge interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk, is 
also deemed to be complex, with small differences in interest 
rate curves resulting in material valuation changes.  
Management are required to assess financial assets for 
indications of impairment. Where limited observable market 
inputs are available, this requires management to exercise 
increased judgement. The infrastructure debt portfolio has 
increased by 330% to £330 million in the year and is held at 
amortised cost. There are no readily observable market inputs 
for this portfolio and so this has resulted in an increased risk of 
material misstatement. 
 We have tested the design and implementation and operating 
effectiveness of controls over the investment valuation process. 
We attended the year-end impairment review meeting in order 
to assess the operation of a key management review control. 
We have tested the valuation of securitised credit instruments 
where an observable market price could not be obtained by 
engaging our pricing and valuation specialists to calculate 
independent valuations using a discounted cash flow 
approach. We have used our financial instrument specialists 
to test the macro hedge arrangements, valuation of the related 
financial instruments and the accounting treatment applied. 
We have engaged our credit specialists to challenge the 
methodology used in the assessment of credit risk within the 
growing infrastructure debt portfolio. 
In addition, we have checked that the Group’s disclosures 
satisfy the requirements of IFRS 7 and IFRS 13. We have 
reviewed the classification and accounting treatment of the 
Group’s investment portfolio in line with the accounting  
policies set out in note 1.12 to the financial statements. 
  
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 102  
www.directlinegroup.com   103 
Risk  How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
IT control environment 
In May 2015, the Group essentially finished their planned 
programme of transitioning IT infrastructure from RBS Group to 
an independently hosted data centre. In addition, management 
have a number of ongoing projects to assess and improve the 
IT control environment. Due to the significant change in the  
IT environment, there is an increased risk that the underlying  
IT infrastructure controls supporting key financial reporting 
processes might not adequately mitigate the risk of material 
financial misstatement. 
 We have tested the design, implementation and operating 
effectiveness of general IT controls around key IT processes on 
the applications and the migrated infrastructure, with a focus 
on access security, change management and operational 
controls, and have understood the governance process over 
the infrastructure migration itself. Our audit procedures also 
included testing additional business controls and site visits to 
the hosted UK data centre to test the physical access controls 
and the operational offices in India. We have also reviewed 
the scope of management’s ongoing project to improve the  
IT environment and tailored our audit approach to take into 
account the findings and changes implemented as at the time 
of our audit. 
Transformation projects 
There is a risk that the transformation programme, which 
includes outsourcing and offshoring, could impact the financial 
reporting control environment, in particular where processes 
and controls have changed operation and location. There is 
also a risk that the change will cause management stretch 
which could impact on the effectiveness of existing internal 
controls. There is a risk that there may no longer be an 
appropriate level of review or adequate segregation of duties.
 We have tested the design and implementation and operating 
effectiveness of key business processes that have been subject 
to change. For example, we have tested the operating 
effectiveness of controls at a number of outsourced locations, 
involving site visits by the audit team. When testing the controls 
that had been impacted by the transformation programme, our 
testing focused on identifying that there remained an appropriate 
level of review and segregation of duties in the process. 
Reinsurance asset valuation 
The valuation of the reinsurance asset, £1 billion in respect  
of the ceded part of the insurance reserves, as detailed in  
note 22, requires significant judgement to reflect the credit risk 
exposure to long-term assets arising from periodic payment 
orders. In addition, management refined their methodology for 
calculating the reinsurance bad debt. There is also a risk that 
reinsurance treaty terms and actuarial assumptions are not 
correctly applied when performing reinsurance valuations. 
 We have tested the design and implementation and operating 
effectiveness of the key controls over the reinsurance asset 
measurement and valuation process. We reviewed a sample 
of reinsurance contracts and assessed whether their terms  
are correctly applied. 
We have assessed the relevance and reliability of the data 
used in the calculation by reviewing the data against 
observable market inputs and other supporting documentation. 
To test the credit risk exposure, we engaged our credit and 
actuarial specialists in order to assess the reasonableness and 
appropriateness of the reinsurance bad debt valuation 
methodology and assumptions used. This included the 
distribution of withdrawals within the transitional matrix which 
estimates the probability of default at a point in time, the basis 
for allocating cash flows across future periods, and the 
selection of scenarios applied to calculate the renewed 
recovery rates. 
Revenue recognition 
Due to the large number of policies underwritten by the  
Group there is a risk that the revenue recorded in the financial 
statements and the flow of premium information from the 
underwriting systems to the financial reporting ledger is not 
complete and accurate. 
 We have tested the design, implementation and operating 
effectiveness of the key controls over revenue recognition, 
focusing on the flow of information from the underwriting 
systems to the financial reporting ledger. We have performed 
substantive testing of the flow of data from system downloads 
through to posting in the general ledger. In addition, we 
performed substantive analytical testing procedures on  
the gross and unearned premium balances. 
www.directlinegroup.com 103
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Direct Line Insurance Group plc continued 
104   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Last year our report included a risk around IT migration,  
which has been captured within the IT control environment risk 
description. This is due to the migration programme finishing 
early in the year but there still being a significant level of 
change in the IT control environment during the year. 
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction 
with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee 
discussed on page 59. These matters were addressed in the 
context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole,  
and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide  
a separate opinion on these matters. 
Our application of materiality 
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the 
financial statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be 
changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the 
scope of our audit work and in ev aluating the results of our work. 
We have determined that the critical benchmark for the Group 
was average profit before tax from ongoing operations. This 
measure uses a three-year average of profit before tax, 
excluding the impact of discontinued activities and transformation 
costs to exclude the effect of year-on-year volatility. We 
calculated materiality for the Group to be  
£28 million (2014: £28 million), which is below 5.2% (2014: 
6.5%) of average profit before tax from ongoing operations. 
We also considered this measure to be suitable having 
compared to other benchmarks: our materiality is 5.7% of 
statutory profit before tax, 0.8% of gross earned premium and 
below 1.4% of equity. Group materiality is used for setting audit 
scope and the assessment of uncorrected misstatements. 
Materialities are set for each significant component in line with 
the components proportion of the chosen benchmark. This is 
capped at the lower of 90% of Group materiality and the 
component materiality calculated for a standalone audit. The 
main UK insurance trading entity, which makes up 94% of 
Group revenue and 66% of Group statutory profit before tax,  
is scoped to a component materiality of £24.8 million (2014: 
£25.1million). We determine performance materiality at a  
level lower than materiality to reduce the probability that, in 
aggregate, uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceed 
materiality for the financial statements as a whole. The audit 
testing for U K Insurance Limited is carried out to a performance 
materiality of £17.4 million (2014: £17.6 million). 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report  
to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £560,000 
(2014: £560,000), as well as differences below that 
threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative 
grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure 
matters that we identified when assessing the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. 
An overview of the scope of our audit 
The scope of our Group audit was determined by obtaining  
an understanding of the Group and its environment, including 
Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material 
misstatement at the Group level. 
Due to the completion of the International disposal in 2015, 
our Group audit scope has focused on the UK as this is now 
the Group’s single trading location. In addition, we perform 
site visits at the Group’s key outsourcers. Two entities in the UK 
were subject to a full audit, and a further two were subject to 
an audit of specified account balances where the extent of our 
testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement and of the materiality of the Group’s operations. 
These four entities represent the principal business units and 
account for 99% (2014: 98%) of the Group’s net assets, 92% 
(2014: 99%) of the Group’s gross earned premium and 93% 
(2014: 95%) of the Group’s profit before tax. They were also 
selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit 
work to address the risks of mate rial misstatement identified above. 
Our audit work was executed at levels of materiality 
applicable to each individual entity which were lower than 
Group materiality. 
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation 
process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our 
conclusion that there were no significant risks of material 
misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the 
remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified 
account balances. The Group audit team also performs the 
audit of the UK entities, which account for 100% of the 
Group’s net assets and 95% of the Group’s profit before tax. 
The Group audit team was responsible for both the UK 
location and Group audit. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and 
• the information given in the Strategic report and the 
Directors’ report for the financial year for which the  
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 104  
www.directlinegroup.com   105 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion: 
• we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit; or 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have  
not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the Parent Company financial statements are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns. 
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters. 
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to 
report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ 
remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors’ 
remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns. We have nothing to report 
arising from these matters. 
Corporate governance statement 
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the  
part of the corporate governance statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with certain provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report 
arising from our review. 
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report 
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), 
we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information 
in the Annual Report is: 
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or 
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired  
in the course of performing our audit; or 
• otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have 
identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge 
acquired during the audit and the Directors’ statement that  
they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately 
discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit 
Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. 
We confirm that we have not identified any such 
inconsistencies or misleading statements. 
Respective responsibilities of the Directors and  
the Auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities 
statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland). We also comply with International Standard on 
Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology 
and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are 
effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and 
systems include our dedicated professional standards review 
team and independent partner reviews. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members,  
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the Company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by 
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a 
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions  
we have formed. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies 
are appropriate to the Group’s and the Parent Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read 
all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual 
Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report. 
 
 
David Rush FCA (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
London, United Kingdom 
29 February 2016 
www.directlinegroup.com 105
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 106
Consolidated income statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 106
Notes 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Continuing operations   
Gross earned premium 6 3,110.1 3,144.2
Reinsurance premium 6 (189.2) (157.5)
Net earned premium 6 2,920.9 2,986.7
Investment return 7 198.1 215.1
Instalment income  100.1 100.4
Other operating income 8 50.7 46.9
Total income  3,269.8 3,349.1
Insurance claims 9 (1,829.3) (1,778.6)
Insurance claims recoverable from reinsurers 9 162.4 51.2
Net insurance claims 9 (1,666.9) (1,727.4)
Commission expenses 10 (319.3) (354.0)
Operating expenses 11 (738.5) (776.0)
Total expenses  (1,057.8) (1,130.0)
Operating profit  545.1 491.7
Finance costs 12 (37.6) (37.2)
Gain on disposal of subsidiary 21 – 2.3
Profit before tax  507.5 456.8
Tax charge 13 (108.3) (97.5)
Profit from continuing operations, net of tax  399.2 359.3
Profit from discontinued operations, net of tax 5A 181.2 13.3
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company  580.4 372.6
   
Earnings per share:   
Continuing operations:   
Basic (pence) 16 27.9 24.0
Diluted (pence) 16 27.6 23.8
Continuing and discontinued operations:   
Basic (pence) 16 40.6 24.9
Diluted (pence) 16 40.1 24.7
The attached notes on pages 111 to 163 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  www.directlinegroup.com 107
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
www.directlinegroup.com 107
Notes 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Profit for the year  580.4 372.6
Other comprehensive (loss) / income   
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to the income statement:   
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension scheme 33 6.7 2.8
Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified 14 (1.6) (0.6)
  5.1 2.2
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement:   
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations  14.4 (14.5)
Cash flow hedges  (1.4) 1.3
Fair value (loss) / gain on AFS investments 29 (100.5) 97.2
Less: realised net gains on AFS investments included in income statement 29 (44.3) (22.8)
Tax relating to items that may be reclassified 29 34.6 (17.6)
  (97.2) 43.6
Other comprehensive (loss) / income for the year net of tax  (92.1) 45.8
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to owners of the Company  488.3 418.4
The attached notes on pages 111 to 163 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 108
Consolidated balance sheet 
As at 31 December 2015 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 108
Notes 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Assets   
Goodwill and other intangible assets 18 524.8 517.5
Property, plant and equipment 19 186.3 181.3
Investment property 20 347.4 307.2
Reinsurance assets 22 1,011.4 862.5
Current tax assets 14 0.1 0.1
Deferred acquisition costs 23 203.8 208.4
Insurance and other receivables 24 955.8 959.9
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets  110.9 107.9
Derivative financial instruments 25 19.6 27.3
Retirement benefit asset 33 13.1 3.5
Financial investments 26 5,614.6 5,961.2
Cash and cash equivalents 27 963.7 880.4
Assets held for sale 5C 5.1 1,208.4
Total assets  9,956.6 11,225.6
   
Equity  2,630.0 2,810.5
   
Liabilities   
Subordinated liabilities 30 521.1 526.3
Insurance liabilities 31 4,524.5 4,674.1
Unearned premium reserve 32 1,476.6 1,434.2
Borrowings 27 61.3 69.8
Derivative financial instruments 25 46.4 29.4
Trade and other payables including insurance payables 35 656.5 660.6
Deferred tax liabilities 14 29.9 20.6
Current tax liabilities 14 10.3 35.7
Liabilities held for sale 5C – 964.4
Total liabilities  7,326.6 8,415.1
Total equity and liabilities  9,956.6 11,225.6
The attached notes on pages 111 to 163 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 29 February 2016. They were 
signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
John Reizenstein 
Chief Financial Officer www.directlinegroup.com 109
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
www.directlinegroup.com 109
Notes 
Share
 capital
£m
Employee 
trust
shares
£m
Capital 
reserves
 £m
Revaluation 
reserve
 £m
Non-
distributable 
reserve
 £m
Foreign 
exchange 
translation 
reserve 
 £m 
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total 
shareholders 
equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2014  150.0 (10.2) 1,450.0 58.8 92.8 0.1 1,048.5 2,790.0
Profit for the year  – – – – – – 372.6 372.6
Other comprehensive income  – – – 56.8 – (13.2) 2.2 45.8
Dividends 15 – – – – – – (401.1) (401.1)
Transfer to non-distributable 
reserve 29 – – – – 32.1 – (32.1) –
Shares acquired by employee 
trusts  – (4.4) – – – – – (4.4)
Credit to equity for equity-settled 
share-based payments 34 – – – – – – 6.6 6.6
Shares distributed by employee 
trusts  – 1.0 – – – – (1.0) –
Tax on share-based payments  14 – – – – – – 1.0 1.0
Balance at 31 December 2014  150.0 (13.6) 1,450.0 115.6 124.9 (13.1) 996.7 2,810.5
Profit for the year  – – – – – – 580.4 580.4
Other comprehensive loss  – – – (110.2) – 13.0 5.1 (92.1)
Dividends 15 – – – – – – (666.0) (666.0)
Transfer to non-distributable 
reserve 29 – – – – 28.0 – (28.0) –
Shares acquired by employee 
trusts  – (17.8) – – – – – (17.8)
Credit to equity for equity-settled 
share-based payments 34 – – – – – – 12.1 12.1
Shares distributed by employee 
trusts  – 11.0 – – – – (11.0) –
Tax on share-based payments   – – – – – – 2.9 2.9
Balance at 31 December 2015  150.0 (20.4) 1,450.0 5.4 152.9 (0.1) 892.2 2,630.0
The attached notes on pages 111 to 163 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 110
Consolidated cash flow statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 110
Notes 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Net cash generated from / (used by) operating activities before investment of 
insurance assets 36 42.1 (410.6)
Cash generated from investment of insurance assets 36 503.1 1,121.1
Net cash generated from operating activities  545.2 710.5
Cash flows from investing activities   
Purchases of property, plant and equipment  (67.9) (86.7)
Purchases of intangible assets  (75.5) (92.8)
Purchases of assets held for sale  – (12.6)
Proceeds on disposals of assets held for sale  7.1 0.8
Net cash flows from disposal / (acquisition) of subsidiaries  327.1 (24.7)
Net cash generated from / (used by) investing activities  190.8 (216.0)
Cash flows from financing activities   
Dividends paid 15 (666.0) (401.1)
Finance costs   (38.2) (37.9)
Purchase of employee trust shares  (17.8) (4.4)
Net cash used by financing activities  (722.0) (443.4)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  14.0 51.1
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year  898.2 853.2
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  (9.8) (6.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 27 902.4 898.2
The attached notes on pages 111 to 163 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  www.directlinegroup.com 111
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  
www.directlinegroup.com 
 
111
Corporate information 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc is a public limited company 
registered in England and Wales (company number 
02280426). The address of the registered office is Churchill 
Court, Westmoreland Road, Bromley, BR1 1DP, England. 
1. Accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
As required by the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of  
the EU IAS Regulation, the consolidated financial statements 
are prepared in accordance with IFRSs issued by the IASB  
as adopted by the EU. The financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with and full compliance with IFRSs  
as issued by the IASB. 
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on  
the historical cost basis except for AFS financial assets, 
investment property and derivative financial instruments,  
which are measured at fair value. 
The Company’s financial statements and the Group’s 
consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, 
which is the functional currency of the Company. 
The International segment was classified as a discontinued 
operation and International assets and liabilities have been 
presented as a disposal group. 
Adoption of new and revised standards 
The following amendments have been adopted in the year  
and have not had a material impact on the Group’s  
financial statements: 
IFRS 2 (amended), ‘Share-Based Payment’ – The amendment 
defines “performance condition” and “service condition”. 
IFRS 3 (amended), ‘Business Combinations’ – The first 
amendment deals with the accounting for contingent 
consideration in a business combination and the second 
amendment clarifies that joint arrangements, not just joint 
ventures, are outside the scope of IFRS 3. 
IFRS 8 (amended), ‘Operating Segments’ – The first 
amendment clarifies that an entity must disclose the judgements 
made by management in applying the aggregation criteria 
and the second amendment clarifies when a reconciliation  
of segment assets to total assets is required to be disclosed. 
IFRS 13 (amended), ‘Fair Value Measurement’ – The 
amendment clarifies that the portfolio exception in IFRS 13  
can also be applied to other contracts within the scope of  
IFRS 9 or IAS 39.  
IAS 16 (amended), ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’ and IAS 
38 (amended), ‘Intangible Assets’ – These amendments clarify 
that an asset may be revalued by reference to observable data 
either by adjusting the gross carrying amount of the asset to 
market value or by determining the market value of the carrying 
value and adjusting the gross carrying amount proportionately 
so that the resulting carrying amount equals the market value. 
In addition, they also clarify that accumulated depreciation 
and amortisation is the difference between gross and carrying 
amounts of the asset. 
 
IAS 19 (amended), ‘Employee Benefits’ – The amendment 
simplifies the accounting for employee contributions in respect 
of defined benefit plans that are independent of the number  
of years of service. 
IAS 24 (amended), ‘Related Party Disclosures’ – The 
amendment provides additional clarification as to when an 
entity which provides managerial services is a related party. 
IAS 40 (amended), ‘Investment Property’ – The amendment 
clarifies that IFRS 3 should be used to assess whether a  
transaction is the purchase of an asset or a business combination. 
1.1 Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 
statements of the Company and the entities that are controlled 
by the Group at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 
2014. Control exists when the Group is exposed, or has 
rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity 
and has the ability to affect those returns through its power  
over the entity. In assessing if the Group controls another entity, 
the existence and effect of the potential voting rights that are 
currently exercisable or convertible are considered. 
Where necessary, adjustments have been made to the 
financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting 
policies used into line with those used by the Group.  
The policies set out below have been applied consistently 
throughout the years ended 31 December 2015 and  
31 December 2014 to items considered material to the 
consolidated financial statements. 
A subsidiary acquired is included in the consolidated financial 
statements from the date it is controlled by the Group until the 
date the Group ceases to control it. On acquisition of a 
subsidiary, its identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities are included in the consolidated financial statements 
at fair value. 
All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses 
between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.  
1.2 Foreign currencies 
The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented  
in Sterling which is the presentational currency of the Group. 
Group entities record transactions in the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which they operate (their 
functional currency), translated at the foreign exchange rate 
ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into 
the relevant functional currency at the foreign exchange rates 
ruling at the balance sheet date. Foreign exchange differences 
arising on the settlement of foreign currency transactions  
and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities are 
reported in the income statement. 
Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies  
that are stated at fair value are translated into the relevant 
functional currency at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the 
dates the values are determined. Translation differences arising  
on non-monetary items measured at fair value are recognised  
in the income statement except for differences arising on AFS 
non-monetary financial assets, which are recognised in other 
comprehensive income. 
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 112
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 112
1. Accounting policies continued 
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill 
and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated 
into Sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance 
sheet date. Income and expenses of foreign operations are 
translated into Sterling at average exchange rates unless these 
do not approximate the foreign exchange rates ruling at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange differences arising 
on the translation of a foreign operation are recognised in the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income. The amount 
accumulated in equity is reclassified from equity to the 
consolidated income statement on disposal or partial  
disposal of a foreign operation. 
1.3 Contract classification 
Insurance contracts are those contracts where the Group  
(the insurer) has accepted significant insurance risk from 
another party (the policyholder) by agreeing to compensate  
the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event  
(the insured event) adversely affects the policyholder. 
Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, 
it remains an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, 
even if the insurance risk reduces significantly during this 
period, unless all rights and obligations are extinguished. 
1.4 Revenue recognition 
Premiums earned 
Insurance and reinsurance premiums comprise the total 
premiums receivable for the whole period of cover provided  
by contracts incepted during the financial year, adjusted by an 
unearned premium provision, which represents the proportion 
of the premiums incepted in prior periods that relate to periods 
of insurance cover after the balance sheet date. Unearned 
premiums are calculated over the period of exposure under  
the policy, on a daily basis, 24ths basis or allowing for  
the estimated incidence of exposure under policies. 
Premiums collected by intermediaries or other parties,  
but not yet received, are assessed based on estimates from 
underwriting or past experience, and are included in insurance 
premiums. Insurance premiums exclude insurance premium  
tax or equivalent local taxes and are shown gross of any 
commission payable to intermediaries or other parties. 
Cash back payments to policyholders under motor telematics 
policies represent a reduction in earned premiums. 
Investment return 
Interest income on financial assets is determined using the 
effective interest rate method. The effective interest rate  
method is a way of calculating the amortised cost of a 
financial asset (or group of financial assets) and of allocating 
the interest income over the expected life of the asset.  
Rental income from investment property is recognised in  
the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period  
of the contract. Any gains or losses arising from a change  
in fair value are recognised in the income statement. 
Instalment income 
Instalment income comprises the interest income earned  
on policyholder receivables, where outstanding premiums  
are settled by a series of instalment payments. Interest is 
earned using an effective interest rate method over the term  
of the policy. 
Other operating income 
Vehicle replacement referral income 
Vehicle replacement referral income comprises fees in respect 
of referral income received when a customer or a non-fault 
policyholder (claimant) of another insurer has been provided 
with a hire vehicle from a preferred supplier. 
Income is recognised immediately when the customer or 
claimant is provided with the hire vehicle. 
Revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services 
Fees in respect of services for vehicle recovery are recognised 
as the right to consideration, and accrue through the provision 
of the service to the customer. The arrangements are generally 
contractual and the cost of providing the service is incurred  
as the service is rendered. The price is usually fixed and 
always determinable. 
The Group’s income also comprises vehicle repair services 
provided to other third-party customers. Income in respect  
of repairs to vehicles is recognised upon completion of the 
service. The price is determined using market rates for the 
services and materials used after discounts have been 
deducted where applicable. 
Other income 
Commission fee income in respect of services is recognised 
when a policy has been placed and incepted. Income is 
stated excluding applicable sales taxes. 
Legal services revenue represents the amount charged to clients 
for professional services provided during the year including 
recovery of expenses but excluding value added tax. Revenue 
is only recognised once services have been provided and 
certainty exists as to the outcome of the respective cases.  
1.5 Insurance claims 
Insurance claims are recognised in the accounting period in 
which the loss occurs. Provision is made for the full cost of 
settling outstanding claims at the balance sheet date, including 
claims incurred but not yet reported at that date, net of salvage 
and subrogation recoveries. Outstanding claims provisions are 
not discounted for the time value of money except for claims  
to be settled by PPOs established under the Courts Act 2003. 
A court can award damages for future pecuniary loss in 
respect of personal injury or for other damages in respect of 
personal injury and may order that the damages are wholly  
or partly to take the form of PPOs. These are covered in more 
detail in note 2.1. Costs for both direct and indirect claims 
handling expenses are also included. 
Provisions are determined by management based on 
experience of claims settled and on statistical models  
which require certain assumptions to be made regarding  
the incidence, timing and amount of claims and any specific 
factors such as adverse weather conditions. When calculating 
the total provision required, the historical development of 
claims is analysed using statistical methodology to extrapolate, 
within acceptable probability parameters, the value of 
outstanding claims (gross and net) at the balance sheet date. 
Also included in the estimation of outstanding claims are 
factors such as the potential for judicial or legislative inflation. 
In addition, an allowance is made for reinsurance assets 
deemed not recoverable.  
  www.directlinegroup.com 113
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 113
Provisions for more recent claims make use of techniques  
that incorporate expected loss ratios and average claims  
cost (adjusted for inflation) and frequency methods. As claims 
mature, the provisions are increasingly driven by methods 
based on actual claims experience. The approach adopted 
takes into account the nature, type and significance of the 
business and the type of data available, with large claims 
generally being assessed separately. The data used for 
statistical modelling purposes is generated internally and 
reconciled to the accounting data. 
The calculation is particularly sensitive to the estimation of  
the ultimate cost of claims for the particular classes of business 
at gross and net levels and the estimation of future claims 
handling costs. Actual claims experience may differ from the 
historical pattern on which the actuarial best estimate is based 
and the cost of settling individual claims may exceed that 
assumed. As a result, the Group sets provisions at a margin 
above the actuarial best estimate. This amount is recorded 
within claims provisions. 
A liability adequacy provision is made for unexpired risks 
arising where the expected value of net claims and expenses 
attributable to the unexpired periods of policies in force at the 
balance sheet date exceeds the unearned premium reserve in 
relation to such policies after the deduction of any acquisition 
costs deferred and other prepaid amounts (for example, 
reinsurance). The expected value is determined by reference  
to recent experience and allowing for changes to the premium 
rates. The provision for unexpired risks is calculated separately 
by reference to classes of business that are managed together 
after taking account of relevant investment returns.  
1.6 Reinsurance 
The Group has reinsurance treaties and other reinsurance 
contracts that transfer significant insurance risk. 
The Group cedes insurance risk by reinsurance in the normal 
course of business, with the arrangement and retention limits 
varying by product line. Outward reinsurance premiums are 
generally accounted for in the same accounting period as  
the premiums for the related direct business being reinsured. 
Outward reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same 
accounting period as the direct claims to which they relate. 
Reinsurance assets include balances due from reinsurance 
companies for ceded insurance liabilities. Amounts recoverable 
from reinsurers are estimated in a consistent manner with the 
outstanding claims provisions or settled claims associated with 
the reinsured policies and in accordance with the relevant 
reinsurance contract. Recoveries in respect of PPOs are 
discounted for the time value of money. 
A reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed in respect of 
reinsurance debtors, to allow for the risk that the reinsurance 
asset may not be collected or where the reinsurer’s credit  
rating has been downgraded significantly. This also includes 
an assessment in respect of the ceded part of claims provisions 
to reflect the counterparty risk exposure to long-term reinsurance 
assets particularly in relation to periodical payments. Increases 
in this provision affect the Group by reducing the carrying 
value of the asset and the impairment loss is recognised in  
the income statement. 
 
1.7 Deferred acquisition costs 
Acquisition costs relating to new and renewing insurance 
policies are matched with the earning of the premiums to 
which they relate. A proportion of acquisition costs incurred 
during the year is therefore deferred to the subsequent 
accounting period to match the extent to which premiums 
written during the year are unearned at the balance  
sheet date. 
The principal acquisition costs deferred are direct advertising 
expenditure, administration costs, commission paid and costs 
associated with telesales and underwriting staff. 
1.8 Goodwill and other intangible assets 
Acquired goodwill, being the excess of the cost of an 
acquisition over the Group’s interest in the net fair value  
of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities  
of the subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired, is  
initially recognised at cost and subsequently at cost less  
any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill arising on  
the acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures  
is included in the balance sheet category ‘goodwill and  
other intangible assets’. The gain or loss on the disposal  
of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture includes the  
carrying value of any related goodwill. 
Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated  
at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement over the 
assets’ economic lives using methods that best reflect the 
pattern of economic benefits and is included in operating 
expenses. The estimated useful economic lives are as follows: 
Software development costs Up to 10 years 
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is 
written off as incurred. Direct costs relating to the development 
of internal-use computer software and associated business 
processes are capitalised once technical feasibility and 
economic viability have been established. These costs include 
payroll costs, the costs of materials and services, and directly 
attributable overheads. Capitalisation of costs ceases when the 
software is capable of operating as intended. During and after 
development, accumulated costs are reviewed for impairment 
against the projected benefits that the software is expected to 
generate. Costs incurred prior to the establishment of technical 
feasibility and economic viability are expensed as incurred,  
as are all training costs and general overheads. 
1.9 Property, plant and equipment 
Items of property, plant and equipment (except investment 
property – note 1.11) are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses. Where an item of 
property, plant and equipment comprises major components 
having different useful lives, they are accounted for separately.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 114
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 114
  
1. Accounting policies continued 
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a  
straight-line basis so as to write off the depreciable amount  
of property, plant and equipment over their estimated useful 
lives. The depreciable amount is the cost of an asset less its 
residual value. Land is not depreciated. Estimated useful lives 
are as follows: 
Freehold and  
leasehold buildings 
50 years or the period of  
the lease if shorter 
Vehicles 3 years 
Computer equipment Up to 5 years 
Other equipment, including 
property adaptation costs 
2 to 15 years 
The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of 
property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference 
between the disposal proceeds, if any, and the carrying 
amount of the item. 
1.10 Impairment of intangible assets, goodwill and property, 
plant and equipment 
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is 
any indication that its intangible assets, goodwill or property, 
plant and equipment are impaired. If any such indication 
exists, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the  
asset and the impairment loss, if any. Goodwill is tested for 
impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes  
in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired. If an asset 
does not generate cash flows that are independent of those  
of other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount is 
determined for the cash-generating unit (“CGU”) to which the 
asset belongs. The recoverable amount of an asset is the 
higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. 
Value in use is the present value of future cash flows from the 
asset or CGU, discounted at a rate that reflects market interest 
rates, adjusted for risks specific to the asset or CGU that have 
not been reflected in the estimation of future cash flows. 
If the recoverable amount of an intangible or a tangible asset 
is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognised 
immediately in the income statement and the carrying value  
of the asset is reduced by the amount of the impairment loss. 
A reversal of an impairment loss on intangible assets or 
property, plant and equipment is recognised as it arises 
provided the increased carrying value does not exceed the 
carrying amount that would have been determined had no 
impairment loss been recognised. Impairment losses on 
goodwill are not reversed. 
1.11 Investment property 
Investment property comprises freehold and leasehold 
properties that are held to earn rentals or for capital 
appreciation or both. Investment property is not depreciated, 
but is stated at fair value based on valuations by independent 
registered valuers. Fair value is based on current prices for 
similar properties adjusted for the specific characteristics of 
each property. Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair 
value is recognised in the income statement. 
Investment property is derecognised when it has been either 
disposed of or permanently withdrawn from use and no future 
economic benefit is expected from disposal. Any gains or 
losses on the retirement or disposal of investment property are 
recognised in the income statement in the year of retirement  
or disposal. 
1.12 Financial assets 
Financial assets are classified as AFS, held-to-maturity (“HTM”), 
designated at fair value through profit or loss, or loans and 
receivables. The Group only holds AFS financial assets, HTM 
financial assets and loans and receivables.  
AFS 
Financial assets that are not classified as HTM or loans and 
receivables are classified as AFS. Financial assets can be 
designated as AFS on initial recognition. AFS financial assets 
are initially recognised at fair value plus directly related 
transaction costs. They are subsequently measured at fair 
value. Impairment losses and exchange differences resulting 
from translating the amortised cost of foreign currency monetary 
AFS financial assets are recognised in the income statement, 
together with interest calculated using the effective interest rate 
method. Other changes in the fair value of AFS financial assets 
are reported in a separate component of shareholders’ equity 
until disposal, when the cumulative gain or loss is recognised 
in the income statement. 
Regular way purchases of financial assets classified as loans 
and receivables are recognised on settlement date; all other 
regular way purchases are recognised on trade date. 
A financial asset is regarded as quoted in an active market  
if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an 
exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or 
regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and 
regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length 
basis. The appropriate quoted market price for an asset held  
is usually the current bid price. When current bid prices are 
unavailable, the price of the most recent transaction provides 
evidence of the current fair value as long as there has not been 
a significant change in economic circumstances since the time 
of the transaction. If conditions have changed since the time  
of the transaction (for example, a change in the risk-free interest 
rate following the most recent price quote for a corporate 
bond), the fair value reflects the change in conditions by 
reference to current prices or rates for similar financial 
instruments, as appropriate. 
The valuation methodology described above uses observable 
market data. 
If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group 
establishes the fair value by using a valuation technique. 
Valuation techniques include using recent arm’s length market 
transactions between knowledgeable and willing parties  
(if available), reference to the current fair value of another 
instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash  
flow analysis and option pricing models. If there is a valuation 
technique commonly used by market participants to price  
the instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to 
provide reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market 
transactions, the Group uses that technique. 
   www.directlinegroup.com 115
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 115
HTM 
Non-derivative financial assets not designated as AFS or loans 
and receivables with fixed or determinable payments and fixed 
maturity where the intention and ability to hold them to maturity 
exists are classified as HTM. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, HTM financial assets are 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate 
method less any impairment losses. 
Loans and receivables 
Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable 
repayments that are not quoted in an active market are 
classified as loans and receivables, except those that are 
classified as AFS or HTM. Loans and receivables are initially 
recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs 
and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate method less any impairment losses. 
Insurance receivables comprise outstanding insurance premiums 
where the policyholders have elected to pay in instalments, or 
amounts due from third parties where they have collected or  
are due to collect the money from the policyholder. 
Receivables also include amounts due in respect of the 
provision of legal services. 
Impairment of financial assets 
At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether  
there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group 
of financial assets classified as AFS, HTM or loans and 
receivables is impaired. A financial asset or portfolio of 
financial assets is impaired and an impairment loss incurred if 
there is objective evidence that an event or events since initial 
recognition of the asset have adversely affected the amount or 
timing of future cash flows from the asset. 
AFS 
When a decline in the fair value of a financial asset classified 
as AFS has been recognised directly in equity and there is 
objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative 
loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income 
statement. The loss is measured as the difference between the 
amortised cost of the financial asset and its current fair value. 
Impairment losses on AFS equity instruments are not reversed 
through profit or loss, but those on AFS debt instruments are 
reversed, if there is an increase in fair value that is objectively 
related to a subsequent event.  
HTM and loans and receivables 
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a 
financial asset or group of financial assets classified as HTM or 
loans and receivables has been incurred, the Group measures 
the amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying 
amount of the asset or group of assets and the present value  
of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets, 
discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at 
initial recognition. 
Impairment losses are assessed individually where significant 
or collectively for assets that are not individually significant. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement and 
the carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial 
assets is reduced by establishing an allowance for the 
impairment losses. If in a subsequent period the amount of the 
impairment loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to 
an event after the impairment was recognised, the previously 
recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance. 
For amounts due from policyholders, the bad debt provision  
is calculated based upon prior loss experience. For all 
balances outstanding in excess of three months, a bad debt 
provision is made. Where a policy is subsequently cancelled, 
the outstanding debt that is overdue is charged to the income 
statement and the bad debt provision is released back to the 
income statement. 
Derivatives and hedging 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially, and 
subsequently measured, at fair value. Derivative fair values  
are determined from quoted prices in active markets where 
available. Where there is no active market for an instrument, 
fair value is derived from prices for the derivative’s components 
using appropriate pricing or valuation models. 
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of a 
derivative are recognised as they arise in the income statement 
unless the derivative is the hedging instrument in a qualifying 
hedge. The Group enters into a number of hedge relationships 
for cash flow and fair value hedges.  
Hedge relationships are formally documented at inception.  
The documentation identifies the hedged item and the hedging 
instrument and details the risk that is being hedged and the way 
in which effectiveness will be assessed at inception and during 
the period of the hedge. If the hedge is not highly effective in 
offsetting changes in cash flows and fair values attributable to 
the hedged risk, consistent with the documented risk 
management strategy, or if the hedging instrument expires or is 
sold, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting is discontinued. 
In a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or 
loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity. 
Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement. 
In a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument is recognised in the income statement. The gain  
or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is 
recognised in the income statement and, where the hedged 
item is measured at amortised cost, adjusts the carrying  
amount of the hedged item. 
Derecognition of financial assets 
A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive  
the cash flows from that asset have expired or when the Group 
has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset 
and has transferred substantially all the risk and rewards of 
ownership of the asset. 
1.13 Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and 
demand deposits with banks together with short-term highly 
liquid investments that are readily convertible to known 
amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of change  
in value. 
Borrowings, comprising bank overdrafts, are measured  
at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 116
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 116
1. Accounting policies continued 
1.14 Financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value net  
of transaction costs incurred. Other than derivatives which  
are recognised and measured at fair value, all other financial 
liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest rate method. 
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation  
under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires. 
1.15 Subordinated liabilities 
Subordinated liabilities comprise subordinated guaranteed 
dated notes which are initially measured at the consideration 
received less related transaction costs. Subsequently, 
subordinated liabilities are measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest rate method. 
1.16 Provisions 
The Group recognises a provision for a present legal or 
constructive obligation from a past event when it is more likely 
than not that it will be required to transfer economic benefits to 
settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. 
The Group makes provision for all insurance industry levies, 
such as the Financial Services Compensation Scheme and 
Motor Insurance Bureau. 
When the Group has an onerous contract, it recognises  
the present obligation under the contract as a provision.  
A contract is onerous when the unavoidable costs of  
meeting the contractual obligations exceed the expected  
future economic benefit. In respect of leasehold properties,  
a provision is recognised when the Group has a detailed 
formal plan to vacate the leasehold property, or significantly 
reduce its level of occupancy, the plan has been 
communicated to those affected and the future property  
costs under the lease exceed future economic benefits. 
Restructuring provisions are made, including redundancy costs, 
when the Group has a constructive obligation to restructure.  
An obligation exists when the Group has a detailed formal 
plan and has communicated the plan to those affected. 
1.17 Leases 
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of  
the lease. 
1.18 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 
The Group provides post-retirement benefits in the form  
of pensions and healthcare plans to eligible employees. 
Contributions to the Group’s defined contribution pension 
scheme are recognised in the income statement when payable. 
The Group’s defined benefit pension scheme, as described in 
note 33, was closed in 2003. Scheme liabilities are measured 
on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method, 
and discounted at a rate that reflects the current rate of return 
on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent term and 
currency to the scheme liabilities. 
 
 
Scheme assets are measured at their fair value. Any surplus  
or deficit of scheme assets over liabilities is recognised in 
the balance sheet as an asset (surplus) or liability (deficit).  
The current service cost and any past service costs, together 
with the net interest on net pension liability or asset, is charged 
or credited to operating expenses. Actuarial gains and losses 
are recognised in full in the period in which they occur outside 
the income statement and presented in other comprehensive 
income under ‘Items that will not be reclassified subsequently  
to the income statement’. 
1.19 Taxation 
The tax charge or credit represents the sum of the tax currently 
payable or receivable and deferred tax. 
The current tax charge is based on the taxable profits for  
the year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax 
legislation, after any adjustments in respect of prior years. 
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income 
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that 
are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes 
items that are never taxable or deductible. 
Provision for taxation is calculated using tax rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet 
date, and is allocated over profits before taxation and amounts 
charged or credited to components of other comprehensive 
income and equity, as appropriate. 
Deferred taxation is accounted for in full using the balance 
sheet liability method on all temporary differences between  
the carrying amount of an asset or liability for accounting 
purposes and its carrying amount for tax purposes. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary timing differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable  
profits will be available against which deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised. 
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date 
and reduced to the extent that it is probable that they will not 
be recovered. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates 
expected to apply when the assets are realised or liabilities  
are settled based on laws and rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax  
is charged or credited in the income statement, except when  
it relates to items charged or credited to other comprehensive 
income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in 
other comprehensive income. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a 
legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes 
levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to 
settle its current assets and liabilities on a net basis. 
   www.directlinegroup.com 117
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 117
1.20 Share-based payments 
The Group operates a number of share-based compensation 
plans under which it awards Ordinary Shares and share 
options to its employees. Such awards are generally subject  
to vesting conditions that vary the amount of cash or shares  
to which an employee is entitled. 
Vesting conditions include service conditions (requiring the 
employee to complete a specified period of service) and 
performance conditions (requiring the Group to meet specified 
performance targets). 
The fair value of options granted is estimated using valuation 
techniques which incorporate exercise price, term, risk-free 
interest rates, the current share price and its expected volatility. 
The cost of employee services received in exchange for an 
award of shares or share options granted is measured by 
reference to the fair value of the shares or share options on the 
date the award is granted and takes into account non-vesting 
conditions and market performance conditions (conditions 
related to the market price of the Company’s Ordinary Shares). 
The cost is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period (the period during which all the specified vesting 
conditions must be satisfied) with a corresponding increase in 
equity in an equity-settled award, or a corresponding liability 
in a cash-settled award. The cost is adjusted for vesting 
conditions (other than market performance conditions) so as to 
reflect the number of shares or share options that actually vest. 
The cancellation of an award through failure to meet non-
vesting conditions triggers an immediate expense for any 
unrecognised element of the cost of an award. 
1.21 Capital instruments 
The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a 
financial liability or an equity instrument in accordance with  
the substance of the contractual arrangement. An instrument is 
classified as a liability if it is a contractual obligation to deliver 
cash or another financial asset, or to exchange financial assets 
or financial liabilities on potentially unfavourable terms, or as 
equity if it evidences a residual interest in the assets of the 
Group after the deduction of liabilities. 
The consideration for any Ordinary Share of the Company 
purchased by the Group for the benefit of the employee trusts 
is deducted from equity.  
1.22 Dividends 
Interim dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised in equity 
in the period in which they are paid. Final dividends on 
Ordinary Shares are recognised when they have been 
approved at the AGM. 
1.23 Accounting developments 
In July 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ that 
will replace IAS 39 ‘Financial instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement’ in its entirety. The classification and measurement 
of financial assets and liabilities will be directly linked to the 
nature of the instrument’s contractual cash flows and the business 
model employed by the holder of the instrument.  
The standard introduces a new expected loss model that is  
a departure from the current incurred loss model. The model 
requires a 12 month expected loss to be recognised for all 
financial instruments when they first originate or are acquired. 
In subsequent periods, if there is a significant increase in  
credit risk of a financial instrument since it was originated  
or acquired, the full lifetime expected credit loss would then  
be recognised. 
The standard has introduced greater flexibility in the type of 
transactions eligible for hedge accounting and broadened the 
type of instruments that qualify as hedging instruments. The 
hedge effectiveness test has been replaced with the principle 
of an ‘economic relationship’. 
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ has been adopted for use from  
1 January 2018 by the EU, with an option for insurance 
industry participants to either apply the standard from that  
date or defer adoption until the IASB issues IFRS 4 (Phase 2) 
’Insurance Contracts’ and it is adopted by the EU. This option 
has been provided in order to avoid potential asset and 
liability mismatches which could arise within the remit of  
current IFRS until both standards are applied simultaneously. 
The Group will make a decision as to the classification of 
financial assets and liabilities once further certainty exists as  
to the adoption of IFRS 4 (Phase 2). Accordingly, at this point 
in time, the Group is not able to fully quantify the impact of 
adopting IFRS 9 on its financial statements. 
In May 2014 the IASB issued IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from 
Contracts with Customers’ to establish a single comprehensive 
model to use in accounting for revenue recognition and 
measurement (insurance contracts are excluded from the scope 
of IFRS 15). The standard provides guidance on when and 
how combined contracts should be unbundled and when a 
transaction price includes a variable consideration element. 
The standard will require the Group to consider contracts with 
customers to determine if changes are required to existing 
accounting practices, but is not expected to have a material 
impact on the Group’s financial statements.  
The effective date of this new standard has been revised  
to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, 
although early adoption is permitted. 
In January 2016 the IASB issued IFRS 16 ‘Leases’. There are 
some changes to the guidance with the definition of a lease,  
in particular, more detail is provided on determining whether  
a contract conveys the right to use a particular asset; however, 
in most areas companies will find that their arrangements under 
the new guidance will not change. The standard provides a 
single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise 
assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is  
12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value. 
Lessors will continue to classify leases as operating or finance, 
with the approach to lessor accounting substantially 
unchanged. The standard will require the Group to consider 
how some of the lease arrangements are currently treated  
to determine if changes are required to existing  
accounting practices. 
IFRS 16 applies to annual reporting periods beginning on or 
after 1 January 2019, although early adoption is permitted. 
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 118
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 118
2. Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation 
of its financial information. The Group’s principal accounting policies are set out on pages 111 to 117. Company law and IFRSs 
require the Directors, in preparing the Group’s financial statements, to select suitable accounting policies, apply them consistently 
and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.  
In the absence of an applicable standard or interpretation, IAS 8, ‘Accounting policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates  
and Errors’, requires management to develop and apply an accounting policy that results in relevant and reliable information  
in the light of the requirements and guidance in IFRS dealing with similar and related issues and the IASB’s Framework for the 
Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements. The judgements and assumptions involved in the Group’s accounting 
policies that are considered by the Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial condition are discussed  
below. The use of estimates, assumptions or models that differ from those adopted by the Group would affect its reported results. 
2.1 General insurance: outstanding claims provisions and related reinsurance recoveries 
The Group makes provision for the full cost of outstanding claims from its general insurance business at the balance sheet date, 
including claims estimated to have been incurred but not yet reported at that date and claims handling. Outstanding claims 
provisions net of related reinsurance recoveries at 31 December 2015 amounted to £3,602.6 million (2014: £3,898.6 million 
with an additional £393.6 million included in liabilities held for sale). 
Claims reserves are assessed separately for large and attritional claims, typically using standard actuarial methods of projection. 
Key judgements in this assessment include the selection of specific methods as well as assumptions for claims frequency and 
severity through the review of historical claims and emerging trends.  
The corresponding reinsurance recoveries and impairment provision are calculated on an equivalent basis, using significant 
judgement, as discussed in note 1.6. The reinsurance bad debt provision is mainly for expected recoveries against future PPO 
payments. The methodology to calculate the impairment provision was refined in the year to more closely align to Solvency II  
and to more accurately reflect potential future exposure to credit risk and the expected timeframe of cash flows associated with 
recoveries against these claims. 
The most common method of settling bodily injury claims is by a lump sum paid to the claimant and, in the cases where this 
includes an element of indemnity for recurring costs such as loss of earnings or ongoing medical care, settlement normally occurs 
using a standardised Ogden annuity factor at a discount rate of 2.5%. This is normally referred to as the Ogden discount rate. 
Other estimates are also required for case management expenses, loss of pension, court protection fees, alterations to 
accommodation and transportation fees. 
In August 2012, the Ministry of Justice announced a review of the approach to setting the Ogden discount rate within the existing 
legal framework. Following further consultation, in 2015 the Justice Secretary appointed a panel of three financial investment 
experts who will provide testimony on potential changes to the discount rate on personal injury damages. We are awaiting the 
outcome of their review. 
The Group holds provisions for a reduction in the Ogden discount rate at 31 December 2015 to 1.5% (2014: 1.5%).  
Details of sensitivity analysis to the assumed Ogden discount rate are shown in note 3.3.1. 
The Group settles some large bodily injury claims as PPOs rather than lump sum payments. 
The table below analyses the outstanding PPO claims provisions on a discounted and an undiscounted basis at 31 December 2015 
and 31 December 2014. These represent the total cost of PPOs rather than any costs in excess of purely Ogden-based settlement. 
At 31 December 
Discounted 
2015
£m
Undiscounted 
2015 
£m 
Discounted 
2014 
£m 
Undiscounted 
2014
£m
Gross claims   
Approved PPO claims provisions 452.3 1,315.7 422.6 1,245.7
Anticipated PPOs 538.3 1,660.8 651.0 1,963.2
Total 990.6 2,976.5 1,073.6 3,208.9
Reinsurance   
Approved PPO claims provisions (231.1) (721.5) (216.6) (688.6)
Anticipated PPOs (227.8) (818.4) (216.5) (839.6)
Total (458.9) (1,539.9) (433.1) (1,528.2)
Net of reinsurance   
Approved PPO claims provisions 221.2 594.2 206.0 557.1
Anticipated PPOs 310.5 842.4 434.5 1,123.6
Total 531.7 1,436.6 640.5 1,680.7
   www.directlinegroup.com 119
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 119
The provisions for PPOs have been categorised as either claims which have already settled as PPOs (approved PPO claims 
provisions) or those expected to settle as PPOs in the future (anticipated PPOs). Anticipated PPOs consist of both existing  
large loss case reserves including allowances for development and claims yet to be reported to the Group. Reinsurance  
is applied at claim level and the net cash flows are discounted for the time value of money. The discount rate is consistent  
with the long duration of the claims payments and the assumed future indexation of the claims payments. 
In the majority of cases, the inflation agreed in the settlement is the Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings SOC 6115 inflation 
published by the Office for National Statistics, for which the long-term rate is assumed to be 4.0% (2014: 4.0%). The rate  
of interest used for the calculation of present values is 4.0% (2014: 4.0%), which results in a real discount rate of 0.0%  
(2014: 0.0%). Since lump sum payments are calculated using a real discount rate of 2.5% (2014: 2.5%) the PPOs reserved  
cost is greater than that of lump sum settlements. 
Details of sensitivity analysis to the discount rate applied to PPO claims are shown in note 3.3.1. 
2.2 Impairment provisions – financial assets 
The Group determines that AFS financial assets are impaired when there is objective evidence that an event or events since  
initial recognition of the assets have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset. The determination 
of which events could have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset requires judgement. In 
making this judgement, the Group evaluates, among other factors, the normal price volatility of the financial asset, the financial 
health of the investee, industry and sector performance, changes in technology and operational and financing cash flow or 
whether there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost. Impairment may be 
appropriate when there is evidence of deterioration in these factors. 
AFS 
On a quarterly basis, the Group reviews whether there is any objective evidence that the direct investments in AFS debt securities 
are impaired based on the following criteria: 
• price performance of a particular AFS debt security, or group of AFS debt securities, demonstrating an adverse trend compared 
to the market as a whole; 
• adverse movements in the credit rating for corporate debt; 
• actual, or imminent, default on coupon interest or nominal; or 
• offer on buyback of perpetual bonds below par value. 
There was no impairment provision on AFS debt securities in the year ended 31 December 2015 (2014: £1.3 million release). 
Had all the declines in AFS asset values met the criteria above at 31 December 2015, the Group would suffer a loss of 
£48.7 million (2014: £15.8 million loss of which £0.3 million related to the disposal group), being the transfer of the total AFS 
reserve for unrealised losses to the income statement. These movements represent mark-to-market movements and where there is 
no objective evidence of any loss events that could affect future cash flows, no impairments are recorded for these movements. 
HTM and loans and receivables 
On a quarterly basis, the Group reviews whether there is any objective evidence that the financial instruments classified as HTM 
or loans and receivables are impaired based on the following criteria: 
• adverse movements in the credit rating of the borrower; 
• actual, or imminent, default on interest or nominal; or 
• offer on buyback or loan below par value. 
There was no impairment provision in respect of financial instruments classified as HTM or loans and receivables in the year 
ended 31 December 2015 (2014: £nil). 
2.3 Fair value 
Financial assets classified as AFS debt securities and derivative financial instruments are recognised in the financial statements  
at fair value determined using observable market input. The fair value of AFS debt securities at 31 December 2015 amounted  
to £5,226.6 million (2014: £5,830.3 million with an additional £706.9 million included in assets held for sale). The fair  
value of derivative financial assets and liabilities amounted to £19.6 million (2014: £27.3 million) and £46.4 million  
(2014: £29.4 million) respectively. 
Freehold and long leasehold properties that are classified as investment properties are recognised in the financial statements  
at fair value. The fair value at 31 December 2015 amounted to £347.4 million (2014: £307.2 million) and was determined 
using a valuation model that includes inputs that are unobservable. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 120
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 120
2. Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued 
Estimation of the fair value of assets and liabilities 
In estimating the fair value of financial assets and investment properties, the methods and assumptions used by the Group 
incorporate: 
Financial assets and liabilities 
For fixed maturity securities, fair values are generally based upon quoted market prices. Where market prices are not readily 
available, fair values are estimated using values obtained from quoted market prices of comparable securities. 
Investment property 
Investment property is recorded at fair value, measured by independent valuers who hold recognised and relevant professional 
qualifications. The valuation model is driven predominantly by unobservable inputs, as although in part the valuations are 
compared with recent market transactions for similar properties, they are adjusted for the specific characteristics of each property. 
For disclosure purposes, fair value measurements are classified as Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which fair value  
is observable: 
Level 1 financial assets are measured in whole or in part by reference to published quotes in an active market. In an active 
market quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service  
or regulatory agency and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length basis. 
Level 2 financial assets and liabilities are measured using a valuation technique based on assumptions that are supported by 
prices from observable current market transactions. These are assets for which pricing is obtained via pricing services, but where 
prices have not been determined in an active market, or financial assets with fair values based on broker quotes, investments in 
private equity funds with fair values obtained via fund managers or assets that are valued using the Group’s own models whereby 
the majority of assumptions are market-observable. 
Level 3 fair value measurements used for investment properties are those derived from a valuation technique that includes inputs 
for the asset that are unobservable. 
2.4 Deferred acquisition costs 
The Group defers a proportion of acquisition costs incurred during the year to subsequent accounting periods. Management uses 
estimation techniques to determine the level of costs to be deferred, by category of business. Judgement is used to determine the 
types of cost that can be deferred and these are referred to in note 1.7. Total deferred acquisition costs at 31 December 2015 
amounted to £203.8 million (2014: £208.4 million with an additional £111.1 million included in assets held for sale). During 
2015, the Group reviewed these costs included in the calculation of deferred acquisition costs and considers them to be 
appropriate, and has determined that they are recoverable. 
2.5 Goodwill 
The Group capitalises goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses as discussed in note 1.8. The carrying value of goodwill 
at 31 December 2015 was £211.0 million (2014: £211.0 million). 
Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the fair value of its net assets. The determination of the fair value 
of assets and liabilities of businesses acquired requires the exercise of management judgement; for example, those financial 
assets and liabilities for which there are no quoted prices and those non-financial assets where valuations reflect estimates of 
market conditions, such as property. Different fair values would result in changes to the goodwill arising and to the post-
acquisition performance. Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Group’s CGUs or 
groups of CGUs expected to benefit from the combination. Goodwill impairment testing involves the comparison of the carrying 
value of a CGU or group of CGUs with its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the CGU’s fair value 
and its value in use. Value in use is the present value of expected future cash flows from the CGU or group of CGUs. Fair value 
is the amount obtainable from the sale of the CGU in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties. 
Impairment testing inherently involves a number of judgemental areas: the preparation of the five-year strategic plan and the 
extrapolation of cash flow forecasts beyond the normal requirements of management reporting; the assessment of the discount 
rate appropriate to the business; estimation of the fair value of CGUs; and the valuation of the separable assets of each business 
whose goodwill is being reviewed. Details of a sensitivity analysis on the recoverable amount in excess of carrying value are 
shown in note 18. 
2.6 Property, plant and equipment 
The Group does not revalue property, plant and equipment. However, it takes appropriate steps to consider whether the 
aggregate value of property, plant and equipment exceeds the balance sheet carrying value of such items. 
The Group is satisfied that the aggregate value of property, plant and equipment is not less than its carrying value. 
  www.directlinegroup.com 121
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 121
3. Risk management 
3.1 Enterprise Risk Management Strategy and Framework 
The ERMF sets out, at a high level, our approach and processes for managing risks. Further information can be found in the  
Risk management section of the Strategic report on page 26. 
3.2 Risk and capital management modelling 
The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Group has sufficient funds to meet its liabilities as they fall due. The 
Group carries out detailed modelling of its assets, liabilities and the key risks to which these are exposed. This modelling includes 
the Group’s own assessment of its SCR. The assessment has been submitted to the PRA as part of the Group’s application for 
IMAP. The SCR quantifies the insurance, market, credit, operational and liquidity risk that the regulated entities are undertaking. 
The Board is closely involved in the SCR process and reviews, challenges and approves its assumptions and results. 
3.3 Principal risks from insurance activities and use of financial instruments 
The Risk management section of the Strategic report sets out all the risks assessed by the Group as principal risks. Detailed below 
is the Group’s risk exposure arising from its insurance activities and use of financial instruments specifically in respect of insurance 
risk, market risk and credit risk. 
3.3.1 Insurance risk 
The Group is exposed to insurance risk as a primary consequence of its business. Key insurance risks focus on the risk of loss due to 
fluctuations in the timings, amount, frequency and severity of an insured event relative to the expectations at the time of und erwriting. 
The insurance risks that the Group faces include those referred to below: 
Reserve risk 
Reserve risk relates to both premiums and claims. This is the risk that reserves are understated arising from: 
• the random nature of claims; 
• data issues; and 
• operational failures. 
Understatement of reserves may result in not being able to pay claims when they fall due. Alternatively, overstatement of reserves 
can lead to a surplus of funds being retained resulting in opportunity cost. 
Reserve risk is controlled through a range of processes: 
• regular reviews of the claims, premiums and an assessment of the requirement for a liability adequacy provision for the main 
classes of business by the internal actuarial team; 
• the use of external actuaries to review periodically the actuarial best estimate reserves produced internally, either through peer 
review or through provision of independent reserve estimates; 
• accompanying all reserve reviews with actuarial assessment of the uncertainties through a variety of techniques including 
bootstrapping and scenario analysis; 
• oversight of the reserving process by relevant senior management and the Board; 
• regular reconciliation of the data used in the actuarial reviews against general ledger data and reconciliation of the claims 
data history against the equivalent data from prior reviews; and 
• regular assessment of the volatility in the reserves to help the Board set management best estimate reserves. 
The Group’s reserves are particularly susceptible to potential retrospective changes in legislation and new court decisions, for 
example, a change in the Ogden discount rate. This is the discount rate set by the relevant government bodies and used by 
courts to calculate lump sum awards in bodily injury cases. The rate is currently 2.5% per annum but is under review by the 
Ministry of Justice. The Group has calculated its estimated reserves based on an assumed Ogden discount rate of 1.5%, in 
recognition of the uncertainty regarding the future rate. 
Uncertainty in claims reserves estimation is larger for claims such as PPOs for which annually indexed payments are made 
typically over the lifetime of the injured party. Claims reserves for PPOs are held on a discounted basis and are sensitive to  
a change in the assumed discount rate. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 122
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 122
3. Risk management continued 
The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions  
left unchanged. Other potential risks beyond the ones described could have an additional financial impact on the Group. 
Increase / (decrease)  
in income statement 
Increase / (decrease) 
in total equity at 
31 December
2015
£m
2014 
£m 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
PPOs
1
   
Impact of an increase in the discount rate used in the calculation of 
present values of 100 basis points 76.0 87.3 76.0 87.3
Impact of a decrease in the discount rate used in the calculation of  
present values of 100 basis points (109.4) (121.8) (109.4) (121.8)
Ogden
2
   
Impact of an increase in the Ogden discount rate by 100 basis points 131.9 159.6 131.9 159.6
Impact of a decrease in the Ogden discount rate by 100 basis points (190.0) (224.0) (190.0) (224.0)
Notes:  
1. The sensitivities relating to an increase or decrease in the discount rate used for PPOs illustrate a movement in the time value of money from the assumed level  
of 4.0%. An increase in the discount rate reflects a decrease in the time value of money and therefore the present value of future liabilities, which increases total 
equity and would be reflected in the income statement. 
2. The sensitivities relating to an increase or decrease in the Ogden discount rate illustrate a movement in the value from the current prescribed level of 2.5%.  
3. These sensitivities reflect one-off impacts at 31 December excluding the impact of taxation and should not be interpreted as a prediction. 
In addition, there is the risk that claims are reserved or paid inappropriately, including the timing of such activity. However,  
there are claims management controls in place to mitigate this risk, as outlined below: 
• Claims are managed utilising a range of IT system-driven controls coupled with manual processes outlined in detailed policies 
and procedures to ensure claims are handled in an appropriate, timely and accurate manner. 
• Each member of staff has a specified handling authority, with controls preventing them handling or paying claims outside  
their authority, as well as controls to mitigate the risk of paying invalid claims. In addition, there are various outsourced claims 
handling arrangements, all of which are monitored closely by management, with similar principles applying in terms of the 
controls and procedures. 
• Loss adjustors are used in certain circumstances to handle claims to conclusion. This involves liaison with the policyholder,  
third parties, suppliers and the claims function. 
• Specialist bodily injury claims teams are responsible for handling these types of losses with the nature of handling dependent 
on the level and type of claim. Claims exceeding a certain threshold are referred to the technical and large loss teams who 
also deal with all other claim types above defined limits or within specific criteria. 
• A process is in place to deal with major weather and other catastrophic events, known as the ‘Surge Demand Plan’. A surge  
is the collective name given to an incident which significantly increases the volume of claims reported to the Group’s claims 
functions. The plan covers surge demand triggers, stages of incident, operational impact, communication and management 
information monitoring of the plan.  
   www.directlinegroup.com 123
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 123
Underwriting risk 
This is the risk that future claims experience on policies written is materially different from the results expected, resulting in  
losses. The Group predominantly underwrites personal lines insurance including motor, residential property, roadside assistance, 
creditor, travel and pet business. The Group also underwrites commercial risks primarily for low-to-medium risk trades within  
the SME market. Contracts are typically issued on an annual basis which means that the Group’s liability usually extends for a  
12 month period, after which the Group is entitled to decline to renew or can impose renewal terms by amending the premium 
or other policy terms and conditions such as the excess as appropriate. 
Underwriting risk includes catastrophe risk, the risk of loss, or of adverse change, in the value of the insurance liabilities resulting 
from significant uncertainty of pricing and provisioning assumptions related to extreme or exceptional circumstances. 
When underwriting policies, the Group is subject to concentration risk in a variety of forms, including: 
• Geographic concentration risk – the Group purchases a catastrophe reinsurance programme to protect against a modelled  
1 in 200-year loss. The retained deductible is £150 million at 31 December 2015 (2014: £150 million); 
• Product concentration risk – the Group’s business is heavily concentrated in the UK general insurance market. However,  
the Group offers a diversified portfolio of products and a variety of brands sold through a range of distribution channels to  
its customers; and 
• Sector concentration risk – the concentration of the Group to any given industry sector is monitored and analysed in respect  
of commercial customers. 
It is important to note that none of these risk categories is independent of the others and that giving due consideration to the 
relationship between these risks is an important aspect of the effective management of insurance risk. 
Distribution risk 
This is the risk of material change in the volume of policies, written through a distribution channel, which may result in losses  
or reduced profitability. 
Pricing risk 
This is the risk of economic loss arising from policies being incorrectly priced or accepted to achieve desired volume and prof itability. 
Reinsurance risk 
This is the risk of inappropriate selection and / or placement of a reinsurance arrangement, with either individual or multiple 
reinsurers which renders the transfer of insurance risk to the reinsurer(s) inappropriate and / or ineffective. Other risks include: 
• Reinsurance concentration risk – reinsurance is purchased from a number of providers to ensure that a diverse range of 
counterparties is contracted with, within the desired credit rating range; 
• Reinsurance capacity being reduced and / or withdrawn; 
• Underwriting risk appetite and reinsurance contract terms not being aligned; 
• Reinsurance contract terms being inappropriate or ineffective resulting in classes or types of business not being  
appropriately reinsured; 
• Non-adherence to the reinsurance policy terms and conditions, in terms of both policy management and claims not being 
handled within the reinsurance contract terms and conditions or paid on an ex-gratia basis resulting in reinsurance recoveries 
not being made in full;  
• Inappropriate or inaccurate management information and / or modelling being used to determine the value for money and 
purchasing of reinsurance (including aggregate modelling); and  
• Changes in the external legal, regulatory, social or economic environment altering the definition and application of reinsurance 
policy wordings or the effectiveness or value for money of reinsurance.  
The Group uses reinsurance to: 
• protect the insurance results against low-frequency, high-severity losses through the transfer of catastrophe claims volatility  
to reinsurers; 
• protect the insurance results against unforeseen volumes of, or adverse trends in, large individual claims in order to reduce 
volatility and to improve stability of earnings; 
• reduce the Group’s capital requirements; and / or 
• transfer risk that is not within the Group’s current risk retention strategy. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 124
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 124
3. Risk management continued 
Using reinsurance, the Group cedes insurance risk to reinsurers but, in return, assumes back counterparty risk against which  
a reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed. The financial security of the Group’s panel of reinsurers is therefore important  
and both the quality and amount of the assumed counterparty risk are subject to an approval process whereby reinsurance is  
only purchased from reinsurers that hold a credit rating of at least A- at the time cover is purchased. The Group’s leading 
counterparty exposures represent the accumulated counterparty risk for all Group underwriting entities and are reviewed on  
a monthly basis. The Group aims to contract with a diverse range of reinsurers on its contracts to mitigate the credit and / or  
non-payment risks associated with its reinsurance exposures. 
Certain reinsurance contracts have long durations as a result of bodily injury and PPO claims, and insurance reserves therefore 
include provisions beyond the levels created for shorter-term reinsurance bad debt. 
3.3.2 Market risk 
Market risk is the risk of loss resulting from fluctuations in the level and in the volatility of market prices of assets, liabilities and 
financial instruments. 
The Group is mainly exposed to the following market risk factors: 
• Spread risk; 
• Interest rate risk; 
• Property risk; and 
• Foreign currency risk. 
The Group has policies and limits approved by the Board for managing the market risk exposure. These set out the principles  
that the business should adhere to for managing market risk and establishing the maximum limits the Group is willing to accept 
having considered strategy, risk appetite and capital resources. 
The Group monitors its market risk exposure on a monthly basis and has established an aggregate exposure limit consistent  
with its risk objective to maintain capital adequacy. Interdependencies across risk types have also been considered within  
the aggregate exposure limit. The allocation of the Group’s investments across asset classes has been approved at the  
Investment Committee. 
The strategic asset allocation within the investment portfolio is reviewed by the Investment Committee, which makes recommendations 
to the Board for its investment strategy approval. The Investment Committee determines policy and controls, covering such areas  
as risk, liquidity and performance. The Investment Committee meets at least three times a year to evaluate risk exposure, the current 
strategy, associated policies and investment guidelines and to consider investment recommendations submitted to it. Oversight o f  
the implementation of decisions taken by the Investment Committee is via the 1st and 2nd Lines of Defence. 
The investment management objectives are to: 
• Maintain the safety of the portfolio’s principal both in economic terms and from a capital, accounting and reporting perspective; 
• Maintain sufficient liquidity to provide cash requirements for operations, including in the event of a catastrophe; and 
• Maximise the portfolio’s total return within the constraints of the other objectives and the limits defined by the investment 
guidelines and capital allocation.  
The Group has a property portfolio and an infrastructure debt portfolio in order to improve matching to the longer duration PPOs.  
The Group uses its internal economic capital model to determine its capital requirements and market risk limits, and monitors its 
market risk exposure based on a 99.5% value-at-risk measure. The Group also applies market risk stressed scenarios testing for 
the economic impact of specific severe market conditions. The results of this analysis are used to enhance the understanding of 
market risk. The asset liability matching and investment management minimum standard explicitly prohibits the use of derivatives 
for speculative or gearing purposes. However, the Group is able to and does use derivatives for hedging its currency risk and 
interest rate risk exposures. 
Spread risk 
This is the risk of loss from the sensitivity of the value of assets and investments to changes in the level or in the volatility of credit 
spreads over the risk-free interest rate term structure. The level of spread is the difference between the risk-free rate and actual  
rate paid on the asset, with larger spreads being associated with higher risk assets. The Group is exposed to spread risk through 
its investments in bonds and securitised credit. 
Interest rate risk 
This is the risk of loss from all assets and liabilities for which the net asset value is sensitive to changes in the term structure of 
interest rates or interest rate volatility. The Group’s interest rate risk arises mainly from its debt, floating interest rate investments  
and assets and liabilities exposed to fixed interest rates.  www.directlinegroup.com 125
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 125
The fixed interest rate up to 27 April 2022 on the Group’s 30-year maturity £500 million of subordinated guaranteed dated 
notes has been exchanged for a floating rate of interest (note 30). 
The Group also invests in floating rate debt securities, whose investment income is influenced by the movement of the  
short-term interest rate. A movement of the short-term interest rate will affect the expected return on these investments. 
The market value of the Group’s financial investments with fixed coupons is affected by the movement of interest rates. For  
the majority of investments in US Dollar corporate bonds, excluding £336.9 million of short duration high yield bonds (2014: 
£297.4 million), the Group hedges the exposure of this portfolio to the US Dollar interest rate risk using swaps. These derivatives 
reduce the duration of the portfolio to close to zero. 
Property risk 
This risk results from adverse price fluctuations on commercial property investments. At 31 December 2015, the value of these 
property investments was £347.4 million (2014: £307.2 million). The property investments are located in the UK. 
Foreign currency risk 
The exposure to currency risk is generated by the Group’s investments in US Dollar corporate bonds and US Dollar securitised cr edit. 
The Group maintains exposure to US Dollar securities through £1,876.3 million (2014: £1,892.3 million) of investments in US 
Dollar corporate bonds and US Dollar securitised credit. The foreign currency exposure of these investments is hedged by foreign 
currency forward contracts, maintaining a minimal unhedged currency exposure on these portfolios, as well as a low basis 
currency risk on the hedging. 
The Group was also exposed to currency risk through its investments in subsidiaries in Italy and Germany (that is, investments in 
equity) until the disposal of the International business on 29 May 2015. 
Sensitivity analysis 
The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions  
left unchanged. Other potential risks beyond the ones described in the table could have an additional financial impact on  
the Group. 
Increase / (decrease)  
in income statement 
Increase / (decrease) 
in total equity at 
31 December
2015
£m
2014 
£m 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Spread   
Impact of a 100 basis points increase in spreads on financial  
investments and derivatives
1,2,4,5
  – – (160.1) (163.5)
Interest rate   
Impact of a 100 basis points increase in interest rates on financial 
investments and derivatives
1,3,4,5
  22.1 19.1 (120.0) (122.8)
Investment property
5 
  
Impact of a 15% decrease in property markets  (52.1) (46.1) (52.1) (46.1)
Notes: 
1. The income statement impact on financial investments is limited to floating rate instruments and interest rate derivatives used to hedge a portion of the portfolio.  
The income statement is not impacted in relation to fixed rate instruments, in particular AFS debt securities, where the coupon return is not impacted by a change in 
prevailing market rates, as the accounting treatment for AFS debt securities means that only the coupon received is processed through the income statement with 
fair value movements being recognised through total equity. 
2. The increase or decrease in total equity reflects a fair value movement in infrastructure debt and HTM debt securities that would not be recorded in the financial 
statements under IFRSs as they are classified as loans and receivables and HTM respectively, which are carried at amortised cost. This result has been included  
in the table above to provide a comprehensive analysis of the fair value impact of this sensitivity. 
3. The sensitivities set out above reflect one-off impacts at 31 December with the exception of the income statement interest rate sensitivity on financial investments 
and derivatives, which projects a movement in a full year’s interest charge as a result of the increase in the interest rate applied to these assets or liabilities on 
those positions held at 31 December. 
4. The subordinated liabilities and associated interest rate swap are excluded from the sensitivity analysis. 
5. The sensitivities calculated above exclude the impact of assets in the disposal group at 31 December 2014. 
6. The sensitivities set out above have not considered the impact of the general market changes on the value of the Group’s insurance liabilities or retirement  
benefit obligations. 
7. These sensitivities reflect one-off impacts at 31 December excluding the impact of taxation and should not be interpreted as a prediction.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 126
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 126
3. Risk management continued 
The Group has a number of open interest rate and foreign exchange derivative positions. Collateral management arrangements 
are in place for significant counterparty exposures. At 31 December 2015, the Group has pledged £12.3 million in cash  
(2014: £17.3 million) to cover out of the money derivative positions. At 31 December 2015, counterparties have pledged 
£19.7 million in UK Gilts (2014: £21.5 million in UK Gilts) to the Group to cover in the money derivative positions. 
The terms and conditions of collateral pledged for both assets and liabilities are market standard. When securities are pledged 
they are required to be readily convertible to cash, and as such no policy has been established for the disposal of assets not 
readily convertible into cash. 
3.3.3 Credit risk 
This is the risk of loss resulting from fluctuations in the credit standing of issuers of securities, counterparties and any debtors  
to which the Group is exposed. The Group is mainly exposed to the following credit risk factors: 
• Counterparty default risk; and 
• Concentration risk. 
Counterparty default risk 
This is the risk of loss from unexpected default, deterioration in the credit standing of the counterparties and debtors of the  
Group. It is primarily managed by the 1st Line of Defence and monitored by the Credit Risk Forum. The main responsibility of  
this forum is to ensure that all material aspects of counterparty risk within the Group are identified, monitored and measured. 
The main sources of counterparty risk for the Group are: 
• Investments – this arises from the investment of funds in a range of investment vehicles permitted by the investment policy; and 
• Reinsurance recoveries – counterparty exposure to reinsurance counterparties arises in respect of reinsurance claims against 
which a reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed. PPOs have the potential to increase the ultimate value of a claim and,  
by their very nature, to significantly increase the length of time to reach final payment. This has increased reinsurance 
counterparty risk in terms of both amount and longevity. 
The following tables analyse the carrying value of financial and insurance assets that bear counterparty risk between those assets 
that have not been impaired by age in relation to due date, and those that have been impaired. 
At 31 December 2015 
Neither 
past due nor 
impaired
£m
Past due 
1 – 90 days
£m
Past due  
more than  
90 days 
£m 
Assets that  
have been 
impaired 
£m 
Carrying value in 
the balance 
sheet
£m
Reinsurance assets  1,011.4 – – – 1,011.4
Insurance and other receivables 917.3 32.4 6.1 – 955.8
Derivative assets  19.6 – – – 19.6
Debt securities 5,240.1 – – – 5,240.1
Deposits with credit institutions with maturities > three months 44.9 – – – 44.9
Infrastructure debt 329.6 – – – 329.6
Cash and cash equivalents 963.7 – – – 963.7
Total 8,526.6 32.4 6.1 – 8,565.1
 
At 31 December 2014 
Neither 
past due nor 
impaired
£m
Past due 
1 – 90 days
£m
Past due  
more than  
90 days 
£m 
Assets that  
have been 
impaired 
£m 
Carrying value in 
the balance 
sheet
£m
Reinsurance assets 862.5 – – – 862.5
Insurance and other receivables 907.3 52.0 0.6 – 959.9
Derivative assets 27.3 – – – 27.3
Debt securities 5,830.3 – – – 5,830.3
Deposits with credit institutions with maturities > three months 54.7 – – – 54.7
Infrastructure debt 76.2 – – – 76.2
Cash and cash equivalents 880.4 – – – 880.4
Total 8,638.7 52.0 0.6 – 8,691.3
   www.directlinegroup.com 127
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 127
Within the analysis of debt securities above are bank debt securities at 31 December 2015 of £1,305.1 million  
(2014: £1,328.3 million), that can be further analysed as: secured £86.4 million (2014: £104.1 million); unsecured 
£1,059.6 million (2014: £1,058.3 million); and subordinated £159.1 million (2014: £165.9 million). 
Concentration risk 
This is the risk of exposure to increased losses associated with inadequately diversified portfolios of assets and / or obligations, 
in particular: 
• Large exposures to individual credits (either bond issuers or deposit-taking institutions); 
• Large exposures to different credits where movements in values and ratings are closely correlated. 
Concentration risk on investments arises through excessive exposure to particular industry sectors, groups of business undertakings 
or similar activities. The Group may suffer significant losses in its investment portfolio as a result of over-exposure to particular 
sectors engaged in similar activities or similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations  
to be similarly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions. 
The table below analyses the distribution of debt securities and infrastructure debt by geographical area. 
At 31 December 2015 
Corporate
£m
Local
 government
£m
Sovereign
£m
Securitised 
 credit 
£m 
Debt  
securities 
 total 
£m 
Infrastructure 
debt 
£m
Australia 107.6 – – – 107.6 –
Austria 6.3 – – – 6.3 –
Belgium 42.9 – 10.9 – 53.8 –
Canada 47.5 11.4 – – 58.9 –
Cayman Islands 22.1 – – 95.3 117.4 –
China 4.5 – – – 4.5 –
Denmark 7.9 8.5 – – 16.4 –
Finland – 13.7 – – 13.7 –
France 235.5 25.4 – – 260.9 –
Germany 325.4 16.4 – – 341.8 –
Hong Kong 8.2 – – – 8.2 –
Ireland 0.8 – – – 0.8 –
Italy 10.1 – 4.2 – 14.3 –
Japan 47.8 – – – 47.8 –
Luxembourg 5.3 – – – 5.3 –
Mexico 9.1 – – – 9.1 –
Netherlands 170.7 – – – 170.7 –
New Zealand 5.3 – – – 5.3 –
Norway 18.3 10.0 – – 28.3 –
Portugal 1.1 – – – 1.1 –
Singapore 24.7 – – – 24.7 –
South Korea 8.0 8.7 – – 16.7 –
Spain 32.5 – – – 32.5 –
Sweden 80.7 11.2 – – 91.9 –
Switzerland 83.9 – – – 83.9 –
UK 1,250.7 – 427.6 177.3 1,855.6 329.6
USA 1,639.0 – – 83.5 1,722.5 –
 4,195.9 105.3 442.7 356.1 5,100.0 329.6
Supranational –––– 140.1 –
Total 4,195.9 105.3 442.7 356.1 5,240.1 329.6
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 128
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 128
3. Risk management continued 
The table below analyses the distribution of debt securities and infrastructure debt by geographical area. 
At 31 December 2014 
Corporate
£m
Local
 government
£m
Sovereign
£m
Securitised 
 credit 
£m 
Debt  
securities 
 total 
£m 
Infrastructure 
debt 
£m
Australia 120.2 – – – 120.2 –
Belgium 33.8 – 3.6 – 37.4 –
Canada 60.8 34.3 – – 95.1 –
Cayman Islands 19.3 – – 218.8 238.1 –
China 6.1 – – – 6.1 –
Denmark 25.1 – – – 25.1 –
Finland – 14.3 – – 14.3 –
France 275.1 23.4 – – 298.5 –
Germany 310.3 5.0 – – 315.3 –
Hong Kong 8.5 – – – 8.5 –
Italy 15.5 – – – 15.5 –
Japan 46.9 – – – 46.9 –
Luxembourg 6.8 – – – 6.8 –
Mexico 12.6 – 5.7 – 18.3 –
Netherlands 154.4 – – – 154.4 –
New Zealand 3.6 – – – 3.6 –
Norway 24.4 10.1 – – 34.5 –
Singapore 25.5 – – – 25.5 –
South Korea 7.5 7.6 – – 15.1 –
Spain 30.6 – – – 30.6 –
Sweden 73.1 13.0 – – 86.1 –
Switzerland 82.6 – – – 82.6 –
UAE – 7.0 – – 7.0 –
UK 1,334.8 – 984.5 69.4 2,388.7 76.2
USA 1,439.6 6.0 – 134.2 1,579.8 –
 4,117.1 120.7 993.8 422.4 5,654.0 76.2
Supranational –––– 176.3 –
Total 4,117.1 120.7 993.8 422.4 5,830.3 76.2
 
   www.directlinegroup.com 129
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 129
The table below analyses the distribution of debt securities by industry sector classifications. 
2015 2014
At 31 December £m % £m %
Basic materials 102.9 2% 151.9 3%
Communications 237.2 4% 298.5 5%
Consumer, cyclical 298.3 6% 230.7 4%
Consumer, non-cyclical 432.5 8% 363.4 6%
Diversified 52.8 1% 65.9 1%
Energy 243.6 5% 225.7 4%
Financial 1,896.6 36% 1,842.4 32%
Industrial 250.4 5% 250.7 4%
Mortgage and other asset backed securities 356.1 7% 422.4 7%
Sovereign, supranational and local government 688.1 13% 1,290.7 22%
Technology 115.8 2% 67.8 1%
Transport – – 15.2 0%
Utilities 565.8 11% 605.0 11%
Total 5,240.1 100% 5,830.3 100%
The table below analyses the distribution of infrastructure debt by industry sector classifications. 
2015 2014
At 31 December  £m % £m %
Social, of which:   
Education 132.3 40% 34.0 44%
Healthcare 98.1 30% – –
Other 58.8 18% 22.6 30%
Transport 40.4 12% 19.6 26%
Total 329.6 100% 76.2 100%
The tables below analyse the credit quality of debt securities that are neither past due nor impaired. 
At 31 December 2015 
AAA
£m
AA+ to AA-
£m
A+ to A-
£m
BBB+ to BBB- 
£m 
BB+ and below 
£m 
Total 
£m
Corporate 266.3 604.5 1,976.2 1,019.2 329.7 4,195.9
Supranational 123.9 16.2 – – – 140.1
Local government 36.9 59.0 9.4 – – 105.3
Sovereign – 438.5 – 4.2 – 442.7
Securitised credit
1
 331.2 24.9 – – – 356.1
Total 758.3 1,143.1 1,985.6 1,023.4 329.7 5,240.1
 
At 31 December 2014 
AAA
£m
AA+ to AA-
£m
A+ to A-
£m
BBB+ to BBB- 
£m 
BB+ and below 
£m 
Total 
£m
Corporate 235.2 556.6 2,096.5 935.2 293.6 4,117.1
Supranational 166.9 9.4 – – – 176.3
Local government 42.6 62.8 15.3 – – 120.7
Sovereign – 988.1 – 5.7 – 993.8
Securitised credit
1
 339.4 83.0 – – – 422.4
Total 784.1 1,699.9 2,111.8 940.9 293.6 5,830.3
Note: 
1. Securitised credit consists of prime mortgage backed securities, collateralised loan obligations, securitised student loans and commercial mortgage backed 
securities. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 130
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 130
3. Risk management continued 
The tables below analyse the credit quality of financial and insurance assets that are neither past due nor impaired (excluding 
debt securities analysed above). The tables include reinsurance exposure, after provision. Note 3.3.1 details the Group’s 
approach to reinsurance counterparty risk management. 
At 31 December 2015 
AAA 
£m 
AA+ to AA−
£m
A+ to A−
£m
BBB+ to BBB-
£m
BB+ and below 
£m 
Not rated 
£m 
Total
£m
Reinsurance assets – 778.2 225.7 3.2 – 4.3 1,011.4
Insurance and other receivables
1
– 12.4 23.2 25.8 0.4 855.5 917.3
Derivative assets – 0.1 0.4 19.1 – – 19.6
Deposits with credit institutions 
with maturities > three months – 5.0 34.9 5.0 – – 44.9
Infrastructure debt – – 86.1 227.8 15.7 – 329.6
Cash and cash equivalents 831.9 – 60.8 71.0 – – 963.7
Total 831.9 795.7 431.1 351.9 16.1 859.8 3,286.5
 
At 31 December 2014 
AAA 
£m 
AA+ to AA−
£m
A+ to A−
£m
BBB+ to BBB-
£m
BB+ and below 
£m 
Not rated 
£m 
Total
£m
Reinsurance assets – 654.1 196.3 4.3 – 7.8 862.5
Insurance and other receivables
1
– 17.3 17.4 15.5 0.4 856.7 907.3
Derivative assets – 2.5 0.8 24.0 – – 27.3
Deposits with credit institutions 
with maturities > three months – 54.7 – – – – 54.7
Infrastructure debt – – – 76.2 – – 76.2
Cash and cash equivalents 729.1 – 81.4 69.9 – – 880.4
Total 729.1 728.6 295.9 189.9 0.4 864.5 2,808.4
Note: 
1. Includes receivables due from policyholders, agents, brokers and intermediaries which generally do not have a credit rating.  
3.3.4 Operational risk 
This is the risk of loss due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems or from external events. Sources of 
operational risk for the Group include: 
Change risk 
This is the risk of failing to manage the Group’s business change programme resulting in conflicting priorities and failure to deliver 
strategic outcomes to time, cost or quality. 
IT continuity risk 
This is the risk of loss of technology services due to data, systems or data centre failure and / or failure of a third party to  
restore services. 
Outsourcing risk 
This is the risk of failing to implement a robust framework for the sourcing, appointment and ongoing contract management  
of external suppliers, outsourced service providers and intragroup relationships. 
The Group has in place agreed policies and standards to manage key controls relating to operational risk. 
3.3.5 Liquidity risk 
This is the risk of being unable to realise investments in order to settle financial obligations when they fall due.  
The measurement and management of liquidity risk within the Group is undertaken within the limits and other policy parameters  
of the Group’s liquidity risk appetite and is detailed within the liquidity risk minimum standard. Compliance is monitored in 
respect of both the minimum standard and the regulatory requirements of local regulators. 
In the event that one or more liquidity stresses or scenarios crystallises, or should any other event that may impact liquidity occur, 
the Group ensures a rapid and controlled response to the event. In such an event, a liquidity crisis management team will be 
formed to assess the nature and extent of the threat and to develop an appropriate response. 
   www.directlinegroup.com 131
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 131
The tables below analyse the maturity of the Group’s derivative assets and liabilities. 
 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value
At 31 December 2015 £m
Less than 
1 year
£m
1 – 5 years 
£m 
Over  
5 years 
£m 
Total 
£m
Derivative assets   
At fair value through the income statement:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 27.1 0.4 – – 0.4
Interest rate swaps 678.4 1.1 0.2 17.6 18.9
Designated as hedging instruments:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 5.0 0.3 – – 0.3
Total 710.5 1.8 0.2 17.6 19.6
 
 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value
At 31 December 2015 £m
Less than 
1 year
£m
1 – 5 years 
£m 
Over  
5 years 
£m 
Total 
£m
Derivative liabilities   
At fair value through the income statement:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 1,876.3 42.2 – – 42.2
Interest rate swaps 1,241.9 3.0 (0.5) 1.6 4.1
Designated as hedging instruments:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 0.7 0.1 – – 0.1
Total 3,118.9 45.3 (0.5) 1.6 46.4
 
 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value
At 31 December 2014 £m
Less than 
1 year
£m
1 – 5 years 
£m 
Over  
5 years 
£m 
Total 
£m
Derivative assets   
At fair value through the income statement:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 54.4 0.3 – – 0.3
Interest rate swaps 696.6 0.9 1.2 22.5 24.6
Designated as hedging instruments:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 435.6 1.9 0.5 – 2.4
Total 1,186.6 3.1 1.7 22.5 27.3
 
 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value
At 31 December 2014 £m
Less than 
1 year
£m
1 – 5 years 
£m 
Over  
5 years 
£m 
Total 
£m
Derivative liabilities   
At fair value through the income statement:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 1,892.3 22.9 – – 22.9
Interest rate swaps 424.9 1.3 0.5 4.6 6.4
Interest rate futures
1
 540.5 – – – –
Designated as hedging instruments:   
Foreign exchange contracts (forwards) 5.0 0.1 – – 0.1
Total 2,862.7 24.3 0.5 4.6 29.4
Note: 
1. Interest rate futures are settled daily with variation margin and therefore have a fair value of £nil. The notional value is included in the above table to reflect the 
fact that the Group has exposure to open positions.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 132
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 132
3. Risk management continued 
The tables below analyse financial investments, cash and cash equivalents, insurance and financial liabilities by remaining 
duration, in proportion to the cash flows expected to arise during that period, for each category. 
At 31 December 2015 
Total
£m
Within
1 year
£m
1 – 3 years
£m
3 – 5 years 
£m 
5 – 10 years 
£m 
Over 
10 years
£m
Debt securities 5,240.1 269.2 1,628.4 1,203.9 1,657.4 481.2
Deposits with credit institutions with  
maturities in excess of three months 44.9 44.9 – – – –
Infrastructure debt 329.6 11.6 22.0 23.9 78.4 193.7
Cash and cash equivalents 963.7 963.7 – – – –
Total 6,578.3 1,289.4 1,650.4 1,227.8 1,735.8 674.9
 
At 31 December 2015 
Total
£m
Within
1 year
£m
1 – 3 years
£m
3 – 5 years 
£m 
5 – 10 years 
£m 
Over 
10 years
£m
Subordinated liabilities 521.1 8.3 – – 512.8 –
Insurance liabilities
1
 4,524.5 1,349.8 1,043.3 564.2 575.1 992.1
Borrowings 61.3 60.8 0.5 – – –
Trade and other payables including insurance 
payables 656.5 652.9 3.0 0.2 0.3 0.1
Total 5,763.4 2,071.8 1,046.8 564.4 1,088.2 992.2
 
At 31 December 2014 
Total
£m
Within
1 year
£m
1 – 3 years
£m
3 – 5 years 
£m 
5 – 10 years 
£m 
Over 
10 years
£m
Debt securities 5,830.3 938.3 1,663.4 1,175.3 1,669.8 383.5
Deposits with credit institutions with  
maturities in excess of three months 54.7 54.7 – – – –
Infrastructure debt 76.2 2.8 9.4 7.5 23.3 33.2
Cash and cash equivalents 880.4 880.4 – – – –
Total 6,841.6 1,876.2 1,672.8 1,182.8 1,693.1 416.7
 
At 31 December 2014 
Total
£m
Within 
1 year
£m
1 – 3 years
£m
3 – 5 years 
£m 
5 – 10 years 
£m 
Over 
10 years
£m
Subordinated liabilities 526.3 8.3 – – 518.0 –
Insurance liabilities
1
 4,674.1 1,396.8 1,181.6 651.2 530.5 914.0
Borrowings 69.8 69.8 – – – –
Trade and other payables including insurance 
payables 660.6 659.4 1.2 – – –
Total 5,930.8 2,134.3 1,182.8 651.2 1,048.5 914.0
Note: 
1. Insurance liabilities exclude unearned premium reserves as there are no liquidity risks inherent in them.  
   www.directlinegroup.com 133
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 133
3.4 Capital adequacy 
Capital is managed in accordance with the Group’s capital management minimum standard, the objectives of which are to 
manage capital efficiently and maintain an appropriate level of capitalisation and solvency. The Group determines the 
appropriate level of capital on the basis of a number of criteria, including economic, regulatory and rating agency capital 
requirements. The Group seeks to hold capital resources consistent with an ‘A’ range credit rating. 
Prior to 1 January 2016, the regulated insurance entities of the Group carried out an assessment of the adequacy of their overall 
financial resources in accordance with the PRA’s ICA methodology. The insurance capital requirement is calculated on an internal 
model which is calibrated to a 99.5% confidence interval and considers business written to date and one year of future business. 
Additionally, the model allows for the uncertainty around the run-off of this business.  
From 1 January 2016, the Group’s regulatory capital position will be assessed against the Solvency II framework. Initially, the 
Group (including its regulated insurance entities) will assess its SCR using the standard formula. Its principal underwriter UKI has 
applied for its internal economic capital model to be approved as its internal model and approval is expected during 2016. 
From that point, UKI will calculate its capital requirement using the internal model which, will form part of a Group-wide partial 
internal model.  
In 2015, the Group monitored its financial resources with reference to the requirements of the Insurance Group Directive and on 
this basis at 31 December 2015 had a surplus of approximately £1.7 billion (2014: £1.9 billion). The Group’s capital 
requirements and solvency position are produced and presented to the Board on a regular basis. 
4. Segmental analysis 
The Directors manage the Group primarily by product type and present the segmental analysis on that basis. The segments reflect 
the management structure whereby a member of the Executive Committee is accountable to the Chief Executive Officer for each 
of the operating segments: 
Motor 
This segment consists of personal motor insurance together with the associated legal protection cover. The Group sells motor 
insurance through its own brands, Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and through partnership brands. 
Home 
This segment consists of home insurance together with associated legal protection cover. The Group sells home insurance through 
its own brands, Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and through partnership brands. 
Rescue and other personal lines 
This segment consists of rescue products sold through the Group’s own brand, Green Flag, and other personal lines insurance, 
including travel, pet and creditor sold through its own brands, Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and through partnership brands. 
Commercial 
This segment consists of commercial insurance for small and medium-size entities sold through NIG, Direct Line for Business, 
Churchill for Business and through partnership brands. 
Certain income and charges are not allocated to the specific operating segments above as they are considered by management 
to be outside underlying business activities by virtue of their one-off incidence, size or nature. Such income and charges are 
categorised as either run-off or restructuring and other one-off costs, described below. 
Run-off 
The segment consists of two principal lines, policies previously written through the personal lines broker channel and Tesco 
business. These residual businesses are now in run-off. 
Restructuring and other one-off costs 
Restructuring costs are costs incurred in respect of the business activities which have a material effect on the nature and focus of 
the Group’s operations. One-off costs are costs that are non-recurring in nature. 
No inter-segment transactions occurred in the year ended 31 December 2015 (2014: £nil). If any transaction were to occur, 
transfer prices between operating segments would be set on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third 
parties. Segment income, expenses and results will include those transfers between business segments which will then be 
eliminated on consolidation. 
For each operating segment, there is no individual policyholder or customer that represents 10% or more of the Group’s total revenue. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 134
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 134
4. Segmental analysis continued 
The table below analyses the Group’s revenue and results for continuing operations by reportable segment for the year ended  
31 December 2015. 
 
Motor
£m
Home
£m
Rescue and 
other
 personal lines
£m
Commercial
£m
Total  
ongoing 
£m 
Run-off
£m
Continuing 
operations
£m
Gross written premium 1,406.7 866.3 394.1 485.3 3,152.4 0.1 3,152.5
Gross earned premium 1,358.7 880.3 388.0 483.0 3,110.0 0.1 3,110.1
Reinsurance premium ceded (109.4) (35.3) (1.6) (42.9) (189.2) – (189.2)
Net earned premium 1,249.3 845.0 386.4 440.1 2,920.8 0.1 2,920.9
Investment return 138.9 20.5 3.8 31.5 194.7 3.4 198.1
Instalment income 69.7 23.3 1.7 5.4 100.1 – 100.1
Other operating income 33.9 0.5 12.6 3.7 50.7 – 50.7
Total income 1,491.8 889.3 404.5 480.7 3,266.3 3.5 3,269.8
Insurance claims (956.7) (434.8) (231.6) (304.5) (1,927.6) 98.3 (1,829.3)
Insurance claims recoverable from reinsurers 161.9 (0.3) – 28.7 190.3 (27.9) 162.4
Net insurance claims (794.8) (435.1) (231.6) (275.8) (1,737.3) 70.4 (1,666.9)
Commission expenses (31.9) (176.7) (24.5) (86.1) (319.2) (0.1) (319.3)
Operating expenses (327.1) (167.6) (96.4) (98.0) (689.1) (0.7) (689.8)
Total expenses (359.0) (344.3) (120.9) (184.1) (1,008.3) (0.8) (1,009.1)
Operating profit before restructuring and other 
one-off costs 338.0 109.9 52.0 20.8 520.7 73.1 593.8
Restructuring and other one-off costs  (48.7)
Operating profit  545.1
Finance costs  (37.6)
Profit before tax  507.5
Underwriting profit / (loss) 95.5 65.6 33.9 (19.8) 175.2 
Loss ratio 63.6% 51.5% 59.9% 62.7% 59.5% 
Commission ratio 2.6% 20.9% 6.4% 19.6% 10.9% 
Expense ratio 26.2% 19.8% 24.9% 22.2% 23.6% 
COR 92.4% 92.2% 91.2% 104.5% 94.0% 
The table below analyses the Group’s assets and liabilities by reportable segment at 31 December 2015. 
 
Motor
£m
Home
£m
Rescue and
 other 
personal lines
£m
Commercial 
£m 
Run-off 
£m 
Total 
£m
Goodwill 126.4 45.8 28.7 10.1 – 211.0
Other segment assets 6,303.4 872.2 177.9 1,573.9 818.2 9,745.6
Segment liabilities (4,701.9) (650.6) (132.7) (1,174.0) (667.4) (7,326.6)
Segment net assets 1,727.9 267.4 73.9 410.0 150.8 2,630.0
   www.directlinegroup.com 135
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 135
The table below analyses the Group’s revenue and results for continuing operations by reportable segment for the year ended 
31 December 2014. 
 
Motor
1
£m
Home
£m
Rescue and 
other
personal lines
£m
Commercial
£m
Total  
ongoing 
£m 
Run-off
 
£m
Continuing 
operations
£m
Gross written premium 1,342.0 898.6 371.8 487.0 3,099.4 (0.4) 3,099.0
Gross earned premium 1,372.6 920.4 370.5 481.1 3,144.6 (0.4) 3,144.2
Reinsurance premium ceded (76.7) (45.1) (1.4) (34.3) (157.5) – (157.5)
Net earned premium 1,295.9 875.3 369.1 446.8 2,987.1 (0.4) 2,986.7
Investment return 144.8 25.7 6.1 34.0 210.6 4.5 215.1
Instalment income 69.6 24.0 1.5 5.3 100.4 – 100.4
Other operating income 32.9 0.7 10.8 2.5 46.9 – 46.9
Total income 1,543.2 925.7 387.5 488.6 3,345.0 4.1 3,349.1
Insurance claims (931.5) (445.1) (211.9) (261.7) (1,850.2) 71.6 (1,778.6)
Insurance claims recoverable from reinsurers 63.4 0.8 – 6.4 70.6 (19.4) 51.2
Net insurance claims (868.1) (444.3) (211.9) (255.3) (1,779.6) 52.2 (1,727.4)
Commission expenses (41.4) (190.3) (34.5) (87.8) (354.0) – (354.0)
Operating expenses (336.6) (177.2) (93.1) (98.5) (705.4) (1.0) (706.4)
Total expenses (378.0) (367.5) (127.6) (186.3) (1,059.4) (1.0) (1,060.4)
Operating profit before restructuring and other 
one-off costs 297.1 113.9 48.0 47.0 506.0 55.3 561.3
Restructuring and other one-off costs  (69.6)
Operating profit  491.7
Finance costs  (37.2)
Gain on disposal of subsidiary  2.3
Profit before tax  456.8
Underwriting profit 49.8 63.5 29.6 5.2 148.1 
Loss ratio 67.0% 50.8% 57.4% 57.1% 59.6% 
Commission ratio 3.2% 21.7% 9.4% 19.7% 11.8% 
Expense ratio 26.0% 20.2% 25.2% 22.0% 23.6% 
COR 96.2% 92.7% 92.0% 98.8% 95.0% 
Note: 
1. The Group’s revenue and results for the year ended 31 December 2014 relating to the Tracker business, which was disposed of on 5 February 2014,  
were recorded in the Motor segment (other operating income: £1.4 million and operating loss: £0.4 million). 
The table below analyses the Group’s assets and liabilities by reportable segment at 31 December 2014. 
 
Motor
£m
Home
£m
Rescue and 
other 
personal lines
£m
Commercial
£m
Run-off 
£m 
Disposal 
group 
£m 
Total 
£m
Goodwill 126.4 45.8 28.7 10.1 –  – 211.0
Disposal group – assets held for sale
1
 – – – – – 1,205.4 1,205.4
Other segment assets 6,392.5 746.2 170.6 1,453.3 1,046.6 – 9,809.2
Disposal group – liabilities held for sale
1
 – – – – – (964.4) (964.4)
Other segment liabilities (4,796.8) (559.9) (128.0) (1,090.5) (875.5) – (7,450.7)
Segment net assets 1,722.1 232.1 71.3 372.9 171.1 241.0 2,810.5
Note: 
1. Comprise the assets and liabilities of International. 
All continuing operations are in the UK. The reportable segment net assets do not represent the Group’s view of the capital 
requirements for its operating segments. 
The segmental analysis of assets and liabilities is prepared using a combination of asset and liability balances directly attributable 
to each operating segment and an apportionment of assets and liabilities managed at a Group wide level.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 136
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 136
5. Discontinued operations and disposal group 
Following a strategic review of the International segment during 2014, the Board concluded that, although the operations in  
Italy (represented by Direct Line Insurance S.p.A) and Germany (represented by Direct Line Versicherung AG) occupied strong 
positions, a disposal would be likely to generate the most value to shareholders. On 25 September 2014, the Group entered 
into a binding agreement with Mapfre International S.A., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mapfre, S.A., for the sale of 
International. Accordingly, the Group has treated this segment as discontinued operations and a disposal group.  
The Group completed the disposal of its Italian and German subsidiaries on 29 May 2015, generating a gain on disposal  
of £167.1 million. 
A) Discontinued operations 
The following table analyses performance relating to the discontinued operations for the period from 1 January to disposal on  
29 May 2015 and the year ended 31 December 2014. 
 
 2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Gross written premium 261.1 567.6
Gross earned premium 207.2 555.8
Reinsurance premium ceded (78.8) (226.0)
Net earned premium 128.4 329.8
Investment return
1
 37.1 22.1
Instalment income 1.4 4.8
Other operating income 0.1 1.0
Total income 167.0 357.7
Insurance claims (156.2) (404.2)
Insurance claims recoverable from reinsurers 60.9 159.5
Net insurance claims (95.3) (244.7)
Commission expenses (28.0) (63.0)
Operating expenses (10.2) (29.0)
Total expenses (38.2) (92.0)
Operating profit from discontinued operations 33.5 21.0
Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 167.1 –
Profit before tax from discontinued operations 200.6 21.0
Tax charge (19.4) (7.7)
Profit after tax from discontinued operations 181.2 13.3
Underwriting loss (5.1) (6.9)
Loss ratio 74.2% 74.2%
Commission ratio 21.8% 19.1%
Expense ratio 8.0% 8.8%
COR 104.0% 102.1%
Note: 
1. Realised net gains on AFS investments in 2015 included £29.9 million of gains reclassified through the income statement, on disposal of International  
(2014: £nil).  
The following table analyses the other comprehensive loss relating to discontinued operations, included in the consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income for the period from 1 January to disposal on 29 May 2015 and year ended 31 December 2014. 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement:  
Exchange differences on the translation of foreign operations 14.4 (15.5)
Cash flow hedge (1.2) –
Fair value gain on AFS investments 0.6 26.1
Less: realised net gains on AFS investments included in income statement (31.8) (6.6)
Tax relating to items that may be reclassified 10.1 (6.9)
Other comprehensive loss for the year net of tax (7.9) (2.9)
 
   www.directlinegroup.com 137
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 137
The following table analyses the cash flows relating to the discontinued operations included in the consolidated cash flow 
statement for the period 1 January to disposal on 29 May 2015 and the year ended 31 December 2014. 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Net cash generated from operating activities 19.1 12.6
Net cash used by investing activities (1.5) (8.4)
Net cash generated from the disposal of discontinued operations
1 
327.1 –
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (9.8) (6.1)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 334.9 (1.9)
Note: 
1.  The net cash generated from the disposal of discontinued operations comprises the net cash consideration of £422.5 million less the cash held by the German 
and Italian subsidiaries at the point of sale of £95.4 million. 
B) Disposal group 
The following table analyses the gain on disposal of discontinued operations during the year including the assets and liabilities 
held for sale in the disposal group immediately prior to the disposal on 29 May 2015. 
 
29 May 
2015 
£m 
31 December
2014
£m
Assets 
Intangible assets 5.4 5.6
Property, plant and equipment 5.2 5.9
Reinsurance assets 171.0 183.0
Deferred tax assets 41.9 9.2
Current tax assets – 1.4
Deferred acquisition costs 105.5 111.1
Insurance and other receivables 152.3 91.1
Prepayments and accrued income  3.1 3.6
Financial investments 665.5 706.9
Cash and cash equivalents 95.4 87.6
Total assets 1,245.3 1,205.4
Liabilities  
Insurance liabilities 504.5 553.4
Unearned premium reserve 355.0 326.2
Trade and other payables including insurance payables 125.3 82.0
Deferred tax liabilities 32.0 0.8
Current tax liabilities 4.0 2.0
Total liabilities 1,020.8 964.4
Net assets 224.5 
Cash consideration received
1
 438.1 
Transaction costs (15.6)
Net cash consideration 422.5 
Net assets disposed (224.5)
Currency translation reserve reclassified to the income statement (30.9)
Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 167.1 
Note: 
1. The Group entered into a foreign currency hedge converting Euro into Sterling in September 2014 for the disposal proceeds. The foreign currency hedge gain of 
£34.0 million and other sale-related consideration are included in cash consideration received. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 138
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 138
5. Discontinued operations and disposal group continued 
C) Assets and liabilities held for sale 
The following table analyses the assets and liabilities held for sale at 31 December 2015. 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Assets held for sale:  
Disposal group (note 5B) – 1,205.4
Freehold property
1
 5.1 3.0
Total 5.1 1,208.4
Liabilities held for sale:  
Disposal group (note 5B) – 964.4
Total – 964.4
Note: 
1. The freehold property held at 31 December 2015 comprises the Pudsey sites which were transferred from property, plant and equipment to assets held for sale in 
2015 with a carrying value of £22.1 million and impaired by £17.0 million to reflect the estimated realisable value. The freehold property held at 31 December 
2014 with a value of £3.0 million comprised the formerly occupied Coombe Cross site in Croydon which was disposed of during 2015, realising proceeds of 
£7.1 million and generating an impairment reversal of £4.1 million. 
6. Net earned premium 
Continuing operations 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Gross earned premium:  
Gross written premium 3,152.5 3,099.0
Movement in unearned premium reserve (42.4) 45.2
 3,110.1 3,144.2
Reinsurance premium:  
Premium payable (191.7) (182.5)
Movement in reinsurance unearned premium reserve 2.5 25.0
 (189.2) (157.5)
Total 2,920.9 2,986.7
7. Investment return 
Continuing operations 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Investment income:  
Interest income from debt securities 140.1 154.0
Cash and cash equivalent interest income 6.7 5.2
Rental income from investment property 17.9 16.2
Interest income from infrastructure debt 4.4 0.1
 169.1 175.5
Net realised gains / (losses):  
AFS debt securities 12.4 16.2
Derivatives (56.5) (86.2)
Investment property (note 20) – 2.3
 (44.1) (67.7)
Net unrealised gains:  
Impairments of AFS debt securities – 1.3
Derivatives 48.9 79.6
Investment property (note 20) 24.2 26.4
 73.1 107.3
Total 198.1 215.1
 
   www.directlinegroup.com 139
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 139
The table below analyses the realised and unrealised gains and losses on derivative instruments included in investment return. 
 Realised Unrealised Realised Unrealised
Continuing operations 
2015
£m
2015 
£m  
2014 
£m  
2014
£m 
Derivative (losses) / gains   
Foreign exchange forward contracts (82.4) (19.1) (59.3) (46.4)
Associated foreign exchange risk 44.9 61.9 (7.4) 115.9
Net (losses) / gains on foreign exchange forward contracts (37.5) 42.8 (66.7) 69.5
Interest rate derivatives (28.7) 1.2 (20.4) (22.1)
Associated interest rate risk 9.7 4.9 0.9 32.2
Net (losses) / gains on interest rate derivatives (19.0) 6.1 (19.5) 10.1
Total (56.5) 48.9 (86.2) 79.6
8. Other operating income 
Continuing operations 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Vehicle replacement referral income 12.5 15.8
Revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services 15.5 18.0
Fee income from insurance intermediary services 2.4 2.1
Other income 20.3 11.0
Total 50.7 46.9
9. Net insurance claims 
 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net
Continuing operations 
2015
£m
2015
£m
2015
£m
2014 
£m 
2014 
£m 
2014
£m
Current accident year claims paid 1,037.0 – 1,037.0 1,086.4 – 1,086.4
Prior accident year claims paid 941.9 (15.9) 926.0 1,165.8 (21.8) 1,144.0
Decrease in insurance liabilities (149.6) (146.5) (296.1) (473.6) (29.4) (503.0)
Total 1,829.3 (162.4) 1,666.9 1,778.6 (51.2) 1,727.4
Claims handling expenses for the year ended 31 December 2015 of £200.4 million (2014: £226.3 million) have been 
included in the claims figures above. Claims handling expenses can be further analysed for the year ended 31 December 2015 
between ongoing operations of £195.6 million (2014: £222.3 million) and run-off of £4.8 million (2014: £4.0 million). 
10. Commission expenses 
Continuing operations 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Commission expenses 253.2 263.3
Expenses incurred under profit participations 66.1 90.7
Total 319.3 354.0
11. Operating expenses 
Continuing operations 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Staff costs 273.3 263.6
Other operating expenses 249.2 299.5
Marketing 117.9 123.9
Amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets 67.4 66.4
Depreciation 30.7 22.6
Total 738.5 776.0
Staff costs attributable to claims handling activities are allocated to the cost of insurance claims. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 140
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 140
11. Operating expenses continued 
The table below analyses restructuring and other one-off costs included in operating expenses. 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Other operating expenses 30.0 54.1
Staff costs 18.7 15.5
Total 48.7 69.6
The table below analyses the number of people employed by the Group’s operations. 
 At 31 December Average for the year
Continuing operations 2015 2014 2015 2014
Operations 9,531 9,618 9,564 9,959
Support 1,190 1,271 1,257 1,278
Total 10,721 10,889 10,821 11,237
The Group’s discontinued operations employed no employees at 31 December 2015 (2014: 1,267) and an average monthly 
number of 1,279 people for the period until disposal on 29 May 2015 (2014: 1,275).  
The aggregate remuneration of those employed by the Group’s operations comprised: 
Continuing operations 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Wages and salaries 335.4 344.0
Social security costs 37.8 37.7
Pension costs 23.4 23.9
Share-based payments 12.1 6.6
Total 408.7 412.2
The aggregate remuneration of those employed by the Group’s discontinued operations (note 5A) was £12.6 million in 2015  
(2014: £32.9 million).  
The table below analyses auditor’s remuneration in respect of the Group’s operations. 
Continuing operations 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Fees payable for the audit of:  
The Company’s annual accounts  0.3 0.4
The Company’s subsidiaries  1.6 1.5
Total audit fees 1.9 1.9
Fees payable for non-audit services:  
Audit-related assurance services 0.3 0.1
Taxation advisory services – 0.2
Other services 0.6 0.1
Total non-audit services 0.9 0.4
Total 2.8 2.3
The audit fees in respect of the Group’s discontinued operations (note 5A) were £nil in 2015 (2014: £0.4 million). 
Aggregate Directors’ emoluments 
The table below analyses the total amount of Directors’ remuneration, all of which is in relation to continuing operations, 
in accordance with Schedule 5 to the Accounting Regulations. 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Salaries, fees, bonuses and benefits in kind 3.5 3.4
Gains on exercise of share options  4.9 1.2
Defined contribution pension scheme contributions 0.1 0.1
Total  8.5 4.7
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
  www.directlinegroup.com 141
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 141
At 31 December 2015, one Director (2014: one) had retirement benefits accruing under the defined contribution pension 
scheme in respect of qualifying service. 
During the year ended 31 December 2015, two Directors exercised share options (2014: two). 
12. Finance costs 
Continuing operations 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Interest expense on subordinated liabilities
1
 37.6 37.2
Note: 
1. As described in note 30, on 27 April 2012 the Group issued subordinated guaranteed dated notes with a nominal value of £500 million at a fixed rate of 
9.25%. On the same date, the Group also entered into a 10-year hedge to exchange the fixed rate of interest on the notes for a floating rate of three-month LIBOR 
plus a spread of 706 basis points, which increased to 707 basis points with effect from 29 July 2013. 
13. Tax charge 
Continuing operations 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Current taxation:  
Charge for the year 103.5 87.2
(Over) / under provision in respect of prior year (4.6) 3.9
 98.9 91.1
Deferred taxation (note 14):  
Charge for the year 6.4 14.0
Under/ (over) provision in respect of prior year 3.0 (7.6)
 9.4 6.4
  
Current taxation 98.9 91.1
Deferred taxation (note 14) 9.4 6.4
Tax charge for the year 108.3 97.5
The following table analyses the difference between the actual income tax charge and the expected income tax charge 
computed by applying the standard rate of corporation tax of 20.25%
1
 (2014: 21.5%). 
Continuing operations 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Profit before tax 507.5 456.8
Expected tax charge 102.8 98.2
Effects of:  
Realised gains on disposal of subsidiaries – (0.5) 
Disallowable expenses 7.8 3.4
Effect of change in corporation taxation rate (0.7) 0.1
Over provision in respect of prior year (1.6) (3.7)
Tax charge for the year 108.3 97.5
  
Effective income tax rate 21.3% 21.3%
Note: 
1. In the Finance Act 2013 the UK Government enacted a reduction in the corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% effective from 1 April 2014 and a further reduction 
to 20% effective from 1 April 2015. The Finance (No 2) Act 2015 enacted further reductions to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and 18% effective from 1 April 
2020. As a consequence, the closing deferred tax assets and liabilities have been recognised at the tax rates expected to apply when the assets or liabilities are 
settled. The impact of these changes on the tax charge for the year is set out in the table above.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 142
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 142
14. Current and deferred tax 
Current tax 
. 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Per balance sheet:  
Current tax assets 0.1 0.1
Current tax liabilities (10.3) (35.7)
. 
Deferred tax 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Per balance sheet:  
Deferred tax liabilities (29.9) (20.6)
The table below analyses the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon. 
Provisions  
and other  
temporary 
differences 
£m 
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations
£m
Depreciation 
in excess of 
capital 
allowances
£m
Non-
distributable 
reserve
£m
Investment 
properties  
£m 
Share-based 
payments 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2014 17.3 0.4 0.4 (18.5) (1.5) 1.9 –
Credit / (charge) to the income 
statement on continuing 
operations 2.6 (0.5) 0.5 (6.5) (3.3) 0.8 (6.4)
Credit to the income statement 
on discontinued operations 2.1 – – – – – 2.1
Charge to other comprehensive 
income (7.4) (0.6) – – – – (8.0)
Credit direct to equity – – – – – 1.0 1.0
Other movements (0.8) – (0.1) – – – (0.9)
Transfer to liabilities / assets held 
for sale (8.4) – – – – – (8.4)
At 31 December 2014 5.4 (0.7) 0.8 (25.0) (4.8) 3.7 (20.6)
(Charge) / credit to the income 
statement on continuing 
operations (2.1) (0.1) – (3.9) (3.6) 0.3 (9.4)
Charge to other comprehensive 
income – (1.6) – – – – (1.6)
Credit direct to equity – – – – – 1.7 1.7
At 31 December 2015 3.3 (2.4) 0.8 (28.9) (8.4) 5.7 (29.9)
In addition, the Group has an unrecognised deferred tax asset at 31 December 2015 of £4.1 million (2014: £1.9 million) in 
relation to capital losses.  www.directlinegroup.com 143
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 143
15. Dividends 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:  
2014 final dividend
1
 of 8.8 pence per share paid on 17 April 2015 131.6 –
2013 final dividend of 8.4 pence per share paid on 20 May 2014 – 125.7
2015 first interim dividend of 4.6 pence per share paid on 11 September 2015 63.0 –
2014 first interim dividend of 4.4 pence per share paid on 12 September 2014 – 65.8
2015 first special interim dividend of 27.5 pence per share paid on 24 July 2015 411.5 –
2014 first special interim dividend of 10.0 pence per share paid on 12 September 2014 – 149.7
2014 second special interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share paid on 17 April 2015 59.9 –
2013 second special interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share paid on 20 May 2014 – 59.9
 666.0 401.1
Proposed dividends:  
2015 final dividend of 9.2 pence per share 126.5 –
2014 final dividend
1
 of 8.8 pence per share  – 132.0
2015 second special interim dividend of 8.8 pence per share 121.0 –
2014 second special interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share – 60.0
Note: 
1. The Board paid an interim dividend in lieu of a final dividend.  
The proposed final dividend for 2015 has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. 
The trustees of the employee share trusts waived their entitlement to dividends on shares held to meet obligations arising from LTIP, 
DAIP and Restricted Shares Plan awards, which reduced the total dividend paid for the year ended 31 December 2015 by 
£1.7 million (2014: £0.9 million). 
16. Earnings per share 
Earnings per share is calculated by dividing earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average 
number of Ordinary Shares during the period. 
On 30 June 2015, the Group completed an 11 for 12 share consolidation which had the effect of reducing the number of 
shares in issue from 1,500 million Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each to 1,375 million Ordinary Shares of 10 
10
/11 pence 
each. The weighted average number of Ordinary Shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share reflects this 
share consolidation. 
Basic 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted 
average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share during the period, excluding Ordinary Shares 
held as employee trust shares. 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Earnings attributable to owners of the Company arising from:  
Continuing operations 399.2 359.3
Discontinued operations 181.2 13.3
Continuing and discontinued operations 580.4 372.6
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares (millions) 1,431.2 1,495.0
Basic earnings per share (pence):  
Continuing operations 27.9 24.0
Discontinued operations 12.7 0.9
Continuing and discontinued operations 40.6 24.9
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 144
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 144
16. Earnings per share continued 
Diluted 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted 
average number of Ordinary Shares during the period adjusted for dilutive potential Ordinary Shares. The Company has share 
options and contingently issuable shares as categories of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares. 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Earnings attributable to owners of the Company arising from:  
Continuing operations 399.2 359.3
Discontinued operations 181.2 13.3
Continuing and discontinued operations 580.4 372.6
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares (millions) 1,431.2 1,495.0
Effect of dilutive potential of share options and contingently issuable shares (millions) 17.8 12.9
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share (millions) 1,449.0 1,507.9
Diluted earnings per share (pence):  
Continuing operations 27.6 23.8
Discontinued operations 12.5 0.9
Continuing and discontinued operations 40.1 24.7
17. Net assets per share and return on equity 
Net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders’ equity divided by the number of Ordinary Shares at the end of  
the period excluding shares held by employee share trusts. 
Tangible net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders’ equity less goodwill and other intangible assets divided  
by the number of Ordinary Shares at the end of the period excluding shares held by employee share trusts. 
The table below analyses net asset and tangible net asset value per share. 
At 31 December 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Net assets 2,630.0 2,810.5
Goodwill and other intangible assets (524.8) (517.5)
Disposal group – intangible assets  –  (5.6)
Tangible net assets 2,105.2 2,287.4
Number of Ordinary Shares (millions) 1,375.0 1,500.0
Shares held by employee share trusts (millions) (6.3) (6.4)
Closing number of Ordinary Shares (millions) 1,368.7 1,493.6
Net asset value per share (pence) 192.2 188.2
Tangible net asset value per share (pence) 153.8 153.1
Return on equity 
The table below details the calculation of return on equity. 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Earnings attributable to owners of the Company arising from:  
Continuing operations 399.2 359.3
Discontinued operations 181.2 13.3
Continuing and discontinued operations 580.4 372.6
Opening shareholders’ equity 2,810.5 2,790.0
Closing shareholders’ equity 2,630.0 2,810.5
Average shareholders’ equity 2,720.2 2,800.2
Return on equity 21.3% 13.3%
 
   www.directlinegroup.com 145
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 145
18. Goodwill and other intangible assets 
Goodwill 
£m 
Other 
 intangible 
 assets 
£m 
Total
£m
Cost   
At 1 January 2014 342.8 445.7 788.5
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment – (2.6) (2.6)
Additions – 92.8 92.8
Disposal of subsidiary
1
 (110.1) (1.6) (111.7)
Disposals and write-off
2
 – (67.2) (67.2)
Transfer to assets held for sale (21.7) (38.6) (60.3)
At 31 December 2014 211.0 428.5 639.5
Additions – 74.7 74.7
Disposals and write-off
2
 – (8.0) (8.0)
At 31 December 2015 211.0 495.2 706.2
Accumulated amortisation and impairment   
At 1 January 2014 131.8 156.6 288.4
Charge for the year relating to continuing operations – 56.9 56.9
Charge for the year relating to discontinued operations – 2.2 2.2
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment – (2.2) (2.2)
Disposal of subsidiary
1
 (110.1) (0.9) (111.0)
Disposals and write-off
2
 – (67.2) (67.2)
Impairment losses – 9.6 9.6
Transfer to assets held for sale (21.7) (33.0) (54.7)
At 31 December 2014 – 122.0 122.0
Charge for the year relating to continuing operations – 63.1 63.1
Disposals and write-off
2
 – (8.0) (8.0)
Impairment losses – 4.3 4.3
At 31 December 2015 – 181.4 181.4
   
Carrying amount   
At 31 December 2015 211.0 313.8 524.8
At 31 December 2014 211.0 306.5 517.5
Notes: 
1. Disposal of subsidiary relates to the Tracker business. 
2. Disposals and write-off include fully amortised intangible assets no longer utilised by the Group in its operating activities. 
Goodwill arose on the acquisition of U K Insurance Limited (£141.0 million) and Churchill Insurance Company Limited  
(£70.0 million), which is allocated across Motor, Home, Rescue and other personal lines and Commercial. 
The Group’s testing for goodwill impairment includes the comparison of the recoverable amount of each CGU to which goodwill 
has been allocated with its carrying value and updated at each reporting date in the event of indications of impairment.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 146
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 146
18. Goodwill and other intangible assets continued 
The table below analyses the goodwill of the Group by CGU. 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Motor 126.4 126.4
Home 45.8 45.8
Rescue and other personal lines 28.7 28.7
Commercial 10.1 10.1
Total 211.0 211.0
There have been no impairments in goodwill for the year ended 31 December 2015 (2014: £nil). 
The recoverable amount is the higher of the CGU fair value less the costs to sell and its value-in-use. Value-in-use is the present 
value of expected future cash flows from the CGU. Fair value is the estimated amount that could be obtained from the sale of the 
CGU in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties. 
The recoverable amounts of all CGUs were based on the value-in-use test, using the Group’s five-year strategic plan. The long-term 
growth rates have been based on GDP rates adjusted for inflation. The risk discount rates incorporate observable market long-term 
government bond yields and average industry betas adjusted for an appropriate risk premium based on independent analysis. 
The table below details the recoverable amounts in excess of carrying value for the CGUs where goodwill is held. 
 Assumptions
Sensitivity: Impact on
recoverable amount of a:
CGU 
Terminal
growth
 rate
%
Pre-tax
 discount
 rate
%
Recoverable
amount in excess
 of carrying value
£m
1% decrease in 
terminal growth 
rate 
£m 
1% increase in 
pre-tax discount 
rate 
£m 
1% decrease 
in forecast 
pre-tax profit
1
£m 
Motor 3.0 11.6 816.6 (201.6) (276.9) (26.1) 
Home 3.0 11.6 764.6 (72.2) (99.8) (9.7) 
Rescue and other personal lines 3.0 11.6 603.7 (55.2) (75.5) (6.9) 
Commercial 3.0 11.6 46.9 (37.4) (50.8) (4.5) 
Note: 
1. Reflects a 1% decrease in the profit for each year of the five-year forecast.  www.directlinegroup.com 147
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 147
19. Property, plant and equipment 
Freehold land 
and buildings 
£m 
Other  
equipment 
£m 
Total
£m
Cost   
At 1 January 2014 15.3 160.0 175.3
Additions 43.4 43.3 86.7
Disposals – (16.6) (16.6)
Acquisition of subsidiary 25.1 – 25.1
Disposal of subsidiary – (3.5) (3.5)
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment – (1.7) (1.7)
Transfer to assets held for sale (note 5C) – (27.2) (27.2)
At 31 December 2014  83.8 154.3 238.1
Additions 17.9 49.2 67.1
Disposals (0.1) (15.7) (15.8)
Transfer to assets held for sale (note 5C) (22.6) – (22.6)
At 31 December 2015  79.0 187.8 266.8
Accumulated depreciation and impairment   
At 1 January 2014 1.1 71.9 73.0
Depreciation charge for the year relating to continuing operations 0.6 22.0 22.6
Depreciation charge for the year relating to discontinued operations – 3.0 3.0
Disposals – (16.3) (16.3)
Impairment losses – 0.1 0.1
Disposal of subsidiary – (2.9) (2.9)
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment – (1.4) (1.4)
Transfer to assets held for sale (note 5C) – (21.3) (21.3)
At 31 December 2014  1.7 55.1 56.8
Depreciation charge for the year relating to continuing operations 1.2 29.5 30.7
Disposals – (11.3) (11.3)
Impairment losses – 4.8 4.8
Transfer to assets held for sale (note 5C) (0.5) – (0.5)
At 31 December 2015  2.4 78.1 80.5
   
Carrying amount   
At 31 December 2015 76.6 109.7 186.3
At 31 December 2014  82.1 99.2 181.3
20. Investment property 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
At 1 January 307.2 223.4
Additions at cost 16.0 76.2
Increase in fair value during the year 24.2 28.7
Disposals – (21.1)
At 31 December 347.4 307.2
Note: 
1. The cost included in carrying value at 31 December 2015 is £295.5 million (2014: £279.5 million). 
The investment properties are measured at fair value derived from valuation work carried out at the balance sheet date by 
independent property valuers. 
The valuation conforms to international valuation standards. The fair value was determined using a methodology based on recent 
market transactions for similar properties, which have been adjusted for the specific characteristics of each property within the 
portfolio. This approach to valuation is consistent with the methodology used in the year ended 31 December 2014. 
Lease agreements with tenants are drawn up in line with local practice and the Group has no exposure to leases that include  
contingent rents.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 148
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 148
21. Subsidiaries 
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group, over which it exercises 100% voting power, are shown below. Their capital 
consists of Ordinary Shares which are unlisted. All subsidiaries (a full list of which is included in note 2 of the Parent Company 
financial statements) are included in the Group’s consolidated financial information. 
Name of subsidiary 
Place of incorporation  
and operation Principal activity 
DL Insurance Services Limited United Kingdom Management services 
U K Insurance Limited United Kingdom General insurance 
On 29 May 2015, the Group completed the sale of its International business comprising Direct Line Insurance S.p.A and Direct 
Line Versicherung AG for a cash consideration of £438.1 million. Details of the fair value of assets and liabilities disposed of 
and the gain on disposal are set out in note 5B. 
The Group sold 100% of the share capital of Tracker Network (UK) Limited on 5 February 2014. The fair value of the identifiable 
assets sold was £9.2 million (including cash and cash equivalents of £2.4 million) and the fair value of the identifiable liabilities 
was £8.8 million. The total cash consideration received was £2.7 million, generating a profit on disposal of £2.3 million.  
The Group did not dispose of any other subsidiaries in the years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014. 
The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of 10-15 Livery Street, Birmingham UK Limited on 22 December 2014 for  
total cash consideration of £26.1 million. The fair value of the identifiable assets acquired was £26.2 million (including cash 
and cash equivalents of £1.1 million) and the fair value of identifiable liabilities was £0.1 million.  
22. Reinsurance assets 
 2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Reinsurers’ share of general insurance liabilities 975.8 841.9
Impairment provision (53.9) (66.4)
 921.9 775.5
Reinsurers’ unearned premium reserve 89.5 87.0
Total  1,011.4 862.5
Movements in reinsurance asset impairment provision 
 2015 
£m 
2014
£m
At 1 January (66.4) (53.2)
Additional provision (5.0) (14.1)
Release to income statement 17.5 0.9
At 31 December  (53.9) (66.4)
23. Deferred acquisition costs 
 2015 
£m 
2014
£m
At 1 January 208.4 321.5
Net (decrease) / increase in the year (4.6) 5.4
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment – (7.4)
Transfer to assets held for sale – (111.1)
At 31 December 203.8 208.4
  www.directlinegroup.com 149
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 149
24. Insurance and other receivables 
 2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Receivables arising from insurance and reinsurance contracts:  
Due from policyholders 800.1 790.7
Impairment provision of policyholder receivables (0.7) (0.6)
Due from agents, brokers and intermediaries 60.0 53.7
Impairment provision of agent, broker and intermediary receivables (1.3) (0.7)
Other debtors 97.7 116.8
Total 955.8 959.9
25. Derivative financial instruments 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Derivative assets  
At fair value through the income statement 19.3 24.9
Designated as hedging instruments 0.3 2.4
Total 19.6 27.3
Derivative liabilities  
At fair value through the income statement 46.3 29.3
Designated as hedging instruments 0.1 0.1
Total 46.4 29.4
Designated hedging instruments at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 include hedging in relation to supplier payments. 
At 31 December 2014, the Group also had a foreign currency hedge contract converting Euro to Sterling in respect of the proceed s 
from the sale of the International business which ceased on completion of the sale. 
26. Financial investments 
 
2015 
 £m 
2014
£m
AFS debt securities  
Corporate 4,182.4 4,117.1
Supranational 140.1 176.3
Local government 105.3 120.7
Sovereign 442.7 993.8
Securitised credit 356.1 422.4
Total 5,226.6 5,830.3
HTM debt securities  
Corporate 13.5 –
Total debt securities 5,240.1 5,830.3
Total debt securities  
Fixed interest rate 4,801.6 5,147.3
Floating interest rate 438.5 683.0
Total 5,240.1 5,830.3
Loans and receivables  
Deposits with credit institutions with maturities in excess of three months 44.9 54.7
Infrastructure debt
1 
329.6 76.2
Total 5,614.6 5,961.2
Note: 
1. Infrastructure debt portfolio consists of UK floating rate senior loans with interest rates for the year ended 31 December 2015 ranging from 1.2% to 3.5%  
(2014: 1.8% to 3.4%) and remaining maturity of between 8 and 25 years (2014: 8 and 25 years).  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 150
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 150
27. Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings 
 
2015  
£m 
2014
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 131.8 151.3
Short-term deposits with credit institutions with maturities less than 3 months 831.9 729.1
Cash and cash equivalents 963.7 880.4
Bank overdrafts
1
 (61.3) (69.8)
Cash and cash equivalents in assets held for sale (note 5B) – 87.6
Cash and cash equivalents including bank overdrafts 902.4 898.2
Note: 
1. Bank overdrafts represent short-term timing differences between transactions posted in the records of the Group and transactions flowing through the accounts at 
the bank. 
The effective interest rate on short-term deposits with credit institutions for the year ended 31 December 2015 was 0.56%  
(2014: 0.61%) and average maturity was 10 days (2014: 10 days). 
28. Share capital 
 
2015
Number
Millions
2014 
Number 
Millions 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Issued and fully paid: equity shares  
Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each – 1,500 – 150.0
Ordinary Shares of 10 
10
/11 pence each 1,375 – 150.0 –
At a General Meeting on 29 June 2015, shareholders approved a share consolidation which completed on 30 June 2015. As 
a result of the share consolidation, shareholders held 11 new Ordinary Shares of 10 
10
/11 pence each issued by the Company 
in exchange for every 12 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each held immediately prior to the share consolidation, which were 
cancelled by the Company.  
Employee trust shares 
The Group satisfies share-based payments under the Group’s share plans primarily through shares purchased in the market and 
held by employee share trusts. 
At 31 December 2015, 6,256,108 Ordinary Shares of 10 
10
/11 pence each (2014: 6,391,506 Ordinary Shares of 10 
pence each) were owned by the employee share trusts with a cost of £20.4 million (2014: £13.6 million). These Ordinary 
Shares are carried at cost and have a market value of £25.5 million (2014: £18.6 million).   www.directlinegroup.com 151
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 151
29. Other reserves 
Movements in the revaluation reserve for AFS investments 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
At 1 January 115.6 58.8
Revaluation during the year – gross (100.5) 97.2
Revaluation during the year – tax 22.0 (23.2)
Realised gains – gross (12.5) (22.8)
Realised gains – tax 2.5 5.6
Realised gain on disposal of subsidiary – gross (31.8) –
Realised gain on disposal of subsidiary – tax 10.1 –
At 31 December 5.4 115.6
Movements in the non-distributable reserve 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
At 1 January 124.9 92.8
Transfer from retained earnings 28.0 32.1
At 31 December  152.9 124.9
The non-distributable reserve is a statutory claims equalisation reserve that is calculated in accordance with the rules of the PRA. 
With the introduction of Solvency II on 1 January 2016 the requirement to maintain the reserve ceases and the non-distributable 
reserve transfers into retained earnings. 
30. Subordinated liabilities 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Subordinated guaranteed dated notes  521.1 526.3
The subordinated guaranteed dated notes were issued on 27 April 2012 at a fixed rate of 9.25%. On the same date, the 
Group also entered into a 10-year hedge to exchange the fixed rate of interest for a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus  
a spread of 706 basis points which was credit value adjusted to 707 basis points with effect from 29 July 2013. 
The nominal £500 million notes have a redemption date of 27 April 2042. The Group has the option to repay the notes  
on specific dates from 27 April 2022. If the notes are not repaid on that date, the rate of interest will be reset at a rate of the  
six-month LIBOR plus 7.91%. 
The notes are unsecured, subordinated obligations of the Group, and rank pari passu without any preference among themselves.  
In the event of a winding-up or of bankruptcy, they are to be repaid only after the claims of all other senior creditors have been met. 
The Group has the option to defer interest payments in certain circumstances on the notes but to date has not exercised this right.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 152
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 152
31. Insurance liabilities 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Insurance liabilities 4,524.5 4,674.1
 
Gross insurance liabilities 
Accident year 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2008 
£m 
2009
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m 
2014 
£m 
2015
£m
Total
£m
Estimate of ultimate 
gross claims costs
1
:      
At end of accident 
year 3,789.2 4,014.7 3,393.4 3,823.3 3,941.7 2,698.1 2,372.7 2,184.0 2,094.5 2,118.1
One year later (256.0) (44.7) 50.8 121.6 (117.1) (99.3) (163.3) (117.6) 20.7 – 
Two years later (32.6) 7.8 51.7 (37.0) (99.1) (94.6) (118.9) (153.0) –  – 
Three years later (10.7) 64.8 (36.7) (14.0) (50.3) (89.3) (49.3) –  –  – 
Four years later 18.3 (5.4) (16.7) (101.5) (105.5) (60.9) – –  –  – 
Five years later (18.2) (12.1) (55.5) (38.8) (57.7) – – –  –  – 
Six years later (11.0) (24.4) (45.7) (80.8) – – – –  –  – 
Seven years later (13.5) (18.8) (29.9) – – – – –  –  – 
Eight years later 2.2 (14.4) – – – – – –  –  – 
Nine years later (33.2) –  – – – – – –  –  – 
Current estimate of 
cumulative claims
1
 3,434.5 3,967.5 3,311.4 3,672.8 3,512.0 2,354.0 2,041.2 1,913.4 2,115.2 2,118.1
Cumulative payments 
to date
1
 (3,291.0) (3,761.5) (3,170.8) (3,441.9) (3,246.0) (2,082.9) (1,751.3) (1,475.5) (1,350.1) (912.4)
Gross liability 
recognised in 
balance sheet 143.5 206.0 140.6 230.9 266.0 271.1 289.9 437.9 765.1 1,205.7 3,956.7
2005 and prior      473.4
Claims handling 
provision      94.4
Total       4,524.5
Note: 
1. The claims development and cumulative payments to date by accident year in the above table have been re-presented to exclude the claims and payments in 
respect of the International business sold on 29 May 2015. 
   www.directlinegroup.com 153
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 153
Net insurance liabilities 
Accident year 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2008 
£m 
2009
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m 
2014 
£m 
2015
£m
Total
£m
Estimate of ultimate 
net claims costs
1
:      
At end of accident 
year 3,743.4 3,970.3 3,334.7 3,790.6 3,902.0 2,644.4 2,271.8 2,093.9 1,971.0 1,926.7
One year later (239.7) (64.3) 52.0 70.0 (125.2) (131.5) (146.7) (123.6) (29.7) – 
Two years later (43.5) (14.5) 15.9 (17.4) (120.4) (82.1) (107.8) (134.4) –  – 
Three years later (21.4) 32.9 (22.8) (54.1) (44.0) (76.5) (35.6) –  –  – 
Four years later 18.2 (8.9) (45.8) (67.0) (93.6) (48.7) – –  –  – 
Five years later (40.3) (17.6) (48.7) (29.6) (52.3) – – –  –  – 
Six years later (19.6) (19.6) (30.9) (74.6) – – – –  –  – 
Seven years later (13.1) (16.0) (24.5) – – – – –  –  – 
Eight years later 3.6 (12.5) – – – – – –  –  – 
Nine years later (25.3) –  – – – – – –  –  – 
Current estimate of 
cumulative claims
1
 3,362.3 3,849.8 3,229.9 3,617.9 3,466.5 2,305.6 1,981.7 1,835.9 1,941.3 1,926.7
Cumulative payments 
to date
1
 (3,253.7) (3,696.4) (3,131.6) (3,408.6) (3,232.0) (2,059.6) (1,739.4) (1,466.7) (1,350.1) (912.4)
Net liability 
recognised in 
balance sheet 108.6 153.4 98.3 209.3 234.5 246.0 242.3 369.2 591.2 1,014.3 3,267.1
2005 and prior      241.1
Claims handling 
provision      94.4
Total       3,602.6
Note: 
1. The claims development and cumulative payments to date by accident year in the above table have been re-presented to exclude the claims and payments in 
respect of the International business sold on 29 May 2015. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 154
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 154
31. Insurance liabilities continued 
Movements in gross and net insurance liabilities 
 
Gross 
£m 
Reinsurance 
£m 
Net
£m
Claims reported 3,636.4 (467.5) 3,168.9
Incurred but not reported 1,992.7 (449.8) 1,542.9
Claims handling provision 128.3 – 128.3
At 1 January 2014 5,757.4 (917.3) 4,840.1
Cash paid for claims settled in the year (2,671.6) 181.2 (2,490.4)
Increase / (decrease) in liabilities:   
Arising from current-year claims 2,721.3 (288.3) 2,433.0
Arising from prior-year claims
1
 (538.5) 77.6 (460.9)
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment (41.1) 11.5 (29.6)
Transfer to (liabilities) / assets held for sale (note 5C) (553.4) 159.8 (393.6)
At 31 December 2014 4,674.1 (775.5) 3,898.6
Claims reported 2,791.1 (315.3) 2,475.8
Incurred but not reported 1,778.2 (460.2) 1,318.0
Claims handling provision 104.8 – 104.8
At 31 December 2014 4,674.1 (775.5) 3,898.6
Cash paid for claims settled in the year (1,978.9) 16.0 (1,962.9)
Increase / (decrease) in liabilities:   
Arising from current-year claims 2,307.6 (191.4) 2,116.2
Arising from prior-year claims (478.3) 29.0 (449.3)
At 31 December 2015  4,524.5 (921.9) 3,602.6
Claims reported 2,732.2 (375.0) 2,357.2
Incurred but not reported 1,697.9 (546.9) 1,151.0
Claims handling provision 94.4 – 94.4
At 31 December 2015  4,524.5 (921.9) 3,602.6
Note: 
1. Decrease in net liabilities arising from prior-year claims in 2014 includes a £10.1 million reserve release for the discontinued International business. 
Movement in prior-year net claims liabilities by operating segment 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Motor (266.8) (278.4)
Home (41.9) (49.8)
Rescue and other personal lines (13.6) (15.7)
Commercial (56.6) (53.7)
Total ongoing (378.9) (397.6)
Run-off (70.4) (53.2)
Total (449.3) (450.8)
32. Unearned premium reserve 
Movement in unearned premium reserve 
 
Gross 
£m 
Reinsurance 
£m 
Net
£m
At 1 January 2014 1,818.7 (93.7) 1,725.0
Net movement in the year (33.4) (18.6) (52.0)
Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment (24.9) 2.1 (22.8)
Transfer to (liabilities) / assets held for sale (note 5C) (326.2) 23.2 (303.0)
At 31 December 2014 1,434.2 (87.0) 1,347.2
Net movement in the year 42.4 (2.5) 39.9
At 31 December 2015 1,476.6 (89.5) 1,387.1
  www.directlinegroup.com 155
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 155
33. Retirement benefit obligations 
Defined contribution scheme 
The pension charge for continuing operations in respect of the defined contribution scheme for the year ended 31 December 2015 
was £23.5 million (2014: £23.9 million). The charge for discontinued operations was £0.9 million (2014: £1.8 million). 
Defined benefit scheme 
The Group’s defined benefit pension scheme was closed in 2003 although the Group remains the sponsoring employer for 
obligations to current and deferred pensioners based on qualifying years’ service and final salaries. The defined benefit scheme is 
legally separated from the Group with trustees who are required by law to act in the interests of the scheme and of all the rel evant 
stakeholders. The trustees of the pension scheme are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the scheme. 
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2015 is 20 years (2014: 20 years) using 
accounting assumptions. 
The table below sets out the principal assumptions used in determining the defined benefit scheme obligations. 
 
2015 
% 
2014
%
Rate of increase in pension payment 2.1 2.1
Rate of increase of deferred pensions 2.1 2.1
Discount rate 3.8 3.4
Inflation rate 3.2 3.1
No assumption has been made for salary growth as there are no obligations in the scheme that are linked to future increases  
in salaries. 
Post-retirement mortality assumptions 
 2015 2014
Life expectancy at age 60 now:  
Males 87.8 88.5
Females 89.9 90.2
Life expectancy at age 60 in 20 years’ time:  
Males 90.1 90.4
Females 92.3 92.3
The table below analyses the fair value of the scheme assets by type of asset. 
  
 2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Equities  – 3.0
Index-linked bonds  21.5 22.2
Government bonds  13.7 12.8
Corporate bonds  43.8 44.4
Liquidity fund  5.5 –
Other  0.6 0.7
Total   85.1 83.1
The majority of debt and equity instruments have quoted prices on active markets.  
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 156
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 156
33. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
Movement in net pension surplus / (deficit)  
Fair value of 
defined benefit 
scheme assets 
£m  
Present value of  
defined benefit 
scheme 
obligations 
£m 
Net pension 
surplus
/ (deficit)
£m
At 1 January 2014 66.0 (68.0) (2.0)
Income statement:   
Net interest income / (cost)
1 
 2.9 (3.0) (0.1)
Statement of comprehensive income:   
Actuarial gains arising from experience adjustments 12.9 1.0 13.9
Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions – (11.1) (11.1)
Contributions by employer 2.8 – 2.8
Benefits paid (1.5) 1.5 –
At 31 December 2014 83.1 (79.6) 3.5
Income statement:   
Net interest income / (cost)
1
 2.8 (2.7) 0.1
Statement of comprehensive income:   
Actuarial (losses) / gains arising from experience adjustments (1.9) 1.2 (0.7)
Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions – 1.1 1.1
Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions – 6.3 6.3
Contributions by employer 2.8 – 2.8
Benefits paid (1.7) 1.7 –
At 31 December 2015 85.1 (72.0) 13.1
Note: 
1. The net interest income / (cost) in the income statement has been included under other operating expenses. 
The table below details the history of the scheme for the current and prior years. 
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Present value of defined benefit scheme obligations (72.0) (79.6) (68.0) (61.2) (54.1)
Fair value of defined benefit scheme assets 85.1 83.1 66.0 63.7 56.7
Net surplus / (deficit) 13.1 3.5 (2.0) 2.5 2.6
Experience adjustment gains / (losses) on scheme liabilities 1.2 1.0 (0.2) (0.1) 0.4
Experience adjustment (losses) / gains on scheme assets (1.9) 12.9 (1.3) 2.2 (2.6)
Sensitivity analysis 
The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions  
left unchanged. Other potential risks beyond the ones described in the table could have an additional financial impact on the 
Group. This sensitivity analysis has been selected to reflect the changes to discounted cash flows as a result of changes to the 
discount rate, inflation rate and mortality assumptions. The methodology adopted involves actuarial techniques. 
 Impact on pension cost 
Impact on present value 
of defined benefit 
scheme obligations 
 
2015
£m
2014 
£m 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Discount rate   
0.25% increase in discount rate (0.2) (0.2) (3.7) (4.1)
0.25% decrease in discount rate 0.2 0.1 3.7 4.1
Inflation rate   
0.25% increase in inflation rate – – 1.7 2.1
0.25% decrease in inflation rate – – (1.7) (2.1)
Life expectancy   
1 year increase in life expectancy 0.1 0.1 2.0 1.8
1 year decrease in life expectancy (0.1) (0.1) (2.0) (1.8)
The most recent funding valuation of the defined benefit scheme took place as at 1 October 2014. The Group agreed with the 
trustees to make a contribution of £2.8 million in 2016 with further contributions of up to £1.5 million per annum in 2017 and 
2018 to meet the scheme’s funding requirements.  www.directlinegroup.com 157
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 157
34. Share-based payments 
The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans in the form of an LTIP, a Restricted Shares Plan, a DAIP and 
Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans, including both the Free Share awards and a Buy-As-You-Earn Plan, details of which are 
set out below. All awards are to be satisfied using market purchased shares. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan 
Executive Directors and certain members of senior management are eligible to participate in the LTIP with awards granted in  
the form of nil-cost options. Under the plan, the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon the continued 
employment by the Group and also the Group achieving predefined performance conditions associated with TSR and RoTE. 
Awards were made in the year ended 31 December 2015 over 1.7 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 
£5.5 million at the March 2015 grant date (2014: 2.2 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of £4.3 million) 
and 1.7 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of £5.9 million at the August 2015 grant date (2014: 2.0 million 
Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of £4.7 million). 
The estimated fair value of the LTIP share awards with market-based performance conditions was calculated using a Monte-Carlo 
simulation model. 
The table below details the inputs into the model. 
 2015 2014
Weighted average assumptions during the year:  
Share price (pence) 339 270
Exercise price (pence) 0 0
Volatility of share price  20% 26%
Average comparator volatility  27% 30%
Expected life  3 years 3 years
Risk-free rate  0.8% 1.1%
Expected volatility was determined by considering the actual volatility of the Group’s share price since IPO and that of a group  
of listed UK insurance companies.  
Plan participants are entitled to receive additional shares in respect of dividends paid to shareholders over the vesting period. 
Therefore no deduction has been made from the fair value of awards in respect of dividends. 
Expected life was based on the contractual life of the awards and adjusted based on management’s best estimate, for the effects 
of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
Restricted Shares Plan 
The purpose of the Restricted Shares Plan is to facilitate the wider participation in Group share based awards to eligible 
employees. These awards can be granted at any time during the year, generally have no performance criteria, and vest over 
periods ranging between one and three years from the date of the grant, subject to continued employment. During the year 
awards were made over 15,705 Ordinary Shares (2014: 509,103 Ordinary Shares) with an estimated fair value of £0.1 
million (2014: £1.4 million) using the market value at the date of grant.  
Deferred Annual Incentive Plan  
To incentivise delivery of performance over a one-year operating cycle, Executive Directors and certain members of senior 
management are eligible for awards under the Annual Incentive Plan, of which at least 40% is granted in the form of a nil-cost 
option under the DAIP with the remainder being settled in cash following year end. 
In March 2015 awards were made over 1.0 million Ordinary Shares (2014: 1.1 million Ordinary Shares) under this plan  
with an estimated fair value of £3.4 million (2014: £2.6 million) using the market value at the date of grant. 
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2015 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the 
employee remains in employment with the Group for three years from the date of grant. 
Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans: Free Share awards 
In March 2015, the Group offered all eligible UK employees a Free Share award granting 122 Ordinary Shares free of  
charge. These awards have no performance criteria attached and vest on the third anniversary of the award grant date, subject 
to completion of three years, continuing employment. The Group initially granted 1.3 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated 
fair value of £4.2 million using the market value at the date of grant. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 158
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 158
34. Share-based payments continued 
Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans: Buy-As-You-Earn Plan 
The Buy-As-You-Earn Plan entitles employees to purchase shares from pre-tax pay for between £10 and £150 per month  
and receive one matching share for every two shares purchased. 
In the year ended 31 December 2015, matching share awards were granted over 0.3 million Ordinary Shares  
(2014: 0.3 million Ordinary Shares) with an estimated fair value of £1.1 million (2014: £0.8 million). The fair value  
of each matching share award is estimated using the market value at the date of grant. 
Under the plan, the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon the continued employment with the Group 
together with continued ownership of the associated purchased shares up to the point of vesting. 
The following table details the outstanding number of share awards in issue (all nil-cost awards). 
 
Number of  
share awards 
millions 
2015 
Number of 
share awards
millions
2014
At 1 January 16.4 11.4
Granted during the year
1 
6.8 6.1
Impact of share consolidation (see note 28) (1.6) –
Forfeited during the year (1.5) (0.8)
Exercised during the year (2.9) (0.3)
At 31 December 17.2 16.4
Exercisable at 31 December 1.6 0.3
Note: 
1. In accordance with the rules of the LTIP and DAIP award plans, additional awards of 0.8 million shares were granted during the year ended 31 December 2015 
(2014: nil) in respect of the equivalent dividend. 
In respect of the outstanding options at 31 December 2015, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 1.44 years 
(2014: 1.66 years). No share awards expired during the year (2014: nil). 
The weighted average share price for awards exercised during the year ended 31 December 2015 was £3.95 (2014: £2.56). 
The Group recognised total expenses in the year ended 31 December 2015 of £12.1 million (2014: £6.6 million) relating  
to equity-settled share-based compensation plans. 
Further information on share-based payments, in respect of Directors, is provided in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
   www.directlinegroup.com 159
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 159
35. Trade and other payables including insurance payables 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Due to agents, brokers and intermediaries 22.5 19.3
Due to reinsurers 78.9 57.0
Due to insurance companies 4.7 5.3
Trade creditors and accruals 295.5 342.8
Other creditors 98.8 96.5
Other taxes 78.9 55.0
Provisions 73.1 79.4
Deferred income 4.1 5.3
Total 656.5 660.6
Movement in provisions during the year 
 
Regulatory levies
 £m
Restructuring  
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2015 26.5 8.4 44.5 79.4
Additional provision 32.0 6.0 44.9 82.9
Utilisation of provision (31.3) (3.7) (45.0) (80.0)
Released to income statement – (1.7) (7.5) (9.2)
At 31 December 2015 27.2 9.0 36.9 73.1
.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 160
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 160
36. Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Profit for the year 580.4 372.6
Adjustments for:  
Investment return (235.2) (237.2)
Instalment income (101.5) (105.2)
Finance costs 37.6 37.2
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 12.1 6.6
Tax charge 127.7 105.2
Depreciation and amortisation expenses 95.3 84.8
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets 9.1 9.6
Impairment movements on reinsurance contracts (12.5) 13.2
Impairment movements on assets held for sale – freehold property 12.9 9.6
Profit on disposal of assets held for sale – disposal group (167.1) –
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 4.7 0.3
Profit on disposal of subsidiary – (2.3) 
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 363.5 294.4
Movements in working capital:  
Net decrease in net insurance liabilities including reinsurance assets, unearned premium reserves 
and deferred acquisition costs (194.5) (589.0)
Net increase in prepayments and accrued income and other assets (2.8) (19.1)
Net decrease in insurance and other receivables (66.4) 59.2
Net increase / (decrease) in trade and other payables including insurance payables 52.3 (57.9)
Contribution to retirement benefit obligations (2.8) (2.8)
Cash generated from / (used by) operations 149.3 (315.2)
Taxes paid (107.4) (94.8)
Cash flow hedges 0.2 (0.6)
Net cash flow generated from / (used by) operating activities before investment of insurance assets 42.1 (410.6)
Interest received 318.7 358.5
Rental income received from investment property 17.9 16.2
Purchases of investment property (16.0) (76.2)
Proceeds on disposal of investment property – 21.1
Proceeds on disposal / maturity of AFS debt securities 3,549.3 3,141.0
Net (increase) /decrease in financial investments: loans and receivables (242.5) 304.8
Purchases of AFS debt securities (3,110.8) (2,644.3)
Purchase of HTM debt securities (13.5) –
Cash generated from investment of insurance assets 503.1 1,121.1
37. Contingent liabilities 
The Group did not have any contingent liabilities at 31 December 2015 (2014: none).  www.directlinegroup.com 161
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 161
38. Commitments 
Operating lease commitments 
The Group has entered into non-cancellable operating lease agreements for properties, vehicles and other assets. 
Continuing operations 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 18.4 25.6
The minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense for discontinued operations during the year 
ended 31 December 2015 were £0.8 million (2014: £2.5 million). 
The following table analyses the outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases by the period in which they fall due. 
Continuing operations 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Within one year 16.2 17.1
In the second to fifth years inclusive 51.7 55.1
After five years 161.9 178.5
Total 229.8 250.7
There were no outstanding commitments in relation to the Group’s discontinued operations at 31 December 2015  
(2014: £11.5 million). 
Operating lease commitments where the Group is the lessor 
The following table analyses future aggregate minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases in 
respect of property leased to third-party tenants. 
Continuing operations 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Within one year 15.7 14.6
In the second to fifth years inclusive 53.6 51.7
After five years 89.3 99.6
Total  158.6 165.9
There were no commitments by third parties to make lease payments to the Group’s discontinued operations at 31 December 
2015 (2014: £nil).  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 162
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 162
39. Fair value 
The methodology adopted by the Group for fair value measurement of investment properties, financial assets and liabilities and 
the basis for determining the fair value hierarchy are explained in note 2.3. 
Comparison of carrying value to fair value of financial instruments 
The following table compares the carrying value and the fair value of financial instruments (excluding the disposal group – note 
5B). Differences arise where the measurement basis of the asset or liability is not fair value (e.g. assets and liabilities carried at 
amortised cost).  
 Fair value Carrying value Fair value Carrying value
 
2015
£m
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
2014
£m
Financial assets   
Derivative assets (note 25) 19.6 19.6 27.3 27.3
AFS debt securities (note 26) 5,226.6 5,226.6 5,830.3 5,830.3
HTM debt securities (note 26) 12.7 13.5 – –
Deposits with credit institutions > three months (note 26) 44.9 44.9 54.7 54.7
Infrastructure debt (note 26)  322.2 329.6 76.0 76.2
Financial liabilities   
Subordinated liabilities (note 30) 623.2 521.1 651.9 526.3
Derivative liabilities (note 25) 46.4 46.4 29.4 29.4
Fair values of the following assets and liabilities (including assets and liabilities held in the disposal group – note 5B) approximate 
their carrying values: 
• Insurance and other receivables 
• Cash and cash equivalents 
• Borrowings 
• Trade and other payables including insurance payables (excluding provisions) 
Fair value hierarchy analysis 
The tables below analyse the Group’s assets and liabilities carried at fair value (excluding the disposal group – note 5C) by 
reference to the Group’s fair value hierarchy (note 2.3).  
At 31 December 2015 
Level 1
£m
Level 2 
£m 
Level 3 
£m 
Total
£m
Investment property (note 20) – – 347.4 347.4
Derivative assets (note 25) – 19.6 – 19.6
AFS debt securities (note 26) 442.7 4,783.9 – 5,226.6
Total assets 442.7 4,803.5 347.4 5,593.6
Derivative liabilities (note 25) – 46.4 – 46.4
Total liabilities – 46.4 – 46.4
 
At 31 December 2014 
Level 1
£m
Level 2 
£m 
Level 3 
£m 
Total
£m
Investment property (note 20) – – 307.2 307.2
Derivative assets (note 25) – 27.3 – 27.3
AFS debt securities (note 26) 985.6 4,844.7 – 5,830.3
Total assets 985.6 4,872.0 307.2 6,164.8
Derivative liabilities (note 25) – 29.4 – 29.4
Total liabilities – 29.4 – 29.4
The movements in assets classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy are all within Investment property and are analysed  
in note 20. There were no changes in the categorisation of assets between Levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year for assets and 
liabilities held at 31 December 2014.  www.directlinegroup.com 163
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 163
40. Related parties 
Transactions between the Group’s subsidiary undertakings, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and 
accordingly are not disclosed.  
RBS Group was formerly a related party of the Group, as a result of its ownership of Ordinary Shares, up until the point of selling 
its remaining shares on 27 February 2014. The RBS Group transactions and balances included below are for historical 
transactions, prior to the date of sale when the related party relationship ceased. 
Transactions with related parties 
 
 2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Sale of insurance contracts and other services  – 0.3
Purchase of services  – 19.7
Sale and purchase of products and services were conducted on an arm’s length basis. 
Year end balances arising from sales and purchases of products and services to and from related parties 
 Amounts owed by related parties Amounts owed to related parties
 
2015
£m
2014 
£m 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Total 0.2 0.2 – 25.4
Movement in amounts owed by and to related parties 
 Amounts owed by related parties Amounts owed to related parties
 
2015
£m
2014 
£m 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
At 1 January 0.2 0.9 25.4 58.7
Transactions in the year – 0.1 – 19.1
Settled in the year – (0.8) (25.4) (52.4)
At 31 December 0.2 0.2 – 25.4
Compensation of key management 
 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Short-term employee benefits 9.5 10.2
Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.3
Termination benefits – 0.4
Share-based payments 4.5 3.4
Total 14.2 14.3
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 164
Parent Company balance sheet 
As at 31 December 2015 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 164
 
 Notes 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m
Assets   
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 2 3,067.4 3,065.0
Other receivables 4 540.8 523.3
Current tax assets 5 – 1.2
Derivative financial instruments 6 0.4 2.4
Financial investments 7 7.1 5.1
Cash and cash equivalents 8 29.8 51.2
Assets held for sale 3 – 114.8
Total assets  3,645.5 3,763.0
   
Equity  3,131.6 3,258.2
 
Liabilities   
Subordinated liabilities 10 503.9 503.1
Derivative financial instruments 6 0.4 0.6
Trade and other payables 11 6.6 1.1
Current tax liabilities 5 3.0 –
Total liabilities  513.9 504.8
Total equity and liabilities  3,645.5 3,763.0
The attached notes on pages 167 to 171 form an integral part of these separate financial statements. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 29 February 2016. They were 
signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
John Reizenstein 
Chief Financial Officer 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc 
Registration No. 02280426 www.directlinegroup.com 165
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Parent Company statement of comprehensive income  
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
www.directlinegroup.com 165
  
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Profit for the year 539.5 436.7
Other comprehensive (loss) / income  
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement:  
Cash flow hedges (1.2) 1.2
Other comprehensive (loss) / income net of tax (1.2) 1.2
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to owners of the Company 538.3 437.9
 
Parent Company statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
The attached notes on pages 167 to 171 form an integral part of these separate financial statements.
 
Share
capital
£m
Capital 
reserves
£m
Share-based 
payment
reserve
£m
Foreign 
exchange 
translation 
reserve  
£m 
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Total 
shareholder 
equity 
£m
Balance at 1 January 2014 150.0 1,450.0 3.9 – 1,611.9 3,215.8
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 1.2 436.7 437.9
Dividends paid – – – – (401.1) (401.1)
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based 
payments – – 6.6 – – 6.6
Shares distributed by employee trusts – – (1.0) – – (1.0)
Balance at 31 December 2014 150.0 1,450.0 9.5 1.2 1,647.5 3,258.2
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (1.2) 539.5 538.3
Dividends paid – – – – (666.0) (666.0)
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based 
payments – – 12.1 – – 12.1
Shares distributed by employee trusts – – (11.0) – – (11.0)
Balance at 31 December 2015 150.0 1,450.0 10.6 – 1,521.0 3,131.6 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 166
Parent Company cash flow statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2015 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 166
 Notes 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Net cash used by operating activities 13 (3.1) (0.1)
Cash flows from investing activities   
Interest received on loans to subsidiary undertakings  47.5 47.6
Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings  671.0 446.7
Net increase in loans advanced to subsidiary undertakings  (21.8) –
Capital contribution to subsidiary undertakings  (225.0) –
Disposal of investments in subsidiary undertakings 2 – 2.7
Disposal of assets held for sale 3 224.3 –
Purchase of AFS debt securities  (2.0) (5.1)
Net cash generated from investing activities  694.0 491.9
Cash flows from financing activities   
Dividends paid 12 (666.0) (401.1)
Finance costs  (46.3) (46.3)
Net cash used by financing activities  (712.3) (447.4)
Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents  (21.4) 44.4
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 8 51.2 6.8
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 8 29.8 51.2
The attached notes on pages 167 to 171 form an integral part of these separate financial statements. www.directlinegroup.com 167
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements 
 
www.directlinegroup.com 167
1. Accounting policies 
1.1 Basis of preparation 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc, registered in England and Wales (company number 02280426), is the ultimate parent 
company of the Direct Line Group. The principal activity of the Company is managing its investments in subsidiaries, providing 
loans to those subsidiaries, raising funds for the Group and the receipt and payment of dividends. 
The Company’s financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB and are presented in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006. In accordance with the exemption permitted under section 408 of the Companies  
Act 2006, the Company’s income statement and related notes have not been presented in these separate financial statements. 
The accounting policies that are used in the preparation of these separate financial statements are consistent with the accounting 
policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Direct Line Insurance Group plc as set out in those 
financial statements. 
The additional accounting policies that are specific to the separate financial statements of the Company are set out below. 
1.2 Investment in subsidiaries 
Investment in subsidiaries is stated at cost less any impairment. 
1.3 Dividend income 
Dividend income from investment in subsidiaries is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. 
2. Investment in subsidiary undertakings 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
At 1 January 3,065.0 3,181.5
Additional investment in subsidiary undertakings 237.0 6.6
Disposal of subsidiary undertaking – (4.0)
Impairment of subsidiary undertakings (234.6) (4.3)
Transfer to assets held for sale –  (114.8)
At 31 December 3,067.4 3,065.0
The Company sold 100% of the share capital of its subsidiary Tracker Network (UK) Limited on 5 February 2014. The carrying 
value of the investment in Tracker was £4.0 million at the date of sale. The total cash consideration received was £2.7 million, 
generating a loss on disposal of £1.3 million. 
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 168
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements continued 
 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 168
2. Investment in subsidiary undertakings continued 
The subsidiary undertakings of the Company are set out below. Their capital consists of Ordinary Shares which are unlisted.  
In all cases, the Company owns 100% of the Ordinary Shares, either directly or through its ownership of other subsidiaries,  
and exercises full control over their decision making. 
Name of subsidiary 
Place of incorporation  
and operation Principal activity 
Directly held by the Company:   
Direct Line Group Limited United Kingdom Intermediate holding company 
DL Insurance Services Limited United Kingdom Management services 
Finsure Premium Finance Limited United Kingdom Dormant 
Inter Group Insurance Services Limited United Kingdom Intermediate holding company 
UK Assistance Accident Repair Centres Limited United Kingdom Motor vehicle repair services 
UK Assistance Limited United Kingdom Dormant 
U K Insurance Business Solutions Limited United Kingdom Insurance broking services 
U K Insurance Limited United Kingdom General insurance 
Indirectly held by the Company:   
10-15 Livery Street, Birmingham UK Limited Jersey Property rental company 
Churchill Insurance Company Limited United Kingdom General insurance 
Direct Line Insurance Limited United Kingdom Dormant 
DL Dormant 5 Limited United Kingdom Dormant 
DL Dormant 6 Limited United Kingdom Dormant 
DLG Legal Services Limited United Kingdom Legal services 
DLG Pension Trustee Limited United Kingdom Dormant 
DL Support Services India Private Limited India Management services 
Farmweb Limited United Kingdom Dormant 
Green Flag Group Limited United Kingdom Intermediate holding company 
Green Flag Holdings Limited United Kingdom Intermediate holding company 
Green Flag Limited United Kingdom Breakdown recovery services 
Intergroup Assistance Services Limited United Kingdom Dormant 
National Breakdown Recovery Club Limited United Kingdom Dormant 
Nationwide Breakdown Recovery Services Limited United Kingdom Dormant 
The National Insurance Breakdown and Guarantee 
Corporation Limited United Kingdom Dormant 
UKI Life Assurance Services Limited United Kingdom Dormant 
3. Assets held for sale 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Investment in subsidiary undertaking  – 114.8
On 29 May 2015, the Company completed the sale of its German subsidiary Direct Line Versicherung AG for a cash 
consideration of £232.6 million, incurring transaction costs of £8.3 million and generating a profit on disposal of £109.5 
million. The investment in subsidiary was transferred to assets held for sale on 25 September 2014 when the Company entered 
into a binding agreement for the sale.  www.directlinegroup.com 169
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 169
4. Other receivables 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Loans to subsidiary undertakings
1
 540.8 518.9
Receivables from subsidiary undertakings – 2.9
Other debtors – 1.5
Total 540.8 523.3
Current 40.8 23.3
Non-current 500.0 500.0
Total 540.8 523.3
Note: 
1.  Included in loans to subsidiary undertakings is a £500 million unsecured subordinated loan to U K Insurance Limited. The loan was advanced on 27 April 2012 
at a fixed rate of 9.5% with a repayment date of 27 April 2042. There is an option to repay the loan on specific dates from 27 April 2022. If the loan is not 
repaid on 27 April 2022, the rate of interest will be reset at a rate of the six-month LIBOR plus 8.16%.  
5. Current tax  
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Corporate tax assets – 1.2
Corporation tax liabilities (3.0) –
6. Derivative financial instruments 
 Notional amount Fair value Notional amount Fair value
 
2015
£m
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
2014
£m
Derivative assets    
Designated as hedging instruments:   
Third parties 4.6 0.3 435.6 2.4
Subsidiary undertakings 0.7 0.1 – –
Total 5.3 0.4 435.6 2.4
Derivative liabilities    
Designated as hedging instruments:   
Third parties 0.7 0.1 – –
Subsidiary undertakings 4.6 0.3 8.3 0.6
Total 5.3 0.4 8.3 0.6
Designated hedging instruments at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 include foreign exchange hedge contracts 
relating to supplier payments on behalf of its subsidiaries. At 31 December 2014, the Company also had a foreign currency 
hedge contract converting Euro to Sterling in respect of the proceeds from the sale of the International business, which ceased on 
completion of the sale. 
7. Financial investments 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
AFS debt securities 7.1 5.1
8. Cash and cash equivalents 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 0.1 0.1
Short-term deposits with credit institutions with maturities less than 3 months 29.7 51.1
Total 29.8 51.2
9. Share capital 
Full details of the share capital of the Company are set out in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 170
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements continued 
 
 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 170
10. Subordinated liabilities 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Subordinated guaranteed dated notes  503.9 503.1
The subordinated guaranteed dated notes were issued on 27 April 2012 at a fixed rate of 9.25%. The nominal £500.0 million 
notes have a redemption date of 27 April 2042. The Company has the option to repay the notes on specific dates from 27 April 
2022. If the notes are not repaid on 27 April 2022, the rate of interest will be reset at a rate of the six-month LIBOR plus 7.91%.  
The notes are unsecured, subordinated obligations of the Company, and rank pari passu without any preference among 
themselves. In the event of a winding up or of insolvency, they are to be repaid only after the claims of all other senior creditors 
have been met. 
The notes are guaranteed by U K Insurance Limited, a principal subsidiary of the Company. 
The Company has the option, in certain circumstances, to defer interest payments on the notes but to date has not exercised  
this right. 
The aggregate fair value of subordinated guaranteed dated notes at 31 December 2015 was £623.2 million (2014:  
£651.9 million). 
11. Trade and other payables 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Payables to subsidiary undertakings 3.8 1.0
Payables to third parties – 0.1
Provision 2.8 –
Total 6.6 1.1
Movement in provision during the year 
  
Total
£m
At 1 January 2015  –
Additional provision  8.3
Utilisation of provision  (5.5)
At 31 December 2015  2.8
12. Dividends 
Full details of the dividends paid and proposed by the Company are set out in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.  
13. Cash generated from operations 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Profit for the year 539.5 436.7
Adjustments for:  
Impairment of investment in subsidiary undertakings 234.6 4.3
Investment return (720.5) (495.1)
Finance costs 47.1 46.9
Loss on disposal of subsidiary undertakings – 1.3
Profit on disposal of assets held for sale (109.5) –
Tax charge / (credit) 3.0 (1.2) 
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital (5.8) (7.1)
Movements in working capital:  
Net (increase) / decrease in other receivables (4.0) 4.8
Net increase in trade and other payables 5.5 0.6
Tax received 1.2 1.6
Cash used by operations (3.1) (0.1)
  www.directlinegroup.com 171
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
 
www.directlinegroup.com 171
14. Related parties 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc, which is incorporated in England and Wales, is the ultimate parent undertaking of the Direct Line 
Group of companies.  
Full details of related parties are set out in note 40 to the consolidated financial statements. 
The following transactions were carried out with related parties: 
Sales of services 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Interest receivable from subsidiary undertakings 47.5 47.6
Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings 671.0 446.7
Interest income from loans to subsidiary undertakings was charged at rates ranging from 0.5% to 9.5% (2014: 0.5% to 9.5%). 
Purchases of services 
 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m
Management fees payable to subsidiary undertakings 6.0 7.3
Interest payable to subsidiary undertakings 0.2 –
Total 6.2 7.3
Interest charged on borrowings from related parties was at rates ranging from 0.5% to 0.6% (2014: 0.5% to 0.6%). 
15. Share-based payments 
Full details of share-based compensation plans are provided in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements. 
16. Risk management 
The risks faced by the Company, arising from its investment in subsidiaries, are considered to be the same as those in the 
operations of the Group. Details of the key risks and the steps taken to manage them are disclosed in note 3 to the consolidated 
financial statements. The Company also holds, on behalf of its subsidiaries, designated hedging instruments which relate to 
foreign currency supplier payments. 
17. Directors and key management remuneration 
The Directors and key management of the Group and the Company are the same. The aggregate emoluments of the Directors 
are set out in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements, the compensation for key management is set out in note 40 to the 
consolidated financial statements and the remuneration and pension benefits payable in respect of the highest paid Director are 
included in the Directors’ remuneration report in the Governance section of the Annual Report & Accounts. 
  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 172
Additional information 
172   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Corporate website 
The Group’s corporate website is www.directlinegroup.com .  
It contains useful information for the Company’s investors and 
shareholders. For example, it includes press releases, details  
of forthcoming events, essential shareholder information, a 
dividend history, a financial calendar, and details of the 
Company’s AGM. You can also subscribe to email news alerts. 
Market 
The Company has a premium listing on the UK Listing 
Authority’s Official List. The Company’s Ordinary Shares (EPIC: 
DLG) are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange. 
Share ownership 
Share capital 
You can find details of the Company’s share capital in note 28 
to the consolidated financial statements. 
Dividends 
The Company pays its dividends in Sterling to shareholders 
registered on its register of members at the relevant record date. 
Shareholders can arrange to receive their cash dividend 
payments in a bank or building society by completing a 
dividend mandate form. This is available from the Company’s 
registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC (“Registrar”),  
in the UK. You can find the Registrar’s contact details on  
the inside back cover. Alternatively, shareholders can  
access their shareholdings online and download a dividend 
mandate form from the Investor Centre. You can find details  
of this below. 
Dividend Reinvestment Plan 
The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan. This 
enables shareholders to use their cash dividends to buy the 
Company’s Ordinary Shares in the market. You can find  
more details on the Company’s website.  
Shareholder enquiries 
Shareholders with queries about anything relating to their 
shares can contact our Registrar. 
Shareholders should notify the Registrar of any change in 
shareholding details, such as their address, as soon as possible. 
Shareholders can access their current shareholding details 
online at www.investorcentre.co.uk/directline . Investor Centre 
is a free-to-use, secure, self-service website that enables 
shareholders to manage their holdings online. The website 
allows shareholders to: 
• Check their holdings 
• Update their records, including address and direct  
credit details 
• Access all their securities in one portfolio by setting up  
a personal account 
• Vote online 
• Register to receive electronic shareholder communications 
The website requires shareholders to quote their Shareholder 
Reference Number to access this information. Shareholders 
can find this number on their share certificates.  
Shareholder warning 
Almost five thousand people contact the Financial Conduct 
Authority (“FCA”) about share fraud each year – and victims 
lose an average of £20,000. 
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure 
investors into scams. They may offer to sell shares that prove to 
be worthless or non-existent. Or they can offer to buy shares at 
an inflated price in return for you paying upfront. They promise 
high profits. However, if you buy or sell shares in this way,  
you will probably lose your money. 
How to avoid share fraud 
• Remember that FCA-authorised firms are unlikely to contact 
you out of the blue offering to buy or sell shares 
• Do not converse with them. Note the name of the person 
and firm contacting you, then end the call 
• Check the Financial Services Register at www.fca.org.uk  
to see if the person and firm contacting you are authorised 
by the FCA 
• Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm; 
copying its website; or giving you false contact details 
• If you want to call them back, use the firm’s contact details 
listed on the Financial Services Register at www.fca.org.uk 
• If the firm does not have contact details on the Register or 
they tell you the details are out of date, call the FCA on 
0800 111 6768 
• Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at 
www.fca.org.uk/consumers/scams 
• Remember that if you buy or sell shares from an 
unauthorised firm, you cannot access the Financial 
Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme 
• Get independent financial and professional advice before 
handing over any money 
• If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is 
Report a scam 
If fraudsters approach you, tell the FCA using the share fraud 
reporting form at www.fca.org.uk/consumers/scams . You  
can also find out more about investment scams on the same  
web page. 
You can call the FCA Consumer Helpline on  
0800 111 6768. 
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters,  
contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.  www.directlinegroup.com 173
Strategic report Governance Other information
 
www.directlinegroup.com   173 
Tips on protecting your shares 
• Keep all your certificates in a safe place. Alternatively, 
consider holding your shares in the UK’s electronic 
registration and settlement system for equity, CREST, or  
via a nominee 
• Keep correspondence from the Registrar that shows your 
shareholder reference number in a safe place, and shred 
unwanted correspondence 
• Inform the Registrar as soon as you change your address 
• If you receive a letter from the Registrar regarding a change 
of address and you have not recently moved, contact  
them immediately 
• Find out when your dividends are paid and contact the 
Registrar if you do not receive them 
• Consider having your dividends paid direct into your bank 
account. You will need to complete a dividend mandate 
form and send it to the Registrar. This reduces the risk of 
cheques being stolen or lost in the post 
• If you change your bank account, inform the Registrar of 
your new account details immediately 
• If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers 
registered in the UK or in your country of residence 
• Be aware that the Company will never call you concerning 
investments. If you receive such a call from a person saying 
they represent the Group, please contact the Company 
Secretary immediately, by calling +44 (0)1132 920 667 
Electronic communications and voting 
The Group produces various communications. Shareholders 
can view these online, download them or receive paper 
copies by contacting the Registrar. 
Shareholders who register their email address with our 
Registrar or at the Investor Centre can receive emails with  
news on events, such as the AGM. They can also receive 
shareholder communications like the Annual Report & Accounts 
and Notice of Meeting electronically. 
Dealing facilities 
Shareholders can buy, sell or transfer their shares through a 
stockbroker or a high street bank, or through the Registrar’s 
share-dealing facility. 
You can call or email the Registrar regarding its share-dealing 
facility using this contact information: 
• For telephone sales, call +44 (0)370 703 0084 between 
8.30 am and 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday, excluding 
public holidays 
• For internet sales, go to 
www.investorcentre.co.uk/directline . You will need your 
Shareholder Reference Number, as shown on your share 
certificate or your welcome letter from the Chairman 
Dividend tax allowance 
From April 2016 dividend tax credits will be replaced by an 
annual £5,000 tax-free allowance across an individual’s entire 
share portfolio. Above this amount, individuals will pay tax on 
their dividend income at a rate dependent on their income tax 
bracket and personal circumstances. The Company will 
continue to provide registered shareholders with a confirmation 
of the dividends paid and this should be included with any 
other dividend income received when calculating and 
reporting total dividend income received to HMRC. It is the 
shareholder’s responsibility to include all dividend income 
when calculating tax requirements. 
This change was announced by the Chancellor of the 
Exchequer, as part of the UK Government Budget, in July 
2015. Draft legislation was published on 9 December 2015 
and is intended to be enacted in the proposed UK Finance Bill 
2016. If you have any tax queries, please contact your 
financial adviser. 
Financial calendar 
2016 
Date Event 
1 March Preliminary Results 2015 
10 March ‘Ex-dividend’ date for 2015 final and 
second special interim dividends 
11 March Record date for 2015 final and  
second special interim dividends 
4 May
1
 Trading update for the first quarter  
of 2016 
12 May Annual General Meeting 
19 May Payment date for 2015 final and 
second special interim dividends 
2 August
1
 Half Year Report 2016 
11 August
1
 ‘Ex-dividend’ date for 2016  
interim dividend 
12 August
1
 Record date for 2016 interim dividend 
9 September
1
 Payment date for 2016 interim dividend
8 November
1
 Trading update for the third quarter  
of 2016 
Annual General Meeting 
The 2016 AGM will be held on 12 May 2016 at the offices 
of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD, 
starting at 11.00 am. All shareholders will receive a separate 
notice convening the AGM. This will explain the resolutions to 
be put to the meeting.
  
Note: 
1. These dates are subject to change.  Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 174
Glossary 
174   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
Term Definition and explanation 
Actuarial best estimate The probability-weighted average of all future claims and cost scenarios. It is calculated using 
historical data, actuarial methods and judgement. A best estimate of reserves will therefore  
normally be designed to include no margin for optimism or, conversely, caution. 
Adjusted diluted earnings 
per share 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share includes ongoing operations and excludes discontinued 
operations, the Run-off segment, restructuring and other one-off costs and the gain on disposal  
of subsidiary (using the UK standard tax rate of 20.25%; 2014: 21.5%). The comparative periods 
include profit after tax for discontinued operations (at the UK standard tax rate), as these were 
managed as part of ongoing operations. 
Annual Incentive Plan 
(“AIP”) 
This is designed to incentivise the performance of executives and employees over a one-year 
operating cycle. It focuses on the short to medium-term elements of the Group’s strategic aims. 
Available-for-sale (“AFS”) 
investment 
Financial assets that are classified as available-for-sale. Please refer to the accounting policy  
note 1.12 on page 114. 
Buy-As-You-Earn The HM Revenue & Customs approved Buy-As-You-Earn Share Incentive Plan allows all employees 
the opportunity to become shareholders in the Company. 
Capital The funds invested in the Group, including funds invested by shareholders and retained profits. 
Claims frequency The number of claims divided by the number of policies per year. 
Claims reserve (provision 
for losses and loss-
adjustment expense) 
Funds the Group sets aside to meet the estimated cost of claims payments and related expenses  
that the Group considers it will ultimately need to pay. 
Clawback The ability of the Company to claim repayment of paid amounts. 
Combined operating ratio 
(“COR”) 
The sum of the loss, commission and expense ratios. The ratio measures the amount of claims costs, 
commission and expenses compared to net earned premium generated. A ratio of less than 100% 
indicates profitable business. 
Commission Payments to brokers, partners and PCWs for generating business. 
Commission ratio The ratio of commission expense divided by net earned premium. 
Continuing operations Continuing operations include all activities other than discontinued operations. 
Current-year attritional  
loss ratio 
The loss ratio for the current accident year, excluding the movement of claims reserves relating to 
previous accident years, and claims relating to major weather events in the Home division. 
Deferred Annual Incentive 
Plan (“DAIP”) 
For Executive Directors, at least 40% of the AIP award is deferred into shares typically vesting  
three years after grant. The remainder of the award is paid in cash following year-end. 
Discontinued operations The Group has sold its International division to Mapfre, S.A. See note 5 to the consolidated 
financial statements on page 136. 
Earnings per share The amount of the Group’s profit allocated to each Ordinary Share of the Company. 
Employee Representative 
Body 
A forum that represents all employees, including in circumstances where there is a legal requirement 
to consult employees. 
Expense ratio The ratio of operating expenses divided by net earned premium. 
Finance costs The cost of servicing the Group’s external borrowings. 
Financial Conduct Authority 
(“FCA”) 
The independent body that regulates firms and financial advisers. It puts the customers’ interests  
and market integrity at the core of financial service providers’ activities. 
Financial Reporting Council The UK’s independent regulator responsible for promoting high-quality corporate governance  
and reporting to foster investment. 
Gross written premium The total premiums from contracts that began during the period. 
International Accounting 
Standards Board (“IASB”) 
A not-for-profit public interest organisation that is overseen by a monitoring board of public authorities. 
It develops IFRS. These standards aim to make worldwide markets transparent, accountable and 
efficient. 
Incurred but not reported 
(“IBNR”) 
Funds set aside to meet the cost of claims for accidents that have occurred, but have not yet been 
reported to the Group. 
In-force policies The number of policies on a given date that are active and against which the Group will pay, 
following a valid insurance claim. 
Insurance liabilities This comprises insurance claims reserves and claims handling provision, which the Group maintains 
to meet current and future claims. 
Investment income yield The income earned from the investment portfolio, recognised through the income statement during 
the period and divided by the average assets under management (“AUM”). This excludes unrealised 
and realised gains and losses, impairments and fair-value adjustments. The average AUM is derived 
from the period’s opening and closing balances. 
   www.directlinegroup.com 175
Strategic report Governance Other information
 
www.directlinegroup.com   175 
Term Definition and explanation 
Investment return The income earned from the investment portfolio, including unrealised and realised gains and losses, 
impairments and fair value adjustments. 
Investment return yield The return earned from the investment portfolio, recognised through the income statement during  
the period divided by the average AUM. This includes unrealised and realised gains and losses, 
impairments and fair-value adjustments. The average AUM derives from the period’s opening  
and closing balances. 
Loss ratio Net insurance claims divided by net earned premium. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan 
(“LTIP”) 
Awards made as nil-cost options or conditional share awards, which vest to the extent that 
performance conditions are satisfied after a period of at least three years. 
Malus An arrangement that permits unvested remuneration awards to be forfeited, when the Company 
considers it appropriate. 
Net asset value The net asset value of the Group is calculated by subtracting total liabilities from total assets. 
Net claims The cost of claims incurred in the period less any claims costs recovered under reinsurance contracts. 
It includes claims payments and movements in claims reserves. 
Net earned premium The element of gross earned premium less reinsurance premium ceded for the period where 
insurance cover has already been provided. 
Ogden discount rate The discount rate set by the relevant government bodies, the Lord Chancellor and Scottish Ministers. 
Bodily injury cases use them to calculate lump-sum awards. 
Ongoing operations Ongoing operations comprise Direct Line Group’s ongoing divisions: Motor, Home, Rescue and 
other personal lines, and Commercial. It excludes discontinued operations, the Run-off segment,  
and restructuring and other one-off costs. 
Operating profit The pre-tax profit that the Group’s activities generate, including insurance and investment activity,  
but excluding finance costs. 
Own Risk and Solvency 
Assessment (“ORSA”) 
A Solvency II requirement. It documents the Group’s insurance underwriting entities’ risks and 
associated capital requirement, both now and projected over the business planning period. It is 
forward looking, reflecting business strategy and risk appetite. 
Periodic payment order 
(“PPO”) 
These are claims payments as awarded under the Courts Act 2003. PPOs are used to settle large 
personal injury claims. They generally provide claimants who require long-term care with a lump-sum 
award plus inflation-linked annual payments. 
Prudential Regulation 
Authority (“PRA”) 
The PRA is a part of the Bank of England. It is responsible for regulating and supervising insurers  
and financial institutions in the UK. 
RBS Group The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and its subsidiary companies. 
Reinsurance Contractual arrangements where the Group transfers part or all of the accepted insurance risk to 
another insurer. 
Reserves Funds that have been set aside to meet outstanding insurance claims and IBNR. 
Return on equity Return on equity is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the owners of the Company  
by average ordinary shareholders’ equity for the period. 
Return on tangible equity 
(“RoTE”) 
Return on tangible equity for 2015 is adjusted profit after tax from ongoing operations divided by 
the Group’s average shareholders’ equity, less goodwill and other intangible assets and net assets 
held for sale in the disposal group relating to discontinued operations. Profit after tax is adjusted to 
exclude discontinued operations, the Run-off segment, restructuring and other one-off costs and the 
gain on disposal of subsidiary. It is stated after charging tax (using the UK standard tax rate of 
20.25%; 2014: 21.5%). RoTE for comparative periods include the net assets held for sale in the 
disposal group and profit after tax for discontinued operations, as the International division was 
managed as part of ongoing operations. 
Risk mix Risk mix reflects the expected level of claims from the portfolio. It measures the estimated movement 
based on risk models used in that period, and is revised when models are updated. 
Run-off Where the Group no longer underwrites new business, but continues to meet its claims liabilities 
under existing contracts. 
Solvency II The capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry, which became effective on  
1 January 2016. It establishes revised capital requirements and risk management standards. It 
comprises three pillars: Pillar I, which sets out capital requirements for an insurer; Pillar II, which 
focuses on systems of governance; and Pillar III, which deals with disclosure requirements. 
Total costs Total costs comprise operating expenses and claims handling expenses. 
Total Shareholder Return 
(“TSR”) 
Compares share price movement with reinvested dividends as a percentage of the share price at  
the beginning of the period. 
Underwriting result 
(profit or loss) 
The profit or loss from operational activities, excluding investment performance. It is calculated as  
net earned premium less net insurance claims and total expenses. 
   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 176
Forward-looking statements disclaimer 
176   Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 
This Annual Report & Accounts has been prepared for, and 
only for, the members of the Company as a body, and no 
other persons. The Company, its Directors, employees, agents 
or advisers do not accept responsibility to any other person to 
whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come, 
and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. 
Certain information contained in this document, including any 
information as to the Group’s strategy, plans or future financial 
or operating performance, constitutes “forward-looking 
statements”. These forward-looking statements may be 
identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including 
the terms “aims”, “anticipates”, “aspire”, “believes”, 
“continue”, “could”, “estimates”, “expects”, “guidance”, 
“intends”, “may”, “mission”, “outlook”, “plans”, “predicts”, 
“projects”, “seeks”, “should”, “strategy”, “targets” or “will” or, 
in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable 
terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans, objectives, 
goals, future events or intentions. These forward-looking 
statements include all matters that are not historical facts. They 
appear in a number of places throughout this document, and 
include statements regarding the intentions, beliefs or current 
expectations of the Directors concerning, among other things: 
the Group’s results of operations, financial condition, 
prospects, growth, strategies and the industry in which the 
Group operates. Examples of forward-looking statements 
include financial targets, which are contained in this document 
specifically with respect to RoTE, risk-based capital coverage 
ratio, the Group’s COR and investment income yield. By their 
nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and 
uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on 
circumstances that may or may not occur in the future or are 
beyond the Group’s control. 
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future 
performance. The Group’s actual results of operations, 
financial condition and the development of the business sector 
in which the Group operates may differ materially from those 
suggested by the forward-looking statements contained in this 
document, for example directly or indirectly as a result of, but 
not limited to, UK domestic and global economic business 
conditions, market-related risks such as fluctuations in interest 
rates and exchange rates, the policies and actions of 
regulatory authorities (including changes related to capital and 
solvency requirements or the Ogden discount rate), the impact 
of competition, currency changes, inflation and deflation, the 
timing impact and other uncertainties of future acquisitions, 
disposals, joint ventures or combinations within relevant 
industries, as well as the impact of tax and other legislation 
and other regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Group and 
its affiliates operate. In addition, even if the Group’s actual 
results of operations, financial condition and the development 
of the business sector in which the Group operates are 
consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this 
document, those results or developments may not be indicative 
of results or developments in subsequent periods. 
The forward-looking statements contained in this document 
reflect knowledge and information available as of the date  
of preparation of this document. The Group and the Directors 
expressly disclaim any obligations or undertaking to update  
or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as 
a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless 
required to do so by applicable law or regulation. Nothing  
in this document should be construed as a profit forecast. 
Neither the content of Direct Line Group’s website nor the 
content of any other website accessible from hyperlinks on 
the Group’s website is incorporated into, or forms part of, 
this document. 
   This report is printed on mixed source paper which is 
FSC
®
 certified (the standards for well-managed forests, 
considering environmental, social and economic issues). 
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc
Printed by Pureprint Group
Contact information 
www.directlinegroup.com   177 
Registered office 
Direct Line Insurance Group plc 
Churchill Court 
Westmoreland Road 
Bromley 
BR1 1DP 
Registered in England and Wales No. 02280426 
Company Secretary: Roger C Clifton 
Telephone: +44 (0)1132 920 667 
Website: www.directlinegroup.com 
Registrars 
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol 
BS99 6ZZ 
Shareholder helpline: +44 (0)370 873 5880 
Shareholder fax: +44 (0)370 703 6101 
Telephone number for the hard of hearing: 
+44 (0)370 702 0005 
Website: www.computershare.com 
Investor Centre 
To find out more about Investor Centre, go to 
www.investorcentre.co.uk/directline 
Auditors 
Deloitte LLP 
Hill House 
1 Little New Street 
London 
EC4A 3TR 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7936 3000 
Website: www.deloitte.com 
Legal advisers 
Allen & Overy LLP 
One Bishops Square 
London 
E1 6AD 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 3088 0000 
Website: www.allenovery.com 
Slaughter and May 
One Bunhill Row 
London 
EC1Y 8YY 
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7600 1200 
Website: www.slaughterandmay.com 
Principal banker 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 
280 Bishopsgate 
London 
EC2M 4RB 
Telephone: +44 (0)131 556 8555 
Website: www.rbs.com 
Corporate brokers 
Goldman Sachs International 
Peterborough Court 
133 Fleet Street 
London 
EC4A 2BB 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7774 1000 
Website: www.goldmansachs.com 
Morgan Stanley & Co International plc 
25 Cabot Square 
Canary Wharf 
London 
E14 4QA 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7425 8000 
Website: www.morganstanley.com 
RBC Europe Ltd 
Riverbank House 
2 Swan Lane 
London 
EC4R 3BF 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7653 4000 
Website: www.rbccm.com 
  Direct Line Insurance Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Direct Line Insurance Group plc ©
Registered in England & Wales No. 02280426  
Registered Office: Churchill Court, Westmoreland Road, Bromley, BR1 1DP
