 Annual Report and Accounts
Dixons Carphone plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
2015/16
www.dixonscarphone.com
@DixonsCarphone  “I am very pleased to be announcing another year of significant earnings growth, with 
profits before tax up more than 17%. In this momentous year we have largely completed 
our merger activities, driven customer satisfaction and market share to all-time highs in 
virtually all of our markets, made our shops more interactive and exciting while becoming 
ever more competitive with pure-play retailers, launched a new joint venture in the US, 
launched a new UK mobile network, and embarked on an ambitious property plan in  
the UK and Ireland. We also had our biggest ever trading day on Black Friday last year.
We are far from done, though. We have very ambitious plans this year which include 
making every one of the former Dixons stores one of the new 3-in-1 shops, introducing  
a lively and interactive new e-Commerce platform to Carphone Warehouse, opening  
Europe’s most modern distribution centre in Sweden, introducing same-day delivery,  
rolling out c.150 new stores in the US with Sprint, delivering our honeyBee platform  
to major global clients, launching our new home services division with a mandate to  
become a true emergency service for customers across the UK, and continuing to  
drive market share, price competitiveness and customer satisfaction everywhere.  
It is likely to be busy.
I am truly grateful to all of my colleagues – right across the world – for their hard work 
and dedication. I am also very proud to be able to say that I work alongside such a  
creative and dedicated group of men and women.
Finally, the nation has spoken and there has been a vote to exit the EU in due course. 
As you can imagine, we have been giving some thought to this. Our view is that, as the 
strongest player in our market and despite the volatility that is the inevitable consequence 
of such change, we expect to find opportunities for additional growth and further  
consolidate our position as the leader in the UK market.”
Sebastian James
Group Chief Executive
28 June 2016
Cautionary statement
Certain statements made in this Annual Report and Accounts are forward looking. Such statements are based on current expectations and are 
subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any expected future events or results  
referred to in these forward looking statements. Unless otherwise required by applicable laws, regulations or accounting standards, we do not 
undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments or 
otherwise. Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be regarded as a profit forecast. Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Contents 
1 
Strategic report 
2 Highlights of the year 
3 Business segments 
4 Chairman’s Statement 
5 Group Chief Executive’s Statement 
8 Strategy, KPIs and Risks overview 
10 Our markets 
14 Strategy and business model 
17 Our resources 
19 Key Performance Indicators 
20 Principal risks to achieving the Group’s objectives 
24 Performance review 
30 Corporate Responsibility 
Corporate Governance 
36 Board of Directors 
38 Corporate Governance Report 
47 Directors’ Report 
50 Audit Committee Report 
55 Nominations Committee Report 
57 Remuneration Report – Remuneration Policy 
69 Remuneration Report – Annual Remuneration Report 
82 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
Financial statements 
83 Independent Auditor’s report 
88 Consolidated income statement 
89 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
90 Consolidated balance sheet 
91 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
92 Consolidated cash flow statement 
93 Notes to the Group financial statements 
141 Company balance sheet 
142 Company statement of changes in equity 
143 Notes to the Company financial statements 
Investor information 
150 Five-year record 
151 Pro forma information 
153 Shareholder and corporate information 
154 Glossary and definitions 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   1 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Strategic Report
Highlights of the year 
2 
Dixons Carphone plc is Europe’s leading specialist electrical and 
telecommunications retailer and services company, employing over  
42,000 people in 11 countries. 
 
• Group like-for-like revenue up 5% 
• UK & Ireland like-for-like revenue up 6% 
• Nordics like-for-like revenue up 4% 
• Group pro forma Headline PBT of £447 million, up over 17% 
• Group pro forma Headline EPS of 29.3p 
• Free cash flows of £202 million 
• Strong balance sheet with year end net debt broadly flat year on year  
at £267 million 
• Final dividend of 6.50p proposed, taking total dividends for the year to 9.75p 
 
 
 
Our European store presence  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Store numbers Own Franchise Total
 UK and Ireland  1,271 — 1,271 
 Nordics  248 131 379 
 Southern Europe  317 276 593 
 1,836 407 2,243 
 
 
 
Headline and pro forma performance measures are as defined in the Performance review on page 24. Pro forma results are presented as if the CPW Europe Acquisition 
and the Merger had occurred at the start of the comparative periods. 
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
10000
2015/16
9,738 9,750 9,752
9,517
2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13
0
100
200
300
400
500
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
468
413
359
310
29.3
25.5
18.6
10.9
Pro forma revenue (£million) Headline basic EPS (pence) Pro forma Headline EBIT (£million)
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   2 11/07/2016   18:34 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Strategic Report
Business segments 
3 
We operate four segments as follows: 
Brands Websites
UK & Ireland 
• Currys and PC World are the largest specialist electrical retailing
and services operators in the UK & Ireland.
• Carphone Warehouse is the largest independent
telecommunications retailer in the UK & Ireland.
• Dixons Travel operates in major UK airports and Dublin.
• Knowhow is our market-leading services brand.
• Geek Squad is the repairs and support provider for 
Carphone Warehouse.
• Simplifydigital is the UK’s largest, and fastest growing, multi-
channel broadband, phone and TV switching platform.
• PC World Business provides computing products and services
to business to business (‘B2B’) customers.
Currys currys.co.uk 
currys.ie 
PC World pcworld.co.uk 
pcworld.ie 
Carphone Warehouse carphonewarehouse.com
carphonewarehouse.ie 
Dixons Travel dixonstravel.com 
Knowhow knowhow.co.uk 
Geek Squad geeksquad.co.uk 
Simplifydigital simplifydigital.co.uk
PC World Business pcworldbusiness.co.uk
Nordics 
• The Elkjøp Group is the leading specialist electrical retailer across 
the Nordics.
• Elkjøp, Elkjøp Phonehouse and Lefdal stores operate in Norway,
Elgiganten and Elgiganten Phone House in Sweden and Denmark
and Gigantti in Finland.
• Knowhow has been introduced in the Nordic region.
• InfoCare is the largest consumer electrical repair company in the
region, operating in Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland.
Elkjøp elkjop.no 
Elgiganten elgiganten.se  
elgiganten.dk 
Gigantti gigantti.fi 
Lefdal lefdal.com 
Phone House phonehouse.se 
InfoCare infocareworkshop.no
Southern Europe 
• Kotsovolos is Greece’s leading specialist electrical retailer.
• Phone House is the leading independent telecommunications retailer 
in Spain.
• Geek Squad is the repairs and support provider for the Phone
House in Spain.
Kotsovolos kotsovolos.gr 
Phone House phonehouse.es 
Geek Squad geeksquad.es 
Connected World Services (‘CWS’) 
• CWS aims to leverage the Group’s existing expertise, operating
processes and technology to provide a range of services to
businesses.
• CWS organises its services into three product towers:
– Connected Retailing
– Support and Services
– honeyBee platform
connectedworldservices.com
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   3 11/07/2016   18:34 Accounts 2015/16 
Chairman’s Statement 
4 
It has been a very good year for Dixons 
Carphone and I am delighted that we 
have been able to achieve a strong 
financial performance at the same time  
as making excellent operational progress 
across the Group. The Board is therefore 
pleased to recommend a final dividend  
of 6.50p per share to be paid on  
23 September 2016. 
Over the past year we have largely completed the process  
of integration and it has been a source of real pleasure for me  
to see the progress we have made so powerfully validating  
our reasons for bringing the businesses together. We have 
increased sales and gained market share in just about every 
category, business and territory as well as reducing costs as 
a result of the Merger. I am also particularly proud that our 
customer satisfaction is at a record high across the board.  
Moreover, we have made important strategic decisions since 
our merger, developing our proposition and discovering new 
opportunities. Our strategy of creating exciting new 3-in-1 
stores with all our brands under one roof is being rolled out at 
pace across the UK & Ireland and I have been impressed by 
the positive reaction from both colleagues and customers. 
Complementary acquisitions have supported areas where  
we see a real opportunity to develop the business. Multi-play 
is a key area of focus and our acquisition of Simplifydigital – 
the UK’s leading broadband, TV and home phone switching 
business – helps us offer customers a fully-developed  
multi-play proposition at a time when customers are looking  
for independent advice across all their technology, 
connectivity, media content and service needs. Similarly, our 
acquisition of InfoCare in Norway makes us, at a stroke, the 
leading repair operation in the Nordics. 
Our Connected World Services business looks more and more 
exciting with a very strong pipeline of global clients who are 
interested in using the software and intellectual property 
predominantly built up over 25 years in our mobile business  
to improve their own. Our Sprint joint venture has had a very 
good start and we are now well into the second phase,  
with three to four new stores opening every week in key  
US locations.  
The telecommunications markets are undergoing a period  
of immense change and it is exciting to be serving customers 
in these turbulent times. We have already seen some 
consolidation in our markets and the press is rife with 
speculation about the future structure of the UK telco market. 
Against this backdrop, and following the result of the 
referendum on the UK’s membership of the EU, I remind the 
team every day: we are successful because we add value both 
to our customers – by being the one place where people can 
get choice and impartial advice – and to our network partners, 
by telling their stories powerfully. While we continue to do 
these things, I have no doubt that we will continue to win, no 
matter how our market shifts in the background.  
I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to 
Roger Taylor and John Gildersleeve. Roger and John stepped 
down from the Board at the end of 2015 having made very 
significant contributions to the Group over many years and I 
would like to thank them most sincerely. I am also pleased to 
welcome two highly experienced and talented new members in 
Lord Livingston and Tony DeNunzio. 
Last, and by no means least, on behalf of the Board and our 
shareholders, I would like to thank each and every one of my 
colleagues at Dixons Carphone. It goes without saying that  
we would not have delivered this extraordinary year without 
you, and our future is all the brighter for your hard work  
and dedication. 
Sir Charles Dunstone  
Chairman 
28 June 2016 
Strategic Report
 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   4 11/07/2016   18:34 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Group Chief Executive’s Statement 
5 
As we reach the end of our first full  
year as a merged company, I am very 
pleased to be reporting such a strong 
performance. It has been a very good  
year for the Group, with many great 
achievements against a backdrop, not 
only of industry change, but also the 
execution of our merger. This year saw  
us sailing in potentially squally waters  
but we have, thankfully, successfully 
navigated them. 
Dixons Carphone has had a strong year financially; Group  
like-for-like revenues were up 5% over the year, with growth  
in almost every business in the Group leading to a 17% 
increase in Group Headline pro forma PBT from £381 million  
to £447 million, towards the higher end of the guidance we 
gave, resulting in an increase in Headline pro forma basic  
EPS from 25.5p to 29.3p.  
Operationally, we have also made excellent progress, with 
improvements in customer propositions in all markets as well 
as a number of systems and infrastructure investments to 
improve efficiency. Our customers have continued to respond 
very well to our continued improvements in service, and we 
end the year with our customer satisfaction and Net Promoter 
Scores at all-time highs. I am very pleased to see that we have 
also increased our colleague engagement scores across the 
Group – not a trivial achievement when so much change is 
happening across the business.  
Our business in the UK & Ireland enjoyed an excellent year, 
with like-for-like revenues up 6% over the year and Headline 
pro forma EBIT grew by 20% to £365 million. This sales growth 
was driven in large part by market share gains in our mobile 
phone business in the UK coupled with solid growth  
in electricals. This has been underpinned by solid cost control 
across the business.  
Our integration has now been largely, and successfully, 
completed with regard to people and physical infrastructure, 
and we now are a single, fully integrated business with one 
head office, one repair centre and one warehouse, and an 
organisational structure that suits the size and scale of the 
business across the UK & Ireland. We have plenty of work to 
do on our systems integration, but we are taking this nice and 
steady with significant changes to our merchandise planning 
systems and customer databases planned for this year as  
part of a programme that we expect to take – all in – four  
or five years. 
We continue to be very focused on price competitiveness and 
have further improved this so that we are now at parity or 
better versus our most aggressive pure-play competitors on 
pretty much all of our products, all of the time. We released  
a free app ‘Compare Prices’ that allows customers to check 
this for themselves, and we encourage our colleagues in store 
to reassure customers about market prices as part of the  
sales journey. As a result we believe that we are successfully 
addressing the phenomenon of ‘showrooming’ where 
customers seek our support and advice before buying, more 
cheaply, elsewhere.  
In January, we announced a plan to complete our estate of  
3-in-1 stores in the UK – which house a fully-fledged Carphone 
Warehouse proposition – within all of our CurrysPCWorld 
stores. We are also taking the opportunity to roll out the best 
new ideas that we have been developing in our newer stores. 
Our colleagues really like working in these refurbished stores, 
and our customers seem to very much enjoy shopping in them. 
We currently have 233 3-in-1 stores and we are rolling out the 
remainder at an average rate of three per week so that we can 
be finished by the time we focus on Christmas. This will mean 
that customers from Inverness to Penzance will have the same 
experience of our shops and all of our stores will be up to date, 
lively and in good condition. 
iD mobile operations in the UK & Ireland were launched in  
May 2015. This was enabled by an innovative IT platform and 
with a particular focus on personalising plans with flexible 
tariffs and introducing shared data. iD has been very positively 
received and I am delighted that active customer numbers 
have now passed 335,000. iD allows us to find solutions for 
customers for whom the traditional networks are not quite right 
and is another invaluable arrow in our quiver when talking to 
people about their mobile needs. 
Multi-play is a real area of focus for us this year and, following 
a successful trial earlier in the year, we launched our offer to 
help our customers with all of their connectivity needs, initially 
focusing on broadband. This offer is enhanced by our 
acquisition of Simplifydigital, the UK’s largest broadband, TV 
and home phone switching business. We are now really the 
only place where a customer can compare, discuss, choose 
and switch – from a wide choice of national providers – the 
broadband and TV package that is perfect for them, bringing 
the expertise we have in mobile connectivity to this wider 
canvas. It is early days, but the response from customers  
has been very encouraging so far. 
Strategic Report
Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   5 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Strategic Report
Group Chief Executive’s Statement 
 
6 
In addition there have been a raft of significant improvements 
that we have made this year including: launching our new  
e-commerce web platform for Carphone Warehouse; 
dramatically extending the range of white goods that we can 
ship next day; and rolling out our ‘own the kitchen’ small 
domestic appliance layouts with much more life, colour and 
interest into the majority of our larger stores and much more.  
It is heartening to see the power of our UK business being 
used by an excellent team to generate real differences for our 
customers, and very heartening to see us all reap the rewards 
for their clarity of thinking and energy. 
We have done a great deal of work on our in-home and 
consumer services business, Knowhow, and we will launch  
a pilot of a new, highly digitally enabled and wide ranging 
proposition in Leeds later this year with a view to having a 
rebranded, nationwide launch in the New Year. We believe very 
passionately that customers will increasingly want somebody 
to take responsibility for keeping the dozens of devices and 
appliances in their homes working, always on and upgraded 
and that we are uniquely placed to do that cost-effectively  
and well. 
Our Nordics business had a good year with like-for-like 
revenues up 4% over the year and 9% in the fourth quarter 
and all-time record profitability in local currency. We have, 
however, seen a further erosion in the Norwegian Krone versus 
Sterling and this has meant that our Sterling-reported profits 
are down somewhat with Headline pro forma EBIT reducing by 
£7 million to £79 million. Over the last two years the Krone has 
devalued significantly and, since virtually all of our goods are 
imported, this has created some commercial challenges. We 
have used this change to bring our prices in line with our pure-
play competitors, something that we have already done in the 
UK & Ireland and this has, I believe, been a cause of the very 
strong growth in our sales.  
The Nordics have also seen some really encouraging 
operational developments over the year. We acquired and 
successfully integrated InfoCare, the largest repair company  
in the region, which gives us a base upon which to build our 
services and repair proposition. A major project to extend our 
automated small box warehouse at Jönköping in Sweden  
– and create the most modern automated small-box 
distribution centre in Europe – is also well on track. We have 
integrated the Phone House business in Sweden, merging 
head offices and contact centres, closing 26 stores and  
co-branding all remaining stores. In Norway we have 
rebranded our Elkjøp Express stores to Elkjøp Phonehouse.  
In both Sweden and Norway, these co-branded stores are  
performing well.  
Our Southern European business had a good year in the face 
of significant political and economic turbulence – most notably, 
of course, in Greece, and I am pleased that the Southern 
Europe business has reported a 4% rise in like-for-like 
revenues over the year with Headline pro forma EBIT growing 
from £15 million to £17 million.  
Our Greek business has increased profitability in 2015/16.  
To have achieved this against this year’s backdrop is no mean 
feat and is, of course, down to the efforts of our colleagues in 
the region. In Greece, despite the mounting economic crisis, 
our teams consistently demonstrated innovative thinking, 
emotional resilience, strong management and an 
entrepreneurial spirit. This meant that Kotsovolos was able to 
gain significant market share. I said last year that the situation 
in Greece may end up proving the aphorism that all crises lead 
to opportunity and I am delighted that this remarkable team 
has proved this to be correct so far.  
In Spain, we have continued to move to a more flexible 
franchise approach, and to pivot the model to offer multi-play, 
sim-only and handset only, as well as a host of additional 
services while successfully retaining our market share. Here, 
again, the market has much change happening with M&A 
activity and an evolving business model requiring us to be 
nimble if we are to retain and grow our profitability. The Phone 
House team have responded magnificently to these challenges 
in the best traditions of entrepreneurship that is at the heart of  
the team. 
I am also particularly excited to be updating you on some 
terrific progress from our Connected World Services and 
Knowhow businesses. While still relatively new areas of the 
Group and in the investment stage, I see huge potential and  
a strong pipeline of activity. 
The joint venture between our Connected World Services 
business and Sprint continues to go very well and, following a 
very successful trial, in January we signed a joint venture (‘JV’) 
to open up to 500 stores with Sprint in the US. The Sprint JV 
has had very encouraging results so far but, as always, there’s 
no room for complacency and we are focused on developing 
the opportunity further.  
We have signed a new and separate software agreement with 
Sprint and will now be rolling out our market-leading software 
platform, honeyBee, across their entire estate. We also have a 
fast-growing pipeline of promising discussions with companies 
in a number of different segments and territories about how 
honeyBee can help them. 
Our support and services business also had a good year. The 
integration of our distribution and repair centre to one site in 
Newark means we are perfectly positioned to take advantage 
of the opportunities in insurance support and reverse logistics 
services. Our clients are increasingly asking us for help and 
support throughout a product’s lifecycle, from choosing the 
right product at the outset through to installation, connection, 
and repair. Behind our end-to-end service operation we have  
a comprehensive – and unique – infrastructure, including 
technical support, delivery, installation, repair and recycling. 
This was rewarded this year as we retained our contract 
through the re-bid process to manage RBS’s mobile phone 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   6 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Strategic Report
 
7 
insurance and won a contract to undertake a similar activity  
for EE making us the second largest provider of mobile phone 
insurance in the UK. Our infrastructure advantages mean that 
we are able to win these contracts profitably while still 
representing very good value to our partners. 
We have achieved a great deal this year and are very pleased 
to be ending the year in such a strong position. That said, as 
ever, we are focused on delivering even more next year and we 
know that, in fully mature markets, this means fighting for each 
and every customer, each and every day.  
Finally, the nation has spoken and we are to exit the EU in due 
course. Our view is that, as the strongest player in our market 
and despite the volatility that is the inevitable consequence of 
such change, we may be able to find significant opportunities 
for additional growth and additional market share. As you can 
imagine, we have been giving some thought to this possibility 
and we believe that, by acting decisively and intelligently, we 
can further consolidate our position as the leader in our market. 
My thanks go to everyone in our 42,000-strong team of 
employees in 11 countries for making the successes of the 
past year possible through impressive levels of industry and 
creativity. I am constantly amazed and delighted by the 
passion and commitment of the men and women who make 
up the Dixons Carphone family, and am very proud to work 
alongside them. 
 
 
Sebastian James 
Group Chief Executive 
28 June 2016 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   7 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Strategic Report
Strategy, KPIs and Risks overview 
8 
Our markets
1
 Our strategic priorities
2
 Achievements in 2015/16
3
 
 
Core retail 
• Mobile phone connectivity 
• Consumer electronics 
Continue to enhance and drive 
successful and sustainable retail 
business models in a multi-channel 
world 
Market share and like-for-like revenue 
growth in core markets 
 
Largely completed the integration of 
Dixons and Carphone 
 
Rolled out 273 SWAS 
 
Price competitiveness in the UK and 
customer satisfaction scores in core 
markets at record levels 
 
Launch of the iD mobile operations and 
multi-play offering  
 
Completion of non-core business 
disposals 
 
 
 
 
Consumer services –
Knowhow 
Leverage our scale, our knowhow, 
and our unique infrastructure to 
drive growth in new product areas 
including growth in services 
Acquisitions of InfoCare and 
Simplifydigital, bolstering our Nordic 
services and amplifying UK multi-play 
capabilities 
 
New leadership structure in place 
 
Capital Markets Day held in March 2016
 
Connected World 
Services (‘CWS’) 
Develop the Connected World 
Services model and establish it as 
a material contributor to earnings 
Successful trial of 15 Sprint stores,  
and launched formal joint venture  
with Sprint 
 
Extension of existing honeyBee 
agreement with a major US 
manufacturer  
 
New mobile phone insurance 
agreements with EE and RBS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   8 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Strategic Report
 
9 
Plans for 2016/17
3
 
 
Relevant Group KPIs
4
 Principal risks
5
 
Property optimisation programme 
 
Complete SWAS roll-out 
 
Drive growth in the iD customer base 
and multi-play  
 
Launch of new Carphone Warehouse 
store and online formats 
 
Relentless focus on price and service 
 
Complete integration programme 
 
 
 
Headline revenue 
 
Like-for-like revenue 
 
Market position 
 
Headline EBIT  
 
Headline profit before tax 
 
Free cash flow 
 
Return on capital employed 
 
Dependence on networks and  
key suppliers 
 
Consumer environment and sustainable 
business model 
 
Greek exit from the Euro 
 
IT systems and infrastructure  
 
Information security 
 
FCA regulation 
 
Colleague retention 
 
Business continuity plans are  
not effective 
 
Health and safety 
 
Fraud 
 
Impact of Brexit 
 
Launch of trial in Leeds 
 
Nationwide launch in 2017,  
following trial 
 
 
 
Headline revenue 
 
Market position 
 
Return on capital employed 
Consumer environment and sustainable 
business model 
 
IT systems and infrastructure  
 
Information security 
 
Colleague retention 
 
Business continuity plans are  
not effective 
 
Fraud 
 
Impact of Brexit 
 
Roll-out of joint venture Sprint stores  
 
honeyBee US extension and 
implementation across Sprint estate 
 
Further sales and support opportunities 
 
Headline revenue 
 
Market position 
 
Headline EBIT 
 
Return on capital employed 
Consumer environment and sustainable 
business model 
 
IT systems and infrastructure  
 
Information security 
 
FCA regulation 
 
Colleague retention 
 
Business continuity plans are  
not effective 
 
 
 
1 Our markets pages 10 to 13 
2 Strategy and business model pages 14 to 16 
3 Chairman’s and Group Chief Executive’s Statements on pages 4 to 7 
4 Key Performance Indicators on page 19 
5 Principal risks to achieving the Group’s objectives on pages 20 to 23 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   9 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Strategic Report
Our markets 
10 
Our markets  
Mobile phone and connectivity and consumer electronics  
are Dixons Carphone’s core retail markets, but increasingly  
the Group is growing beyond these product markets by  
1) industrialising its existing services infrastructure and 
expanding its offerings to focus on consumer services in the 
home, and 2) continuing to expand its rapidly growing 
business-to-business operations via the Connected World 
Services division. 
Mobile phone connectivity 
Dixons Carphone is the only nationwide independent mobile 
phone retailer. The Group is uniquely placed to offer impartial 
advice over the vast array of network, handset and operating 
platform propositions available in the market.  
This market is also served by MNOs, with whom the Group has 
long and well-established relationships, as well as independent 
and generalist retailers. The MNOs will offer propositions for 
their own networks, whilst independent and generalist retailers 
will provide a greater variety of propositions on one or multiple 
networks. Furthermore there are online-only retailers providing 
a variety of these services. 
This market is also served by MVNOs as well as a relatively 
small number of global manufacturers supplying goods to 
local, regional, national and international MNOs/MVNOs  
and retailers.  
In recent years there have been significant changes in the 
landscape of mobile phone distribution. In the UK we have 
seen a major market withdrawal with the exit of Phones 4u  
and the acquisition of the EE network by BT. During this period 
the Group has managed to gain significant market share 
particularly in the post-pay segment. 
The sophistication of mobile phones continues to grow rapidly, 
from simple mobile devices to sophisticated hardware with 
advanced functionality. There is a wide choice of operating 
platforms and network options for customers, which makes  
the Group’s expert and impartial advice, simplified by the 
tablet based tool, Pin Point, particularly relevant. 
MNOs continue to see increasing levels of data usage, a trend 
which will continue as customers migrate to new tariffs that 
include 4G access as standard. As MNOs continue to roll out 
their 4G networks, quality and speeds improve, facilitating 
much faster downloads and providing levels of performance 
comparable to many Wi-Fi networks, enabling a much better 
platform for streaming, in particular for video content.  
To benefit from 4G services, customers need 4G-enabled 
devices and as 4G network coverage improves, there is an 
incentive for customers to upgrade their contracts, providing  
a stimulus to the replacement cycle increasing the penetration 
of 4G devices and tariff uplifts. After several years of 
downward pressure on ARPU, increased data usage provides 
an exciting opportunity. 
The internet plays an important part of customers' purchasing 
journey for mobile, with the majority of customers researching 
online before making a purchase. However, online sales have 
remained relatively flat in the UK at c. 20% of sales for a 
number of years. The complexity of the mobile-buying decision 
means that customers continue to value the advice available 
within stores. This preference to touch and feel products prior 
to purchasing has restricted the penetration for mobile online 
sales. Elsewhere, in markets that are less mature than the UK, 
the proportion of online sales continues to grow and 
represents between 4% and 11% of total retail sales.  
The mobile market has remained robust during periods of 
reduced economic activity and whilst mobile phones might be 
considered discretionary purchases, the reality is that mobile 
phone contracts are considered an essential element of 
people’s lives. 
Consumer electronics 
The consumer electronics retail market can be split between 
specialist electrical retailers, such as Dixons Carphone, and 
general retailers which sell electronic goods as part of a wider 
offering. The market can also be broken down into two distinct 
distribution channels: ‘assisted’ and ‘unassisted’. In the 
assisted channel, specialist retailers, such as Dixons 
Carphone, help customers through the buying process in the 
form of product advice, add-on services, delivery and 
installation. The unassisted channel, which includes single 
channel internet retailers as well as general retailers, tends not 
to offer all of these services. 
Specialist electrical retailers are the predominant destination 
for customers in the European consumer electronics market. 
Buying groups, general merchants and independents also have 
a retail presence through stores and / or online. The market is 
served by a relatively small number of global manufacturers 
supplying goods to local, regional, national and international 
electrical retailers. 
We are one of the largest specialist electrical retailing and 
services companies in Europe with leading market shares in 
the UK, Ireland, the Nordic region and Greece. In each of our 
markets there are varying numbers of specialist retailers who 
compete in the assisted market. While we do compete against 
general retailers, this is usually limited to certain lower price 
categories as these retailers do not offer the full range of 
products, assisted sale or the other services we are able  
to provide. 
We have seen some significant shifts in capacity in many of  
our markets in recent years with some mass merchandisers 
reducing space for electronic products, some single channel 
internet operators de-emphasising certain segments, as well 
as some specialists exiting the market. These shifts have 
helped us to gain market share and it underpins our view that  
a strong service led multi-channel operation satisfies both 
customer and supplier needs while delivering a sustainable 
business as customer shopping habits continue to evolve. We 
believe further consolidation will occur in some of our markets. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   10 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Strategic Report
 
11 
The internet has established itself as an important part of the 
electrical retail landscape. It supports enhanced product 
information as well as price comparability. It is an essential part 
of the buying process for customers, particularly for large ticket 
discretionary products. However, the expert advice provided 
by well-informed sales advisors within stores is highly valued 
by customers. Larger retailers, with an integrated multi-channel 
offer, with scalable distribution and systems, together with 
proven after-sales service and support are increasingly 
attractive to customers.  
The increase in online penetration provides us with the 
opportunity to increase both the range of goods on offer and 
the availability of product information. Our multi-channel 
approach is well placed to exploit synergies between our 
internet sites and stores.  
Our reserve&collect service (collect@store in the Nordics), 
where customers can order on the internet and collect from a 
convenient store, at a time to suit them is proving to be 
increasingly attractive to customers. Similarly, our pay&collect 
service, where customers can access a wider range of 
products than is typically available in their local store for either 
home delivery or later collection from the store, is also 
increasingly popular. 
Innovation brings new products with improved functionality 
that drives sales growth. These include 4K Ultra High Definition 
(‘HD’) and smart TVs, wearable technology, connected 
products for the home such as heating and lighting. Content, 
such as social media, apps, digital media and cloud 
computing, also help to drive hardware innovation and 
replacement. Product sales are driven by structural shifts, such 
as analogue to digital and standard format through to Ultra HD 
television. In addition, innovation drives new service 
requirements, including TV installation, data backup, computer 
set up and instructional Showhow teach-ins. In this 
increasingly complex world we believe our assisted sales 
model is best placed to help customers navigate the market 
and to help them choose a complete solution that best meets 
their needs. 
Many electronic products are predominantly discretionary 
purchases. However, increasing penetration of digital 
technology in the home drives faster replacement cycles as 
these products become less discretionary. The economic 
backdrop also determines whether customers trade up or 
down. Accordingly, the electronics market tends to grow at a 
rate that is at or exceeding the economy during years of 
economic growth. While the opposite can be true during a 
downturn, this may be influenced by new innovation and an 
exciting product cycle. 
The rapid innovation cycle may lead to price deflation, but also 
drives volumes as products become more affordable and 
replacement cycles accelerate. For larger ticket items, the low 
frequency of purchases limits the impact of price deflation on 
total market sales as consumers typically trade up to higher 
specification products. Our ‘Customer Journeys’ are designed 
to explain the features and benefits of the latest technology to 
customers and help them understand the reasons for trading 
up to these newer technologies. 
The sale of white goods is underpinned by the replacement 
cycle. Due to higher costs of repair, it often makes better 
economic sense for consumers to replace white goods outright 
rather than to arrange for their repair. The sale of white goods 
is also driven by the dynamics of the housing market  
as new construction, house sales and refurbishment trigger 
new purchases.  
Consumer services – Knowhow  
Everyday technology, whether smart TVs, computing, mobile 
phones or kitchen appliances, is becoming increasingly 
complicated with connectivity and inter-operability penetrating 
into more and more areas. Families are dependent on this 
technology working for an ever-increasing range of 
applications such as keeping in touch with friends and family, 
entertainment, work, finances and school homework. Keeping 
this home technology working and online is increasingly 
becoming an essential requirement. 
Most homes in markets in which we operate have around ten 
connected devices, and this is expected to grow dramatically 
over the near term, creating further expected positive demand 
for home technology support services. 
We believe the market for home technology support to be 
already large, worth around £5bn in the UK alone, of which we 
estimate to hold a c. 10% share. Despite the significant 
demand and a large market, the supply of services is highly 
fragmented. 
There is a major opportunity to grow our share of these 
valuable and growing markets to more closely match our share 
of product sales. Our aim is for our Knowhow business to be 
the digital leader in technology support. 
Importantly we start from a position of real strength; our 
services capabilities and operating platform developed to 
support our product sales business is already class-leading 
and at real scale. 
We are already the UK’s leading technology support business 
with: over 11m warranty and insurance policies; 700,000 
mobile repairs per year; 4.2m home visits per year; 740,000 
computer repairs per year; over 100,000 gas installations per 
year; more than 600 skilled engineers; and over 1,500 in-store 
service colleagues. 
We have a leading share in the sale of connected technology 
through our significant multi-channel presence with strong 
manufacturer and supplier relationships and a ‘cross 
ecosystem’ approach in place. We have Europe’s largest tech 
and white goods repair capability at Newark with more 
technical support agents than any other business providing a 
nationwide solution. This is a complex business to replicate.  
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   11 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Strategic Report
Our markets 
12 
We have put in place a new leadership team dedicated to this 
division and developed a commercial model with refreshed 
and innovative propositions that we will launch regionally  
in 2016 prior to a full roll-out in 2017. 
Our revised service propositions will be accessed and 
delivered by customers through an increasingly digital  
interface providing friction-free and highly responsive support 
and care around the clock which is easily accessed at home  
or on the move.  
We will be able to deliver our core operating principles to  
our customers through an ongoing and valuable dialogue  
that includes providing independent / expert advice and 
money-saving guidance through price comparison. 
This regular, high-quality dialogue will build customer loyalty, 
and allow us to deliver real value and support to our customers 
day and night. 
Once fully executed in all core markets, we expect our services 
business to provide long-term sustainable revenues in 
attractive, growing markets. 
Connected World Services 
Connected World Services aims to leverage the specialist 
skills, operating processes and technology of the business to 
provide services to third parties looking to develop their own 
connected world solutions. CWS already provides managed 
services to a number of major international businesses and has 
a significant pipeline of active opportunities. The current focus 
is on delivering value and growth from three specific areas – 
Connected Retailing, Support and Services, and honeyBee 
software.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   12 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Strategic Report
 
13 
Current focus involves three specific CWS services: 
 Proposition Services offered Unique differentiators Existing third 
party clients 
Connected 
Retailing 
Multi-channel retail 
consultancy and 
operational support for 
businesses selling 
connected product and 
service propositions, 
ranging from specific 
managed services 
through to full retail 
partnerships 
 
Who is it for? 
Telco industry specialists 
– typically carriers and 
retailers 
• Operational retail 
leadership  
• Consulting on retail 
planning and execution 
• Customer journey design 
and management 
 
• Proven track record of 
transforming retail for 
Best Buy Mobile and 
Sprint 
• Significant KPI 
improvements 
achieved in sales, 
profitability and 
customer satisfaction 
• Expert team with 20+ 
years of connected 
retail experience 
• Unique and 
differentiated sales and 
operations platform 
Sprint 
Samsung 
Support and 
Services 
 
 
Leverages the  
end-to-end capabilities 
of Dixons Carphone in 
the UK & Ireland to 
provide a full suite of 
services that enable the 
sale and support of 
connected devices 
 
Who is it for? 
UK & Ireland Telco 
industry specialists – 
typically carriers, retailers 
and service providers 
• Connectivity and 
brokerage 
• Value-added services  
• Device supply 
• Sales operations 
• Forward and reverse 
logistics 
• Software platforms 
• Customer service 
• We run the largest 
mobile phone repair 
centre in Europe 
• Operate the biggest 
handset sourcing 
operation in Europe 
• Proven experts in this 
complex and regulated 
industry 
• Significant established 
client base, with  
long-term agreements 
in place 
BT 
RBS 
TalkTalk 
EE 
 
Insurance  
Partner  
Aviva 
honeyBee 
software 
 
Unique omni-channel, 
multi-industry software 
that simplifies the 
delivery and 
management of complex 
digital customer journeys 
in any industry  
 
Who is it for? 
Any sales business that 
has a complex customer 
journey (e.g. Telco, 
Financial Services,  
Travel etc) 
• The honeyBee platform 
consists of three principal 
modules 
• honeyBee Sell: best in 
class multi-channel, 
guided sales software that 
includes an ultra-efficient 
media platform and a  
real-time journey analytics 
and performance 
management platform 
• honeyBee Activate:  
carrier / service provider 
activations management 
platform  
• honeyBee Create: 
simplifies the process of 
designing and building 
complex digital customer 
journeys  
• 25 years’ experience  
of complex digital 
journey innovation 
• Unique multi-channel 
sales and operations 
platform 
• Unique multi-country 
carrier activations 
platform 
• Revolutionary 
customer journey 
development tools 
• Partnership with 
Accenture who bring 
industry experience, 
global scale and 
delivery credibility  
Sprint 
 
Partner  
Accenture 
 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   13 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Strategic Report
Strategy and business model 
14 
Dixons Carphone is Europe's leading specialist consumer 
electrical and mobile phone and connectivity retailer and 
services company, employing over 42,000 people in 11 
countries. Focused on helping customers navigate the 
connected world, Dixons Carphone offers a comprehensive 
range of electronic and mobile products, connectivity and 
expert after-sales services from the Geek Squad and Knowhow.  
Dixons Carphone's primary brands include Carphone 
Warehouse, Currys and PCWorld in the UK & Ireland, Elkjøp 
and Elkjøp Phonehouse, Elgiganten and Elgiganten Phone 
House, Gigantti and Lefdal in the Nordic countries, Kotsovolos 
in Greece, Dixons Travel in a number of UK & Ireland airports 
and Phone House in Spain. Our key service brands include 
Knowhow in the UK, Ireland and the Nordics, and Geek Squad 
in the UK, Ireland and Spain.  
Business-to-business (‘B2B’) services are provided through 
Connected World Services (‘CWS’), PC World Business, Elkjøp 
Business and Carphone Warehouse Business. Connected 
World Services aims to leverage the Group's existing expertise, 
operating processes and technology to provide a range of 
services to other businesses. 
During the year we have bolstered our Nordic and UK 
consumer services offerings with the acquisitions of InfoCare 
and Simplifydigital and we continue to review our business 
portfolio, focusing on territories in which we are the market 
leader and growing market share.  
This enables us to drive the Group forward from a position  
of strength with a focus on three strategic priorities. By 
focusing on these we can deliver not only a better business  
for our customers and colleagues, but also better returns for 
our shareholders.  
The strategic priorities are: 
1. Continue to enhance and drive successful  
and sustainable retail business models in a  
multi-channel world; 
2. Leverage our scale, our knowhow, and our unique 
infrastructure to drive growth in new product areas 
including growth in services; and 
3. Continue to develop the CWS model and establish  
it as a material contributor to earnings. 
Looking at each of these in turn: 
1. Continue to enhance and drive 
successful and sustainable  
retail business models in a  
multi-channel world 
Our customers tell us that when buying consumer electronics 
they want advice to ensure they are making the right choices, 
particularly as these are often major purchases that customers 
will own for several years. The growth of the internet has 
empowered customers, providing instant access to information 
including product knowledge and price transparency.  
In mobile, we are uniquely positioned in the UK & Ireland and 
the Nordics to provide independent advice and meet customer 
requirements for impartiality, comparability and flexibility,  
both online and in-store with the Pin Point tool in the UK. In 
consumer electronics, single channel internet operators have  
a different model whose principal advantage is structurally 
lower costs and which have historically been able to offer 
competitive prices versus store-based operators. By focusing 
on the advantages that we, as a multi-channel specialist,  
can offer customers and suppliers we can eliminate the cost 
advantage that pure-play internet operators have historically 
enjoyed. As a result we are able to offer customers very 
competitive prices against our competitor set and still be  
more profitable.  
There are four distinct activities that we believe are the key 
strengths of our multi-channel, service-based model and which 
will support our competitive advantage going forward: 
1. Work closely with suppliers to harness benefits available  
to our business model: Suppliers want to ensure that 
customers not only choose their brands, but also 
experience the benefits of the latest products. As a  
multi-channel operator we work with our suppliers to 
ensure we can explain the benefits of these products and 
demonstrate them to customers in our stores and our 
suppliers support us in this work in a variety of ways. 
2. Focus on complete solutions for customers: The Pin Point 
tool enables the personalisation of the mobile customer 
experience. Using tablets in store, we ask customers a  
few simple questions to help them find the right deal.  
The tool will identify the preferred network via its coverage 
checker, handset and operating system, check bundle 
options including data requirements and ensure this is 
future-proofed. In consumer electronics, we do more than 
simply sell the product; we will also get it working and keep 
it working, as well as delivering it, and providing peace of 
mind through product support and after-sales services. 
The conversations our colleagues have in-store with 
customers give us an opportunity to explain the benefits  
of these solutions and sell more of them than our  
single-channel competition.  
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   14 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Strategic Report
 
15 
3.  Drive our service proposition: We need to be able to stand 
shoulder to shoulder with our customers and for them to 
know they can come to our stores and get knowledgeable 
advice and great service to help them buy the right 
product. They need to be confident that we will solve their 
problem quickly and efficiently. Geek Squad in the UK & 
Ireland and Knowhow in the UK & Ireland and in the 
Nordics offer customers services and technical support 
that can help them with their product throughout its 
lifetime. This is expanded in our second strategic priority. 
4. Reduce costs: The scale of our operations across stores, 
ranges, logistics, distribution, repairs and services means 
that we can continually improve processes to reduce 
costs. We have removed a considerable amount of cost 
from the business over the last few years by making the 
business simpler, easier to operate and more efficient; we 
remain relentlessly focused on managing costs to make 
our business more efficient. One of our principal priorities 
in the coming year for improving cost efficiency is the 
implementation of our UK & Ireland property plan. The 
programme will, from 2017/18, result in a c. £20 million per 
annum reduction in our operating costs as a result of  
lower leasing costs. 
2. Leverage our scale, our knowhow, 
and our unique infrastructure to  
drive growth in new product areas 
including growth in services 
We continue to expand and strengthen our proposition to 
customers, our service capability and our relationship with 
suppliers to underpin and drive even greater advantage in the 
markets in which we operate. 
Growing complexity and interconnectivity of products means 
that customers are increasingly demanding help and support, 
not just in choosing the right product, but also installation, 
connection, support and repair. Our Geek Squad and 
Knowhow services are at the forefront of this in the UK and we 
have introduced our Knowhow services across the Nordics.  
We must continue to innovate new services to help customers 
and to remain relevant to the way products and connectivity is 
evolving. Behind our end-to-end service operation we have a 
comprehensive infrastructure, including technical phone 
support, delivery, installation, repair and recycling. We can 
leverage this infrastructure to widen our customer base either 
to customers who bought their products through a third party 
(for example, our fault&fix computer service), or for business 
customers. By doing this we can increase the efficiency of 
using this infrastructure and deliver even better value services 
to our customers.  
3. Continue to develop the Connected 
World Services model and establish 
it as a material contributor to 
earnings 
Connected Retailing 
We successfully completed a trial of opening and operating 
Sprint stores in the US, resulting in the creation of a Connected 
Retail joint venture and the agreement to roll out 500 stores 
over the next three years. We have developed a new, more 
cost-efficient in-store format with an intended roll-out of at 
least three per week over the next 12 months. In addition, as 
part of our IP work stream we have taken over the operation  
of 27 Sprint-owned stores in Miami and Dallas and we are 
investigating opportunities to create value from OEM partners, 
online optimisation and store productivity improvements. We 
have a highly experienced team based in Kansas managing the 
operation on a day-to-day basis to ensure the full potential of 
the agreement is reached. We are working to identify our next 
Connected Retail partner, focusing on high value markets with 
competitive carrier environments. 
Support and Services 
We are now the second largest third-party provider of mobile 
phones insurance in the UK, reaching agreement with RBS to 
provide ongoing mobile device insurance administration and 
winning new business with EE and TalkTalk. The Dixons 
Carphone Merger has given us the opportunity to broaden  
our scope of services still further, enabling us to now provide  
a unique and differentiated proposition throughout the mobile 
value chain. With the emergence of connectivity in more 
industries, the UK market is continuing to grow and increase  
in complexity. As a result we have identified a strong 
opportunity pipeline. 
honeyBee software 
honeyBee, branded Pin Point in Dixons Carphone, has been 
transformational within our stores, processing over 250m 
customer journeys and achieving class-leading customer 
satisfaction scores. Work is now progressing to expand its use 
into new categories and across all brands. Excellent progress 
has also been made in securing honeyBee software contracts 
in the US, with deals signed with Sprint and a leading device 
manufacturer, in addition to existing agreements in the UK, 
Canada and Germany. The honeyBee proposition of 
simplifying the delivery and management of complex digital 
customer journeys has resonated well across several industries 
and we now have an active pipeline in the Travel, General 
Retail and Finance sectors, alongside significant opportunities 
in our mobile heartland. To achieve global scale quickly and 
access new industry verticals, we have agreed a channel 
distribution deal with Accenture that utilises their in-market 
client teams across the world to drive honeyBee sales in all 
relevant industries. 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   15 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Strategic Report
Strategy and business model 
16 
Business model 
Our core retail business model, driven by customer insight, 
comprises three pillars underpinned by a low-cost  
operating model.  
In order to ensure we understand what products and services 
our customers want, how they use the products they buy from 
us and what they think of the service they get from us, we use 
extensive customer insights. This includes customer panels, 
interviews, home visits and detailed surveys. We use this 
information to build our ranges, improve our stores and 
services and for other business decisions. This is supported  
by mystery shoppers, exit surveys and customer feedback. 
During the year our UK & Ireland and Nordics businesses 
continued to improve customer satisfaction metrics and 
reached record highs. 
Taking each of the three pillars in turn, our model can be 
described as follows: 
Multi-channel 
The shopping trip for customers is constantly evolving.  
Our objective is to provide our customers with a seamless  
and personalised experience where convenience, ease of 
navigation and simplicity are key in attracting customers to 
shop with us whether it is online, in-store or a combination  
of both.  
We constantly aim to develop and improve our customer 
journey whether via our assisted sales tool Pin Point or by 
improving stores, making them easier to shop in, with, for 
example, improved navigation, better signage, and enabling 
customers to interact with products before they buy. Within our 
recently refitted stores, the TV and audio category is set up to 
resemble a living room enabling customers to experience the 
full sensation of a large wall-mounted 4K television with 
surround speakers. These journeys are supported by product 
specialists providing expert advice on the products’ features 
and benefits.  
Our websites are an integral part of the customer shopping 
journey. In recognition of how customer trends are evolving we 
have made it easier for our colleagues, in particular within our  
CurrysPCWorld stores, to access products and extended 
ranges in store. 
Our training programmes, combined with our product learning 
centres and customer journeys, provide our colleagues with 
the right tools to understand customers’ needs and to provide 
them with the complete solution to properly meet those needs. 
We will continue to improve the training of our colleagues and 
the ways in which we can make them experts in the products 
we sell. For example they have recently undertaken a new 
training programme focusing on selling multi-play. 
Products 
Combining our customer insight with our market-leading 
presence we can make sure we have the right range of 
products and services in our stores to suit customers’ needs. 
Our scale and relationships with suppliers mean that we can 
work with them to showcase the latest technology, 
connectivity and products in our stores with areas dedicated  
to key suppliers. 
In consumer electronics, own-brand products enable us to 
offer customers greater choice and access to a range of 
products at competitive prices. We have defined a clear ‘good, 
better, best’ brand range including: Currys and PC World 
Essentials; Logik; iWantit; Advent; Goji; and Sandstrøm brands. 
We see particular opportunities in the area of accessories and 
essentials with, for example, our own range of Sandstrøm 
cables. In addition, we continue to focus on the roll-out of our 
kitchen furniture brand, Epoq, in the Nordics. 
After-sales services and support 
Our customers need help with their products, whether it be 
delivery and installation, help keeping their products up and 
running or repair should things go wrong. Our business in the 
UK & Ireland sets the benchmark for our services infrastructure 
under our Geek Squad and Knowhow brands, the latter of 
which is also available across the Nordics. 
We operate the largest network of two-man deliveries in the 
UK with an average of 50,000 deliveries per week enabling us 
to provide customers with the convenience of next-day 
delivery in a four-hour time slot or the option of a free delivery 
at a later date. We repair more than 1m handsets per year and 
provide over 11m insurance or service agreements, carry out 
approximately 500,000 computing set-ups per year and take 
125,000 technical support calls each week. 
Our Geek Squad and Knowhow teams in stores, in our call 
centres as well as field technicians, can provide set-up and 
upgrade services and online fix and backup services. Our 
market-leading range of help and support services ensure a 
customer has the backing of expertise and support that keeps 
their technology up and running. Our state-of-the-art repair 
facility in Newark is able to repair and return a laptop in seven 
days. Our network of field technicians offer white goods  
repair in a market we estimate to be worth around £700 million 
a year.  
Through ownership of the service infrastructure we can ensure 
the quality of service delivered to customers. This, we believe, 
provides us with a significant competitive advantage in 
meeting the needs of our customers, as well as a revenue 
stream not readily available to single channel online and mass 
market competitors. 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   16 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Strategic Report
Our resources 
17 
• Customers 
• People 
• Suppliers 
• Distribution and logistics 
• Store portfolio 
• Intellectual property 
• Energy 
• Cash and capital 
Customers 
We are driven to provide unparalleled expertise and services to 
help customers and businesses navigate the new digital era 
and one of our key values is: We put the customer first, always.  
To deliver on this value and to ensure we continue to respond 
to customers’ needs, we must listen and respond effectively  
to them. We have comprehensive customer research 
programmes spanning a variety of tools including exit surveys, 
mystery shoppers and focus groups as well as effective data 
gathering through, for example, our ‘Happy or Not’ tools 
launched in our Elkjøp business and now introduced to 
CurrysPCWorld. Within our Carphone Warehouse stores, Net 
Promoter Scores (NPS) are integral to our internal reward 
system. We are pleased that customer satisfaction scores 
across the business are at record levels. 
Through this research, managed internally and reviewed daily, 
weekly and monthly, we have developed a clear and detailed 
understanding of what we are doing well and more importantly 
of where we can target further improvements. Customers tell 
us that they need us to deliver a strong combination of ‘Value, 
Choice and Service’ across all our shopping channels and it is 
increasingly clear from their feedback that they recognise that 
we are doing this. We will continue to deliver easier, more 
exciting places to shop for customers whether in store, online 
or a multi-channel combination of both.  
Listening to customers extends to how we approach the sales 
process in store. Our unique training programmes combined 
with our customer journeys are designed to ensure customers 
leave our stores with a complete solution that is right for them. 
Doing this is a key part of our ongoing strategy and delivery of 
a sustainable business model, as well as enabling us to 
differentiate our offer from competitors. 
By maintaining our absolute focus on the customer and 
delivering what they want in a retail environment that is 
constantly evolving, we will continue to attract new  
customers and retain existing ones. 
People 
Dixons Carphone is an organisation spanning Europe, with 
over 42,000 colleagues in more than 2,200 stores, offices, call 
centres and distribution centres and one of our key priorities 
has been to build one culture, one vision and one future. 
Our core values support this: 
• We put the customer first, always 
• We stand together as one 
• We act bravely, challenge convention and do the right thing 
• We know everyone can make a difference 
• We believe anything is possible 
These values support a ‘culture of discovery’ and face head-on 
the changing environment in which we operate. Our values 
support us in cultivating a high performance environment 
where each employee performs to the best of their ability, 
working together to achieve to their fullest potential. Our 
people are key to our success and it is essential that 
colleagues are innovative and creative, customer-focused  
and great at building relationships.  
We are focused on improving every possible aspect of the 
shopping journey. We want our colleagues to become famous 
for service and we want to retain customers for life by having 
exciting new stores, with the best range at great prices and 
providing excellent after-sales support and service. We are 
making excellent progress; however, we can continue to  
make improvements to delight customers and to outpace  
the competition. 
For further details on employee related matters please see  
our Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 30 to 33. 
Suppliers 
As market leader with an excellent reputation in the consumer 
electronics markets we have exceptional relationships with 
suppliers. 
In a complex multi-channel environment, suppliers trust us  
with their new product releases and stock allocations, as they 
appreciate the superior service and advice offered by our 
stores and indeed our websites, as well as the exciting 
environments offered by our transformed stores in which 
customers can experience their brands and products. 
We work closely with suppliers of all sizes to help them deliver 
the right product for customers, through the forecasting and 
planning stages to ensure we deliver the right levels of stock 
for customers at the right time. Both the mobile and electrical 
retail markets are characterised by a number of large global 
manufacturers, who account for a large proportion of our sales. 
However, we also source products from a large number of 
smaller suppliers. We seek to maintain strong relationships 
with all of these suppliers, not just to source the right product 
for customers, but also to ensure the Group can purchase  
the appropriate level of stock on favourable terms. While we 
utilise the Group’s scale and buying power through an 
international buying team, we also maintain strong 
relationships at a local level. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   17 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Strategic Report
Our resources 
18 
We continue to refine our own-brand ranges to suit all budgets 
and tastes. Our most notable successes have been the launch 
of our own Sandstrøm cables brand alongside our Essentials 
ranges as key entry level products in our ‘good, better, best’ 
line-up. These products are sourced by the Group’s teams 
based in the UK, Nordics and Hong Kong in collaboration with 
manufacturers in, for example, Asia. 
Distribution and logistics 
The Group sees distribution as one of the keys to success  
in maintaining highly competitive margins and delivering 
outstanding, market-beating service to customers. We operate 
a centralised system of distribution centres for each of the 
regions in which we operate. This delivers significant 
competitive advantages, including reduced operating costs, 
reduced supplier delivery costs, reduced stock volumes in 
store, increased flexibility as to where to deliver and when,  
and a more efficient home delivery network for both us and  
our customers. During the year we consolidated our 
distribution and repair centres with the integration of the former 
mobile phone facility at Wednesbury into our Newark site. 
While continuing to reduce costs, we are also constantly 
raising the bar, both in terms of successful delivery and 
installation rates, but also the range and quality of services  
we offer customers nationwide. In our Nordic operations 
(Jönköping, Sweden) and the UK (Newark), we operate two  
of the largest distribution centres of their kind in Europe. The 
Jönköping site is also expanding to incorporate an up-to-date 
automated ‘small box’ operation. In the UK alone we now 
make 50,000 deliveries per week, including some 500,000 
installations per year. 
Store portfolio 
We operate a wide variety of stores to suit the local customer 
demographics. We operate many high street locations, small, 
very popular outlets in airport locations, and ‘megastores’ up 
to 60,000 sq ft, in out-of-town locations. 
We constantly review our store portfolio to ensure we have  
the right store for customers in the most competitive locations. 
As part of this ongoing review and following the roll-out of 
Carphone Warehouse SWAS, in the UK & Ireland we are 
implementing our 3-in-1 stores across the ‘big box’ property 
portfolio and when complete we will have over 300 
CurrysPCWorld Carphone Warehouse 3-in-1 stores.  
These stores allow us to offer the best of both worlds to 
customers, attracting new footfall and often at a lower cost.  
In the Nordic region as well as Greece and Spain we also 
operate a number of franchise stores. This arrangement allows 
our brands to be present in a wider range of catchments, while 
increasing the volume of purchases and therefore buying 
power of the Group and reducing our capital requirements. 
Intellectual property 
Within our Connected World Services division we have 
developed our pioneering multi-channel assisted sales tool  
Pin Point powered by honeyBee. We are also utilising our 
intellectual property to assist third parties, such as Samsung 
and now Sprint, in connected retailing. 
In the UK & Ireland we operate through Carphone Warehouse, 
Currys and PC World brands, in the Nordics through our 
various Elkjøp group brands, in Greece through Kotsovolos, 
and in Spain through Phone House. These brands are 
extremely well established and respected in their markets. The 
Group also has two strong service businesses, Knowhow and 
Geek Squad, aiming to delight customers from end to end 
while generating significant new business opportunities. 
As well as our retail and service brands outlined above, we also 
sell a range of own brand products such as Sandstrøm, Goji, 
Logik, Essentials, Advent and Epoq. Each of these brands 
have specific target markets defined in conjunction with our 
customer research findings.  
Energy 
Saving energy is good for the business, good for customers 
and of course good for the environment. See our Corporate 
Responsibility Report on pages 33 to 35 for details of the 
Group’s environmental matters. 
Cash and capital 
It remains the Group’s policy to maintain a strong capital base 
so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and 
to sustain the future development of the business. Through 
careful cash management and with a focus on cost reduction 
as well as efficient use of capital, management is focused  
on ensuring we deliver a sustainable business with strong  
cash generation. 
As a Group we need to make the right choices as to how each 
division utilises or preserves cash, whether it is in determining 
ranges and stock held in store, growing mobile share with 
accompanying working capital utilisation or managing returns 
and related processes. 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   18 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Strategic Report
Key Performance Indicators 
19 
Financial and operational 
What we measure* Why we measure Our performance
Headline  
revenue** 
The ability to grow revenue is an important measure of a brand’s appeal to 
customers and its competitive position. It is a key measure of the Group’s 
progress against our strategic priority to continue to enhance and drive 
successful and sustainable retail business models in a multi-channel world.
2015/16  
£9,738m 
2014/15 
£9,750m 
Like-for-  
like revenue 
growth 
Like-for-like revenue enables the performance of the Group to be  
measured on a consistent year-on-year basis. 
2015/16  
5% 
2014/15 
6% 
Market  
position 
In line with the Group’s strategy to be the leading specialist electrical and 
mobile retailer in Europe, this is an important measure of how well 
customers are being engaged by the Group’s brands in each market. 
Retailing operations should be, or be capable of becoming, the number  
one specialist electrical or mobile retailer in their market. 
Market-leading  
positions in: 
UK & Ireland  
Nordics  
Greece 
Headline  
EBIT** 
Continued growth of Headline EBIT enables the Group to invest in its  
future and provide a return for shareholders. It is a key measure of  
progress against our strategic priority to continue to enhance and drive 
successful and sustainable retail business models in a multi-channel world.
2015/16  
£468m 
2014/15 
£413m 
Headline 
profit before  
tax** 
Continued growth of Headline profit before tax represents a measure of 
Group performance to external investors and stakeholders against our 
strategic priorities.  
2015/16  
£447m 
2014/15 
£381m 
Free cash  
flow** 
The management of cash usage, in particular working capital employed in 
the business, optimises resources available for the Group to invest in its 
future growth and to generate shareholder value. 
2015/16  
£202m 
2014/15 
£89m 
Return on  
Capital  
Employed  
(ROCE)  
ROCE is a key measure of the efficiency of the capital invested by the 
Group and the long-term value created for our stakeholders. 
2015/16  
21% 
2014/15 
20% 
 
Shareholder 
What we measure* Why we measure Our performance
Headline basic  
earnings per 
share** (EPS) 
The level of growth in EPS provides a suitable measure of the financial 
health of the Group and its ability to deliver returns to shareholders  
each year.  
2015/16 
29.3p 
2014/15 
25.5p 
 
* Definitions of measurement for Key Performance Indicators are given in the glossary and definitions on pages 154 to 156. 
** Headline performance measures are as defined in the Performance Review. These have been reported on a pro forma basis as if the Merger 
had occurred at the start of the comparative period. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   19 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Strategic Report
Principal risks to achieving the Group’s objectives 
20 
The Group recognises that taking risks is an inherent part of doing business and that competitive advantage can be gained 
through effectively managing risk. The Group continues to develop robust risk management processes, integrating risk 
management into business decision-making. The Group’s approach to risk management is set out in the Corporate Governance 
Report on pages 44 to 46. The principal risks and uncertainties, together with their potential impacts, are set out in the tables 
below along with an illustration of what is being done to mitigate them.  
Specific risks and potential impacts 
Principal risk Specific risks Potential impacts 
1. Dependence on 
networks and key 
suppliers 
• The Group is dependent on relationships with key suppliers  
to source products on which availability may be limited  
• Changes in MNO strategies in relation to the Group, or more 
generally, and / or their performance, could materially affect the 
revenues and profits of the business 
• Mergers between the MNOs could lead to a change in their  
strategies and relationships with the Group 
• Reduced revenue and profitability 
• Deteriorating cash flow 
• Reduced market share 
 
2. Consumer environment 
and sustainable  
business model 
• Failure to respond with a business model that enables the  
business to compete against a broad range of competitors on  
service, price and / or range in a changing economy 
• Failure to respond effectively to changes in the industry,  
economic and / or competitor landscape 
• Failure to accommodate changes in consumer preferences  
and behaviours 
 
 
 
 
• Reduced revenue and profitability 
• Deteriorating cash flow 
• Reduced market share 
 
3. Greek exit from  
the Euro 
• Possible exit of Greece from the Euro (‘Grexit’) could lead to a 
deterioration in consumer confidence and disposable income 
resulting in a significant impact on our Greek business, Kotsovolos 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• Reduced revenue and profitability 
• Deteriorating cash flow 
 
 
4. IT systems and 
infrastructure 
• Failure to invest adequately and appropriately in IT systems and 
infrastructure, or an inability to effectively integrate IT assets  
across the Group constrains the Group’s ability to grow and / or  
adapt quickly 
A key system becomes unavailable for a period of time 
 
 
 
• Reduced revenue and profitability 
• Deteriorating cash flow 
• Loss of competitive advantage 
• Restricted growth and adaptability 
• Reputational damage 
5. Information security • Major loss of customer, colleague, or business  
sensitive data 
Vulnerability to attack, malware, and associated cyber risks  
owing to under-investment in people, systems, and  
safeguarding processes 
 
 
 
 
• Reputational damage 
• Financial penalties 
• Reduced revenue and profitability 
• Deteriorating cash flow 
• Loss of competitive advantage 
  
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   20 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Strategic Report
 
 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
Example mitigating actions and related strategic priorities 
Example mitigating actions  Change in risk in 2015/16 
• Multi-year commercial agreements are in place with all the major MNOs, which closely align interests 
and drive value for both parties 
• Continuing to leverage the scale of operations to strengthen relationships with key suppliers and 
maintain a good supply of scarce products  
 
 
 
 
 
This risk has remained stable  
over 2015/16 
 
• Strategic and business planning takes into account varying economic scenarios, with ongoing 
monitoring by finance and senior executives 
• Close scrutiny of product performance, trading results, competitor activity and market share 
• Use of customer insight / advocacy to monitor success of initiatives and actions 
• Continued focus on driving cost improvements through cost-efficiency initiatives 
• Ongoing evolution of our multi-channel proposition  
• Differentiation from competitors through strategic partner relationships, innovative propositions, and 
high quality customer service 
• Working to leverage expertise and scale to build partnerships with other retailers and businesses 
through Connected World Services  
• Development of consumer services 
 
 
This risk is unchanged as the nature 
and challenges in our business 
environment are consistent with  
the prior year 
• A number of exit scenarios have been modelled in order to understand and mitigate the potential 
impact on the Group’s business 
• Review of local funding arrangements including factoring of debtor receivables 
• Reduction in credit risk exposure by tightening control over customer credit arrangements 
 
 
The threat of imminent Grexit has 
been averted. Political instability and 
economic uncertainty remain in 
Greece but the situation is perceived 
to be stabilising and our local 
business continues to perform well. 
This risk has decreased in likelihood 
but will remain on our risk register 
under a watching brief 
• Significant investment being made in IT systems and infrastructure across the Group, supported by 
rigorous testing processes 
• Post-merger IT transformation to align IT infrastructure to future needs of the business 
• Individual system recovery plans in place in the event of failure which are tested regularly, with full 
recovery infrastructure available for critical systems 
• Long-term partnerships with ‘tier 1’ application and infrastructure providers established 
 
 
This risk has remained stable  
over 2015/16 
• Implementation of a UK&I Information Security Improvement Plan 
• Investment in information security safeguards, IT security controls, monitoring, in-house expertise  
and resources 
• Committee comprising senior management in UK&I, set up with responsibility for oversight,  
co-ordination and monitoring of information security policy and risk 
• Recruitment of a Chief Information Security Officer 
• Ongoing training and awareness programmes for employees 
• Ongoing programme of penetration testing  
 
 
Our overall information security 
position has been hardened in 
response to increases in external 
threats. We continue to undertake 
significant management effort and 
investment to reduce this risk 
exposure 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   21 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Strategic Report
Principal risks to achieving the Group’s objectives 
22 
Specific risks and potential impacts 
Principal risk Specific risks Potential impacts 
6. Financial Conduct 
Authority (‘FCA’) 
regulation  
• Failure to manage the business of the Group in compliance with  
FCA regulation to which the Group is subject in a number of areas 
including the mobile insurance operations of The Carphone 
Warehouse Limited and the consumer credit activities of DSG  
Retail Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
• Reputational damage 
• Financial penalties 
• Reduced revenues and profitability 
• Deteriorating cash flow 
• Customer compensation 
7. Colleague retention  
and capability 
• The organisational structure and related accountabilities  
restrict the ability to run the business effectively and adapt  
to market change 
• Failure to attract, develop and retain quality and depth of  
necessary leadership and management talent 
• Maturing of long term incentive schemes may increase risk  
of higher turnover in senior management population 
 
 
 
• Reputational damage 
• Reduced revenue and profitability 
• Deteriorating cash flow 
• Loss of competitive advantage 
8. Business continuity 
plans are not effective 
and major incident 
response is inadequate 
• A major incident impacts the Group’s ability to trade and business 
continuity plans are not effective resulting in an inadequate  
incident response 
 
 
• Reduced revenue and profitability 
• Deteriorating cash flow 
• Reputational damage  
• Loss of competitive advantage 
9. Fraud • Payment card fraud 
• Manipulation or misuse of Electronic Point of Sale system and / or 
other payment systems 
• Customer false identity and other ‘no intention to pay’ frauds  
in taking out network contracts 
 
 
• Reduced revenue and profitability 
• Reputational damage 
10. Health and safety • Failure to effectively protect customers and / or colleagues from  
injury or loss of life  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• Employee / customer injury or loss of life 
• Reputational damage 
• Financial penalties 
11. Impact of Brexit • Economic uncertainty and impact on consumer confidence caused  
by the decision of the UK to leave the European Union (‘Brexit’) 
• Further adverse exchange rate volatility 
• Longer term changes in tax, regulation and other frameworks that 
may impact our ability to operate across our European businesses 
• Reduced revenue and profitability 
• Deteriorating cash flow 
 
  
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   22 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Strategic Report
 
 
23 
Example mitigating actions and related strategic priorities 
Example mitigating actions Change in risk in 2015/16 
• Board oversight and risk management structures actively monitor compliance 
• Senior management perform oversight, co-ordination and monitoring of governance, ensuring 
regulatory compliance and adherence to policy and monitoring of mitigating actions 
• Internal committees, including a dedicated FCA compliance committee, and control structures to 
ensure appropriate compliance (e.g. undertaking quality assurance procedures for samples of mobile 
phone sales) and to react swiftly should issues arise 
• Ongoing investment in the compliance team 
• Continuous review of the operation and effectiveness of compliance standards and controls with the 
development of control improvement plans where required 
• New training programmes for colleagues implemented across the retail estate 
 
 
This risk has increased over  
2015/16 due to the expansion  
of the FCA’s regulatory regime  
into consumer credit and a general 
increase in regulatory focus across 
our operations 
• Ongoing review to ensure appropriate and effective roles, responsibilities, and accountabilities 
• Defined and standardised performance management frameworks in place, with talent and succession 
plans maintained and reward aligned to attract and retain the best talent 
• Store structures which provide a clear career path for colleagues, retaining and developing the best 
retail talent 
• Bonus plans which include components relating to both business and personal performance  
• Continued improvements in the quality of training courses and development programmes with  
specialist focus on core business areas 
• Development of appropriate succession planning, as set out in the Nominations Committee Report  
on pages 55 to 56 
 
 
This risk has remained stable  
over 2015/16 
• Business continuity and crisis management plans in place and tested for key business locations 
• Disaster recovery plans in place and tested for key IT systems and data centres 
• Crisis team appointed to manage response to significant events 
• Major risks insured 
 
 
This risk has remained stable  
over 2015/16 
• Fraud prevention and detection controls 
• Real-time transaction monitoring 
• 24/7 fraud and loss prevention teams 
• Customer identity verification and credit checks for network contracts 
• Liaison with banks, card providers and MNOs to identify and mitigate opportunities for fraud 
• Reporting and oversight by the Audit Committee 
• Whistle-blowing arrangements 
 
 
This risk has remained stable  
over 2015/16 
 
• Single Group health and safety policy 
• Health and safety manager and team located across business units and markets 
• Comprehensive set of policies and standards supporting continued improvement 
• Risk assessment programme covering retail, support centres, distribution and home services  
• Health and safety training and development framework 
• Health and safety inspection programme  
• Audit programme including factory audits for own brand products and third-party supply chains 
 
 
A comprehensive internal review  
of health and safety processes  
after the Merger has resulted in a 
reassessment of the risk. We continue 
to develop and implement policies, 
procedures and practices to mitigate 
this risk 
• Long-term credit facilities in place 
• Foreign exchange hedging to mitigate impact of currency fluctuation 
• Long-term contingency planning to address wider regulatory and legislative changes 
 
 
New risk 
 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   23 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Strategic Report
Performance review 
24 
Highlights: 12 months to 30 April 2016* 
• Group like-for-like revenue
(4)
 up 5% (UK & Ireland up 6% and Nordics up 4%)
• Strong profit performance:
– Headline PBT
(1)
 of £447 million (2014/15: £381 million), up over 17%
– Headline basic EPS
(1) (2)
 29.3p (2014/15: 25.5p)
– Total statutory profit of £161 million (2014/15: £97 million) after Non-Headline
(1)
 charges of £176 million 
(2014/15:£188 million) which include a loss from discontinued operations of £18 million (2014/15: £114 million)
• Free cash flows
(9)
 of £202 million (2014/15: £89 million) and net debt broadly flat year-on-year at £267 million
• Final dividend of 6.50p (2014/15: 6.00p) proposed, taking total dividends for the year to 9.75p (2014/15: 8.50p), up 15%
year-on-year
• Sprint joint venture in the US expected to contribute $40 million - $50 million of annual EBIT to the Group by 2019/20
• honeyBee platform: second major client signed
Headline results*
(1)
 
Headline revenue
(1)
 Headline profit / (loss)
(1)
Note 
2015/16 
£million 
2014/15 
£million 
Local
currency
(3)
% change 
Like-for-like
(4)
 
% change 
2015/16 
£million 
2014/15 
£million 
UK & Ireland (5) 6,404 6,314 2% 6% 365 305 
Nordics (6) 2,632 2,709 6% 4% 79 86 
Southern Europe (7) 550 606 (5)% 4% 17 15 
Connected World Services (8) 152 121 26% N/A 7 7 
Group 9,738 9,750 3% 5% 468 413 
Net finance costs  (21) (32)
Profit before tax  447 381 
Tax (110) (88)
Profit after tax  337 293 
*Basis of preparation – pro forma information 
On 6 August 2014 an all-share Merger of Carphone Warehouse and Dixons Retail took place. The prior period information in the highlights and 
performance review sections refers, unless otherwise stated, to pro forma Headline
(1)
 information for continuing businesses, reflecting the results 
of both Carphone Warehouse and Dixons Retail throughout the comparative periods as if the Merger had occurred at the start of the 
comparative period. 
Following the Merger, the Group changed its year end to be the Saturday closest to 30 April. The 2014/15 financial year as disclosed in the 
2014/15 annual report and accounts therefore comprised the 13 months to 2 May 2015 for the Carphone Warehouse business. In this
Annual Report and Accounts, the pro forma prior period results of the Carphone Warehouse business have been restated to exclude the
results of the five weeks’ trading to 3 May 2014 to enable a better year-on-year comparison. 
A reconciliation from statutory to pro forma financial information is provided on pages 151 to 152. 
Notes 
(1) Headline results exclude amortisation of acquisition intangibles, Merger integration and transaction costs, property rationalisation costs, 
acquisition-related costs and other one-off, non-recurring items, net interest on defined benefit pension schemes and discontinued 
operations (comprising Virgin Mobile France and Phone House operations in Germany, Netherlands and Portugal). Such excluded items are 
described as ‘Non-Headline’. For further details see notes 4 and 25 to the financial statements. 
(2) Pro forma EPS for the period ended 2 May 2015 has been calculated assuming the number of shares existing at 2 May 2015, adjusted for 
the number of shares held by the Group ESOTs, were in existence for the entire financial period. 
(3) Change in local currency revenue reflects total revenues on a constant currency and period basis. 
(4) Like-for-like sales are defined in the glossary and definitions on pages 154 to 156. 
(5) UK & Ireland comprises operations in the UK and Ireland and the Dixons Travel business. 
(6) Nordics comprises operations in Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, and Iceland. 
(7) Southern Europe comprises operations in Spain and Greece.  
(8) Connected World Services comprises the Group’s B2B operation which leverages the specialist skills, operating processes and technology 
of the Group to provide managed services to third parties looking to develop their own connected world solutions. 
(9) Free Cash Flow comprises cash generated from / (utilised by) continuing operations before special pension contributions, less net finance 
expense, less income tax paid and net capital expenditure. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   24 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Strategic Report
 
25 
Pro forma Headline results 
The performance review below refers, unless otherwise stated, 
to pro forma Headline information for continuing businesses. 
The basis for the preparation of this information is described 
on page 24. 
Group 
Group Headline revenue was up 3% on a local currency basis 
but broadly flat in Sterling terms at £9,738 million (2014/15: 
£9,750 million). Like-for-like revenue growth was 5%, reflecting 
strong growth in our UK & Ireland, Nordic and Greek 
businesses. The difference between the total revenue growth 
on a local currency basis and like-for-like is predominantly  
due to a reduction in stores in the UK during the year and a 
decision to reduce low-margin wholesale activity. The Group 
has continued to grow market share, despite operating in a 
highly competitive marketplace. 
Headline EBIT was up 13% to £468 million (2014/15: £413 
million) driven by the strong operating performance in the  
UK & Ireland and the delivery of synergy benefits related  
to the Merger. Headline profit before tax was £447 million 
(2014/15: £381 million) reflecting 17% growth from the 
improved EBIT and a lower interest charge year-on-year 
following the redemption of the bonds previously held by 
Dixons Retail in August 2014. 
Integration of the two businesses is now largely complete with 
a single head office in each of the countries where Carphone 
and Dixons overlapped, one logistics and repair centre in the 
UK and 276 Carphone Warehouse SWAS now open.  
UK & Ireland 
Revenue in the UK & Ireland increased by 1% to £6,404 million 
(2014/15: £6,314 million). Like-for-like revenue for the year was 
up 6% reflecting mobile phone market share gains along with 
good growth in electricals. The difference between the total 
revenue growth and like-for-like predominantly reflects a 
reduction in stores. This revenue growth combined with cost 
and synergy savings has resulted in Headline EBIT increasing 
20% to £365 million. The business has continued to gain 
market share helping to drive sales and EBIT. Our purchase  
of Simplifydigital – the UK’s largest and fastest growing  
multi-channel switching platform – leaves the business  
well-positioned to benefit from growth in the multi-play market. 
The electricals business has delivered a very solid result with 
growth in the sale of white goods offsetting weaker demand in 
computing. Television sales performed well, especially given 
the World Cup last year. 
The mobile business performed extremely well during the year. 
Post-pay volumes and market share have grown year on year, 
with the business benefiting from additional SWAS stores, the 
performance of our iD mobile operations, and market share 
gains following the closure of Phones 4u in the prior year.  
In January 2016 we launched a programme to roll out our  
3-in-1 store concept so as to create the store estate of the 
future. This will involve merging the remaining PC World and 
Currys stores and inserting a Carphone Warehouse in stores 
that have not yet got one. This programme will reduce our 
store estate by 134 but will significantly improve the store 
experience for our customers and colleagues, and we expect 
the impact on sales to be neutral or better. Given that the 
programme will be implemented during 2016/17, we expect 
that the benefit to 2016/17 earnings will be modest, but 
thereafter this activity will contribute approximately £30 million 
of incremental EBITDA. 
At the start of the year the Group launched iD, a new mobile 
network focused on providing users with increased contract 
flexibility, greater access to free data roaming and 
competitively priced 4G tariffs. The performance of iD in the 
UK has been very positive and the business now has an active 
customer base of over 335,000 subscribers. 
Nordics 
The Nordic business has performed well in a challenging 
economic environment, delivering 6% growth on a local 
currency basis. However, revenue in Sterling was down 3% to 
£2,632 million (2014/15: £2,709 million) predominantly due to 
the devaluation of the Norwegian Krone relative to Sterling. 
Like-for-like revenue was up 4% despite the challenging 
commercial environment and some aggressive competitive 
pricing. The growth in like-for-like revenue was driven by white 
goods, mobiles and laptops, offsetting weakness in PCs and 
tablets. We have continued to focus on ensuring competitive 
pricing against pure players, albeit with some margin impact. 
In local currency, our Nordic business delivered record 
earnings but, due to the adverse movement in foreign 
exchange, both from translation of local currency results  
into Sterling, as well as margin pressure due to increased 
buying costs, Nordic Headline EBIT was £79 million  
(2014/15: £86 million). 
The Merger has continued to benefit the Nordics with the 
launch of Elkjøp Phonehouse stores in Norway, and the 
integration of Phone House Sweden into ElGiganten. The 
extension of the Jönköping warehouse to create Europe’s 
most advanced small products distribution centre is also 
progressing well. 
In November 2015 InfoCare, a services and repair business, 
was acquired in order to further the Group’s services strategy. 
This business has now been successfully integrated into the 
wider Nordics business. The Epoq kitchen business also 
continues to deliver very encouraging results with strong 
revenue growth driving market share and appliance sales. 
Southern Europe 
Southern Europe had strong underlying results with like-for-like 
revenue up 4%, largely driven by the business in Greece which 
continues to perform extremely well in the face of a challenging 
environment. The Greek business benefited from strong 
growth in white goods and tablets, which more than offset 
some weakness in TV and laptops following the end of a 
government laptop promotion in the prior year. Whilst post-pay 
volumes were down in Spain we continue to pivot the model in 
line with the market to offer multi-play, sim-only and handset 
only, whilst successfully retaining our market share. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   25 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Strategic Report
Performance review 
26 
Revenue on a local currency basis was down 5%, though  
up in Greece despite the Greek business reducing volumes  
in the low margin wholesale business. The Spanish business 
continued to shift its store mix to franchise and away from 
owned stores, with owned stores down 52 to 249 but with an 
increase in franchise stores from 198 to 249. Southern Europe 
has reported a year-on-year 9% decline in Headline revenue  
to £550 million (2014/15: £606 million) reflecting the factors 
above and a weaker Euro for much of the financial year. 
Southern Europe Headline EBIT was £17 million  
(2014/15: £15 million), up 13%. 
Connected World Services  
Connected World Services (‘CWS’) has continued to grow, 
delivering revenue of £152 million, up from £121 million in the 
prior year. We are announcing new developments in three of 
the distinct business areas within CWS – connected retailing, 
technology platform and support & services.  
In connected retailing, following the success of the trial stores 
we have agreed to roll out up to 500 stores with Sprint in the 
US, including c.150 in the year ahead. Separately we continue 
to expand on our consultancy agreement with Sprint and 
deliver significant benefits to both parties, including operating 
27 of Sprint’s own stores in Miami and Dallas. The joint venture 
continues to go from strength to strength and we expect it to 
contribute $40 million - $50 million to the Group’s annual EBIT 
by 2019/20.  
Within our technology platform business, we have reached 
agreement with Sprint to roll out honeyBee across the entire 
Sprint estate in the US. 
In support and services, we aim to be the UK’s largest  
third-party provider of mobile phone insurance. We have 
agreed a new third-party mobile insurance contract in the UK 
with EE, we have extended an existing contract with RBS and 
we have entered into a significant new distribution agreement 
with TalkTalk to support the sales and distribution of mobile, 
TV and broadband connectivity. 
We remain very excited about CWS’s prospects and continue 
to invest in building the team and infrastructure to support the 
growth potential of this business. CWS’s result for the year of 
£7 million (2014/15: £7 million) is after a £4 million share of 
losses from the joint venture arising on the Sprint venture and 
is a result that we consider satisfactory and in line with 
expectations. 
Net finance costs 
Headline net finance costs were £21 million (2014/15: £32 
million). The reduction in financing costs was primarily due to 
the redemption of the bonds previously held by Dixons Retail 
on 21 August 2014 and the Group’s new revolving credit 
facility incurring a lower rate of interest. 
Tax 
The Headline effective tax rate for the full year is 25% 
(2014/15: 23%). The rate is higher than the UK statutory rate of 
20% due mainly to higher statutory rates in the Nordics, certain 
non-deductible items mainly in the UK and a reduction in the 
value of UK-related deferred tax assets due to the forthcoming 
reductions in the UK statutory tax rates. 
Cash and movement on net funds 
The prior period information provided below is on a pro forma 
basis and aggregates the net funds / (debt) and cash flows of 
the Group and Dixons Retail, as though Dixons Retail had been 
100% owned by the Group throughout the prior period, to 
enable a complete understanding of cash flows.  
Free Cash Flow – pro forma basis 
 
2015/16 
£million 
2014/15
£million 
Headline EBIT 468 413 
Depreciation and amortisation 137 137 
Working capital (76) (159)
Capital expenditure (221) (182)
Taxation (56) (62)
Interest (31) (46)
Other items 24 4 
Free cash flow before restructuring 
items – continuing operations 245 105 
Restructuring costs  (43) (16)
Free Cash Flow 202 89 
 
Free Cash Flow before restructuring was an inflow of  
£245 million (2014/15: £105 million), an increase of 133%.  
The Group experienced a working capital outflow of £76 million 
(2014/15: £159 million), being an improvement on the previous 
year which included a non-recurring unwind of certain supplier 
funding arrangements. 
Capital expenditure in the period was £221 million  
(2014/15: £182 million), lower than anticipated, reflecting tight 
management of capex spend. The year-on-year increase 
reflected spend on Carphone Warehouse SWAS, investment in 
IT platforms and continued development in both our retail and 
Connected World Services businesses. We continue to keep 
tight management of our capex spend as well as other 
integration activities. 
The reduction in interest reflects the prior year including 
interest paid on the bonds previously held by Dixons Retail 
until August 2014 and the Group’s new revolving credit facility 
incurring a lower interest rate. 
Restructuring costs in both the current year and prior year 
relate to Merger integration costs and primarily reflect 
employee severance and incentive costs, property costs 
associated with the integration process and professional fees. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   26 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Strategic Report
 
27 
Funding – pro forma basis 
 
2015/16
£million 
2014/15
£million 
Free Cash Flow – pro forma basis 202 89 
Dividends (106) (52)
Merger transaction costs — (90)
Acquisitions and disposals including 
discontinued operations (82) 2 
Pension contributions (35) (28)
Other items 14 — 
Movement in net funds / (debt) –  
pro forma basis (7) (79)
Opening net funds / (debt) – pro forma 
basis
(1)
 (260) (181)
Closing net (debt) (267) (260)
 
(1) Opening net debt in the current period reflects the consolidated 
net debt of the Group at 2 May 2015 including net funds 
recognised within assets held for sale of £53 million. Opening net 
debt in the comparative reflects net debt for Carphone Warehouse 
at 29 March 2014 and for Dixons Retail at 30 April 2014.  
 
At 30 April 2016 the Group had net debt of £267 million, 
broadly flat year-on-year to net debt of £260 million in the 
comparative period. Free cash flow was an inflow of  
£202 million (2014/15: £89 million) for the reasons  
described above.  
Merger transaction costs in the previous year reflected 
professional and banking fees, the cash cost of share option 
exercises as a result of the Merger and the cost of redeeming 
the bonds previously held by Dixons Retail. Net cash outflows 
from acquisitions and disposals in the current year were  
£82 million primarily comprising the final deferred payment for 
the CPW Europe Acquisition, the acquisitions of Simplifydigital 
and InfoCare, and discontinued operations.  
The increase in pension contributions reflects the agreed 
contribution profile following the 2013 triennial valuation. 
On 8 October 2015 the Group signed a new multi-currency 
revolving credit facility for £800 million, which matures in 
October 2020 and replaced the multi-currency term and 
revolving credit facility which was previously in place. 
Statutory results 
The explanation of the Group’s results presented above is on a 
pro forma Headline basis for the comparative period. Group 
results as reported in the financial information are prepared on 
a statutory basis, with the comparative period consolidating 
the results of Dixons Retail from 6 August 2014. These results 
are summarised below: 
Income statement – continuing operations  
 
2015/16
£million 
2014/15
£million 
Revenue 9,738 8,255 
EBIT 304 324 
Net finance costs (41) (37)
Profit before tax 263 287 
Tax (84) (76)
Profit after tax 179 211 
Basic EPS 15.6p 22.0p 
Diluted EPS 15.1p 21.2p 
 
Revenue increased 18% to £9,738 million reflecting the 
inclusion of a full 12 months’ earnings from Dixons Retail in the 
current year (prior period results from 6 August 2014 to 2 May 
2015) offset by the additional month trading for the Carphone 
Warehouse businesses in the prior period. 
Profit before tax reduced from £287 million to £263 million in 
the current period, largely due to non-Headline costs incurred 
in the current year in relation to the Merger and property 
rationalisation costs, which are explained later in this report. 
Net finance costs have increased due to the inclusion of a full 
12 months of Dixons Retail, resulting in higher finance lease 
and pension-related interest. 
The tax charge increased from £76 million to £84 million 
reflecting certain non-deductible non-Headline items in the 
current year. 
Basic EPS has reduced from 22.0p to 15.6p for the period due 
to the lower profit after tax and the increase in the number of 
shares of the Group as part of the Merger. 
Non-Headline items 
Statutory profit before tax of £263 million (2014/15: £287 
million) includes Non-Headline charges of £184 million 
(2014/15: £89 million). These charges are analysed below and 
are reported on a statutory basis with the Dixons Retail 
business only consolidated from completion of the Merger on 
6 August 2014. 
 
2015/16
£million 
2014/15
£million 
Merger-related costs (52) (41)
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles (40) (35)
Property rationalisation costs  (70) — 
Acquisition-related costs  (6) — 
Net pension interest (16) (13)
 (184) (89)
 
Costs incurred in relation to the Merger relate to integration 
costs primarily being professional fees, employee severance 
and property costs associated with the integration process 
(2014/15: £32 million). In addition, during 2014/15 transaction 
costs of £9 million were incurred, predominantly reflecting 
banking and professional fees. Merger-related costs also 
includes the write-off of £4 million deferred facility fees which 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   27 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Strategic Report
Performance review 
28 
were incurred as a result of the Merger and the financing 
required to facilitate the Merger at short notice. 
The charge for the amortisation of acquisition intangibles was 
£40 million (2014/15: £35 million) with the current period 
including a full 12 months of amortisation of intangible assets 
recognised as a result of the Merger (2014/15 period from  
6 August 2014 to 2 May 2015). The prior period charge also 
includes amortisation for 13 months for those intangibles 
recognised as a result of the CPW Europe Acquisition whilst 
the current period reflects a 12 month period. 
As explained on page 25, the Group has initiated a 
reorganisation of its property portfolio to put it into its  
long-term state. The costs associated with this programme 
relate to committed property exit costs, asset write-downs and 
operational costs associated with the 3-in-1 store concept  
roll out across the UK & Ireland. 
Acquisition-related costs in the period relate to professional 
fees incurred in the current year as a result of the acquisition  
of Simplifydigital in the UK and InfoCare in the Nordics and the 
revaluation of deferred consideration payable to the former 
shareholders of the Epoq kitchen business in the Nordics 
following a reassessment of the likely final payment to be  
made on the back of recent trading performance.  
Net pension interest was £16 million reflecting the charge 
incurred in relation to the Dixons Retail UK pension scheme. 
The current period charge reflects a full 12 months whilst the 
prior period charge related to that incurred from the date of 
Merger to the 2 May 2015 period end. 
Discontinued operations 
As reported at 2 May 2015, Virgin Mobile France and the 
Group’s retail operations in Germany, the Netherlands and 
Portugal were treated as discontinued operations following the 
decision to exit these businesses. The assets and liabilities 
associated with Germany, the Netherlands and Portugal were 
recognised as held for sale at 2 May 2015. The sale of 
operations in Germany was completed on 5 May 2015, the 
Netherlands on 30 June 2015 and Portugal on 31 August 2015. 
Virgin Mobile France was sold on 4 December 2014 in the 
previous financial year. 
A loss of £18 million (2014/15: £114 million) has been 
recognised during the year in relation to the disposal of these 
operations. 
Balance sheet 
 
2015/16 
£million 
2014/15
£million 
Goodwill 3,054 2,989 
Other fixed assets 906 852 
Working capital (361) (387)
Net debt (267) (313)
Tax, pension & other (472) (378)
 2,860 2,763 
 
The movement in goodwill is due to the acquisition of 
Simplifydigital and InfoCare, and the retranslation of currency 
denominated balances largely in the Nordics. Fixed assets 
have increased, with the higher capital expenditure during the 
year exceeding amortisation and depreciation. Working capital 
has stayed flat, whilst net debt has decreased with positive 
cash flows during the year as described below. Other net 
liabilities (tax, pension & other) have increased following the 
disposal of assets held for sale (primarily in relation to Phone 
House Germany). 
Cash flow statement 
 
2015/16 
£million 
2014/15
£million 
EBIT 304 324 
Depreciation and amortisation 177 149 
Working capital (14) (377)
Other operating cash flows (73) (53)
Cash flows from operating activities 394 43 
  
Acquisitions (59) 322 
Capital expenditure (221) (166)
Other investing cash flows 24 20 
Cash flows from investing activities (256) 176 
   
Dividends paid (106) (52)
Other financing cash flows (11) (290)
Cash flows from financing activities (117) (342)
   
Cash flows from continuing operations 21 (123)
Cash flows from discontinued 
operations 32 3 
 53 (120)
 
The statutory EBIT for the Group has reduced for the reasons 
explained above. Depreciation and amortisation have 
increased with the prior period only including nine months  
of Dixons Retail. Working capital has stayed relatively flat  
year-on-year whilst the outflow in the prior period was due to 
timing issues associated with the change of year end and the 
day on which month end fell, as well as a permanent unwind  
of certain extended supplier payment terms.  
Acquisition cash inflows in the comparative period reflects 
cash acquired through the Dixons Retail Merger whilst  
cash outflows in the current year comprise the final CPW 
Europe Acquisition deferred payment and the acquisitions  
of Simplifydigital and InfoCare. The increase in capital 
expenditure reflects both a full 12 months of Dixons Retail  
and an increase in underlying spend. 
The reduction in financing outflows is due to the prior period 
including the pay down of loans and borrowings of Dixons 
Retail soon after the Merger whilst borrowings have remained 
relatively flat year-on-year in the current period. Cash inflows 
from discontinued operations largely relates to consideration 
on the disposal of Phone House Germany. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   28 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Strategic Report
 
29 
Comprehensive income / changes in equity 
Total equity of the Group has increased from £2,763 million to 
£2,860 million primarily reflecting the total statutory profit of 
£161 million, the gain on retranslation of overseas operations 
of £66 million and the payment of dividends of £106 million.  
Other matters 
Pensions 
The IAS 19 accounting deficit of the defined benefit section  
of the UK pension scheme of Dixons Retail amounted to  
£472 million at 30 April 2016 compared to £486 million at  
2 May 2015. Contributions during the period under the  
terms of the deficit reduction plan amounted to £35 million 
(2014/15: £28 million). The deficit has decreased largely as a 
result of the contributions made to the scheme during the year.  
Dividends 
The Board declared an interim dividend of 3.25p per share, up 
from 2.50p per share last year. The interim dividend was paid 
on 22 January 2016. 
We are proposing a final dividend of 6.50p per share, taking 
the total dividend for the year to 9.75p per share, a 15% 
increase on the previous year (2014/15: 8.50p). The final 
dividend is subject to shareholder approval at the Company’s 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. The ex-dividend date is 
25 August 2016, with a record date of 26 August 2016 and an 
intended final dividend payment date of 23 September 2016. 
Going concern 
A review of the Group’s business activities, together with the 
factors likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position, are set out within this Strategic Report, including the 
risk management section. The financial position of the Group, 
its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
shown in the balance sheet, cash flow statement and 
accompanying notes to the Group financial statements. 
The directors have reviewed the future cash and profit 
forecasts of the Group, which they consider to be based on 
prudent assumptions. Based on these forecasts, the directors 
consider that it is appropriate to prepare the Group financial 
statements on the going concern basis.  
Viability statement 
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2014, the Directors have assessed the 
viability of the Group over a period longer than the 12 months 
covered by the going concern provision noted above. 
The Board concluded that a period of three years was 
appropriate for this assessment as it is consistent with the 
period of focus of the annual strategic plan and reflects a 
period of greater certainty over forecasting assumptions.  
In assessing the viability of the Group, the Directors have 
considered the Group’s current position and prospects, risk 
appetite, and those principal risks and mitigating actions as 
described on pages 20 to 23 of the Strategic Report.  
The strategic plan considers the forecast revenue,  
EBITDA, working capital, cash flows and funding requirements 
on a business by business basis as well as the available 
borrowing facilities to the Group over the assessment period 
and the financial covenants with which those facilities must 
comply. The strategic plan has been subject to robust stress 
testing, modelling the impact of a combination of severe but 
plausible adverse scenarios based on those principal risks 
facing the Group.  
Based on the results of this analysis, the directors have an 
expectation that the Company will be able to continue in 
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the  
three-year period of their assessment. In doing so, it is 
recognised that such future assessments are subject to  
a level of uncertainty and as such, future outcomes cannot  
be guaranteed or predicted with certainty. 
 
Humphrey Singer 
Group Finance Director 
28 June 2016 
 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   29 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Strategic Report
Corporate Responsibility 
30 
Dixons Carphone is committed to high standards of corporate and social responsibility (‘CSR’) across the Group. The table below 
provides an overview of our key corporate and social responsibility principles and their interaction with our business model.  
 At Dixons Carphone we 
• Simplify the mobile, technology and electrical world 
• Make the potential of connected technology accessible and affordable for everyone 
• Provide unparalleled expertise and service to help navigate the new digital era 
Business 
model 
Products 
Work with suppliers to showcase 
the latest technology, connectivity 
and products 
Multi-channel 
Provide customers with seamless 
engagement and support, whether 
online, in person or a combination  
of the two 
Support 
Set the benchmark for support, gaining 
a significant competitive advantage in 
meeting the needs  
of our customers 
CSR ambition 
driven by 
insights 
Understand how technology can be used to tackle social issues, then leverage our skills, experience and position
to support communities, connected homes and the families within them, by helping to ensure occupants feel  
properly equipped, safe and confident to explore the connected world 
CSR model Innovate 
Deliver transformative change 
through innovation 
Collaborate 
Collaborate with stakeholders  
as partners 
Invest 
Invest in initiatives directly or indirectly 
which benefit the communities in  
which we operate 
CSR impacts People Connected community  Environment Supply chain 
CSR 
principles 
Create a great place to 
work, attracting the best 
talent and ensuring 
opportunities for 
employees to grow their 
careers, adopt healthier 
lifestyles and engage  
with good causes 
Make a positive impact as
a valued member of the 
community while building 
brand loyalty and trust 
 
Strive for a sustainable
environment, minimise 
wastage and optimise 
efficiency 
Operate an ethical
business, valuing rights 
and prosperity across our 
value chain 
 
 
We are committed to building a sustainable, responsible  
and ethical business. We listen to customers, shareholders, 
employees and wider communities to understand their 
expectations and ensure they are reflected in our business 
decisions. We believe good sustainability practices make 
sound business sense, not only to benefit the environment, 
stakeholders and the communities in which we operate,  
but to achieve our strategic priorities.  
Our approach to corporate responsibility means taking 
business decisions guided by our values and code of ethics.  
People 
Our people are our enduring advantage and we invest in 
ensuring we attract the best talent, that they remain engaged, 
high-performing and are able to deliver a great customer 
experience at all times. We remain focused on embedding our 
combined values through existing ways of working and in 
2015/16 we introduced the You're Electric recognition scheme 
across the entire estate, using various channels to recognise 
great performance and behaviours aligned to our values. 
We continue to make good progress integrating our teams and 
harmonising our tools and processes to create a consistent 
experience for every colleague while creating exciting 
opportunities that encourage them to grow their careers with 
us through different roles, brands and functions. 
Engaging our colleagues  
We know an engaged workforce delivers a great customer 
experience, which supports strong financial results. This is why 
our key aim is to communicate openly and honestly with 
colleagues to give them a voice while cultivating pride in 
working for Dixons Carphone. In 2015/16 we launched a 
combined colleague engagement survey across the Group, 
administered by an external provider. Colleagues use this 
balanced scorecard to tell us how they feel about working for 
Dixons Carphone and their feedback is used to develop 
targeted initiatives to help us monitor performance, make  
the right decisions, recognise success and ensure our 
company remains a great place to work. New communication 
platforms have been launched in the UK & Ireland to ensure we 
provide modern tools with an emphasis on collaboration and  
peer-to-peer communication. Further roll-outs are planned for 
2016/17. We will continue to produce Connected, a hard copy 
magazine for our 42,000 employees. This communication 
consistently receives positive feedback from colleagues and in 
September 2015 it received an industry award for Best New 
Publication from the Institute of Internal Communications. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   30 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Strategic Report
 
31 
Investing in colleague expertise  
To help our people grow their careers at Dixons Carphone and 
develop the skills needed to perform well in their role and help 
to grow our business, we provide formal training, on-the-job 
experience and management coaching. We have a learning 
strategy to support our business strategy and all new 
colleagues have a 90-day plan to set them up for success in 
their role. Colleagues have regular one-to-ones and a formal 
review twice a year with their manager to discuss their current 
performance and consider future development and career 
plans. Across Dixons Carphone over 200,000 learning hours 
were recorded last year with over 80% of this learning 
completed digitally. All training is designed to support us in 
becoming trusted experts for our customers. We also run 
talent and leadership development programmes to develop 
high achievers and to improve leadership skills across our 
management population. 
Employee benefits 
Our employee benefits packages are regularly reviewed to 
remain attractive and conducive to the recruitment and 
retention of talented individuals. Colleagues are encouraged to 
participate in our SAYE scheme to build a personal stake in the 
business. We work to achieve high standards in employment 
practices and have a comprehensive suite of employment 
policies and procedures, which we regularly review. These 
policies include guidance on being family-friendly through to 
colleague dispute management, ethical conduct, diversity and 
equal opportunities. 
Health and wellbeing  
Through the promotion of employee wellbeing, we aim to 
create a truly happier, healthier and more productive 
workforce, at the same time as reducing time off through 
sickness and ensuring optimum levels of energy and resilience. 
Healthy living is encouraged through a number of initiatives 
and facilities. On-site gyms are available in many of our main 
support centres along with restaurants offering a range of 
foods, which are reviewed regularly to ensure they offer a 
healthy, balanced menu. Our Employee Assistance 
Programme, which is available 24/7 to all our employees, offers 
a range of information about issues such as stress and 
nutrition. A number of products and services are also available 
to support employees, such as private medical insurance, 
dental insurance and a Health Cash Plan. These products are 
available at special corporate rates to employees and 
subsidised rates for close family members.  
In 2016/17 we are participating in Mercer’s Britain’s Fittest 
Workplace survey and will use the resulting data to spot wider 
health risks to our employees as well as identify actions to 
reduce absence rates and increase employee engagement. 
 Average to Awesome 
 This UK wellbeing initiative focused on transforming 12 
employees’ overall attitude to health and fitness. With the 
support of a specialised personal trainer, tailored nutrition 
plans and the latest fitness technology, we recorded their 
combined weight loss at 78.3kg over the 12-week period. 
They were each given a Fitbit Surge to record training 
performance and overall activity levels and Fitbit Aria scales 
to monitor weight, body fat and BMI between official  
weigh-ins. The participants developed a strong bond and 
have continued positive changes to their lifestyle habits. 
Many now run regularly as part of their new healthy regime 
and are taking on new personal challenges and events as  
a direct result of this initiative. We are repeating this 
programme in 2016 with a new intake of colleagues. 
Equal opportunities 
We are committed to equality of opportunity across all of our 
employment practices throughout the Group. We strive to 
prevent unlawful discrimination in the workplace on the 
grounds of sex, race, disability, sexual orientation, religion or 
religious belief, age, marriage and civil partnership, gender 
reassignment, pregnancy and maternity. We promote an 
honest and open environment and encourage colleagues with 
concerns to report issues to us either directly through line 
managers or via an independent, confidential integrity line.  
Disability 
We encourage applications from individuals with disabilities 
who can do the job and candidates will be considered for each 
role they apply for. Every effort is made to retain disabled 
colleagues in our employment, including making any reasonable 
readjustments to their jobs, workplace or environment.  
Diversity 
We value the benefits a diverse workplace brings, including, 
but not restricted to, gender diversity and we recognise the 
importance diversity plays in achieving the right mix of skills, 
knowledge and experience our organisation needs to reach its 
potential. Statistics for the UK, Ireland, Nordics, Greece and 
Spain are as follows: 
All employees Senior managers Directors
Number % Number  % Number %
Male 29,175 69 74 74 10 77 
Female12,902 31 26 26 3 23 
Connected community  
Every decision we make is driven by insights and our ambition 
to provide unparalleled expertise and services to help 
customers and businesses navigate the digital era, while 
building brand loyalty and trust. 
We aim to be a responsible member of every community we 
do business in: whether it’s by match-funding employee 
fundraising, community initiatives or charity partnerships, we 
will implement new ideas to make a positive impact locally.  
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   31 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Strategic Report
Corporate Responsibility 
32 
Charity partnership 
We set out to further consolidate our Corporate Responsibility 
programme, as well as our local and in-store charitable 
activities through the support of a single charity partner. 
In December 2015, the long-term charity partner of Carphone 
Warehouse, Get Connected, merged with YouthNet to create 
the UK’s largest support service for young people, The Mix 
(registered charity number 1048995). Just as Dixons Carphone 
matches customers with the best equipment and services for 
their needs, The Mix supports the physical and mental 
wellbeing of young people under 25 across the UK, whatever 
their issue, through the technology of their choice. 
Our continuing support of The Mix played a significant role in 
their merger, propelling us into a new era of the partnership, 
helping to drive the charity forward so they can recruit 
hundreds of new volunteers and provide thousands more 
hours of support to young people through new channels.  
In 2015/16 we gave a total of £447,390 to this free, confidential 
support service, which offers young people help 24/7, 365 
days a year through phone, text, web, social media and 
counselling. The Mix connects them with experts and peers  
to talk about everything including homelessness, finding a job, 
money management, mental wellbeing, relationship issues and  
drug use. 
 Royal support  
 In April 2016 we were delighted to announce Princes William, 
Harry and The Duchess of Cornwall chose to support our 
charity partner The Mix as part of their ‘Heads Together’ 
campaign, which aims to raise awareness of, and change, 
the negative perception of mental health conditions in the  
UK. In 2016/17 we will work with the Royal Foundation to 
promote this high profile campaign through in-store  
activities and employee participation in events such  
as the London Marathon. 
As well as providing gifts-in-kind, office and helpline 
accommodation for The Mix, our support has directly funded 
investment in a new volunteering programme called Digital 
Connectors, enabling the charity to recruit and train volunteers 
remotely, substantially increasing the hours of support they are 
able to give, opening up employee volunteering opportunities 
as well as flexible opportunities for young people looking to 
develop skills. In 2015/16, The Mix trained 99 Digital 
Connectors volunteers, who have already supported over 
3,000 young people across the UK. The Mix will continue to 
build on this success, expand their volunteer programme and 
help more young people in need. 
Our support has also enabled the development and launch of 
an online counselling service, which has to date provided over 
1,000 hours of counselling to under 25s. Feedback about how 
the counselling has helped has been overwhelmingly positive. 
 
 Dixons Carphone Race to the Stones 
 Our sponsorship of the UK’s biggest ultra-marathon received 
a European Sponsorship Award for Employee Engagement 
and won Best Endurance Event at The UK Running Awards. 
On 11-12 July 2015 over 2,000 public participants ran, 
trekked or walked 100km along the ancient Ridgeway. Over 
230 employees signed up to get fit, raising over £69,000 for 
Get Connected (now The Mix) and promoting the work of our 
charity partner. Overall, this event has raised over £500,000 
for a variety of good causes. We continue our investment in 
Race to the Stones in 2016. 
Techknowledge for Schools (T4S) 
We continued our support for this registered charity, investing a 
total of £207,000 to help fund the largest independent research 
programme in the world into the use of one-to-one technology 
to transform education. In February 2016, the decision was 
made to close T4S after trustees became confident that major 
issues around implementing technology into schools had been 
defined, the real benefits had been identified and valuable 
insights into successfully deploying technology to transform 
learning outcomes were gained and made publically available. 
During the two years the charity was in operation it worked with 
over 45 UK secondary schools using one-to-one devices, 
carried out comprehensive in-depth qualitative research and 
analysis, recorded 440 online interviews with teachers, hosted 
40 focus groups with students, parents and teachers, filmed 60 
hours of ethnographic observation, and interviewed over 12,000 
pupils online and 40 teacher leaders face to face. Our body of 
research has been made available to relevant stakeholders 
including the House of Lords Digital Skills Select Committee to 
support the case for better technology provision for all schools 
across the country.  
 Project BluPoint 
 We are proud to be at the forefront of tech innovation, 
identifying technology for good and being a catalyst for 
transformative change. In May 2016 we invested in a project 
to progress findings from our work with Techknowledge for 
Schools, which highlighted that schools need reliable, quick 
and affordable access to trusted educational content. 
BluPoint is the name given to a solar-powered device which 
transmits digital content to areas without reliable or 
affordable connectivity, on any handset using Wi-Fi, FM 
Radio or Bluetooth. Between July and October 2016, ten 
employees will visit Durban in South Africa, where we operate 
a contact centre, to trial and evaluate BluPoint in resource-
starved schools thereby empowering local communities with 
free internet access to educational tools and services. Project 
BluPoint is being run in collaboration with its inventor,  
Dr Mike Santer, Technology Adviser to the Bill Gates 
Foundation, and his team. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   32 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Strategic Report
 
33 
The Dixons Carphone Foundation 
(‘Foundation’) 
This fundraising account was established under the Charities 
Aid Foundation (registered charity number 268369) for the 
benefit of the charity or charities selected by Dixons Carphone 
and approved by the Charities Aid Foundation. This account 
was set up post-Merger to deliver our ambition of improving 
lives through technology and facilitates employee  
match-funding applications and one-off donations to 
emergencies and disaster funds.  
In July 2015, senior Dixons Carphone executives took to the 
tennis courts for a charity tennis tournament at The National 
Tennis Centre raising £62,781 for the Foundation. The 
Foundation is also funded through our handset recycling ‘zero 
value’ Take Back scheme. In 2015/16 we donated £161,725 
through the Charities Aid Foundation to a variety of causes 
including Techknowledge for Schools and Get Connected. 
The DSG international Foundation is a charity in its own right, 
registered with the Charities Commission. Within 2015/16, 
£75,000 was transacted through this Foundation as part of  
our fundraising commitment to Children in Need. For 2016/17 
we will continue to operate charitable activities through our 
fundraising account established under the Charities Aid 
Foundation. 
Other charitable support  
We support other charities and local causes by match-funding 
the amount of money an employee raises for their chosen 
charity by up to £100 or £300 for a team fundraising for the 
same event. In addition, many colleagues raised thousands of 
pounds via a variety of fundraising events such as the London 
Marathon, football tournaments and fun days. During 2015/16 
Dixons Carphone employees also donated £42,542 through 
Give As You Earn, benefiting a wide range of local and  
national causes.  
Outside the UK, Elkjøp continues to support the Red Cross 
Water for Life (Vann for Livet) project and donated  
NOK 287,000 (£23,528) to this charity during 2015/16.  
Environment 
We are fully committed to meeting our environmental 
responsibilities and limiting the impact of our operations in a 
way that is both practically and economically feasible. We are 
working towards best practice sustainability with minimal 
waste and optimal efficiency. 
Energy management 
In 2015/16 we combined the reporting platforms and energy 
management processes of the legacy Dixons Retail and 
Carphone Warehouse businesses. Our energy consumption 
monitoring platform reports the half-hourly electricity data for 
all our stores in the UK. This allows us to monitor our sites 
accurately, minimise wastage and optimise our efficient use  
of power. Supporting contracts have also merged to ensure 
our meter operator (MOP/DA/DC) and bureau services are 
aligned across both the Dixons Retail and Carphone 
Warehouse estates. 
As with previous years, our energy efficiency programme 
continues to utilise internal funding for energy efficiency 
projects. We continue to explore new technologies and 
advanced strategies to assist in our programme of energy 
reduction and through 2015/16 a further £1.3 million has  
been invested in new energy efficiency initiatives.  
LED lighting has featured heavily in our 2015/16 energy 
efficiency programme and is delivering excellent results  
through energy savings and improvements to our shopping 
environment. 19 stores and offices in two distribution centres 
were converted to LED lighting during 2015/16 along with  
our Retail Support Centre in Acton and one of two buildings  
at our Newark Distribution Centre. LED lighting is the standard 
technology adopted in all new stores. 
Energy efficiency projects have been completed in an additional 
12 stores to further optimise our energy usage which include 
fine adjustments to temperature set-points, tuned heating and 
lighting strategies, and the installation of lighting controls. 
The resulting reduction in our energy consumption from the 
above initiatives will be approximately 4,300 mWh per annum, 
reducing our carbon emissions by over 2,200 tonnes of CO2  
in the next year. 
In collaboration with our landlords, roof-mounted Solar 
Photovoltaic (PV) installations have been successfully 
completed at two large retail locations in Coventry and 
Southampton and our water leak detection programme 
continues through consumption analysis to highlight 
irregularities and ensures optimum efficiency. 
 Energy efficiency initiative 
 Dixons Carphone is delighted to have been once again 
selected to participate in the Department of Energy & Climate 
Change – EDR (Energy Demand Reduction) pilot scheme, 
phase 2. Similar to phase 1, this initiative is linked to the large 
scale roll-out of energy-efficient LED lighting to our second 
750,000 sq ft national distribution centre building in Newark 
and represents our largest investment in a single energy 
efficiency project to date. Completion is expected by 
September 2016. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   33 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Strategic Report
Corporate Responsibility 
34 
Carbon management and legislation 
During phase 2, year 2 of the Carbon Reduction Commitment 
(‘CRC’) energy efficiency scheme, Dixons Carphone’s 
combined reported emissions have reduced over 15% against 
the 2014/15 CRC year which represents a reduction in excess 
of 20,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions. 
Dixons Carphone merged its reporting against the CRC, 
energy efficiency scheme for the 2015/16 CRC year under 
Dixons Carphone plc, registration number CRC6030144.  
The Dixons Retail plc CRC account, registration number 
CRC8584817, was selected for and successfully passed  
a compliance audit during 2015/16 prior to closure of  
this account. 
Carbon Disclosure Project (‘CDP’) 
We plan to submit our response to the CDP Climate Change 
Information Disclosure questionnaire for 2015/16 by the  
30 June 2016 deadline. 
EU Directive 2012/27/EU, Article 8 (Energy Efficiency) 
This EU Directive was transposed into UK & Irish legislation as 
the ‘Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme’ and the ‘Energy 
Audit Scheme’ respectively. Dixons Carphone complied with 
the requirements of this new legislation in advance of the 
December 2015 deadline. 
Mandatory Greenhouse Gas (‘GHG’) 
reporting 
This section provides the emission data and supporting 
information required by The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013, Part 7: 
Disclosures Concerning Greenhouse Gas Emissions. 
This report covers the international operations of the Group, 
including the UK & Ireland, the Nordics and Southern Europe. 
Operational control has been used to determine organisational 
boundary. All scope one and two emissions are included 
except where noted. 
 2015/16  2014/15 2014/15
Category / source of 
emissions 
Tonnes of 
 CO2e 
 emitted
(1a)
 
Increase / 
(decrease) 
% 
Tonnes of 
CO2e 
emitted
(1a)
Tonnes of
CO2e 
emitted
(1b)
Emissions from  
combustion of 
fuel
(2)
 20,614 4.3% 
 
 
19,760 21,077 
Emissions from 
operation  
of any facility
(3)
 2,797 (23.6)% 
 
 
3,661 3,680 
Emissions from 
purchase  
of electricity 109,534 (14.2)% 
 
 
127,607 130,819 
 132,945 (12.0)% 151,028 155,576 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015/16 2014/15 2014/15 
 
Tonnes  
of CO2e 
emitted per 
1,000 sq ft
 
 of floor 
 area
(2)
 
Tonnes  
of CO2e  
emitted per 
1,000 sq ft
 
 of floor 
 area
(1a,2,4)
 
Tonnes 
of CO2e  
emitted per 
1,000 sq ft
 
 of floor 
 area
(1b,2,4)
Dixons Retail intensity 
measure 5.76 5.73 5.73 
Carphone Warehouse 
intensity measure 13.75 17.41 17.70 
Dixons Carphone intensity 
measure 6.36 – – 
 
(1a) Exclusions comprise: franchises as they do not fall directly under 
the Group’s operational control; emissions from Carphone 
Warehouse’s divested retail operations in Germany and the 
Netherlands. The divested operations have been excluded from 
2015/16 GHG reporting numbers and a restated number (with the 
same exclusions) has been provided for 2014/15 for comparison 
on a like-for-like basis. 
(1b)  Tonnes of CO2e emitted as reported in last year’s (2014/15) report, 
including Germany and the Netherlands. 
(2) Overall floor area of the Dixons Carphone business is estimated to 
be 20,889,357 sq ft. This is split between the Dixons Retail 
business which is estimated to be 19,304,134 sq ft (20,659,929 sq 
ft restated for 2014/15) and the overall floor area of the Carphone 
Warehouse business is estimated to be 1,585,223 sq ft (2,106,753 
sq ft estimated for 2014/15). The calculations use the 
methodology set out in Defra’s updated greenhouse gas reporting 
guidance, Environmental Reporting Guidelines (ref. PB 13944), 
issued in June 2013. 
(3) Refrigerant data from the Wednesbury Carphone Warehouse site 
was not included as the data was not available (although this is 
estimated to be less than 1% of total emissions for the Group). 
(4) The overall floor area of the Dixons Retail and the Carphone 
Warehouse businesses as reported in 2014/15 was found to be in 
error owing to issues in data collection and data reliability. These 
issues have been addressed and the intensity figures for 2014/15 
have been restated using the corrected floor area. 
Ethical sourcing 
Many of our electrical products are sourced through major 
international brands, which have their own strong ethical and 
environmental policies in place. The Group operates its own 
Ethical Sourcing Policy based on the Social Accountability 
8000 and the FTSE4Good criteria and takes into account the 
recent introduction of the Modern Slavery Act. We work  
closely with organisations such as the Supplier Ethical Data 
Exchange (‘Sedex’) and the British Retail Consortium to ensure 
our policies and procedures remain relevant. 
We have our own social and ethical auditing team and audit 
suppliers of our own brand products, prior to selection, against 
strict trading terms and operating procedures. Included within 
these terms are minimum standards in respect of health and 
safety, wages, working hours, equal opportunities, freedom of 
association, collective bargaining and disciplinary procedures. 
It is also against our terms of operation to employ any forced 
or child labour. Once the audits are complete, suppliers are 
rated on a traffic light basis. Green status on an audit indicates 
that a supplier meets or exceeds all of our standards. Amber 
status indicates that some of the standards required have not 
been fully met. Red status means that some significant failures 
were identified against our Ethical Sourcing Policy standards. 
Suppliers are approved if they reach either green or amber 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   34 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Strategic Report
 
35 
status in our audits. Once suppliers have been approved they 
remain subject to regular checks and audits and their status 
may be adjusted accordingly. These supplier audits are carried 
out with a view to assisting them in improving their working 
practices and we work with factories where failures have been 
identified. Wherever we can, we work with the supplier to make 
improvements; where this is not possible or no improvements 
are made, they will not be approved as a supplier, or will be 
delisted as appropriate. During the year under review, 21 
suppliers were classified as red, failed to make improvements 
and therefore the Group did not approve them to supply our 
branded products or they were delisted.  
The results of ethical supply chain audits carried out during the 
period under review are:  
 Red Amber Green  
Total
 audits 
Delisted /
Not 
approved 
Audit status 26 97 – 123 21 
Waste and recycling  
We strive to deliver continuous improvements to our recycling 
and sustainability programme. All recyclate from our stores is 
now backhauled to our national recycling facility at Newark. 
Across our estate, our 16 customer service centre depots have 
standardised equipment to deliver consistent grades of 
cardboard, plastic and expanded polystyrene to our recyclers 
in order to ensure we utilise the transport to a maximum and 
obtain the best value we can achieve for our material. Our 
volumes increased by 126 tonnes since 2014/15. Working with 
our recyclers we have been able to deliver to the hierarchy of 
waste requirements to provide single stream materials for 
recycling, thus providing high-quality raw materials into 
manufacturing processes preventing the need for further virgin 
materials to be purchased.  
Waste Electrical and Electronic 
Equipment (‘WEEE’) 
We provide access for charities and re-use companies to our  
16 customer service centre depots across the estate where 
selected white goods units are picked for potential re-use.  
This year 67,000 units were re-used in the third sector, 
providing local communities across the UK with affordable 
products. Alongside the social benefit, this initiative saved 
around 7,000 tonnes of CO2. For the 1.1 million units that 
cannot be re-used, which equates to around 55,000 tonnes, 
these are recycled and sorted into the various grades of metal / 
other materials to be manufactured into new products. 
This Strategic Report was approved by the Board and signed 
on its behalf by:  
  
Sebastian James  Humphrey Singer  
Group Chief Executive  Group Finance Director  
28 June 2016 28 June 2016  
 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   35 11/07/2016   18:34 Accounts 2015/16 
Board of Directors 
36 
Sir Charles Dunstone 
Chairman  
Sir Charles Dunstone is the Chairman of Dixons Carphone and the 
Nominations Committee. He is the founder of Carphone Warehouse 
and was chairman of Carphone Warehouse from 28 January 2010. He 
was chief executive officer of Carphone Warehouse from 1989 to 2010 
where he led its growth to become one of Europe’s largest independent 
telecommunications retailers. Sir Charles was also appointed chairman 
of TalkTalk plc in 2010. He was previously non-executive director of 
Daily Mail and General Trust plc and Independent Media Distribution plc 
(now Independent Media Distribution Limited). Sir Charles was 
chairman of The Prince’s Trust from 2009 to 2015, having been a 
member of its Council since 2000. Sir Charles is a partner in Freston 
Road Investments LLP and also chairman of Royal Museums 
Greenwich and BAR Racing. 
Sebastian James 
Group Chief Executive  
Sebastian James was appointed Group Chief Executive of Dixons 
Carphone on 6 August 2014 following the merger of Dixons Retail with 
Carphone Warehouse. He joined Dixons in April 2008 and held various 
roles, including group operations director, prior to his appointment as 
group chief executive in February 2012. Before joining Dixons, 
Sebastian was chief executive officer of Synergy Insurance Services 
Limited and was strategy director at Mothercare plc. He started his 
career at The Boston Consulting Group. Sebastian is also a non-
executive director of Direct Line Insurance Group plc and trustee of the 
charities Save the Children and Techknowledge for Schools. 
Andrew Harrison 
Deputy Chief Executive  
Andrew Harrison was appointed Deputy Chief Executive of Dixons 
Carphone on 6 August 2014 following the merger of Dixons Retail with 
Carphone Warehouse. Before this, Andrew had been with Carphone 
Warehouse since 1995 and became a plc board member in 2006, a role 
he held until the formation of the joint venture with Best Buy in 2008. 
Andrew played key roles in establishing the TalkTalk business and in 
expanding the Best Buy Mobile operation in the US. Andrew also 
retained responsibility for both the Carphone Warehouse and Phone 
House operations and in 2010 he was appointed chief executive officer 
of the Best Buy Europe joint venture. Following the conclusion of the 
joint venture in 2013, Andrew became group chief executive of 
Carphone Warehouse. Andrew is also a non-executive director of 
Ocado Group PLC and a trustee of Techknowledge for Schools. 
Key 
 Audit Committee 
 Nominations Committee 
 Remuneration Committee 
Humphrey Singer 
Group Finance Director 
Humphrey Singer was appointed Group Finance Director of Dixons 
Carphone on 6 August 2014 following the merger of Dixons Retail with 
Carphone Warehouse. He was appointed group finance director of 
Dixons in September 2011, having joined its board in July 2011. Since 
joining Dixons in 2007, he has held a number of finance roles, namely 
finance director of Currys, group financial controller, and finance 
director of the UK & Ireland division. Prior to joining Dixons, he held a 
number of finance roles at Cadbury Schweppes plc and Coca-Cola 
Enterprises UK Limited, including finance director at the latter. 
Humphrey is also a non-executive director of Taylor Wimpey plc. 
Katie Bickerstaffe 
Chief Executive, UK & Ireland 
Katie Bickerstaffe was appointed an Executive Director of Dixons 
Carphone on 6 August 2014 following the merger of Dixons Retail with 
Carphone Warehouse. She retained her responsibilities as Chief 
Executive of UK & Ireland for the Dixons business on merger and from  
1 May 2015 assumed responsibility for the whole UK & Ireland division. 
Katie joined the Dixons board on 20 February 2012 and was the chief 
executive of UK & Ireland for Dixons. She joined Dixons as director of 
marketing, people and property in June 2008. In addition to her 
executive position she is also non-executive director of Scottish and 
Southern Energy plc. Previously, Katie was managing director of Kwik 
Save Limited and group retail director and group HR director at 
Somerfield plc. Her earlier career included roles at Dyson Limited, 
PepsiCo Inc. and Unilever PLC.  
Graham Stapleton 
Chief Executive,  
Connected World Services 
Graham Stapleton was appointed an Executive Director of Dixons 
Carphone on 6 August 2014 following the merger of Dixons Retail with 
Carphone Warehouse. Graham is Chief Executive of Connected World 
Services and manages its relationship with Sprint Corporation. He was 
previously chief executive officer of UK & Ireland for Carphone 
Warehouse. He joined Carphone Warehouse in 2005 and has held a 
variety of board positions in both the UK and Europe. Graham is also  
a trustee at the children's charity Make-A-Wish. Previously Graham 
worked for Kingfisher plc and Marks and Spencer plc. 
R 
N 
A 
N
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   36 11/07/2016   18:34
 Dixons Carphone plc
Corporate Governance Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
37 
Lord Livingston of Parkhead 
Deputy Chairman   
Lord Livingston of Parkhead joined the Board as Deputy Chairman and 
Non-Executive Director on 16 December 2015. He is Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nominations 
Committee. He previously held the position of chief executive officer at 
BT Group plc from 2008 to 2013; prior to that he was chief executive 
officer of BT Retail and group chief financial officer of BT. He is a 
Chartered Accountant and previously held the position of chief financial 
officer of Dixons between 1996 and 2002, having served in a number of 
roles over more than a decade with the company. Prior to that he held 
various roles within 3i Group, Bank of America and Arthur Andersen. 
From 2013 to 2015, Lord Livingston was Minister of State for Trade  
and Investment. He was also non-executive director of Hilton Group plc 
and Freeserve plc. He is currently chairman of Man Group plc, a  
non-executive director of Celtic plc and Belmond Ltd, and a trustee  
of Jewish Care. 
Tony DeNunzio CBE  
Senior Independent Director   
Tony DeNunzio CBE joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 
16 December 2015. Tony is Senior Independent Director and a member 
of both the Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee. 
He held the position of president and chief executive officer of 
Asda/Walmart UK from 2002 to 2005, having previously served as chief 
financial officer of Asda PLC. He started his career in the fast-moving 
consumer goods sector with financial positions in Unilever plc, L’Oréal 
and PepsiCo Inc. He was also previously non-executive director of 
Alliance Boots GmbH, chairman of Maxeda Retail Group BV, and 
deputy chairman and senior independent director of MFI Furniture 
Group plc (now Howden Joinery Group plc). He has also been chairman 
of the advisory board of Manchester Business School and was awarded 
a CBE for services to retail in 2005. Tony is non-executive chairman of 
Pets at Home Group Plc, non-executive director of PrimaPrix SL and 
senior adviser at Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts & Co L.P. 
Andrea Gisle Joosen  
Independent Non-Executive Director   
Andrea Gisle Joosen was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of 
Dixons Carphone on 6 August 2014 following the merger of Dixons 
Retail with Carphone Warehouse. Andrea joined Dixons as a non-
executive director on 1 March 2013. She is currently chairman of 
Teknikmagasinet AB and a non-executive director of ICA Gruppen AB, 
James Hardie Industries plc, Mr Green & Co AB and BillerudKorsnäs 
AB. Former roles include non-executive director of Lighthouse Group, 
chief executive of Boxer TV Access AB in Sweden and managing 
director (Nordic region) of Panasonic, Chantelle AB and Twentieth 
Century Fox. Her early career involved several senior marketing roles 
with Procter & Gamble and Johnson & Johnson. 
Tim How  
Independent Non-Executive Director  
Tim How was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Dixons 
Carphone on 6 August 2014 following the merger of Dixons Retail with 
Carphone Warehouse. Tim joined Dixons as a non-executive director on 
8 September 2009 and became senior independent director on 9 May 
2012. He holds a variety of external board positions, including chairman 
of Woburn Enterprises Limited, senior independent director of 
Henderson Group plc and the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospitals 
NHS Foundation Trust, and chairman of Roys (Wroxham) Limited. 
Former roles include chairman of Rayner and Keeler Limited and Enotria 
Wine Group Limited, and non-executive director of Peabody Capital 
plc. Tim served as chief executive of Majestic Wine plc, where he led 
the management buy-out of the business and subsequent Alternative 
Investment Market (AIM) flotation. Prior to this, he was managing 
director of Bejam Group plc.  
Jock Lennox  
Independent Non-Executive Director  
Jock Lennox was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Dixons 
Carphone on 6 August 2014 following the merger of Dixons Retail with 
Carphone Warehouse and is Chairman of the Audit Committee. Jock 
joined Dixons Retail as a non-executive director on 10 January 2012. 
He is a Chartered Accountant and worked for over 30 years (20 years 
as a partner) for EY (formerly Ernst & Young) in the UK and globally. He 
retired from EY in 2009 and has subsequently acted as a non-executive 
director of a number of companies. He was also a council member of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland. He is currently 
senior independent director of Oxford Instruments plc and Hill & Smith 
Holdings PLC, a non-executive director of A&J Mucklow Group plc and 
EnQuest plc, and a trustee of the Tall Ships Youth Trust. 
Baroness Morgan of Huyton  
Independent Non-Executive Director  
Baroness Morgan of Huyton is a Non-Executive Director of Dixons 
Carphone and joined Carphone Warehouse as a non-executive director 
on 28 January 2010. She was a non-executive director of Carphone 
Warehouse from 2005 to 2010, prior to the demerger with TalkTalk. 
From 2001 to 2005, she was director of government relations at  
10 Downing Street. Prior to this, Baroness Morgan was political 
secretary to the Prime Minister from 1997 to 2001 and was appointed 
Minister for Women and Equalities in 2001. In 2006, she was appointed 
as a board member of the Olympic Delivery Authority. She was 
previously chair of Ofsted and a member of the advisory committee of 
Virgin Group Holdings Limited. She is currently an advisor to the board 
of the children’s charity ARK and a non-executive director of 
Countryside Properties PLC. 
Gerry Murphy  
Independent Non-Executive Director  
Gerry Murphy is a Non-Executive Director of Dixons Carphone and 
joined Carphone Warehouse as a non-executive director on 2 April 
2014. He is a former Deloitte LLP partner and was leader of its 
Professional Practices Group with direct industry experience in 
consumer business, retail and technology, media and 
telecommunications. He was a member of the Deloitte board and 
chairman of its audit committee for a number of years and also 
chairman of the Audit & Assurance Faculty of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales. Gerry was appointed as a non-
executive board member of the Department of Health on 1 August 2014 
and a non-executive director of Capital & Counties Properties PLC on  
1 March 2015. 
A
A
A
R
R N
R N
R N 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   37 11/07/2016   18:34
Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance Report  
38 
Chairman’s introduction 
I have great pleasure in presenting my introduction to the 
Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2015/16. We are now well into the amalgamation  
of our businesses and are fully aware of our responsibility in 
ensuring our corporate governance practices and procedures 
are ‘fit for purpose’ under the new structure. I set out below 
how the Company has embraced good corporate governance 
practice and how we will use this to form a stable foundation 
for the building of shareholder value. 
Corporate governance 
Good corporate governance is at the heart of any well-run 
business. We have reviewed and updated our Group policies 
and procedures to comply with best practice. Our Board 
policies, such as diversity, time commitment, the role 
descriptions of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and 
Senior Independent Director, external appointments and 
external advice are reviewed and refreshed annually. The 
Board has reviewed and adopted our practices against the 
2014 UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), bringing 
the business’s policies and practices into alignment.  
Changes to the Board 
On 16 December 2015 Lord Livingston of Parkhead joined the 
Board as Deputy Chairman and Tony DeNunzio CBE as Senior 
Independent Director. Roger Taylor and John Gildersleeve 
stepped down at the same time, and the Board would like to 
take this opportunity to thank them warmly for their advice and 
service to the Board and the business as a whole. Lord 
Livingston and Tony DeNunzio possess considerable 
experience gained throughout their business careers and will 
undoubtedly make valuable contributions. 
Role and composition of the Board 
The members of the Board are as set out on pages 36 to 37 
of this Report.  
The Nominations Committee reviews each year the 
composition of the Board, including the independence and 
commitment to the Company shown by the non-executive 
directors during the year. That review also includes gender, 
professional and international diversity. The Board has three 
female directors, one of whom is not based in the UK and who 
provides strong support on matters relating to the European 
business environment.  
After this year’s review it was again concluded that the Board 
possessed the necessary skills and experience to discharge its 
duties fully and to challenge management effectively.  
As part of the annual reviews, the non-executive directors were 
asked to confirm that they continue to have enough time to 
dedicate to Company business and all have formally done so. 
As a unitary Board the directors acknowledge their joint 
responsibility for the business’s success. We have clearly 
differentiated the roles between executive management 
running the business and our non-executives, who provide the 
appropriate level of scrutiny and oversight. In this way, the 
directors work together to challenge as well as support each 
other, with the aim being effective decision-making, leadership 
and accountability for all aspects of the business.  
Induction 
The directors have continued to widen their knowledge of the 
business as a whole through formal presentations, visits to 
stores and facilities, and informal discussions. Lord Livingston 
and Tony DeNunzio participated in tailored induction 
programmes upon joining the Board, including meetings with 
key company executives. 
Board evaluation 
In 2016 the triennial external Board evaluation was carried out 
on behalf of the Company by NJMD Corporate Services 
Limited, an independent consultancy, which has no connection 
to Dixons Carphone. The evaluation involved an in-depth 
review of the Board’s activities, the directors’ interaction and 
their effectiveness in carrying out their roles. Further 
information can be found on pages 43 and 56. 
Committee structure 
The main committees of the Board are the Audit, Nominations 
and Remuneration committees. Each has a dedicated section 
in this Report. Beneath Board level there are further 
management level committees which report back to the  
Board as necessary. 
Conclusion 
We possess a strong, balanced and diverse Board supported 
by sound policies and procedures. This provides us with a 
good platform to grasp the opportunities that the future will 
bring. My fellow directors and I look forward to meeting you at 
this year’s Annual General Meeting in September. 
Sir Charles Dunstone  
Chairman 
28 June 2016  
The Board and Committees Structure 
Dixons Carphone Board 
Audit Committee
1
 Nominations Committee
2
 Remuneration Committee
3
 
1 Audit Committee pages 50 to 54 
2 Nominations Committee pages 55 to 56
3 Remuneration Committee pages 57 to 81
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   38 11/07/2016   18:34
 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
39 
Corporate Governance statement 
The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 30 April 
2016 and as at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, 
the Company has, except to the extent stated below, been in 
compliance with the Code.  
The Company did not have a Senior Independent Director 
(‘SID’) after the resignation of John Allan on 17 February 2015. 
The Board undertook a thorough selection and search process 
for the most appropriate candidate and the Company was fully 
compliant following Tony DeNunzio’s appointment as the SID 
from 16 December 2015. 
This Report, together with the Directors’ Report and the 
reports from the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration 
committees together provide details of how the Company has 
applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the 
Code during the year. The Code can be obtained from the 
Financial Reporting Council’s website, www.frc.org.uk. 
Board responsibilities 
The overriding responsibility of the Board is to provide clear, 
entrepreneurial and responsible leadership to the Group within 
a framework of efficient and effective controls so as to allow 
the key issues and risks facing the business to be assessed 
and managed. 
Composition of the Board 
As at 30 April 2016 and as at the date of approval of this 
Annual Report and Accounts, the Board comprises 13 
members: the Chairman, five executive directors and seven 
non-executive directors, each of whom is determined by the 
Board to be independent in character and judgement and who 
provide effective challenge to the Board and the business. 
These directors are Tony DeNunzio, Andrea Gisle Joosen,  
Tim How, Jock Lennox, Lord Livingston of Parkhead,  
Baroness Morgan of Huyton and Gerry Murphy. More than  
half the directors, excluding the Chairman, are therefore 
considered to be independent in accordance with the Code.  
The Board recognises that since 2005 Baroness Morgan has 
been a non-executive director of Carphone Warehouse. 
Accordingly her independent status was subjected to further 
and specific scrutiny. The Board does not believe her length of 
tenure affects her independence, having evidenced her 
commitment and independent stance throughout her dealings 
with the business and her fellow directors. 
At last year’s annual general meeting Gerry Murphy was  
re-elected as director with less than 90% of the votes cast, 
due, principally, to a perceived lack of independence. The 
Board, whilst taking into account shareholders’ concerns, 
considers that no ‘material business relationship’ existed 
between Gerry Murphy and the Company from the date of his 
ceasing to be an audit partner to Carphone Warehouse in 2011 
and accordingly, the Board continues to consider him to be 
independent.  
In accordance with the Code, each director will stand for 
election or re-election at the Company’s Annual General 
Meeting. Biographical information is shown on pages 36 to 37. 
The division of responsibility between the Chairman and the 
Group Chief Executive is formally defined, set out in writing 
and is reviewed by the Board on an annual basis, as it was in 
March 2016. The Chairman is responsible for the overall 
operation, leadership and governance of the Board. The Group 
Chief Executive is responsible for the executive management 
of the Group’s business and for implementing the Group’s 
strategic and commercial objectives. 
The role of the SID is to support the Chairman and be available 
to any shareholders who feel they are unable to raise issues 
with the Chairman directly. With the addition of Tony DeNunzio 
as SID, the Board has a strong complement of independent 
non-executive directors available for shareholders to contact 
with any questions they may have. Under the clearly-defined 
role of the SID, set out in writing and reviewed annually by the 
Board, the SID also discusses, with the Chairman, the results 
of the latter’s performance review.  
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   39 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance Report 
40 
Chairman’s responsibilities 
• manage the Board;
• represent the interests of the shareholders;
• approve Group strategy, its implementation and the
performance and profitability of the Group;
• seek new business development opportunities; 
• effectively chair Board, Nominations Committee
and shareholder meetings;
• ensure Board effectiveness in his role;
• ensure clear and effective running of the committees;
• promote, with the Company Secretary, the highest
standards of corporate governance;
• facilitate effective contributions of the non-executive
directors;
• ensure constructive relations between the executive
and non-executive directors; and
• oversee the process of induction, development and
performance evaluation and succession planning of
the Board. 
Board topics considered throughout the financial year 2015/16 
2015 
May 
• Three-year plan
• Budgetary approval
• Property rationalisation
• Banking facilities
• Appointment of Company Secretary
• Internal Board effectiveness review
• Corporate governance update
June
• Q4 trading statement
• Risk management review
• Sprint partnership
• Competition law update
• Nordic strategy session
July
• Final dividend approval
• Preliminary announcement and
Annual Report and Accounts
approval
• Group strategic initiatives
• Banking facilities
• Group policies approval
• Corporate governance update
September 
• Annual General Meeting
• Q1 trading statement
• Data Protection and Information
Security policies review
• Anti-bribery, Gifts and Hospitality, 
and Health and Safety policies
approval
• Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’)
regulatory updates
• Brokers’ update
October
• Banking and treasury matters
• Board Schedule 2016
• UK & Ireland strategy session
December
• Interim dividend approval
• Interim announcement approval
• Appointments of Deputy Chairman
and Senior Independent Director
and resignations of Non-Executive 
Directors
• Audit and Nominations committees
terms of reference
• Cyber security and IT roadmap
• FCA regulatory updates
• Treasury transactions
2016 
January  
• Christmas trading update
• Three-year plan
• Investor relations activities
• Talent review and succession
planning update
• FCA regulatory updates
March
• Shareholder communications
• Risk management and risk appetite
review
• Insurance review
• Financial Crime Policy approval
• Schedule of Matters reserved
for the Board
• Remuneration Committee Terms
of Reference
• Treasury transactions
Reserved matters 
There are documented schedules of matters reserved for the 
Board and matters delegated to committees of the Board. The 
formal Schedule of Matters reserved for the Board was last 
reviewed in March 2016 and includes:  
• approval of published financial statements and
dividend policy;
• declaration of interim and recommendation of 
final dividends;
• approval of budget and Group strategy and objectives;
• appointment and remuneration of directors, Company
Secretary and other senior executives;
• approval of major acquisitions and disposals; 
• approval of authority levels for expenditure;
• approval of Group policies;
• approval of treasury / internal control and risk
management policies; and
• approval of shareholder communications.
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   40 11/07/2016   18:34 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
41 
Group Chief Executive’s responsibilities 
• formulate the Group strategy and direction (with the
Chairman) and develop Group objectives;
• deliver Group profitability;
• provide leadership to the Group and senior management
and ensure effective performance and succession;
• ensure Group policies and procedures conform to a high 
standard;
• review the effectiveness of the Group’s organisational
structure;
• identify acquisition and disposal opportunities and other
opportunities outside core activities; 
• oversee management succession;
• manage Group risk profile and ensure internal controls
and risk mitigation measures are in place;
• represent the Company in the City, with government
departments, key stakeholders and any other relevant
institutions;
• oversee the establishment of operational and support
functions including finance, human resources, risk 
management and control functions; and
• set standards of performance throughout the Group.
Senior Independent Director’s (‘SID’) responsibilities 
• be available to communicate with shareholders;
• appraise the performance of the Chairman annually
with the Board; 
• oversee an orderly succession for the position of
Chairman;
• support the Chairman in the performance of his duties;
and
• work with the Chairman, other directors and
shareholders to resolve significant issues and to maintain
Board and Company stability in periods of stress.
Board attendance 
The Board attended eight scheduled meetings as well as 
two strategy sessions and two unscheduled meetings 
during the period under review. The Board has met once 
since the year end. 
Member Appointed Resigned Attendance
Sir Charles Dunstone 8 of 8
Sebastian James 8 of 8
Katie Bickerstaffe 8 of 8
Tony DeNunzio CBE
(1)
16 Dec 2015 2 of 2
Andrea Gisle Joosen 8 of 8
Andrew Harrison 8 of 8
Tim How 8 of 8
Jock Lennox 8 of 8
Lord Livingston of 
Parkhead
(1)
 
16 Dec 2015 2 of 2
Baroness Morgan  
of Huyton 
8 of 8
Gerry Murphy 8 of 8
Humphrey Singer 8 of 8
Graham Stapleton
(2)
 7 of8
Former Directors 
John Gildersleeve
(3)
   16 Dec 2015 6 of 6
Roger Taylor
(3)
    16 Dec 2015 6 of 6
(1) Tony DeNunzio and Lord Livingston attended both Board 
meetings following their appointments. 
(2) Graham Stapleton was unable to attend one meeting due
to prior business commitments in the US. 
(3) John Gildersleeve and Roger Taylor attended all Board 
meetings prior to their resignations. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   41 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance Report 
42 
Committee members 
There are three main Board committees: Audit, Nominations and Remuneration. The committees are provided with sufficient 
resources via the Company Secretary and, where necessary, have direct access to independent professional advisors to 
undertake their duties. 
Audit
(pages 50 to 54) 
Nominations 
(pages 55 to 56) 
Remuneration
(pages 57 to 81) 
Sir Charles Dunstone C 
Lord Livingston of Parkhead
(1)
MC
Tony DeNunzio CBE M M
Andrea Gisle Joosen M M
Tim How M
Jock Lennox C
Baroness Morgan of Huyton M 
Gerry Murphy M
Former Directors
John Gildersleeve
(2)
 M C
Roger Taylor M
C – Chairman M – Member 
(1) Lord Livingston was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee upon his appointment to the Board on 16 December 2015.
(2) John Gildersleeve was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until his resignation on 16 December 2015. 
Board governance matters 
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all directors are 
properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that 
they have full and timely access to relevant information. The 
Company uses an electronic board paper system which 
enables the safe and secure dissemination of quality 
information to the Board. All Board papers are sent out on a 
timely basis with sufficient information for the directors to be 
able to discharge their duties. The format, content and timely 
production of Board papers is a continually evolving process to 
ensure relevance and clarity of communication. Formal 
minutes of the Board and committee meetings are prepared by 
the Company Secretary and approved by the Board and 
committees at their next meeting. 
The Chairman meets regularly with all the non-executive 
directors, usually on an evening prior to a Board meeting when 
board dinners are held. This provides the opportunity to 
discuss, amongst other matters, corporate strategy and 
business performance. 
The Board holds meetings at a variety of the Group’s locations, 
including overseas, to assist all Board members in gaining a 
deeper understanding of the business. This also provides 
senior management across the Group with the opportunity to 
meet the Board. This year, Board meetings were held in 
Newark in Nottinghamshire as well as in Norway and Greece. 
Visiting our various operational locations also enables the 
Board to meet other members of the team, and to visit stores 
throughout the business’s portfolio. 
New directors appointed to the Board receive a personal 
induction programme, together with guidance and training 
appropriate to their level of previous experience. Each director 
is given the opportunity to meet with senior management and 
store colleagues and to visit the Group’s sites both in the UK 
and overseas. This enables familiarisation with the businesses, 
operations, systems and markets in which the Group operates. 
New directors are also encouraged to meet with the Group’s 
auditor and advisors. As newly appointed Non-Executive 
Directors, both Lord Livingston and Tony DeNunzio were given 
individual induction programmes tailored to their specific roles, 
as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 
respectively, and also as members of the Nominations and 
Remuneration committees. 
The Board receives updates on corporate governance best 
practice as appropriate throughout the year. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   42 11/07/2016   18:34 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
43 
Succession planning 
Last year succession planning was identified as an area where 
greater focus was required. This was addressed by the 
refreshing of the Board and appointment of two new members, 
and planning continues for the future. In seeking an optimal 
balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge 
required at Board level, the directors endeavour to satisfy 
themselves that adequate plans are in place to ensure an 
orderly succession of appointments to the Board and senior 
management. The Board reviewed in detail succession plans 
for senior management at the meeting in January 2016.  
Performance evaluation  
The Code recommends that the performance of the Board be 
reviewed externally every three years. Last year the Company 
Secretary facilitated an internal evaluation of Board 
performance and that of the Audit, Nominations and 
Remuneration committees. NJMD Corporate Services Limited 
(‘NJMD’) was engaged to carry out the external review exercise 
which commenced in October 2015. NJMD has no other 
connection with the Company.  
The review examined the level of skills, knowledge and 
experience of the Board which involved all directors 
responding to self-evaluation questionnaires. NJMD prepared 
a discussion guide which formed the basis for open, 
confidential and unattributable conversations with each of the 
directors. The results of both the self-evaluation questionnaires 
and discussions were collated into a comprehensive report. 
NJMD submitted the draft report to the Chairman and the 
Company Secretary which was then presented to the Board 
for consideration at its May 2016 meeting. 
The report addressed all matters relating to the performance of 
the Board which included, but were not limited to, the roles of 
the executive and non-executive directors, the Board, Board 
committees, the Chairman, preparation for and performance at 
meetings, the effectiveness of each director, leadership, culture 
and corporate governance.  
Tony DeNunzio led the Non-Executive Directors, in the 
absence of the Chairman, in their annual appraisal of the 
Chairman’s performance. He then discussed the results of that 
review with the Chairman. The Board is again of the opinion 
that the Chairman had no other significant commitments 
during the year that adversely affected his performance in his 
role, his effectiveness in leading the Board was not impaired 
and that he cultivated an atmosphere for positive, challenging 
and constructive debate.  
Following the results of the evaluation, the Board confirms that 
all directors continue to be effective and demonstrate a 
commitment to the role, including having time to attend all 
necessary meetings and to carry out other appropriate duties.  
The conclusion of the report was that no major areas for action 
were identified. The main points were, that whilst there was: 
• evidence of a high degree of director satisfaction with the
effectiveness of the Board and with the Chairman; and
• a suitable mix of skills, including FTSE 100 directorial
experience, along with financial, retail, operational
management and marketing skills,
the Board could modify some of its practices to increase their 
effectiveness. 
Recommendations included actively refreshing the Board’s 
governance, compliance and company knowledge through 
more frequent training sessions from external advisors and     
in-house briefings from senior management. The Board has set 
aside time on the current Board agenda as appropriate for 
these training and briefing sessions to occur. It was further 
recommended that the Board more regularly reviews the 
longer-term optimal balance of the Board, including placing 
even more emphasis on diversity, especially regarding age  
and ethnicity. 
Capital and constitutional disclosures 
Information on the Company’s share capital and constitution 
required to be included in this Corporate Governance 
statement is contained in the Directors’ Report on page 48. 
Such information is incorporated into this Corporate 
Governance statement by reference and is  
deemed to be part of it.  
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   43 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance Report 
44 
Risk and internal controls  
Committed to effective risk management 
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of 
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.  
Effective risk management requires collective responsibility 
and engagement across the entire business. Dixons 
Carphone’s senior management team, operating through the 
Group Risk & Compliance Committee, are accountable for: 
• identifying, mitigating and managing risk in their areas of
responsibility; and
• implementing and monitoring controls which are designed 
to mitigate the risks to which their area of the business is
exposed. The controls by their nature are designed to
manage rather than eliminate risk and can only provide
reasonable but not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
System of risk management and internal control 
The system is built on the pillars of effective governance, risk 
management, internal control and assurance. These are more 
fully described below. 
Governance 
• The Board and its various committees have defined financial
authorities and operational responsibilities, which are
designed to enable effective decision-making and
organisational control.
• The Board has agreed a risk appetite that provides the
reference point against which to benchmark risk
management reviews and risk mitigation activity within the
organisation. The risk appetite defines the boundaries within
which risk-based decision-making can occur and outlines
the expectations for the operation of the control
environment.
• An organisation and management structure operates across
the business to enable the delivery of products and services 
to our customers and operational control of business 
activities in accordance with the risk appetite.
• Annual strategic planning and budgeting processes.
• Defined delegation of authorities that cascades throughout
the Group.
• A Group policy framework contains the core compliance
policies which all employees are required to observe.
• Compliance policy owners are responsible for managing and
improving standards in their respective areas of
accountability across all our operations. 
• A system of quarterly business reviews covering financial
and operational reporting by each business unit which
involves comparison of actual results with the original 
budget and the updating of a full year forecast.
• Annual objective setting and performance reviews.
Risk management 
• A risk management policy and framework outlines the
principles and approach to risk management within the
business.
• The Group Director of Risk facilitates and manages the risk
management policy and framework throughout the Group.
• A formal risk identification process takes place to evaluate
and manage the significant risks faced by the Group in
accordance with the requirements of the Code and Financial
Reporting Council Guidance on Risk Management and
Internal Control. Risk is broadly identified against strategic,
operational, technological, financial, people, regulatory and
hazard / external categories. Details of the principal risks
and examples of mitigating actions can be found on pages
20 to 23 of the Strategic Report.
• A Group risk register, which identifies the risks faced by
each of the businesses, including regulated business, their
potential impact and likelihood of occurrence (assessed on a
gross and net basis), together with an evaluation of the key
controls and management processes established to mitigate
these risks. Each of the Group’s business units also
maintains a risk register. Action plans are determined to
enhance risk mitigation if required.
• The Group Risk & Compliance Committee reports to the
Audit Committee and meets quarterly to review the
management of risk arising out of the Group’s activities and
to monitor the status of key risks and actions at Group and
business unit level.
• Each of the Group’s business units has a risk committee
which identifies risk in accordance with the Group Risk
Management Framework. These committees meet to
consider risk and internal control matters for their respective
areas of responsibility.
Internal control 
• A minimum control environment which defines detailed
financial, supplier funding, purchasing, payroll, capital
expenditure, treasury, B2B, information systems, stock
management, merchandise revenue and service revenue
controls to be applied by all business operations.
• Each business unit operates a control environment to satisfy
legal, regulatory, Group and customer requirements.
• Processes exists that govern the way in which we 
operate our retail, wholesale, logistics, distribution and
service operations. The operation of these processes 
provides assurance on the standard of our customer and
service delivery.
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   44 11/07/2016   18:34 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
45 
Assurance  
• Annual minimum control questionnaires, which require
attestation that controls are being operated, are completed
by all Dixons Carphone operations. 
• An ongoing programme of control improvement is underway
in each business unit to enhance control operation as the
unit evolves.
• An internal audit function provides the Audit Committee with
an independent assessment of the Group’s system of
internal control, through reviewing how effectively key risks
are being managed, and assists management in the effective
discharge of its responsibilities by carrying out independent
appraisals and making recommendations for improvement.
• Certain aspects of the Group’s activities are also subject to
regulatory control by external bodies such as the FCA.
• The operation of a 24/7 whistleblowing hotline to enable
reporting of breaches of ethical or policy requirements.
• External audit conducts statutory audits across our
operations.
Statement on risk management and internal control 
The system of risk management and internal control described 
in this Report was in place and effective throughout the period 
under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual 
Report and Accounts 2015/16. 
The effectiveness of these systems is regularly monitored and 
reviewed by the Audit Committee and the systems refined as 
necessary to meet changes in the Group’s business and 
associated risks.  
The Audit Committee is supported by the internal audit 
function which provides an independent opinion on the 
operation of controls through the delivery of its audit 
programme. The system of risk management and internal 
control can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of 
laws and regulations. 
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal 
risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten 
its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. A 
description of these risks, together with details of how they are 
managed or mitigated, is set out on pages 20 to 23. The Board 
also monitored the Company’s system of risk management 
and internal control and has, at least once a year, conducted a 
review of their effectiveness. The review covered all material 
controls during the year and up to the date of the approval of 
the Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 which was approved 
by the Audit Committee and the Board. 
Assurance provision 
Board 
• Responsible for risk management and internal control
• Defines Dixons Carphone risk appetite
• Reviews and approves the business risk profile
Audit Committee 
• Reviews the effectiveness
of risk management and
internal control
• Approves the annual internal
and external audit plans
• Considers the internal audit
reviews across the Group
Group Risk & Compliance 
Committee 
• Reviews Group and business
unit risk profiles
• Monitors the management 
of key risks
• Considers new and
emerging risks
Executive Committee 
• Accountable for the
implementation of the risk
management process and the
operation of the internal control
environment
Supported by 
Group Director  
of Risk 
Internal audit 
Business unit risk committees 
and champions 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   45 11/07/2016   18:34 Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance Report 
46 
Risk appetite 
Dixons Carphone faces a broad range of risks reflecting the 
business environment in which it operates and the risks arising 
from the Dixons Carphone business environment and 
operating model can be significant. Successful financial 
performance for the business is achieved by managing these 
risks through intelligent decision-making and an effective 
control environment that details the processes and controls 
required to mitigate risk. 
Dixons Carphone’s general risk appetite is a balanced one  
that allows taking measured risk as it pursues its strategic 
objectives whilst aiming to manage and minimise risk in its 
operations. Dixons Carphone recognises that it is not possible 
or necessarily desirable to eliminate all of the risks inherent in 
its activities. Acceptance of some risk is often necessary to 
foster innovation and growth within its business practices.  
Internal audit  
The Group has an internal audit department which conducts 
reviews of selected business processes each year. The internal 
audit programme for 2015/16 consisted of reviews across a 
range of areas documented and prioritised in the Group’s 
internal audit plan, which was prepared taking into account the 
principal risks across the Group and approved with input from 
management and the Audit Committee. The plan is designed 
each year to test the robustness of mitigating controls and 
ensure procedures are designed and operating effectively. Part 
of the approval process of this plan involves the Audit 
Committee’s consideration of alignment of the plan with the 
principal risks faced by the Group.  
The Audit Committee Chairman receives and reviews all 
reports from the internal audit department detailing its material 
findings from testing performed and any recommendations for 
improvement. The Audit Committee receives a summary of 
these reports at each meeting, with the full reports available to 
all members on request. The internal audit team track and 
report on the progress and implementation of action plans 
agreed with management, and follow-up procedures are 
performed once these actions and additional controls have 
been put in place to ensure that the new controls and / or 
procedures have been implemented effectively.  
The Audit Committee considered the effectiveness of the 
internal audit department through holding discussions with 
management, considering the quality of reports submitted, the 
timeliness of the clearance of action points and the perceived 
impartiality of the audit team itself. The Committee concluded 
that the internal audit department has in all respects been 
effective during the period under review. 
Authorisation of conflicts of interest 
The Company has procedures in place to identify, authorise 
and manage conflicts of interest, and these procedures have 
operated effectively. Potential conflicts are approved by the 
Board, or by two independent directors if authorisation is 
needed quickly, and then reported to the main Board at its 
next meeting. A register of directors’ conflicts is maintained.  
Communication with investors 
The Board supports the initiatives set out in the Code and the 
Stewardship Code and actively encourages engagement with 
major institutional investors and other stakeholders. It believes 
that it is important to explain business developments and 
financial results to the Company’s shareholders and to 
understand shareholder concerns. The principal communication 
media used to impart information to shareholders are news 
releases (including results announcements), investor 
presentations and company publications. 
The Group Chief Executive has principal responsibility for 
investor relations. He is supported by a dedicated investor 
relations department that, amongst other matters, organises 
presentations for analysts and institutional investors. There  
is a full programme of regular dialogue with major institutional 
shareholders and potential shareholders as well as sell-side 
analysts. In March 2016, a capital markets day was held and 
attended by analysts and institutional investors that focused on 
future plans for our consumer services offerings to be trialled in 
summer 2016. In all such dialogue, care is taken to ensure that 
no price-sensitive information is released.  
The Chairman ensures that the Board receives updates on 
investor relations matters at each Board meeting. The Board 
also receives periodic reports on investors’ views of the 
performance of the Company. The Chairman and non-
executive directors are available to meet with major 
shareholders if such meetings are required, and the Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee communicates with major 
shareholders on matters of remuneration and has conducted 
various remuneration consultations. More information on the 
remuneration consultations can be found in the Remuneration 
Report on pages 57 to 81. 
The Company is committed to fostering effective 
communication with all of its members, be they institutional 
investors, private or employee shareholders. The Company 
communicates formally to its members when its full year and 
half year results are published. These results are posted on the 
investor relations part of the corporate website, as are other 
external announcements and press releases.  
The annual general meeting is an important medium by which 
the Company communicates with shareholders, at which an 
account of the progress of the business over the last year, 
along with a review of current issues facing the business is 
given. Shareholders are encouraged to ask questions and  
the directors, including the Chairmen of the Board committees, 
are in attendance to answer them. In accordance with the 
Code, formal notification of the Company’s annual general 
meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days in 
advance of the meeting.  
Further financial and business information is available on the 
Group’s corporate website, www.dixonscarphone.com. 
Sir Charles Dunstone  
Chairman 
28 June 2016  
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   46 11/07/2016   18:34
Corporate Governance
 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
Directors’ Report 
47 
Corporate Governance statement 
As required by Rule 7.2.1 of the UK Listing Authority’s 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules (‘DTR’s) the Corporate 
Governance statement is set out on page 39 of this Annual 
Report and Accounts. All information detailed in the 
Corporate Governance statement is incorporated by 
reference into this Directors’ Report and is deemed to form 
part of this Directors’ Report. 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
For the purposes of DTR 4.1.5R(2) and DTR 4.1.8, this 
Directors’ Report and the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 35 
comprise the management report. 
Employee involvement 
The Group places significant emphasis on its employees’ 
involvement at all levels of the organisation. Employees are 
kept informed of issues affecting the Group through formal 
and informal meetings and through the Group’s internal 
publications. The management team regularly communicates 
matters of current interest and concern with employees. 
Further information on employee engagement is included  
in the Corporate Responsibility report on pages 30 to 35. 
Details of the employees’ involvement in the Group’s share 
plans are contained in the Remuneration Report. 
Employment of disabled people 
The business is committed to providing equal opportunities in 
recruitment, training and development, and promotion. We 
encourage applications from individuals with disabilities who 
can do the job effectively and candidates will be considered 
for each role they apply for. All efforts are made to retain 
disabled colleagues in our employment including making any 
reasonable readjustments to their roles. Every endeavour is 
made to find suitable alternative employment and to retrain 
any employee who becomes disabled while serving the Group. 
Information on greenhouse  
gas emissions 
The information on greenhouse gas emissions that the 
Company is required to disclose is set out in the Corporate 
Responsibility report on page 34. This information is 
incorporated into this Directors’ Report by reference and  
is deemed to form part of this report. 
Donations 
No political donations were made during the period by 
the Group. 
Directors 
Lord Livingston of Parkhead and Tony DeNunzio CBE were 
appointed directors on 16 December 2015. On the same 
date, John Gildersleeve and Roger Taylor both resigned  
as directors. 
The names, biographies and dates of appointment of the 
current Board of directors are provided on pages 36 to 37. 
With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, 
the Company is governed by its Articles of Association 
(‘Articles’), the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), 
the Companies Act 2006 (the ‘Act’) and related legislation.  
The Articles themselves may be amended by special 
resolution of the shareholders. The Board has the power to 
appoint new directors to fill a vacancy as long as the total 
number of directors shall not exceed the maximum of 15 as 
set out in the Articles. Any director appointed by the Board 
will be appointed until the next annual general meeting where 
they shall stand for election by shareholders.  
In line with best practice and the Code, the Company has 
determined that all directors will retire and offer themselves 
for election or re-election at the 2016 Annual General 
Meeting. The Remuneration Report provides details of 
applicable service agreements for executive directors and 
terms of appointment for non-executive directors. All the 
directors proposed by the Board for either election or  
re-election are being unanimously recommended for their 
skills, experience and contribution they can bring to the 
Board. This recommendation follows an independent 
performance evaluation of the Board as a whole and the 
contribution of individual directors. 
During the year, no director had any material interest in any 
contract of significance to the Group’s business. Their 
interests, including those of any connected persons, in the 
shares of the Company are outlined in the Remuneration 
Report. 
Subject to the Company’s Articles, the Act and any directions 
given by the Company by special resolution, the business of 
the Company will be managed by the Board which may 
exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to 
the management of the business of the Company or not.  
The matters reserved for the Board are detailed in a specific 
schedule, which is reviewed annually and details are provided 
in the Corporate Governance Report. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   47 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance
Directors’ Report 
48 
Directors’ indemnities and insurance 
The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity 
provisions (as defined in the Act) for the benefit of its directors 
during the year; these provisions remain in force at the date of 
this report. 
In accordance with the Articles, and to the extent permitted 
by law, the Company may indemnify its directors out of its 
own funds to cover liabilities incurred as a result of their 
office. The Group holds Directors’ and Officers’ Liability 
Insurance cover for any claim brought against directors or 
officers for wrongful acts in connection with their positions. 
The insurance provided does not extend to claims arising 
from fraud or dishonesty. 
Information required by Listing  
Rule 9.8.4R 
Details of long-term incentive schemes as required by Listing 
Rule 9.4.3R are located in the Directors’ Remuneration  
Report on pages 57 to 81. Details of dividends waived by 
shareholders are given on page 49 of this Directors’ Report. 
There is no further information required to be disclosed under 
Listing Rule 9.8.4R. 
Directors’ responsibilities 
The directors’ responsibilities for the financial statements 
contained within this Annual Report and Accounts and the 
directors’ confirmations required under DTR 4.1.12 are set  
out on page 82. 
Capital structure 
The Company’s only class of share is ordinary shares. Details 
of the movements in issued share capital during the year are 
provided in note 22 to the Group financial statements. The 
voting rights of Dixons Carphone shares are identical, with 
each share carrying the right to one vote. Dixons Carphone 
holds no shares in treasury. 
Details of employee share schemes are provided in note 5 to 
the Group financial statements. On 30 April 2016 the 
Carphone Warehouse Employee Share Ownership Trust 
(‘ESOT’) held 625,623 shares (2015: 791,100 shares) and the 
Dixons Retail plc ESOT held 123,451 shares (2015: 151,829 
shares). The Carphone Warehouse ESOT did not make any 
market purchases of the Company’s shares, and the Dixons 
Retail plc ESOT made market purchases of 1,914,308 shares 
during the year under review. 
Restrictions on transfer of securities  
of the Company 
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor 
on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the 
general provisions of the Articles and prevailing legislation. 
The directors are not aware of any agreements between 
holders of the Company’s shares that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. 
No person has any special rights of control over the 
Company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid. 
Change of control – significant 
agreements 
All of the Company’s share incentive scheme rules contain 
provisions which may cause options and awards granted 
under these schemes to vest and become exercisable in the 
event of a change of control.   
The Group’s main committed borrowing facility has a change 
of control clause whereby the participating banks can require 
the Company to repay all outstanding amounts under the 
facility agreement in the event of a change of control. The 
Company is not aware of any other significant agreements, 
such as commercial contracts and property lease 
arrangements etc, to which it is party, that take effect, alter or 
terminate upon a change of control in the Company.  
Furthermore, the directors are not aware of any agreements 
between the Company and its directors or employees that 
provide for compensation for loss of office or employment 
that occurs in the event of a takeover bid.  
Significant shareholdings 
At 30 April 2016, pursuant to Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, the 
shareholders with 3% or more in the voting rights of the 
Company are: 
Name Number of shares 
Percentage of 
share capital 
Standard Life 67,016,585 5.82% 
BlackRock 64,226,251 5.58%
Lansdowne Partners 57,675,527 5.01% 
D P J Ross 55,738,699 4.84% 
AXA Group 42,555,710 3.70% 
Capital Group 41,116,000 3.57% 
Legal & General 
Investment 
Management 
37,370,496 3.25% 
At 28 June 2016, no change in these shareholdings had 
been notified. 
Directors’ interests in the Company’s shares and the 
movements thereof are detailed in the Annual Remuneration 
Report on pages 69 to 81. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   48 11/07/2016   18:34 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
49 
Dividend 
The Board has proposed a final dividend for the year ended  
30 April 2016. Details of this and other dividends paid for the 
year are as follows: 
Year ended  
30 April 2016 
Year ended 
2 May 2015 
Interim dividend 3.25p 2.50p 
Final dividend 6.50p 6.00p 
Total dividends 9.75p 8.50p 
The right to receive any dividend has been waived by the 
trustees of the Company’s ESOTs over a combined holding of 
749,074 shares. 
Issue of shares 
In accordance with section 551 of the Act, shareholders can 
authorise the directors to allot shares in the Company up to 
one third of the issued share capital of the Company. 
Accordingly, at the 2015 annual general meeting shareholders 
approved a resolution to give the directors authority to allot 
shares up to an aggregate nominal value of £383,820. The 
directors have no present intention to issue ordinary shares, 
other than pursuant to obligations under employee share 
schemes. This resolution remains valid until the conclusion of 
this year’s Annual General Meeting. 
Authority was given by the shareholders at the 2015 annual 
general meeting to purchase a maximum of 38,382,000 
shares, such authority remaining valid for 15 months or until 
the conclusion of the Company’s Annual General Meeting in 
2016. The authority was not exercised during the period or 
prior to the date of this Report. The Company will seek the 
usual renewal of this authority at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting but has no current intention to make  
such purchases. 
Use of financial instruments 
Information about the use of financial instruments is given in 
note 26 to the Group financial statements. 
Auditor 
Each director at the date of approval of this Annual Report 
and Accounts confirms that: 
• so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware;
and
• the director has taken all the steps that he / she ought to
have taken as a director in order to make himself / herself
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish
that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Act. 
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in 
office as auditor and a resolution to re-appoint them will be 
proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
Certain information required to be included in this Directors’ 
Report may be found within the Strategic Report. 
By Order of the Board 
Nigel Paterson 
Company Secretary 
28 June 2016 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   49 11/07/2016   18:34 Accounts 2015/16 
Audit Committee Report 
50 
Chairman’s statement 
Introduction 
I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for 
the year ended 30 April 2016. In this covering letter I set out 
our key areas of activity in delivering on our objective of 
ensuring that Dixons Carphone’s financial reporting and risk 
management systems of internal control are effective and 
appropriate. 
Building on the activity and reporting of the Merger in 
2014/15, this year the Committee has focused on overseeing 
the bedding-down of reporting in the complex regulatory  
and governance environment in which the Group operates. 
This has entailed ensuring that the assurance activities 
encompass, in proportionate measure, non-regulated and 
regulated operations, the international footprint and the  
risk profile of the Group. We have also considered the  
terms of reference and workings of the Group Risk & 
Compliance Committee.  
New reporting requirements 
The Committee considered the Group’s response to and 
conformance with the new requirements of the 2014 UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) and the Financial 
Reporting Council (‘FRC’) Guidance on Risk Management, 
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting. 
In particular this includes adopting the longer-term viability 
statement for the first time. Management recommended a 
three-year viability period to align with the Group’s strategic 
planning and forecasting process together with sensitivities 
and assumptions based around the principal risks and related 
mitigating actions. The Committee concluded that the 
approach was appropriate and recommended adoption of the 
viability statement by the Board. 
Key activities 
The Committee’s work, carried out during the year, included: 
• fully considering the requirements of the Code and its
application to the Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16,
including complying with new provisions relating to the
robust assessment of risks and the viability statement;
• considering significant accounting and reporting
judgements, including the appropriateness of the Group’s
going concern position;
• considering and recommending that the Annual Report and
Accounts 2015/16, when taken as a whole, are fair, 
balanced and understandable;
• reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management system
and internal controls, operated by management;
• considering and approving the viability statement, more
information on which can be found on page 29, and the
assessment and challenging of the analysis performed by 
management to reach the conditions underpinning it;
• receiving presentations and subsequent updates from
management on such matters as succession planning and 
talent management, businesses regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) and IT strategy; and
• considering the robustness of the online services
information security environment, which was the subject of
a cyber-attack in August 2015 and the appropriateness of
the immediate actions taken to secure the impacted
systems and additional security measures put in place to
help prevent further attacks.
Looking ahead 
As the Group continues to develop new business areas in 
line with its strategy and business plans, we expect the 
Committee to remain busy. 
The work programme will be responsive to the changing 
risk profile, the developing business model, the regulatory 
environment, and the changing shape of the systems 
(including IT) architecture. The risk assessment has been 
diligently prepared by the Group’s management at all levels. 
We are mindful of the need to remain vigilant as we know 
that not all risks can be eliminated in the challenging 
environment in which we operate. 
I will be in attendance at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting and will be available to talk to you then. In the 
meantime if you have any questions please do get in touch. 
Jock Lennox 
Chairman of the Audit Committee  
28 June 2016 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   50 11/07/2016   18:34
Corporate Governance
 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
51 
The Board continues to be satisfied that the Chairman of the 
Committee, a member of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland, meets the requirement for recent 
and relevant financial experience. The Company Secretary 
acts as Secretary to the Committee and attends all meetings. 
The Committee’s deliberations are reported by its Chairman to 
the following Board meeting and the minutes of each meeting 
are circulated to all members of the Board following approval.  
In order to allow discussion of private matters, which the 
auditor may wish to raise, at each meeting, discussion may 
be held between the Committee members and the external 
auditor without the presence of management. If appropriate, a 
discussion may be held between Committee members, the 
external auditor and the Group Director of Internal Audit. 
In undertaking its duties the Committee has access to the 
services of the Group Director of Internal Audit, the Group 
Finance Director, the Company Secretary, and their respective 
teams, as well as external professional advice as necessary. In 
addition the Chairman meets with the external auditor outside 
of formal meetings and without management present. 
External advice 
The Board makes funds available to the Committee to enable 
it to take independent legal, accounting or other advice when 
the Committee believes it necessary to do so. 
Responsibilities 
The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight 
responsibilities by acting independently from the executive 
directors. There is an annual schedule of items which are 
shared out amongst the meetings during the year to ensure 
the Committee covers fully those items within its Terms of 
Reference. These items are supplemented throughout the 
year as key matters arise.  
The Committee has the following principal duties: 
• monitoring the integrity of the interim statement and annual 
report and accounts and any formal announcements
relating to the Group’s financial performance; 
• considering recommendation of the external auditor’s
appointment to the shareholders in general meeting and
approve their remuneration;
• reviewing the results and conclusions of work performed by
the external auditor;
• reviewing significant financial reporting judgements;
• reviewing the Group’s financial controls and internal control
and risk management systems;
• monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal audit function;
• reviewing and monitoring the relationship with the external
auditor, including their independence, objectivity,
effectiveness and terms of engagement;
• considering whistleblowing arrangements by which
employees may raise concerns about possible 
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other
matters;
• considering the major findings of internal investigations;
• advising the Board on whether, as a whole, the annual
report and accounts are fair, balanced and understandable;
• considering the going concern statement;
• considering and reviewing the statement of the Company’s
viability over a specified period;
• any specific topics as defined by the Board; and
• referring matters to the Board which, in its opinion, should
be addressed at a meeting of the Board.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee were last reviewed 
and adopted by the Board in June 2016 and are available on 
the Group’s corporate website, www.dixonscarphone.com. 
Key matters considered during  
the year 
Accounting and financial reporting matters  
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the integrity of 
the Interim Statement and Annual Report and Accounts in 
conjunction with both senior management and the external 
auditor. During the year ended 30 April 2016, consideration 
was given to the following matters: 
• the suitability and application of the Group’s accounting
policies and practices;
• areas where significant levels of judgement have been
applied or significant items have been discussed with the
external auditor;
• updated accounting and corporate governance regulations;
Members 
In compliance with the Code, the Committee continues to 
consist exclusively of independent non-executive directors, 
who, along with their attendance at scheduled meetings, 
are set out in the table below. Biographical details on each 
member can be found on pages 36 to 37. 
Meetings 
The Committee met four scheduled times during the period 
under review. Since the year end there has been two further 
meetings. All eligible members attended each of the 
meetings during which they were a member of the 
Committee. The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance 
Director, Group Director of Internal Audit, other senior 
management and representatives of the Company’s 
external auditor (Deloitte LLP) attended the relevant 
Committee meetings by invitation. 
Current members 
Scheduled 
Meetings 
Jock Lennox (Chairman) 4 of 4 
Baroness Morgan of Huyton 4 of 4 
Gerry Murphy 4 of 4 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   51 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance
Audit Committee Report 
52 
• Group risk register management and risk appetite;
• internal control effectiveness and control maturity;
• the viability statement and its alignment with the 
business strategy and long-term plan;
• financial integration and succession planning; 
• FCA and regulatory compliance;
• data protection and information security; and
• whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide
sufficient information necessary for shareholders and other 
users of the accounts to assess the Group’s position and
performance, business model and strategy.
To assist with discharging these responsibilities, the 
Committee considers documents prepared by management 
and internal audit and reports received from the external 
auditor on the outcomes of their annual audit and interim 
review procedures.  
The Committee received reports and recommendations from management and the external auditor setting out the significant 
accounting issues and judgements applicable to the following key areas. These were discussed and challenged, where 
appropriate, by the Committee. Following debate, the Committee concurred with management’s conclusions: 
Matters of significance and 
areas of judgement How the issue was addressed by the Committee 
Revenue recognition Revenue recognition is considered to be a critical accounting policy and the judgements are set out in 
note 1s) of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16. Key components of judgement are largely in 
relation to the recognition of network commission receivable.  
The Committee reviewed management’s assessment of these policies with reference to contractual 
terms, the Group’s historical experience of customer behaviour and information received from MNOs. 
Particular attention was paid to the consistency of application of the underlying assumptions used and 
the sensitivity to the carrying value of ongoing network receivables recognised to changes in key 
assumptions as presented in note 26 in the Group financial statements. The carrying value of ongoing 
network commission receivables at the balance sheet date was £904 million. 
Provisions The Committee has considered the underlying judgements and estimates taken by management in the 
recognition and valuation of property rationalisation provisions as disclosed in note 20 in the Group 
financial statements. 
In addition the Committee has continued to review the judgements taken in relation to discontinued 
operations of the Group, being the Phone House operations in Germany, France, the Netherlands and 
Portugal. The Committee assessed the likelihood of remaining risks materialising and considered the 
appropriateness of associated provisions.  
Supplier funding A number of arrangements exist relating to supplier funding across the Group, including promotional 
support and volume rebates. The Committee has continued to challenge and debate with management its 
approach to supplier funding, and its recognition and accounting treatment. In addition the Committee 
continues to monitor the effectiveness of the controls in place to mitigate the risk of material misstatement 
of supplier funding recognition; no major issues were noted. Further information in relation to supplier 
funding can be found in note 1s) in the Group financial statements. 
Inventory provisioning Inventory is a significant balance for the Group, as set out in note 1s) in the Group financial statements  
and contains managerial judgement for such items as obsolescence and shrinkage. As part of the 
general Committee procedures managerial judgement was assessed and no major issues noted. 
Impairment testing of goodwill and 
intangible assets 
The Group has significant goodwill of £3,054 million and acquisition intangibles of £348 million, following 
the Merger and the CPW Europe Acquisition. The Committee considered the judgements made and the 
methodology used in assessing the supportability of the year end balances and assessment for any 
potential impairment. A sensitivity analysis was then reviewed regarding the impact of a reasonably 
possible change in the key assumptions. These assumptions are set out in note 9 in the Group  
financial statements. 
Taxation The Group operates across multiple tax jurisdictions. The complex nature of tax legislation in certain 
jurisdictions can necessitate the use of judgement. In addition, management also uses assumptions and 
judgements to assess the likelihood of utilisation of available tax losses.  
The Committee reviewed the judgements and assumptions concerning any significant provisions, 
including progress made on matters being discussed with tax authorities and where applicable advice 
provided by external advisors. The total provisions recognised at the balance sheet date amounted to 
£54 million. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   52 11/07/2016   18:34 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
53 
Matters of significance and 
areas of judgement How the issue was addressed by the Committee 
Fair, balanced and understandable  In ensuring that the Group’s reporting is fair, balanced and understandable the Committee reviewed the 
classification of items between Headline and Non-Headline, including consideration of the £184 million 
pre-tax Non-Headline charges disclosed in note 4 in the Group financial statements. This assessment 
considered whether items fell within the Group’s definition of Non-Headline as well as the consistency of 
treatment of such items year on year.  
In addition the Committee gave due consideration to the integrity and sufficiency of information disclosed 
in the Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 along with other relevant matters to ensure that it explains 
the Group’s position, performance, business model and strategy. This included an assessment of 
narrative reporting to ensure consistency with the financial reporting section and appropriate balance and 
prominence of statutory and non-statutory performance measures. The Committee concurred that the 
measures used and disclosures provided were appropriate to provide users of the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2015/16 with a meaningful assessment of the performance of the underlying operations of the 
Group, and the Board was advised of this conclusion. 
Going concern The Committee was presented by management with an assessment of the Group’s future cash forecasts 
and profit projections, available facilities, facility headroom, banking covenants and the results of a 
sensitivity analysis. The Committee discussed the assessment with management and was satisfied that 
the going concern basis of preparation continues to be appropriate for the Group and advised the Board 
accordingly. The going concern statement is set out on page 29. 
Viability statement In addition to those factors assessed by the Committee in consideration of the going concern 
assessment discussed above, the Committee also noted the new requirement to produce a viability 
statement in this year’s Annual Report and Accounts. Management presented a report that considered 
the appropriateness of the three-year time period under assessment noting the consistency between this 
period and the period of focus of the annual strategic planning process. The report included stress 
testing of the strategic three-year plan with reference to those principal risks and mitigating actions as 
described on pages 20 to 23 to the Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16. The Committee concurred 
with management’s conclusions that the viability statement disclosed on page 29 of the Annual Report 
and Accounts 2015/16 is appropriate. The Board was advised accordingly. 
Risk management and internal control 
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Group’s 
internal control and risk management systems. In order to 
discharge its responsibilities in this area the Committee 
reviewed the following key items: 
• the assessment of the Group’s response to information
security and data protection risks;
• the Group’s responsibilities relating to those aspects of the 
Group that are regulated;
• the Group-developed financial and IT controls framework
and its subsequent assessment by internal audit;
• common control themes identified throughout the business,
and where themes were identified, ensuring subsequent
action has been taken to minimise the risk;
• the annual Audit Committee agenda; and
• the new governance and risk management framework,
including a definition of risk appetite by risk category and
principal risk, put in place throughout the Group.
Internal audit 
During the period the following significant risk areas of the 
business were included within internal audit reviews:  
• information security and data protection;
• regulatory compliance;
• IT resilience, integrity and disaster recovery;
• business continuity management; and
• relationships with networks.
In addition, as part of the three-year rolling assurance 
programme, audits were performed over the following financial 
processes to provide assurance to the Committee that controls 
were operating within these areas:  
• network revenue and commissions;
• supplier funding;
• treasury; and
• capital expenditure.
Whilst considering any significant issues arising from the 
results of the audits shown above, the Committee also formally 
reviewed the effectiveness of internal audit and the adequacy 
of its resources. 
External audit 
The external auditor is appointed by shareholders to provide 
an opinion on the Annual Report and Accounts and certain 
disclosures prepared by Group management. Deloitte LLP 
acted as the external auditor to the Group throughout the year. 
The Committee is responsible for oversight of the external 
auditor, including approving the annual audit plan and all 
associated audit fees. 
The key matters in relation to external audit that were 
considered by the Committee were: 
• The annual audit plan including the appropriateness of the
key risks identified and materiality levels applied.
• The annual audit fee and fees for non-audit services which
are set out in note 3 to the Annual Report and Accounts
2015/16, with due regard to the balance between audit and
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   53 11/07/2016   18:34 Accounts 2015/16 
Audit Committee Report 
54 
non-audit fees and the policy for approval of non-audit fees 
paid to the Group’s auditor. 
• The effectiveness of the external auditor: Feedback on the
effectiveness of the audit process in addressing areas of
key audit risk was obtained from members of the Committee 
and regular attendees, members of the finance team and
senior management within the businesses via a specifically
designed questionnaire. The responses were then
considered by the Committee in conjunction with the
outputs received and responsiveness of the auditor during
the audit process. The results showed a positive view of the
audit process and of Deloitte LLP as the external auditor,
specifically in relation to the high quality and integrity of the
team, the constructive relationship and the effectiveness
of the communication. Following due consideration the
Committee continues to be satisfied with the quality and 
effectiveness of the audit.
• Significant issues and areas of judgement arising from
reports from the external auditor: These areas were set
out in the reports from the external auditor and discussed
with the Committee. The Committee concluded that the
judgements taken and assumptions made by management
were all fair and reasonable.
Provision of non-audit services 
provided by the external auditor 
The Committee’s adoption of a revised policy on auditor 
independence last year had further restricted non-audit 
services, and limited services provided by the external auditor 
to audit and certain specific audit-related services (primarily 
those related to the role of reporting accountant and audit 
reports on financial information provided by the Group). All 
non-audit fee proposals are subject to pre-approval and must 
be submitted to the Group Financial Controller. Where 
assignments are expected to generate fees of over £100,000, 
prior approval must be obtained from the Committee. 
During the period under review, the non-audit services 
performed by the external auditor primarily arose from the 
finalisation of tax services relating to discontinued operations, 
interim financial review procedures and the requirement in 
Greek law for the external auditor of the company to provide 
non-audit services. The Committee has reviewed the services 
performed by the external auditor during the year and is 
satisfied that these services did not prejudice the external 
auditor’s independence and that it was appropriate for them  
to perform these services.  
The level of non-audit fees paid to the external auditor, which 
was approved by the Committee is set out in note 3 of the 
Group’s financial statements and amounted to £0.4 million 
compared with £1.5 million of audit fees. The non-audit fees  
as a percentage of audit fees was 28%. This is considerably 
lower than in 2014/15 as a result of one-off, Merger-related  
fees last year and the new, more restricted policy governing 
the use of Deloitte LLP for non-audit services. 
Consideration of auditor appointment 
and independence 
The Committee continues to consider the appropriateness of 
the re-appointment of the external auditor, including rotation  
of the audit partner. Deloitte LLP has been the Company’s 
external auditor since August 2002, prior to Carphone 
Warehouse’s demerger from TalkTalk. Deloitte LLP was also 
the external auditor of Dixons Retail. The lead audit partner, 
John Adam, has now completed his five-year term and must 
be succeeded by a different partner, in accordance with best 
practice and the Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standards. 
We would like to take this opportunity to thank John for his 
valuable input and guidance and welcome Stephen Griggs as 
his successor.   
The Company’s policy is to comply with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, introduced by the FRC, to put the external 
audit out to tender at least once every ten years. In accordance 
with the Competition and Markets Authority (‘CMA’) Statutory 
Audit Services Order, which is designed to align with 
provisions of the EU Regulations on external audit tender and 
rotation, and current guidance the Company is required to 
conduct a competitive audit tender by June 2023. This will be 
the latest period that Deloitte LLP may remain as auditor. The 
Committee will continue to evaluate annually the performance 
of the auditor, in particular at each five-year rotation of the lead 
audit partner, and will recommend a tender for this service if 
the circumstances so warrant. 
In accordance with International Standards on Auditing  
(UK and Ireland) 260 and Ethical Standard 1 issued by the 
Accounting Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, 
at year end Deloitte LLP formally confirmed to the Board its 
independence as auditor of the Company.  
In determining whether to recommend the auditor for  
re-appointment this year, the Committee considered the  
firm’s internal control procedures, the most recent audit 
effectiveness review, the tenure of the lead audit partner and 
the rigorous assessment of the replacement lead audit partner, 
and thereby affirmed that the audit processes are effective and 
that the appropriate independence continues to be met. 
Accordingly, the Company confirms that it complied with the 
provisions of the CMA Statutory Audit Services Order for the 
financial year under review and the Committee concluded that 
it was in the best interests of the Company’s shareholders to 
reappoint Deloitte LLP as the independent auditor of the 
Company. The Committee’s recommendation, that a resolution 
to re-appoint Deloitte LLP be proposed at this year’s Annual 
General Meeting, was accepted and endorsed by the Board.  
Jock Lennox 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
28 June 2016 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   54 11/07/2016   18:34
Corporate Governance
 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Nominations Committee Report 
55 
Chairman’s overview 
The Nominations Committee has an important role in the 
Dixons Carphone governance structure, evaluating the skills 
required to lead the business effectively and ensuring the right 
talent and experience is available. In order to ensure continuity 
of purpose and effective leadership, it is important to ensure 
succession planning obligations are met.  
The Committee regularly reviews its obligations under 
governance guidelines; the last review was in March 2016, 
which included an appraisal of Board experience and 
composition, diversity, time commitments of each director, 
director independence and a review of the Committee’s Terms 
of Reference. 
On 16 December 2015 the leadership of the business was 
significantly strengthened by the appointment of Lord 
Livingston of Parkhead as Deputy Chairman and Tony 
DeNunzio CBE as Senior Independent Director. Lord 
Livingston and Tony DeNunzio are both members of the 
Nominations and Remuneration committees. Lord Livingston 
also assumed the position of Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee; on the same date John Gildersleeve and Roger 
Taylor resigned as directors of the Company. 
More information about the Nominations Committee and its 
position in the Company’s governance framework is shown on 
the right. 
Sir Charles Dunstone 
Chairman of the Nominations Committee  
28 June 2016 
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee. 
The Committee’s deliberations are reported by its Chairman at 
the following Board meeting and the minutes of each meeting 
are circulated to all members of the Board following approval. 
Responsibilities 
The principal duties of the Nominations Committee are to: 
• review the structure, size and composition of the Board, and
recommend changes as necessary;
• identify, evaluate and nominate candidates to fill vacancies
on the Board;
• review the leadership requirements with a view to ensuring
the continued ability of the organisation to compete
effectively and be responsible for succession planning;
• carry out a formal selection process of candidates;
• evaluate the skills, knowledge and experience of the Board
including reviewing the results of any Board performance
evaluation;
Meetings 
• The Nominations Committee meets as and when required 
and at least twice a year.
• The Nominations Committee met three times during the
period under review. 
Committee membership and attendance 
The members of the Nominations Committee are shown in 
the table below along with their attendance at scheduled 
meetings for the period under review. Biographical details 
on each member can be found on pages 36 to 37. 
Current members 
Scheduled 
Meetings 
Sir Charles Dunstone (Chairman) 3 of 3 
Lord Livingston of Parkhead
(1)
 1 of 1 
Tony DeNunzio CBE
(1)
 1 of 1 
Andrea Gisle Joosen
(2)
 2 of 3 
Former member
John Gildersleeve
(3)
  2 of 2 
(1) Lord Livingston and Tony DeNunzio attended the one meeting 
held following their appointment on 16 December 2015.
(2) Andrea Gisle Joosen did not attend one meeting due to a 
scheduling conflict. 
(3) John Gildersleeve attended both meetings prior to his 
resignation on 16 December 2015. 
The majority of the members are independent NEDs as 
required by the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
‘Code’). Other members of the Board or senior 
management may be invited to attend meetings at the 
request of the Chairman. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   55 11/07/2016   18:34
Corporate Governance
Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance
Nominations Committee Report 
56 
• consider other commitments of directors relative to the time 
required for them to fulfil their duties; and 
• make recommendations to the Board regarding the
continuation in office of a director upon the expiry of any 
specified terms of appointment.
The Committee’s Terms of Reference are reviewed annually. 
The last review was in March 2016 and the Terms of Reference 
were subsequently approved by the Board. The Committee’s 
Terms of Reference are available on the Group’s corporate 
website, www.dixonscarphone.com. 
Key matters considered 
In addition to the principal duties noted above, the Committee 
also considered the appointments of Lord Livingston and Tony 
DeNunzio, and the resignations of John Gildersleeve and 
Roger Taylor.  
The Committee also considers these matters periodically: 
• an evaluation of the size, composition and structure of the
Board and its committees;
• the Company’s diversity policy;
• time commitments of the directors;
• the external appointments policy;
• the Committee’s performance and Terms of Reference; and
• a review of the role descriptions of the Chairman, Senior
Independent Director and the Group Chief Executive.
Board evaluation 
During 2015/16 the triennial Board evaluation was undertaken 
by an independent company, NJMD Corporate Services 
Limited. The review included the Board and the Audit, 
Nominations and Remuneration committees and examined all 
aspects of the Board’s procedures and activities. Further 
details of the evaluation process can be found on page 43. 
Appointments to the Board 
The Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure for the appointment of new directors. Appointments 
are made to the Board based on objective criteria and with due 
regard to the benefits of diversity and the leadership needs of 
the Company. External search consultancies are retained when 
recruiting non-executive directors.  
An independent global search firm, JCA Associates, was 
appointed. Candidate profiles were developed indicating the 
skills, knowledge and experience required for each role, taking 
into account the Board’s existing composition and skill sets. 
The Committee, led by the Chairman, undertook a thorough 
search and selection process for the most appropriate 
candidates. A wide range of high calibre candidates was 
considered for the roles of Deputy Chairman and Senior 
Independent Director. The Committee and Board confirmed 
both Lord Livingston’s and Tony DeNunzio’s independence 
upon appointment and were unanimous in their decisions to 
appoint them. 
Succession planning 
The business requires a talented Board with appropriate 
experience and expertise. This year, the Board has placed 
further emphasis on succession planning with two new 
appointments in December 2015. The Board considers no 
additional appointment is necessary at this time but is mindful 
of Baroness Morgan’s tenure. Board succession and 
composition will remain a priority, as the Board is conscious 
that it must look further and wider for the leaders of the future. 
In securing the long-term prosperity of the business, the Board 
must look deeper into the pool of talent that currently exists 
within the organisation, identifying new talent and casting the 
net wider, with a longer horizon, for potential directors with the 
appropriate skill-sets to meet the demands of an ever more 
complex business environment. 
Diversity 
The Board recognises the importance of diversity in achieving 
the right mix of skills, knowledge and experience to help the 
organisation reach its full potential. The Board acknowledges 
the October 2015 Women on Boards Davies Review (‘Review’) 
which recommends a voluntary target of 33% to be achieved 
by 2020. Currently 23% of the Board, and 17% of the Group 
Executive team, are female. 
Whilst noting the recommendations of the Review, the Board 
does not establish targets on gender balance as it believes that 
candidates should be appointed on merit. Our Board supports 
the benefits of greater diversity, which is not just gender-
specific but also encompasses age, ethnicity, background and 
diversity of thought. The Board is conscious of the need to give 
weight to these factors in future appointments. More 
information on employee diversity can be found on page 31. 
In performing its annual review the Board also looked at other 
aspects of diversity relevant to the Group. With a large 
proportion of the business in the Nordics, we have a Swedish 
Non-Executive Director on the Board to provide knowledge of 
these international markets. 
Re-election 
All directors will present themselves for election or re-election 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Each of the 
directors is being unanimously recommended by the other 
members of the Board due to their experience, knowledge and 
wider management and industry experience, continued 
effectiveness and commitment to their role. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   56 11/07/2016   18:34 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report 
57 
Chairman’s statement 
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 2015/16 
Directors’ Remuneration Report which sets out our philosophy  
and proposed future policy for directors’ remuneration, together 
with the activities of the Committee for this financial year ended  
30 April 2016.  
Policy review 
The integration has gone well and the strong performance of this 
year validates the bringing together of the two businesses. Our 
focus now on developing our Connected World Services and 
Knowhow businesses, complementing our core retail and  
services offering, brings with it exciting opportunities, supporting 
long-term earnings growth. Against this background, over the last 
few months, the Committee has been reviewing the Group’s 
approach to executive remuneration and following consultation 
with our major shareholders is proposing a new long term incentive 
plan and will be seeking approval for this new plan from 
shareholders at the AGM in September this year.  
The current long term plan (the ‘Share Plan’) has been a key 
element of the policy to date seeking to incentivise management  
to deliver superior shareholder returns through the Merger and 
integration of our two businesses. The performance of the Share 
Plan will be measured in July 2017 when, subject to performance, 
60% of the shares will vest, with the remaining 40% vesting  
12 months later.  
The Committee had previously indicated that it would not seek to 
either make new awards under the Share Plan, or introduce a new 
plan, until awards under the current plan had fully vested in 2018. 
However, on taking over the role as Chairman of the Committee, 
we reviewed issues around the recruitment and development of 
management in our business and came to the clear view that 
having no long term scheme in place that would follow on from the 
existing scheme would be detrimental to the business and our 
shareholders. We also felt that the Company had now reached the 
stage that it was appropriate to move to a more standard 
annualised award of performance shares. These will be based on 
EPS growth and relative TSR and is a material change in the way 
the Committee is seeking to operate directors’ (and other senior 
executives’) remuneration in the Company. 
We have consulted with our major shareholders and reflected their 
feedback into the design of the proposed Remuneration Policy. 
The details of the new long term incentive plan are in the Policy 
section of this Report, but in summary are: 
• an annual award of performance shares, with a normal
maximum grant of 275% of base salary, with the ability to make 
awards of up to 375% of base salary in exceptional 
circumstances, e.g. recruitment; 
• three-year vesting period, with a subsequent two-year holding 
period of any net of tax vested shares for executive directors; 
• for 2016/17, performance measured equally against relative 
TSR, using the FTSE 51-150 peer group and adjusted EPS
over the three year period; and 
• robust withholding and recovery provisions, as with the
Share Plan. 
Proposed award levels for executive directors are set out on  
page 71 and will, subject to shareholder approval, be granted 
shortly after the AGM in September 2016.  
The Committee recognises that proposing a common salary 
multiple for the long term incentive plan award to all executive 
directors is relatively unusual, but this is reflective of the close 
working relationship and contributions of the executive director 
team, which have been key to the success of the Group.  
Whilst relative TSR and adjusted EPS have been chosen as the 
performance measures for the awards to be made in 2016/17, the 
Committee will retain the discretion to introduce a third measure in 
future years, if appropriate, to enhance focus on a particular aspect 
of business performance. In the event that the Committee decided 
to do this, major shareholders would be consulted and also the 
TSR component would not be weighted less than 40%, to ensure 
ongoing focus on shareholder value creation. 
We have also been very mindful of the current environment in 
executive remuneration, base pay increases for 2016 being in line 
with those for the wider workforce and no other changes are 
proposed to the Remuneration Policy other than: 
• the removal of the ability to pay a retention bonus to executive 
directors under the loss of office provisions; and 
• capping of any long term incentive plan award on recruitment
to 375% of base salary, in line with exceptional awards under 
the new long term plan. 
In conclusion, the Committee believes that the introduction of the 
new long term incentive plan and its design are right for the Group 
as it moves into a post-Merger operating environment. It is aligned 
to our overall aim to have a remuneration policy which promotes 
the long-term success of the business through the attraction and 
retention of executives who have the ability, experience and 
dedication to deliver outstanding returns for our shareholders. The 
Committee is also very aware that much of the Group’s success is 
down to the dedication and hard work of all our employees and we 
are delighted with the ongoing success of the Dixons Carphone 
Sharesave plan, in which we now have 25% of our UK & Ireland 
workforce participating.  
The proposed new Remuneration Policy as set out in this  
Annual Report and Accounts will be put to shareholders for  
a binding vote at the AGM on 8 September 2016, where 
shareholders will be asked to approve the policy for a period  
of three years.  
Pay and performance for 2015/16 
As set out in the Strategic Report this has been a year of strong 
financial and operational performance. Headline pro forma EBIT 
increased by 13%, average net debt was ahead of target and there 
were improvements in ROCE, customer net promoter and 
employee engagement scores. This must be considered a very 
strong performance in a difficult and competitive market. The 
Committee approved annual bonus payments of 68.4% of base 
salary (73.7% of maximum opportunity) for the executive directors, 
which reflected the strong performance, but also the stretching 
nature of the targets set by the Committee.  
Full details of the performance targets and actual performance 
assessed are provided in the Annual Remuneration Report  
on page 76. 
Ian Livingston 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
28 June 2016 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   57 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report – Remuneration Policy 
58 
Introduction 
The purpose of this Report is to inform shareholders of the 
Company’s directors’ remuneration for the period ended  
30 April 2016 and the Remuneration Policy for subsequent 
years. This Report is divided into two sections: 
• the Remuneration Policy; and
• the Annual Remuneration Report.
The current remuneration policy was approved by shareholders 
at the annual general meeting on 10 September 2015. 
Following several proposed changes to the Policy, a new 
authority will be sought from shareholders in a binding vote  
at the Annual General Meeting on 8 September 2016 and the 
new Policy will be effective from that date. The Annual 
Remuneration Report will also be put to an advisory vote  
at the Annual General Meeting. 
The role of the Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’)  
is to determine on behalf of the Board a remuneration policy 
for executive directors and senior management which 
promotes the long-term success of the business through the 
attraction and retention of executives who have the ability, 
experience and dedication to deliver outstanding returns for 
our shareholders.  
The Committee has adopted the principles of good governance 
relating to directors’ remuneration as enshrined in section D of 
the Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) and has complied 
with those principles in the year under review. 
These reports have been prepared by the Committee on behalf 
of the Board in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, 
Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as 
amended) and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. The Remuneration Policy (which is not subject to 
audit) details the role of the Committee, the principles of 
remuneration and other matters. The Annual Remuneration 
Report (elements of which are audited) details the directors’ 
and former directors’ fixed and variable pay, share awards, 
share options and pension arrangements.  
Remuneration Policy –  
unaudited information 
Remuneration Committee objectives 
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for 
determining policy in relation to the remuneration packages  
for executive directors and other senior management. This 
delegation includes their terms and conditions of employment 
in addition to the operation of the Group’s share-based 
employee incentive schemes. The Committee has clearly 
defined Terms of Reference which are available on the 
Company’s corporate website. 
Remuneration strategy 
Put simply, our aim is to generate superior returns for our 
shareholders and the key to achieving this is our people.  
Our remuneration strategy is therefore designed to motivate 
high-performing people to deliver our business strategy. 
The objectives of our remuneration strategy are to: 
• attract, motivate and retain high quality talent;
• be transparent and align the interests of senior management
and executive directors with those of shareholders, by
encouraging management to have a significant personal
stake in the long-term success of the business;
• weight remuneration to variable pay that incentivises
outperformance particularly over the long term whilst
discouraging inappropriate risk-taking;
• ensure that superior rewards are only paid for exceptional
performance against challenging targets;
• apply policies consistently across the Group to promote
alignment and teamwork;
• recognise the importance of delivering across a balanced set
of metrics to ensure the right behaviours are adopted and
the long-term health of the business is protected; and
• avoid rewarding failure.
In developing its policy the Committee has regard to: 
• the performance, roles and responsibilities of each executive
director or member of senior management;
• arrangements which apply below senior management levels,
including average base salary increases across the
workforce;
• information and surveys from internal and independent
sources;
• the economic environment and financial performance of the
Company; and
• good corporate governance practice.
Guidelines on responsible investment disclosure 
In line with the Investment Association Guidelines on 
responsible investment disclosure, the Committee is satisfied 
that the incentive structure and targets for executive directors 
do not raise any environmental, social or governance risks by 
inadvertently motivating irresponsible or reckless behaviour. 
The Committee considers that no element of the remuneration 
package will encourage inappropriate risk-taking by any 
member of senior management. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   58 11/07/2016   18:34 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
59 
Remuneration Policy table 
The individual elements of the remuneration packages offered to executive directors are summarised in the following table: 
Base salary (fixed pay) 
• Purpose and link to strategy To aid the recruitment, retention and motivation of high-performing people. 
To reflect their skills, experience and importance to the business. 
• Operation Normally reviewed annually.
The review reflects a range of factors including merit levels, internal relativity, external 
market data and cost. Our overall policy, having due regard to the factors noted, is 
normally to target salaries up to the mid-market level. 
Salaries for new appointments as executive directors will be set in accordance with the 
Recruitment Policy set out on pages 65 to 66 of this Remuneration Policy. 
The Committee takes into consideration the impact of base salary increases on the 
package as a whole, as other elements of pay (such as pension contributions) are 
generally based on a percentage of salary. 
• Maximum opportunity Ordinarily, increases for executive directors will be in line with increases across the 
Group. Increases beyond those granted across the Group may be awarded in certain 
circumstances such as changes in responsibilities, progression in the role and significant 
increases in the size, complexity or value of the Group. 
Salary levels for current directors are shown in the Annual Remuneration Report. 
• Performance assessment / targets Salaries are normally reviewed annually by the Committee at the appropriate meeting 
having due regard to the individual’s experience, performance and added value to  
the business. 
Benefits (fixed pay) 
• Purpose and link to strategy In line with the Company’s strategy to keep remuneration weighted to variable pay that 
incentivises outperformance, a modest range of benefits is provided. 
Benefits may vary based on the personal choices of the director. 
Provision of relocation or other related assistance may be provided to support the 
appointment or relocation of a director. 
• Operation Executive directors are entitled to a combination of benefits which include, but are not 
limited to:  
• car allowance;
• private medical cover;
• long-term incapacity cover;
• life assurance;
• holiday and sick pay; and
• a range of voluntary benefits including the purchase of additional holidays.
Executive directors will be eligible for other benefits which are introduced for the wider 
workforce on broadly similar terms. 
Any reasonable business-related expenses (including the tax thereon) can be 
reimbursed if determined to be a taxable benefit. 
Should an executive director be recruited from or be based in a non-UK location, 
benefits may be determined by those typically provided in the normal country of 
residence and / or reflect local market legislation. 
Relocation or other related assistance could include, but is not limited to, removal and 
other relocation costs, tax equalisation, tax advice and accommodation costs. 
• Maximum opportunity The cost to the Group of providing such benefits will vary from year to year in 
accordance with the cost of providing such benefits, which is kept under regular review. 
• Performance assessment / targets Not applicable.
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   59 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Policy 
60 
Pension (fixed pay) 
• Purpose and link to strategy A pension is provided which is consistent with that provided to managers across the 
Group and in line with our strategy to keep remuneration weighted to variable pay that 
incentivises outperformance. 
• Operation Defined contribution plans are offered to all employees. A defined benefit pension plan 
continues in operation for Dixons’ longer-serving employees, which is now closed to 
new participants and future accrual. 
Executive directors may choose to receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension 
contributions. 
• Maximum opportunity Normal company pension contribution of up to 10% of base salary, which can be taken 
in whole or in part as a cash allowance in lieu of pension. However a greater contribution 
of up to 20% may be made where necessary to recruit or retain an executive director. 
• Performance assessment / targets Not applicable.
Annual performance bonus (variable pay) 
• Purpose and link to strategy Annual performance bonuses are in place to incentivise the delivery of stretching, 
near-term business targets based on our business strategy.  
These bonuses provide a strong link between reward and performance and drive the 
creation of further shareholder value. 
The principles and approach are consistently applied across the Group ensuring 
alignment to a common vision and strategy. 
They are based on a balanced approach ensuring appropriate behaviours are adopted 
and encouraging a longer-term focus. 
• Operation Bonus payments are determined after the year end and subject to a minimum profit 
threshold being achieved before payment is due. 
For threshold level of performance a bonus of up to 25% of base salary is payable. A 
sliding scale determines payment between the minimum and maximum bonus payable. 
The annual bonus is typically paid in July / August in cash and is non-pensionable, 
based on the audited performance over the previous financial year. 
The annual bonus can instead be settled in shares or a mixture of cash and shares 
which could be deferred, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. 
Performance is reviewed by the Committee using its judgement where necessary to 
assess the achievement of targets. The Committee retains the discretion to adjust 
downwards bonus payments where achievement of targets would result in a payment 
of a bonus at a level which would not be consistent with the interests of the Company 
and its shareholders. 
Recovery and withholding provisions apply for material misstatement, misconduct and 
reputational damage enabling performance adjustments and / or recovery of sums 
already paid. These provisions will apply for up to three years after payment. 
• Maximum opportunity Maximum annual bonus potential for all executive directors is 125% of base salary. 
No bonus is payable if the minimum profit threshold is not achieved.  
• Performance assessment / targets All measures and targets are reviewed and set by the Committee at the beginning of 
the financial year with a view to supporting the achievement of the Group strategy. 
The bonus scheme has targets based on a balanced scorecard. The balanced 
scorecard may include both financial and non-financial measures, such as employee, 
customer and strategic measures. The weighting of measures will be determined by the 
Committee each year. Financial measures (such as profit and cash) will represent the 
majority of the bonus opportunity, with other measures representing the balance. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   60 11/07/2016   18:34 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
61 
Long term incentive scheme (variable pay): Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) 
• Purpose and link to strategy Long term incentive schemes are transparent and demonstrably aligned with the 
interests of shareholders over the long term. 
The LTIP is designed to reward and retain executives over the longer term whilst aligning 
an individual’s interests with those of shareholders and in turn delivering significant 
shareholder value. 
• Operation Discretionary awards of nil-priced options or conditional share awards are granted over 
Dixons Carphone plc shares.  
Awards will be granted annually and will usually vest after three years subject to 
continued service and the achievement of performance conditions. 
The level of vesting is dependent on achievement of performance targets, usually over 
a three year period. 
The post-tax number of share awards vesting will be subject to a further two year 
holding period, during which they cannot be sold, unless in exceptional circumstances 
and with the Committee’s permission. 
Dividend equivalents may be accrued on the shares earned from any award.  
Awards will be subject to recovery and withholding provisions for material misstatement, 
misconduct and reputational damage enabling performance adjustments and / or 
recovery of sums already paid. These provisions will apply for up to three years  
after vesting.  
If employment ceases during the vesting period, awards will ordinarily lapse in full, 
unless the Committee exercises its discretion. 
The Committee has the discretion in certain circumstances to grant and / or settle  
an award in cash. For the executive directors this would only be used in exceptional 
circumstances. 
In the event of a change of control, any unvested awards will vest immediately, subject 
to satisfaction of performance conditions and reduction on a time-apportioned basis. 
• Maximum opportunity Grants under the LTIP are subject to overall dilution limits. 
Subject to approval at the forthcoming AGM, the normal maximum grant per participant 
in any financial year will be a market value of 275% of base salary, with up to 375%  
in exceptional circumstances, e.g. recruitment. 
More details on the proposed award levels for executive directors in 2016 are set out 
in the Annual Remuneration Report on page 71. 
• Performance assessment / targets Performance targets are reviewed by the Committee prior to each grant and are set
to reflect the key priorities of the business at that time. 
The Committee determines the metrics from a range of measures, including but not 
limited to, market-based performance measures such as TSR and the internal financial 
metrics such as EPS. The Committee retains the flexibility to introduce new measures in 
the future if considered appropriate given the business context, although TSR will not be 
weighted any less than 40% of the total award. Material changes will be subject to 
consultation with major shareholders.  
The proposed metrics for awards will be set out in the Annual Remuneration Report. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   61 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Policy 
62 
All employee share plans 
• Purpose and link to strategy Encourages employees to make a long-term investment in the Company’s shares and 
therefore be aligned to the long-term success of the Company. 
• Operation Executive directors are eligible to participate in any all employee share plans operated 
by the Company which have been approved by shareholders on the same terms as 
other eligible employees. 
Currently share options are granted under the Dixons Carphone HMRC approved SAYE 
scheme, subject to three- or five-year vesting periods. 
• Maximum opportunity Participants can save up to £500 per month for either three or five years, and in return 
receive a share option granted at up to 20% discount to the market price at the time of 
the invitation.  
The Committee reserves the right to increase this savings limit for future schemes in 
accordance with the statutory limits in place from time to time. 
• Performance assessment / targets The SAYE scheme is not subject to any performance conditions. 
Share ownership guidelines 
• Purpose and link to strategy Provides close alignment between the longer-term interests of executive directors 
and shareholders in terms of the Company’s long-term success. 
• Operation The Company requires executive directors to retain a certain percentage of base 
salary in the Company’s shares. Executive directors have a five-year period to reach 
these limits. 
The shares which count towards this requirement are beneficially-owned shares (both 
directly and indirectly). 
• Maximum opportunity Not applicable.
• Performance assessment / targets The Company requires all executive directors to retain 200% of base salary in the 
Company’s shares. 
Details of the directors’ shareholdings are shown in the table on page 80.
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   62 11/07/2016   18:34 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
63 
Non-executive directors and Chairman / Deputy Chairman fees 
• Purpose and link to strategy To provide a competitive fee for the performance of non-executive director duties, 
sufficient to attract high calibre individuals to the role. 
• Operation The fees are set to align with the duties undertaken, taking into account market rates, 
and are normally reviewed on an annual basis. Factors taken into consideration include 
the expected time commitment and specific experience. 
Additional fees are payable for acting as the Senior Independent Director or for acting 
as Chair of any Board committee, and for membership of a Board Committee. 
Non-executive directors do not participate in the annual performance bonus or the long 
term incentive plans or pension arrangements.  
Any reasonable business-related expenses (including the tax thereon) can be 
reimbursed if determined to be a taxable benefit. 
For material, unexpected increases in time commitments, the Board may pay extra fees 
on a pro-rated basis to reflect additional workload.  
• Maximum opportunity Aggregate annual limit of £2,000,000 imposed by the Articles of Association for 
directors’ fees (not including fees in relation to any executive office or Chairman, Deputy 
Chairman, Senior Independent Director or Committee Chair fees). 
• Performance assessment / targets Not applicable.
Notes: 
(1) The following material changes have been made to the Remuneration Policy in order to align the pay of executive directors following a 
review of long term incentives: 
• no further awards to be made under the Share Plan, described in more detail on page 78; 
• introduce a new Long Term Incentive Plan with maximum award levels of 275% of salary in normal circumstances and 375% in exceptional 
circumstances, an additional two-year holding period and the inclusion of dividend equivalents on vested long term incentive awards; 
• removal of the ability to pay a retention bonus to executive directors under the loss of office provisions; and 
• capping of any long term incentive plan award on recruitment to 375% of base salary, in line with exceptional awards under the new Long 
Term Incentive Plan. 
(2) The Committee intends to honour all commitments previously provided to executive directors and current employees, including the terms 
and conditions of outstanding long term incentives such as those previously approved by shareholders under the Dixons Carphone Share 
Plan or Share Option Plan. Details of these awards for executive directors are set out on page 78.
(3) Market-priced options will not be granted to executive directors.   Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Policy 
64 
Illustration of Remuneration Policy  
The Remuneration Policy scenario chart below illustrates the level and mix of potential total remuneration the current executive 
directors could receive under the Remuneration Policy at three levels of performance: minimum, target and maximum.  
Remuneration Policy scenario chart 
Notes: 
(1) Fixed pay is based on the basic salary payable as at the start of the current year, taxable benefits and pension contributions. 
(2) Annual variable pay represents the annual bonus entitlement. No bonus is assumed at the minimum performance level. Target performance 
assumes a payment of 75% of salary (i.e. 60% of maximum) and maximum performance a payment of 125% of base salary. 
(3) Long term incentives relate to the Long Term Incentive Plan, in which it is proposed the executive directors participate. These are illustrative 
amounts and the actual outcomes may differ depending on share price growth. No awards vest at the minimum performance level. Target 
performance assumes a vesting of 151% of salary (i.e. 55% of maximum award) and maximum performance vesting of 275% of salary. 
.
0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000
£‘000
Below target
Target
Maximum
Below target
Target
Maximum
Below target
Target
Maximum
Below target
Target
Maximum
Below target
Target
Maximum
Sebastian
James
Andrew
Harrison
Humphrey
Singer
Katie
Bickerstaffe
Graham
Stapleton
24%
22%
22%
33%
100%
22%
33%
100%
21%
32%
100%
21%
32%
100%
19%
22%
100%
4,195
2,770
915
2,789
1,833
589
2,436
1,611
536
2,561
1,692
561
2,335
1,536
495
T otal
45%
54%
23% 45%
22%
25%
45%
54%
24%
23%
54%
25%
45%
54%
24% 54%
33% 22% 45%
 Fixed pay        Annual variable     Long term incentive
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   64 11/07/2016   18:34 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
65 
Remuneration Committee discretions 
The Committee operates the annual bonus plan, long term 
incentive and all employee plans in accordance with their 
respective rules, the Listing Rules and HMRC rules (or 
overseas equivalent) where relevant. The Committee retains 
discretion, consistent with market practice, over a number of 
areas relating to the operation and administration of these 
plans. These include but are not limited to: 
• entitlement to participate in the plan;
• when awards or payments are to be made;
• size of award and / or payment (within the rules of the plans
and the approved policy);
• determination of a good leaver for incentive plan purposes
and the appropriate treatment based on the rules of each
plan;
• discretion as to the measurement of performance conditions
and pro-rating in the event of a change of control;
• any adjustment to awards or performance conditions for
significant events or exceptional circumstances; and
• the application of recovery and withholding provisions.
Shareholder and employee consultation 
The Committee has a policy to consult with its major 
shareholders when making any significant changes to the 
Remuneration Policy of the Company. Any feedback received  
is taken into consideration when determining future policy. For 
example, in contemplation of a new long term incentive policy 
a consultation took place with major shareholders to explain 
the Committee’s proposed approach. Following constructive 
feedback, the Committee determined to put a cap on the level 
of award under the Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan in 
exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment.  
The Committee also takes into consideration remuneration 
guidance issued by large investor bodies in addition to the 
principles of good governance relating to directors’ 
remuneration as set out in the Code. 
Whilst employees are not formally consulted on executive 
remuneration, a number of them are shareholders and as such 
are able to exercise their influence. We also monitor our 
employee discussion boards and employee forums to ensure 
employee feedback in general is considered in all our strategy 
execution. The Company also conducts regular employee 
surveys throughout the business. The Committee is kept 
informed of general employment conditions across the Group, 
including the annual pay review outcomes. 
Remuneration policy for the wider workforce 
Dixons Carphone employs a large number of people across 
different countries. Our reward framework is structured around 
a set of common principles with adjustments made to suit the 
needs of the different businesses and employee groups. 
Reward packages differ for a variety of reasons including the 
impact on the business, local practice, custom and legislation. 
In determining salary increases to apply across the wider 
workforce, the Company takes into consideration Company 
performance and other market metrics as necessary. When 
setting the policy for executive directors the Committee takes 
into consideration salary increases throughout the Company, 
as a whole. 
Discretionary share plans are extended to both senior 
management and other key members of the workforce,  
as the Company feels that it is important to incentivise and 
retain these employees over the longer-term in order for the 
Company to continue to grow.  
The Company encourages wide employee share ownership, 
and as such the Group’s UK & Irish employees who meet the 
eligibility criteria are also invited to join the Company’s UK & 
Ireland approved SAYE.  
Recruitment or promotion policy 
On appointment or promotion, base salary levels will be set 
taking into account a range of factors including market levels, 
experience, internal relativities and cost. If an individual is 
appointed on a base salary below the desired market 
positioning, the Committee retains the discretion to re-align 
base salary over one to three years, contingent on individual 
performance, which may result in a higher rate of annualised 
increase above ordinary levels. If the Committee intends to  
rely on this discretion, it will be noted in the first remuneration 
report following an individual’s appointment. Other elements  
of annual remuneration will be in line with the policy set out in 
the Remuneration Policy table. As such, variable remuneration 
will be capped as set out in the Policy table.  
The following exceptions will apply: 
• in the event that an internal appointment is made or an
executive director joins as a result of a transfer of an
undertaking, merger, reconstruction or similar
reorganisation, the Committee retains the discretion to
continue with existing remuneration provisions, including
pension contributions and the provision of benefits;
• as deemed necessary and appropriate to secure an
appointment, the Committee retains the discretion to
make additional payments linked to relocation (including 
any tax thereon);
• for an overseas appointment, the Committee will have
discretion to offer cost-effective benefits and pension 
provisions which reflect local market practice and
relevant legislation;
• the Committee may set alternative performance conditions 
for the remainder of the initial annual bonus performance 
period, taking into account the circumstances and timing
of the appointment; and
• the Committee retains the discretion to provide an 
immediate interest in Company performance by making
a long term incentive award on recruitment (or shortly
thereafter if in a prohibited period) in accordance with the
Policy Table under its existing long term incentive schemes
or such future schemes as may be introduced by the
Company with the approval of its shareholders. The
Committee will determine the level of the award, the
performance conditions and time horizon that would apply
to such awards at the time of award, taking into account the
strategy and business circumstances of the Company.  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Policy 
66 
Service contracts will be entered into on terms similar to those 
for the existing executive directors, summarised in the 
Recruitment table below. However, the Committee may 
authorise the payment of a relocation and / or repatriation 
allowance, as well as other associated international mobility 
terms and benefits, such as tax equalisation and tax advice. 
In addition to the annual remuneration elements noted above, 
the Committee may consider buying out, on a like-for-like 
basis, bonuses and / or incentive awards that an individual 
forfeits from a previous employer in accepting the 
appointment. The Committee will have the authority to rely on 
Listing Rule 9.4.2(2) or exceptional limits of awards of up to 
375% of base salary within the Long Term Incentive Plan. If 
made, the Committee will be informed by the structure, time 
horizons, value and performance targets associated with any 
forfeited awards while retaining the discretion to make any 
payment or award deemed necessary and appropriate. The 
Committee may also require the appointee to purchase shares 
in the Company in accordance with its shareholding policy. 
With respect to the appointment of a new Chairman or  
non-executive director, terms of appointment will be consistent 
with those currently adopted. Variable pay will not be 
considered and as such no maximum applies. With respect to 
non-executive directors, fees will be consistent with the policy 
at the time of appointment. If necessary, to secure the 
appointment of a new Chairman not based in the UK, payments 
relating to relocation and / or housing may be considered. 
Elements of remuneration on appointment are set out in 
the Recruitment table below. 
A timely announcement with respect to any director’s 
appointment and remuneration will be made to the  
regulatory news services and posted on the Company’s 
corporate website. 
Recruitment table 
Area Feature Policy
Service contract and 
incentive plan 
provisions 
Notice period • Up to 12 months from either side.
Entitlements on termination • As summarised in the Policy on loss of office. 
• Provisions for mitigation and payment in lieu of notice.
Restrictive covenants • Gardening leave provisions.
• Non-compete, non-solicitation, non-dealing and confidentiality
provisions.
Variable elements • The Committee has the discretion to determine whether an individual
shall participate in any incentive in the year of appointment.
• The Committee shall have the discretion to determine appropriate bonus
performance targets if participating in the year of appointment.
Annual remuneration Salary • To be determined on appointment, taking into account factors including
market levels, experience, internal relativities and cost.
Salary progression • If appointed at below market levels, salary may be re-aligned over the 
subsequent one to three years subject to performance in role. In this 
situation, the Committee reserves the discretion to make increases 
above ordinary levels.
• This initial market positioning and intention to increase pay above the
standard rate of increase in the Policy table (subject to performance) will
be disclosed in the first remuneration report following appointment.
Benefits and allowances • The Committee retains the discretion to provide additional benefits as
reasonably required. These may include, but are not restricted to,
relocation payments, housing allowances and cost of living allowances
(including any tax thereon). Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
67 
Policy on loss of office 
Service contracts contain neither a liquidated damages nor 
a change of control clause. 
The Company shall have a right to make a payment in lieu of 
notice in respect of basic salary, benefits, including car 
allowance and pension contributions only for the director’s 
contractual period of notice or, if termination is part way 
through the notice period, the amount relating to any unexpired 
notice to the date of termination. There is an obligation on 
directors to mitigate any loss which they may suffer if the 
Company terminates their service contract. The Committee will 
take such mitigation obligation into account when determining 
the amount and timing of any compensation payable to any 
departing director. 
A director shall also be entitled to a payment in respect of 
accrued but untaken holiday and any statutory entitlements  
on termination. No compensation is paid for dismissal, save  
for statutory entitlements. 
A director shall be entitled to receive a redundancy payment  
in circumstances where in the judgement of the Committee 
they satisfy the statutory tests governing redundancy 
payments. Any redundancy payment shall be calculated by 
reference to the redundancy payment policy in force for all 
employees in the relevant country at the time of the 
redundancy and may include modest outplacement costs. 
If a director’s employment terminates prior to the relevant 
annual bonus payment date, ordinarily no bonus is payable  
for that financial year. The Committee shall retain discretion  
to make a pro-rated bonus payment in circumstances where  
it would be appropriate to do so having regard to the 
contribution of the director during the financial year, the 
circumstances of the departure and the best interests  
of the Company.  
Any entitlements under long term incentive schemes operated 
by the Company shall be determined based on the rules of the 
relevant scheme. The default position under the Dixons 
Carphone Share Plan is that awards will lapse on the 
termination of employment unless the Committee exercises the 
discretion set out in the scheme rules. The Committee retains 
the discretion to prevent awards from lapsing depending on 
the circumstances of the departure and the best interests of 
the Company. The default position of the Long Term Incentive 
Plan is that awards will lapse on termination of employment, 
except where certain good leaver circumstances exist (e.g. 
death, ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, transfer of an 
undertaking outside of the Group or retirement or any other 
circumstances at the Committee's discretion) whereby the 
awards may vest on cessation, or the normal vesting date,  
in both cases subject to performance and time pro-rating,  
although the Committee can decide not to pro-rate an award 
(or pro-rate to a lesser extent) if it regards it as appropriate  
to do so in the particular circumstances.  
The Committee shall be entitled to exercise its judgement with 
regard to settlement of potential claims, including but not 
limited to wrongful dismissal, unfair dismissal, breach of 
contract and discrimination, where it is appropriate to do so in 
the interests of the Company and its shareholders.  
In the event that any payment is made in relation to termination 
for an executive director, this will be fully disclosed in the 
following Annual Remuneration Report. 
A timely announcement with respect to the termination of any 
director’s appointment will be made to the regulatory news 
service and posted on the Company’s corporate website. 
Service agreements 
Service agreements for executive directors 
Each of the executive directors’ service agreements  
provides for: 
• the reimbursement of expenses incurred by the executive
director in performance of their duties;
• 25 days’ paid holiday each year for Sebastian James,
Humphrey Singer and Katie Bickerstaffe (full time
equivalent); 27 days for Andrew Harrison and Graham
Stapleton;
• sick pay; and
• notice periods whereby Sebastian James, Humphrey Singer 
and Katie Bickerstaffe each have a notice period of 12
months from the Company and six months from the director. 
Andrew Harrison has a notice period of 12 months and
Graham Stapleton six months from either party.
In situations where an executive director is dismissed, the 
Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments 
where such payments are made in good faith, such as: 
• in discharge of a legal obligation; and
• by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in
connection with the termination of the director’s office and
employment.
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   67 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Policy 
68 
Letters of appointment 
Each of the non-executive directors has a letter of 
appointment. The Company has no age limit for directors. 
Non-executive directors derive no other benefit from their 
office, except that the Committee retains the discretion to 
continue with existing remuneration provisions, including 
pension contributions and the provision of benefits, where  
an executive director becomes a non-executive director. It is 
Company policy not to grant share options or share awards  
to non-executive directors. The Chairman, Deputy Chairman 
and the other non-executive directors have a notice period  
of three months from either party. 
Appointments are reviewed annually by the Nominations 
Committee and recommendations made to the Board 
accordingly.  
External appointments 
The Board supports executive directors taking non-executive 
directorships as a part of their continuing development, and 
has agreed that the executive directors may retain their fees 
from one such appointment. Further details on current external 
directorships and fees can be found in the Annual 
Remuneration Report on page 70. 
Availability for inspection 
The service agreements for the executive directors and letters 
of appointments for the non-executive directors are available 
for inspection at the registered office of the Company, and at 
the offices of the Company’s solicitors, Freshfields Bruckhaus 
Deringer LLP, 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HT, during usual 
business hours on weekdays (excluding public holidays in 
England and Wales) until the date of the AGM. They will also 
be available for inspection at the AGM from 10:45am on the 
day of the meeting until the conclusion of the meeting. 
Legacy arrangements 
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving the Remuneration 
Policy, authority is given to the Company to honour any 
commitments previously entered into with the current  
or former directors. 
Dilution Limits 
All the Company’s equity-based incentive plans incorporate 
the current Investment Association Share Capital Management 
Guidelines (‘Guidelines’) on headroom which provide that 
overall dilution under all plans should not exceed 10% over a 
ten-year period in relation to the Company’s issued share 
capital (or reissue of treasury shares). In addition, if approved 
by shareholders, the Long Term Incentive Plan will operate 
with a 5% in ten-year dilution limit (excluding historic 
discretionary awards). The Company regularly monitors the 
position and prior to making any award the Company ensures 
that it will remain within these limits. Any awards which will be 
satisfied by market purchase shares are excluded from such 
calculations. As at 30 April 2016, the Company’s headroom 
position, which remains within the current Guidelines,  
was 4.9%.  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report – Annual Remuneration Report  
69 
Introduction 
This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with 
Part 3 of Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-Sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 
2008 (as amended), and contain those elements required by 
section 9.8.6R and stipulated in 9.8.8 of the Listing Rules. This 
Annual Remuneration Report will be put to an advisory vote at 
the Company’s 2016 AGM.  
The following sections set out how the Remuneration Policy 
was implemented during 2015/16 and how it will be 
implemented for the following year. 
Service agreements 
Service contracts 
The following table summarises key terms of the service 
contracts in place with the executive directors: 
Date of contract
Sebastian James 29 Mar 12 
Andrew Harrison 29 Oct 13 
Humphrey Singer 2 Sep 11 
Katie Bickerstaffe 29 Mar 12 
Graham Stapleton 5 Oct 11 
With the exception of Andrew Harrison, all the above executive 
directors were appointed to the Board on 6 August 2014.  
More details are set out in the single figure of directors’ 
remuneration tables on pages 74 to 75. 
Letter of appointment 
Non-executive directors are normally appointed for three year 
terms, although appointments may vary depending on length 
of service and succession planning considerations. 
Appointments are reviewed annually by the Nominations 
Committee and recommendations made to the Board 
accordingly. The date of the letters of appointment and expiry 
of current terms are shown below: 
Letters of 
appointment 
Expiry of 
current term 
Sir Charles Dunstone 17 Jun 14 16 Jun 17 
Tony DeNunzio 16 Dec 15 16 Dec 18 
Andrea Gisle Joosen 17 Jun 14 16 Jun 17 
Tim How 17 Jun 14 16 Jun 17 
Jock Lennox 17 Jun 14 16 Jun 17 
Lord Livingston of Parkhead 16 Dec 15 16 Dec 18 
Baroness Morgan of Huyton 17 Jun 14 16 Jun 17 
Gerry Murphy 17 Jun 14 16 Jun 17 
Tony DeNunzio and Lord Livingston were appointed to the 
Board on 16 December 2015 and on the same date both John 
Gildersleeve and Roger Taylor stepped down from the Board.  
More details are set out in the single figure of directors’ 
remuneration tables on pages 74 to 75. 
Remuneration Committee membership and attendance 
Only members of the Committee are entitled to attend 
Committee meetings but the Group Chief Executive and  
Group Finance Director (or other senior management) may 
attend meetings by invitation and in an advisory capacity  
only. Meetings are also regularly attended by the Company 
Secretary (who acts as Committee secretary), Deputy 
Company Secretary, Group Human Resources Director and 
Group Reward Director. 
No director participates in discussions about their own 
remuneration.  
Responsibilities 
Responsibility for the establishment of an overall remuneration 
policy for the Group lies with the Board. The Remuneration 
Committee has the following principal duties: 
• making recommendations to the Board on the Company’s
framework of executive remuneration;
• determining the fees of the Chairman and Deputy Chairman;
• considering and making recommendations to the Board on
the remuneration of the executive directors and senior
management relative to performance and market data;
• approving contracts of employment which exceed defined
thresholds of total remuneration or have unusual terms or
termination periods;
Members 
Membership of the Committee comprises four 
non-executive directors, their names and attendance  
record are set out in the table below and their biographies 
and qualifications are set out on pages 36 to 37. The 
Committee’s Terms of Reference are available on the 
Company’s corporate website. 
Meetings 
The Remuneration Committee met four scheduled times 
during the period under review with one further 
unscheduled meeting. Since the year end there have been a 
further two meetings. 
Scheduled 
meetings 
Members during the year 
Lord Livingston of Parkhead (Chairman)
(1)
1 of 1
Tony DeNunzio
(1)
1of1
Andrea Gisle Joosen 5 of 5 
Tim How 5 of 5 
Former members 
John Gildersleeve
(2)
4of4
Roger Taylor
(2)
4of4
(1) Appointed to the Committee 16 December 2015. 
(2) Resigned 16 December 2015.   Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance
Annual Remuneration Report 
70 
• considering and agreeing changes to the Remuneration
Policy or major changes to employee benefit structures; and
• approving and operating employee share-based
incentive schemes and associated performance
conditions and targets.
Activities during the year 
The principal activities of the Committee during 2015/16 
included: 
• reviewed and approved the Directors' Remuneration Report;
• approved share awards to senior management
appointments under the long term incentive plans; 
• approved the Sharesave grant;
• assessed the performance of executive directors against
pre-determined targets set for the 2014/15 annual bonus 
and approved the payments;
• agreed design of 2015/16 annual bonus including 
performance measures and targets;
• reviewed the current Share Plan and considered a new plan
design for 2016/17;
• monitored the developments in the corporate governance
environment and investor expectations, including post AGM 
investor feedback; and
• noted remuneration practices across the Group.
Advice 
The Committee appointed Aon Hewitt in April 2016 as 
independent advisors, having used Towers Watson prior to  
this in 2015/16. Aon Hewitt (and previously Towers Watson)  
is engaged to provide advice to the Committee and to work 
with the directors on matters relating to the Group’s executive 
remuneration and its long term incentives. Aon Hewitt and 
Towers Watson are members of the Remuneration Consultants 
Group and operate under its code of conduct in relation to the 
provision of executive remuneration advice in the UK. Aon 
Hewitt and Towers Watson have confirmed that they adhered 
to the Code during the relevant periods of 2015/16 for all 
remuneration services provided to the Group. Towers Watson 
received fees of £26,000 (2014/15: £82,000) in relation to the 
provision of those services. Towers Watson also provided 
actuarial services on behalf of the defined benefit pension 
scheme; however, the Committee has satisfied itself that 
Towers Watson’s advice was objective and independent.  
The Committee may also take external legal advice, where 
required, to assist it in carrying out its duties. 
External directorships 
The policy relating to external directorships is outlined in the 
Remuneration Policy for 2015/16; the following external 
directorships were undertaken and the fees retained by the 
executive directors: 
• Andrew Harrison was appointed a non-executive director
of Ocado Group plc on 1 March 2016 and was paid a fee 
of £8,000 from appointment to 30 April 2016. 
• Sebastian James has been a non-executive director of
Direct Line Insurance Group plc during 2015/16 and was
paid a fee of £85,000 for the period to 30 April 2016. 
• Katie Bickerstaffe has been a non-executive director of
Scottish and Southern Energy plc during 2015/16 and was
paid a fee of £70,000 for the period to 30 April 2016. 
• Humphrey Singer was appointed a non-executive director
of Taylor Wimpey plc from 9 December 2015 and was paid
a fee of £22,000 from appointment to 30 April 2016. 
How the Remuneration Policy will be applied in 2016/17 
Executive directors 
i) Base Salary
Executive directors’ salaries were last reviewed at the time
of Merger. The following increases will be applied during the
2016/17 financial year:
Salary at 
30 April 
2016 
£’000 
Increase in 
Salary In 
2016/17 
£’000 
Salary at
1 August 
2016 
£’000 
Current directors 
Sebastian James 820 16 836 
Andrew Harrison 550 11 561 
Humphrey Singer 475 10 485 
Katie Bickerstaffe 500 10 510 
Graham Stapleton 460 9 469 
ii) Pension Contributions
Company pension contributions or allowance in lieu will
continue in 2016/17 at their current levels of 10% for Sebastian
James, Humphrey Singer and Katie Bickerstaffe and 5% for
Andrew Harrison and Graham Stapleton.
iii) Annual performance bonus
The maximum annual bonus for 2016/17 will be 125% of base
salary and will operate on a similar basis as in the previous
year. The measures have been selected to reflect our key
objectives and are aligned to our Group balanced scorecard,
with a minimum profit gate that must be achieved before any
bonus is paid out. The proposed target levels for the year have
been set to be challenging relative to the business plan. The
Committee feels that specific targets relating to the 2016/17
bonus scheme are currently commercially sensitive and as
such will not be disclosed. Retrospective disclosure of the
targets and performance against them will be provided in next
year’s Remuneration Report.
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   70 11/07/2016   18:34 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
71 
The performance metrics and their weightings for 2016/17 are 
shown in the table below: 
Weighting (as a percentage of 
maximum bonus 
opportunity) 
EBIT 60%
Net Debt 10% 
ROCE 10%
Customer net promoter score 10% 
Employee engagement 10% 
Recovery and withholding provisions apply for material 
misstatement, misconduct and reputational damage enabling 
performance adjustments and / or recovery of sums already 
paid. These provisions will apply for up to three years  
after payment. 
iv) LTIP
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 8 September
2016, the Committee intends to make an award of 275% of
salary to each of the executive directors in 2016/17, which
will vest after three years based on continued service and the
achievement of the performance measures noted below. 
These awards will be subject to a further two-year post vesting
holding period, during which the executive director is not
permitted to sell any shares vesting, other than those required
to settle any tax obligations.
When setting the proposed award levels, the Committee took 
account of a number of reference points, including the 
potential total remuneration against a number of scenarios of 
performance. The Committee believes that the greater 
weighting of variable pay towards long term incentives is better 
aligned with the interests of shareholders and focuses on 
sustainable long-term performance. The common level of long 
term incentive plan award to all executive directors is reflective 
of the collegiate approach of the executive director team, 
which was established through the Merger and has been  
a key part of the success of the Group. 
For 2016/17 these awards will be subject to two equally 
weighted performance conditions. Half of the awards will be 
subject to the achievement of a relative TSR performance 
condition, measured against the companies ranked FTSE  
51-150 at the start of the performance period. The remaining 
half of the awards will be subject to the achievement of 
adjusted EPS growth targets.  
The relative TSR condition will be assessed over a three year 
period, with vesting determined as follows: 
Rank of Company TSR against Comparator 
Group TSR 
% of TSR element vesting
Below Median 0% 
Median 25%
Between Median and Upper 
Quartile 
Pro rata between 25% 
and 100% on a straight 
line basis 
Upper Quartile or above 100% 
EPS growth will be assessed over a three year period. Due to 
current uncertainties in the market, the Committee is 
deliberating further over the appropriate EPS targets for the 
awards to be made in September 2016, subject to 
shareholders approving the new LTIP.  The EPS targets will be 
published on the Company’s website in sufficient time before 
the AGM for shareholders to review them ahead of voting on 
the new LTIP. 
When setting the EPS growth target range the Committee will 
take into consideration a number of reference points including: 
the internal business plan, external market consensus, the 
strong growth in 2015/16, a broad view of the macroeconomic 
environment and, to a lesser extent, growth targets in other 
similarly sized retailers. The Committee will set a range of 
targets straddling consensus, with consensus at or slightly 
below the middle of the range. The target range proposed will 
provide the correct balance between incentivisation and further 
performance motivation, without creating any undue risk.  
Calculations of the achievement against the targets will be 
independently performed and approved by the Committee. 
The Committee will retain discretion to adjust for material 
events which occur during the performance period and will 
make full and clear disclosure of any such adjustments in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report, together with details of the 
achieved levels of performance, as determined by the above 
definitions at the end of the performance period. 
Awards will be subject to recovery and withholding provisions 
for material misstatement, misconduct and reputational 
damage enabling performance adjustments and / or recovery 
of sums already paid. These provisions will apply for up to 
three years after vesting. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   71 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance
Annual Remuneration Report 
72 
Remuneration details for 2015/16 
Performance graph 
The graph below shows the Group’s performance measured 
through TSR on a holding of £100 in the Company’s shares, 
compared with the FTSE 350 Index, since 29 March 2010.  
The FTSE 350 has been used as it is a broad market which 
includes the Company and a number of its competitors.  
Start date of the graph reflects date of admittance to the London 
Stock Exchange of Dixons Carphone plc, previously called  
Carphone Warehouse plc. 
Group Chief Executive pay  
The following table shows, over the same six year period as 
the performance graph, the Group Chief Executive’s single 
total figure of remuneration, the amount of bonus earned as a 
percentage of the maximum remuneration possible, and the 
vesting of long term awards as a percentage of the maximum 
number of shares that could have vested where applicable.  
Year 
CEO single 
 figure of  
remuneration
(1)
 
£’000 
Annual 
bonus 
payout 
against 
maximum  
% 
Long term 
incentive 
vesting 
rates 
against 
maximum 
opportunity  
% 
2015/16 Sebastian James 1,616 68% n/a 
Sebastian James 1,687 100% n/a 
Andrew Harrison 420 100% n/a 
2014/15Total 2,107
Andrew Harrison 679 54% n/a 
Roger Taylor 159 n/a n/a
2013/14Total 838
2012/13 Roger Taylor 958 55% n/a 
2011/12 Roger Taylor 474 0%
(2)
n/a 
2010/11 Roger Taylor 1,193 82% n/a 
(1) Excludes remuneration received from long term incentive schemes 
established by Old Carphone Warehouse prior to the demerger 
from TalkTalk because that company is not part of the current 
Group. Details of remuneration associated with Old Carphone 
Warehouse incentive schemes were provided in that company’s 
annual report for the year ended 31 March 2012. Future reports 
will include long term incentives operated by the current Group 
when they have vested. 
(2) Roger Taylor waived a bonus of 25% maximum potential and 
instead chose for it to be paid directly to charity. 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
29 March
2010
31 March
2011
31 March
2012
31 March
2013
29 March
2014
2 May
2015
30 April
2016
Value
(£)
Dixons Carphone plc
FTSE 350 Index
Total shareholder return
Source: Datastream
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   72 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
 
 
73 
Percentage change in remuneration  
The table below provides the percentage change in remuneration for the Group Chief Executive and the percentage change for 
all UK head office based employees as this group provides the best like-for-like comparison. Changes in salary relating to 
changes in roles and / or responsibilities have been excluded from the increase presented for the wider group. 
 
Group Chief 
Executive  
UK head 
office 
employees 
Salary and fees 2% 2% 
Taxable benefits
(1)
 0% 0% 
Annual bonuses (32)% (26)% 
 
(1) The percentage change in taxable benefits is considered to be 0% since there have been no material changes in Group benefits. 
 
Relative importance of spend on pay  
The following table sets out both the total cost of remuneration for the Group compared with pro forma Headline EBIT and 
profits distributed for 2015/16 and the prior year. 
 
2015/16 
£million 
2014/15 
£million Change % 
Dividends paid
(1)
 106  52 104% 
Headline EBIT 468 413 13% 
Total staff costs – continuing operations
(2)
 1,061 900 18% 
 
  
 
 
Number Number Change % 
Average employee numbers – continuing operations
(2), (3)
 41,847 32,834 27% 
 
(1) Extracted from note 23 to the Group financial statements. 
(2) Extracted from note 5 to the Group financial statements. 
(3) The average number of employees for 2014/15 is made up of legacy Carphone Warehouse employees for the full 13 month period and 
legacy Dixons Retail employees for the period post Merger. 
 
  
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   73 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance
Annual Remuneration Report 
74 
Audited information 
Single figure of directors’ remuneration for the year ended 30 April 2016 
2015/16
Basic 
salary and 
fees  
£’000 
Pension 
contributions
(3)
£’000 
Annual 
 bonus  
£’000 
Taxable 
 benefits
(4)
’000 
Total 
emoluments 
£’000 
LTIP 
 payments
(6)
 
£’000 
Total 
remuneration  
£’000 
Executive 
Current directors 
Sebastian James 820 82 701 13 1,616 — 1,616 
Andrew Harrison 550 28 470 11 1,059 — 1,059 
Humphrey Singer 475 48 406 13 942 — 942 
Katie Bickerstaffe
(2)
 490 50 428 11 979 — 979 
Graham Stapleton
(5)
 460 23 393 892 1,768 — 1,768 
2,795 231 2,398 940 6,364 — 6,364 
Non-executive 
Current directors 
Sir Charles Dunstone 280 — — — 280 — 280 
Tony DeNunzio
(1)
 34 — — — 34 — 34 
Andrea Gisle Joosen 70 — — — 70 — 70 
Tim How 65 — — — 65 — 65 
Jock Lennox 75 — — — 75 — 75 
Lord Livingston of Parkhead
(1)
 54 — — — 54 — 54 
Baroness Morgan of Huyton 65 — — — 65 — 65 
Gerry Murphy 65 — — — 65 — 65 
Former directors 
John Gildersleeve
(1)
 53 — — — 53 — 53 
Roger Taylor
(1) (7)
 97 — — 1 98 — 98 
858 — — 1 859 — 859 
3,653 231 2,398 941 7,223 — 7,223 
(1) Remuneration is shown for the period served on the Board. Tony DeNunzio and Lord Livingston were appointed to the Board on 
16 December 2015 and the fees shown were from appointment to 30 April 2016. John Gildersleeve and Roger Taylor resigned from the 
Board on 16 December 2015 and fees are from 3 May 2015 to date of leaving. 
(2) Katie Bickerstaffe purchased annual leave under the Group’s holiday purchase scheme, reducing her salary by £10,000 in 2015/16. 
(3) Pension contributions comprise the Company’s contribution or allowance in lieu together with the salary supplement which is based on the 
difference between basic salary and the scheme earnings cap set by the Company. The contribution amount was 10% of salary for 
Sebastian James, Humphrey Singer and Katie Bickerstaffe and 5% for Andrew Harrison and Graham Stapleton. 
(4) Taxable benefits include private medical insurance and car allowances. 
(5) The taxable benefits of Graham Stapleton includes the waiver of a loan, together with accrued interest, of £880,268 relating to a long term 
incentive scheme of Carphone Warehouse that he took part in prior to him becoming a director of the Company. The scheme vested 
following the sale of the Best Buy Europe business and awards became exercisable during 2013, but all shares awarded were subject to a 
sales restriction until 2015. At the time of exercise Graham Stapleton, along with the other participants, was provided with a company loan 
to be used to settle the outstanding tax liabilities that were created at the point of exercise. During 2015, the sales restrictions elapsed and 
at that time the Company confirmed the writing off of the outstanding loan. This decision reflected the treatment afforded to other 
participants of this plan and the past practice used by Carphone Warehouse. This is a legacy, pre-Merger obligation made before Graham 
Stapleton was appointed to the Board. 
(6) LTIP payments would comprise amounts under the Share Plan, however, the performance period ends in July 2017. 
(7) Roger Taylor continued to receive private medical insurance benefits until 16 December 2015 when he stepped down from the Board. 
(8) No payments were made to former directors and no payment for loss of office was made during the year. 
(9) Lord Livingston has a deferred pension in the Dixons Retirement and Employee Security Scheme. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   74 11/07/2016   18:34 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
75 
Single figure of directors’ remuneration for the period ended 2 May 2015 
2014/15
Basic salary 
and fees  
£’000 
Pension
contributions
(2)
£’000 
Annual
 bonus
(3)
£’000 
Taxable
 benefits
(4)
£’000 
Total 
emoluments 
£’000 
LTIP 
 payments
(5)
£’000 
Total 
remuneration  
£’000 
Executive 
Current directors 
Sebastian James
(1)
590 59 1,025 13 1,687 —1,687
Andrew Harrison 570 28 745 14 1,357 — 1,357 
Humphrey Singer
(1)
342 34 594 13 983 — 983
Katie Bickerstaffe
(1)
360 36 625 12 1,033 —1,033
Graham Stapleton
(1) 
343 17 623 10 993 — 993
Former directors 
Nigel Langstaff
(1)
 117
(6)
6 — 4 127 — 127
2,322 180 3,612 66 6,180 —6,180
Non-executive 
Current directors 
Sir Charles Dunstone 290 — — — 290 — 290
Roger Taylor 179 — — 1
(7)
180 — 180
Andrea Gisle Joosen
(1)
50 — — — 50 — 50
John Gildersleeve 87 — — — 87 — 87
Tim How
(1)
47 — — — 47 — 47
Baroness Morgan of Huyton 70 — — — 70 — 70 
Jock Lennox
(1)
54 — — — 54 — 54
Gerry Murphy 67 — — — 67 — 67
Former directors 
John Allan
(1)
75 — — — 75 — 75
John Allwood
(1)
28 — — — 28 — 28
947 — — 1 948 — 948
3,269 180 3,612 67 7,128 —7,128
(1) Remuneration is shown for the period served on the Board. The following directors were appointed on 6 August 2014: Sebastian James, 
Humphrey Singer, Katie Bickerstaffe, Graham Stapleton, Andrea Gisle Joosen, Tim How and Jock Lennox. Remuneration / fees for
these directors is shown from appointment to 2 May 2015. John Allan was appointed to the Board on 6 August 2014 and resigned on
17 February 2015 and the fees shown are for this period. Nigel Langstaff and John Allwood resigned from the Board on 6 August 2014
and remuneration / fees are from 1 April 2014 to date of leaving. 
(2) Pension contributions comprise the Company’s contribution or allowance in lieu together with the salary supplement which is based on the 
difference between basic salary and the scheme earnings cap set by the Company. This additional amount was 10% for Sebastian James, 
Humphrey Singer and Katie Bickerstaffe and 5% for Andrew Harrison, Nigel Langstaff and Graham Stapleton. 
(3) Annual bonus for Graham Stapleton and base salary and annual bonus for Andrew Harrison represents the amount earned over 13 months 
following the alignment of the financial year end. Annual bonuses for Sebastian James, Humphrey Singer and Katie Bickerstaffe represent 
the amount earned over the 12 months to 2 May 2015, which includes the period prior to the Merger. All bonuses are calculated based on 
the directors’ annual salary as at 2 May 2015. 
(4) Taxable benefits include private medical insurance, car allowance and Sharesave gains of £4,000 for Sebastian James, Humphrey Singer 
and Katie Bickerstaffe in respect of options granted on 26 February 2015 as set out in the table on page 79. 
(5) LTIP payments would comprise amounts under the Share Plan, however, the performance period ends in July 2017. 
(6) In addition to the above remuneration and subsequent to resigning from the Board on 6 August 2014, Nigel Langstaff received a 
redundancy payment of £247,000 upon leaving the business in December 2014. Nigel also received £350,000 as a payment in lieu of notice 
in respect of basic salary, £19,700 in respect of benefits (including car allowance, permanent health insurance and life cover) and £17,500 in 
respect of pension contributions. There was no payment for accrued holiday untaken. These amounts were in line with contractual 
entitlements and the Group’s redundancy payments policy and no discretion was applied in their determination. The Committee determined 
to apply discretion to pay a bonus of £437,500 in respect of the period of service in the 2014/15 financial year and in respect of ongoing 
support up to the announcement of the preliminary results for 2014/15.
(7) Roger Taylor continued to receive private medical insurance benefits. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   75 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance
Annual Remuneration Report 
76 
Long term incentive plans (LTIP) 
The Share Plan awards made during 2014/15 vest in July 2017 (60%) and July 2018 (40%). 
Details of the awards made and the loans granted to the directors to enable them to subscribe for shares under the Share Plan 
are detailed later in this report. 
No LTIPs have vested during the year for the directors whilst serving on the Board. 
Annual bonus for 2015/16 
The maximum bonus opportunity for all executive directors is 125% of base salary based on performance in the 12-month 
period to the end of the financial year.  
The Committee determined at the beginning of the year that the disclosure of performance targets were commercially sensitive 
and therefore these were not disclosed. This was because targets were set within the context of a longer term business plan and 
this disclosure could give information to competitors to the detriment of business performance. The Committee has however 
disclosed in the table below the targets on a retrospective basis and the actual performance against these. 
The maximum annual bonus of 125% of base salary is payable at the maximum level of performance, 25% of base salary on 
achievement of threshold performance and 75% of base salary on achievement of target performance. 
Measure 
As a percentage of 
maximum bonus 
opportunity Threshold Target Maximum Actual  Payout  
Pro forma Headline EBIT 60% £450 million £475 million £500 million £468 million 29% 
Pro forma average net  
(debt) / funds – variance vs budget 10% £(50) million Budget £50 million £54 million 10% 
Return on Capital Employed  10% 20.1% 20.6% 21.1% 21.0% 9%
Customer net promoter score 10% Worse Target Better Better 10% 
Employee engagement score 10% Worse Target Better Better 10% 
It should be noted that customer net promoter and employee engagement score targets were set in the context of a high base 
point. The improvement in actual performance was therefore considered an excellent result. The actual scores for these 
measures are still considered to be commercially sensitive and therefore cannot be disclosed in full.  
Overall bonus payments will be at target levels and will be paid in cash at 68.4% of base salary. The Committee is comfortable 
that the result is an appropriate reflection of overall performance during the year under review. The bonus amounts to be paid to 
the executive directors in respect of 2015/16 are set out in the single figure of directors’ remuneration table on page 74. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   76 11/07/2016   18:34 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
77 
Non-executive directors’ and Chairman’s fees 
The fees for the independent non-executive directors, including the Deputy Chairman, are determined by the Board (excluding 
non-executive directors) after considering external market research and are reviewed on an annual basis. Factors taken into 
consideration include the required time commitment, specific experience and / or qualifications. A base fee is payable and 
additional fees are paid for chairing and membership of committees. The Chairman is not involved in the setting of his own salary 
which is dealt with by the Remuneration Committee annually. Non-executive directors receive no variable pay and receive no 
additional benefits, except in situations where an executive director becomes a non-executive director and benefit and pension 
arrangements continue.  
The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director receive all inclusive fees reflecting their duties. Other 
independent non-executive directors received a basic fee of £60,000 (2014/15: £60,000) and additional fees as set out in the 
table below for chairing or membership of committees. Fees will remain unchanged for 2016/17. 
2015/16
£’000 
2014/15
£’000 
Chairman
(1)
 280 280 
Deputy Chairman
(2)
 140 140
(3)
Senior Independent Director
(4)
 90 N/A
(5)
Chair of Audit Committee  15 15 
Member of Audit Committee  5 5 
Member of Nominations Committee 5 5 
Member of Remuneration Committee 5 5 
(1) The Chairman’s fee includes Chairmanship of the Nominations Committee. 
(2) The Deputy Chairman’s fee includes Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee and membership of the Nominations Committee. 
(3) Fees for previous Deputy Chairman. 
(4) The Senior Independent Director’s fee includes membership of the Nominations and Remuneration committees. 
(5) The Senior Independent Director during 2014/15 was also Deputy Chairman, and received no additional fee for this. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   77 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance
Annual Remuneration Report 
78 
Directors’ interests in the Share Plan 
The executive directors previously participated in the Dixons Carphone (formerly Carphone Warehouse Group plc) Share Plan 
approved by Carphone Warehouse shareholders. Participants acquired at market value participation shares in a subsidiary 
company that holds the Company’s interests in the Group’s main operating businesses. The Group granted loans to participants 
at a commercial rate of interest to acquire the shares. Loans are ordinarily repayable in full if performance conditions are met.  
The performance of the plan will ordinarily be measured at the end of the performance period (in or around July 2017 for the 
current participants), when 60% of the shares vest, with 40% deferred for a further year. When the awards vest, the value of the 
shares held by participants will be based on the incremental value (if any) of Dixons Carphone plc in excess of the opening 
valuation together with the minimum return on invested capital. These shares will then be purchased by the Company for cash 
and / or the Company’s ordinary shares.  
The total pool for distribution to participants is subject to a cap of 4% of the total issued share capital of the Company on the 
measurement date. Under the Share Plan there are now two pools, one for the original grant in December 2013 and one for the 
second grant in October 2014, each being subject to a cap of 2% of the total issued share capital of the Company.  
The Share Plan is designed to share 10% of the incremental value created in Dixons Carphone in excess of an opening valuation 
(assessed over an appropriate period) and beyond an annual rate of return of 7% on invested capital. The plan is also 
underpinned by a minimum annual compound TSR growth of 5% and outperformance of the median TSR of the FTSE 250.  
The table below shows the allocation to the executive directors of participation shares in the subsidiary, New CPW Limited, in 
relation to the Share Plan, together with details of the loans issued to enable the directors to subscribe for the participation shares.  
A Ordinary 
shares in 
subsidiary 
allocated  
as at  
2 May  
2015
(1)
 
Number 
B Ordinary 
shares in 
subsidiary 
allocated  
as at  
2 May  
2015
(2)
 
Number 
A Ordinary 
shares in 
subsidiary 
allocated  
as at  
30 April  
2016
(1)
Number 
B Ordinary 
shares in 
subsidiary 
allocated 
as at
30 April  
2016
(2)
Number 
Allocation 
of A pool 
as at 
2 May 
 2015
(1)
% 
Allocation 
of B pool 
as at  
2 May 
 2015
(2)
% 
Allocation 
of A pool 
as at 
30 April  
2016
(1)
% 
Allocation 
of B pool  
as at  
30 April  
2016
(2)
 
% 
Loan 
outstanding 
as at  
2 May  
2015 
£’000 
Loan 
outstanding 
as at  
30 April  
2016 
£’000 
Current directors 
Sebastian James — 1,100 — 1,100 — 11% — 11% 2,239 2,306 
Andrew Harrison 700 200 700 200 7% 2% 7% 2% 810 834 
Humphrey Singer — 700 — 700 — 7% — 7% 1,425 1,467 
Katie Bickerstaffe — 700 — 700 — 7% — 7% 1,425 1,467 
Graham Stapleton 600 100 600 100 6% 1% 6% 1% 549 565 
(1) Allocation relates to the pre-Merger pool in respect of A ordinary shares. Face value is not included as due to the structure of the Share Plan 
it is not considered a representative figure. 
(2) Allocation relates to the post-Merger pool in respect of B ordinary shares. Face value is not included as due to the structure of the Share 
Plan it is not considered a representative figure. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   78 11/07/2016   18:34 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
79 
Directors’ share options 
As part of the Merger, participants of the Dixons Retail Sharesave Plan were offered the opportunity to roll over their Sharesave 
awards into options over Dixons Carphone plc. Those awards rolled over by the directors, in addition to other options owned by 
the directors over the Company, are shown in the table below:  
Date of grant 
Exercise 
price (p) 
At  
3 May 
2015 
Awarded  
in the 
period
(3)
Lapsed or 
forfeited 
in the 
period 
Exercised
(2)
in period 
At 
 30 April 
2016 
Date from which 
first exercisable 
Expiry of the 
exercise period 
Sebastian James 
Sharesave 23 Jul 2013
(1)
 209.35 601 — — — 601 1 Oct 2016 31 Mar 2017 
26 Feb 2015 344.00 4,866 — — — 4,866 1 Apr 2018 30 Sep 2018 
 5,467 — — — 5,467 
Andrew Harrison 
Sharesave 10 Jan 2014 224.00 4,017 — — — 4,017 1 Mar 2017 31 Aug 2017 
 4,017 — — — 4,017 
Humphrey Singer 
Sharesave 23 Jul 2012
(1)
91.48 1,377 — — (1,377) — 1 Oct 2015 31 Mar 2016 
23 Jul 2013
(1)
209.35 601 — — — 601 1 Oct 2016 31 Mar 2017 
26 Feb 2015 344.00 4,500 — — — 4,500 1 Apr 2018 30 Sep 2018 
25 Feb 2016 377.00 — 334 — — 334 1 Apr 2019 30 Sep 2019 
 6,478 334 — (1,377) 5,435 
Katie Bickerstaffe 
Sharesave 23 Jul 2012
(1)
91.48 1,377 — — (1,377) — 1 Oct 2015 31 Mar 2016 
23 Jul 2013
(1)
209.35 601 — — — 601 1 Oct 2016 31 Mar 2017 
26 Feb 2015 344.00 4,500 — — — 4,500 1 Apr 2018 30 Sep 2018 
25 Feb 2016 377.00 — 334 — — 334 1 Apr 2019 30 Sep 2019 
  6,478 334 — (1,377) 5,435 
(1) Share options that were granted under the Dixons Retail Sharesave Plan and rolled over into options over Dixons Carphone plc shares.
The exercise price shown is the roll over price over Dixons Carphone plc shares. 
(2) The options exercised by Katie Bickerstaffe and Humphrey Singer on 1 October 2015 had a market price of £4.25 on the date of exercise. 
(3) The face value of awards granted on 25 February 2016 for the executive directors was £1,460 for Humphrey Singer and Katie Bickerstaffe. 
The exercise price was set at a 20% discount to the mid-market closing share price at 27 January 2016 of £4.71. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   79 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance
Annual Remuneration Report 
80 
Directors’ shareholding 
Details of directors’ interests in shares of the Company are shown in the following table: 
Beneficially owned Restricted interests in share plans
30 April 
 2016
(7)
 2 May 2015
(1)
Share Plan
(2)
as at  
30 April
2016 
Share Plan
(3)
as at  
30 April 
2016 
Sharesave 
as at  
30 April 
2016 
Total 
beneficial 
interests 
under share 
ownership 
guidelines 
30 April 
2016 
Total 
beneficial 
share 
interests 
 as a 
 % of salary
(4)
30 April 
2016 
Exercised 
during  
2015/16 
Executive directors 
Current directors 
Sebastian James  908,234 908,234 — 1,100 5,467 908,234 467% — 
Andrew Harrison 5,000,000 5,000,000 700 200 4,017 5,000,000 3,835% — 
Humphrey Singer 619,147 617,770 — 700 5,435 619,147 550% 1,377 
Katie Bickerstaffe
(5)
 408,967 657,590 — 700 5,435 408,967 345% 1,377 
Graham Stapleton
(6)
 490,034 880,034 600 100 — 490,034 449% — 
Non-executive directors 
Current directors 
Sir Charles Dunstone 134,758,481 134,758,481 — — — — — — 
Tony DeNunzio 50,000 — — — — — — — 
Andrea Gisle Joosen 6,076 6,076 — — — — — — 
Tim How 12,400 12,400 — — — — — — 
Jock Lennox 11,625 11,625 — — — — — — 
Lord Livingston of Parkhead — — — — — — — — 
Baroness Morgan of Huyton 991 991 — — — — — — 
Gerry Murphy 20,000 20,000 — — — — — — 
Former directors 
John Gildersleeve 122,568 122,568 — — — N/A N/A — 
Roger Taylor 9,808,554 9,808,554 — — — N/A N/A — 
(1) Date of appointment, if later. 
(2) The shares listed here are in A ordinary shares of New CPW Limited as part of the shares purchased in relation to the Share Plan. These 
have been subscribed for by the Directors. A ordinary shares have a different opening valuation to B ordinary shares, as described in note 
(3), reflecting the value of the Company at appropriate times prior to the grants. 
(3) The shares listed here are in B ordinary shares of New CPW Limited as part of the shares purchased in relation to the Share Plan. These 
have been subscribed for by the Directors. B ordinary shares have a different opening valuation to A ordinary shares, as described in note 
(2), reflecting the value of the Company at appropriate times prior to the grants. 
(4) The percentage excludes the Share Plan participation shares and Sharesave options, and is based on basic salary as at 30 April 2016 and 
an average share price over the month to 30 April 2016 of £4.218. 
(5) On 18 August 2015, Katie Bickerstaffe sold 105,796 shares at £4.419, on 21 August 2015, she sold 109,034 shares at £4.338 and on 
24 August 2015, she sold a further 35,170 shares at £4.084. 
(6) On 18 August 2015, Graham Stapleton sold 165,060 shares at £4.419, on 21 August 2015, he sold 170,110 shares at £4.338 and on
24 August 2015, he sold a further 54,830 shares at £4.084. 
(7) Date of resignation, if earlier. 
There were no changes in the directors’ restricted or unrestricted share interests between 30 April 2016 and the date of this report. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   80 11/07/2016   18:34 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Corporate Governance
81 
Statement of voting at shareholder meetings (not audited) 
The Company is committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue in respect of directors’ remuneration, and takes an active interest  
in voting outcomes and in particular we have consulted with our shareholders on the Remuneration Policy being put to the vote 
at the AGM. Where there are substantial votes against resolutions, explanatory reasons will be sought, and any actions in 
response will be communicated to shareholders. 
The following tables set out the voting results in relation to the resolutions put to the 2015 annual general meeting:  
Resolution Votes for % Votes against % Withheld
Approval of Remuneration Policy 771,709,963 94.09 48,431,387 5.91 88,989,962
Approval of Annual Remuneration Report 621,991,756 72.95 230,588,119 27.05 56,551,437 
As the annual remuneration report received significant shareholder votes against it at the annual general meeting in 2015 (see 
table above for voting outcomes at the previous annual general meeting), during the recent consultation process, the Company 
encouraged feedback from its key shareholders to understand the reasons behind the dissent. We are aware of shareholders’ 
concerns regarding the transparency and communication of the Company’s Remuneration Report and have focused on 
providing clearer reporting on past remuneration. 
Compliance 
As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve this Remuneration Report will be proposed at the AGM to be held on 
8 September 2016. 
Ian Livingston 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
28 June 2016 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   81 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Corporate Governance
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
82 
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.  
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors are 
required to prepare the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with Financial 
Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework. Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts 
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit 
or loss of the Company and the Group for that period.  
In preparing the Company financial statements, the directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework has been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will
continue in business.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ requires that directors: 
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and
understandable information;
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Group’s financial position and financial
performance; and
• make an assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Group’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.  
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of
the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation
taken as a whole;
• the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal
risks and uncertainties that they face; and
• the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and the Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
By Order of the Board 
Sebastian James Humphrey Singer 
Group Chief Executive  Group Finance Director 
28 June 2016 28 June 2016 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   82 11/07/2016   18:34 Independent Auditor’s report 
83 
Opinion on the financial statements of Dixons Carphone plc 
In our opinion,  
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 30 April
2016 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union;
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, 
the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the 
Company balance sheet, the Company statement of changes in equity, and the related notes 1 to 31 and C1 to C10. The 
financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice), including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’. 
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB 
As explained in note 1a) to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs  
as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB). 
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB. 
Going concern 
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern 
basis of accounting contained within note 1a) to the financial statements and the directors’ statement on the longer-term viability 
of the group contained within the strategic report.  
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
• the directors' confirmation on page 45 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group,
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity;
• the disclosures on pages 20 to 23 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated;
• the directors’ statement in note 1a) to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going
concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Group’s ability to
continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements;
• the directors’ explanation on page 29 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable
expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their
assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the directors’ adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material 
uncertainties. However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as  
to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
Independence 
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are 
independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards. We also 
confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   83 11/07/2016   18:34 Independent Auditor’s report 
84 
Our assessment of risks and material misstatement 
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, 
the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team. The key risks we identified are: 
• Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets
• Revenue recognition – UK network commissions
• UK supplier funding
• Inventory provisioning (Dixons)
• Property rationalisation provisioning
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk  
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 
The Group has significant acquisition related 
intangible assets, including goodwill, (£3,402 million 
at 30 April 2016 including £3,054 million of goodwill 
and £348 million of acquisition intangibles) primarily 
related to the CPW Europe and Dixons Retail plc 
acquisitions in previous years. The Group’s 
assessment of impairment of acquisition related 
intangible assets is a judgemental process which 
requires estimates concerning the future cash flows 
and associated discount rates and growth rates 
based on management’s projections of future 
business performance and prospects. The key 
judgements and estimates involved are described  
in more detail in notes 1j), 1k) and 1s) to the Group 
financial statements. 
We assessed the assumptions used by management in the 
impairment models for goodwill and acquisition related intangible 
assets, including specifically the cash flow projections, discount rates 
(utilising the assistance of our valuation specialists), and long-term 
growth rates used against historical performance, our understanding 
of the future prospects of the business and comparison against 
market rates and the prevailing Group cost of capital at the year end. 
We have audited the mechanics of the impairment models prepared 
by management. 
Revenue recognition – UK network commissions 
The monetary value of commission receivable on 
sales, being commission for which there is a 
contractual entitlement based on mobile phone 
connections already made, and for which there are 
no ongoing performance obligations, is dependent 
on customer behaviour beyond the point of sale. 
Management is therefore required to exercise 
judgement in respect of the level of customer default 
within the contract period, expected levels of 
customer spend and customer behaviour beyond  
the initial contract period. The key judgements  
and estimates involved are described in more  
detail in notes 1d), 1s) and 26h) to the Group  
financial statements. 
We evaluated the design and implementation of both the relevant 
manual and automated controls over the revenue recognition process 
in respect of commissions receivable, utilising IT specialists to assist 
with testing of automated controls. In addition we tested that these 
controls were operating effectively throughout the period. 
We have tested the valuation of revenue recognised through review 
of the Group’s contractual arrangements, substantive testing of 
management assumptions including tenure, line rental, and churn  
to data received from networks and testing of cash receipts. 
We have also assessed any changes in estimate in comparison to the 
prior year and reviewed year on year movement in key assumptions. 
UK supplier funding 
The Group holds a number of significant funding 
arrangements with suppliers. Agreements in relation 
to supplier funding are based predominantly on 
volume related targets, for both purchases and sales, 
and are most commonly agreed as a fixed 
percentage of targets up front. These targets are 
generally a mix of quarterly and annual targets. The 
timing of recognition of this income is sometimes 
judgemental, in particular where the target period for 
measuring achievements spans the year end and it is 
necessary to ensure there is sufficient evidence 
justifying recognition. The key judgements and 
estimates involved are described in more detail in 
note 1s) to the Group financial statements. 
We updated our understanding of the key supplier funding 
arrangements across the Group. As part of this, we met with the key 
commercial and finance process owners, we tested the design and 
implementation of the Group’s key controls in operation, principally 
focused on those that determine the appropriate timing of recognition 
for supplier funding balances, and we performed an analytical 
assessment of movements in supplier funding throughout the current 
year to historical trends. 
To ensure there is sufficient evidence to support the recognition of 
supplier funding, we substantively tested and recalculated a sample of 
amounts with reference to signed supplier contracts. We also obtained 
confirmations following circularisation of a sample of suppliers. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   84 11/07/2016   18:34  
85 
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk  
Inventory provisioning (Dixons) 
Inventory is a significant balance for the Group  
(£958 million at 30 April 2016) and there are a number 
of judgemental areas including obsolescence and 
shrinkage provisioning. This risk has a significant 
effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of 
resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the 
engagement team in the legacy Dixons side of the 
business only, given the nature and relative 
significance of the inventory balances within each 
part of the Group. Further information in relation to 
this area is discussed in notes 1o) and 1s) to the 
Group financial statements. 
We have performed testing of the operating effectiveness of controls 
around the inventory business cycle and attended a sample of 
inventory counts at 34 stores and the distribution centres across the 
Dixons UK and Nordics businesses, including visiting the Group’s 
main distribution centre in Newark on four separate occasions, which 
enables us to assess management’s processes for monitoring 
inventory. We performed audit tests to assess whether inventory is 
valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. We reviewed, 
recalculated and assessed the inventory provisioning for 
reasonableness, including challenging the appropriateness of 
provisioning with reference to inventory ageing, both historical and 
post year end performance and a review of the provision as a 
percentage of gross stock year on year. We have also considered the 
impact of range changes and other specific known areas of overstock 
on the required provision calculation. 
Property rationalisation provisioning  
The Group has recorded a charge of £70 million in 
relation to restructuring of the property portfolio in the 
UK business. The magnitude of the associated 
restructuring provision involves the use of estimates 
and judgement, particularly with regard to property 
exit and onerous lease costs. Further information is 
included in notes 1r), 1s) and 4iii) to the Group 
financial statements. 
We have obtained an understanding of the process undertaken by 
management to quantify the expected costs arising from the 
rationalisation of the property portfolio and have evaluated the design 
and implementation of the associated controls. We have assessed the 
appropriateness of the provisions to ensure they meet the relevant 
criteria for recognition in accordance with the accounting standard. 
We have reviewed a sample of contractual lease agreements and 
assessed management’s judgements in relation to sublet income,  
rent free periods and dilapidations against past evidence available  
for similar properties. We have substantively tested a sample of the  
costs incurred during the period to supporting documentation. 
 
Last year our report included three other risks which are not included in our report this year: acquisition accounting (there have 
been no significant acquisitions during the year following the acquisition of Dixons Retail plc last year), assets held for sale, 
discontinued operations and disposal accounting (as the accounting for the disposals was largely completed last year), and 
taxation (there have been no significant changes noted in the current year and it is no longer an area which has a significant 
effect on our audit strategy and the efforts of the engagement team). In the current period, we have included an additional risk  
in relation to property rationalisation provisioning, reflecting the announcement of the restructuring of the property portfolio  
made by the Group during the year. 
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee 
discussed on pages 52 to 53. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion 
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 
Our application of materiality 
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope 
of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work. 
We determined materiality for the group to be £17.5 million (2014/15: £14.0 million), which is below 5% (2014/15: 5%) of 
adjusted Headline profit before tax, and below 1% (2014/15: 1%) of equity. In using adjusted Headline profit before tax, we have 
followed the Group’s definition of Headline results in note 1a) and adjusted this to include the impact of the amortisation of 
acquisition intangibles and pension finance costs due to their recurring nature. This is the same basis on which we calculated 
materiality in the prior year and the increase in materiality in the current year is due to the increase in the Group’s Headline profit 
before tax. We have assessed the use of a Headline measure to be appropriate as this continues to be a key driver of business 
value, is a critical component of the financial statements and the main measure which management uses to monitor the 
performance of the business and communicate this to shareholders. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £600,000 
(2014/15: £500,000), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.  
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the 
financial statements.  
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   85 11/07/2016   18:34 Independent Auditor’s report 
86 
An overview of the scope of our audit 
We have reassessed our Group audit scope following the completion of the disposal of certain European operations during the 
year and accordingly have not performed a full scope audit in Spain or an audit of specified account balances in Greece, both  
of which we did in the prior year, although these components are both still subject to local statutory audits and are subject to 
analytical procedures as part of work performed at the parent entity level.  
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, 
and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit 
scope primarily on the audit work of the retail operations in the UK and the Nordics. Each of these components requires a local 
statutory audit.  
These locations represent the principal business units and account for approximately 94% of the Group’s revenue from 
continuing operations (2014/15: 93%) and 84% of the Group’s Headline profit before tax. Each location was selected to provide 
an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above. Our audit work at 
these locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality 
and ranged from £3 million to £10 million (2014/15: £3 million to £8 million).  
At the Dixons Carphone plc parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures 
to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information  
of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances. 
The Group audit team is closely involved in the audit of the UK components, being the largest part of the Group, throughout the year 
including attendance at key audit planning and closing meetings. In addition, the Group audit team continued to follow a programme 
of planned visits to overseas components that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit team visits the most 
significant locations where the Group audit scope was focused at least once each year. For the year ended 30 April 2016, senior 
members of the Group audit team visited Norway, where the Nordics head office is located, on two occasions.  
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records  
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters. 
Directors’ remuneration  
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
have not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns. We have nothing to report arising from these matters.  
Corporate Governance statement  
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s 
compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review. 
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report and Accounts 
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the 
Annual Report and Accounts is: 
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of
performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   86 11/07/2016   18:34 87 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired 
during the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable  
and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee  
which we consider should have been disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or  
misleading statements. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to 
ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and systems include our 
dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or 
for the opinions we have formed. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements  
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any 
information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report. 
John Adam (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London, United Kingdom 
28 June 2016 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   87 11/07/2016   18:34 Consolidated income statement 
88 
Year ended 30 April 2016 13 months ended 2 May 2015
 Note 
Headline*
£million 
Non-
Headline*
£million 
Total
£million 
Headline* 
£million 
Non- 
Headline* 
£million 
Total 
£million 
Continuing operations 
Revenue 2 9,738 — 9,738 8,255 — 8,255
Profit / (loss) from operations before share of 
results of joint ventures 2 472 (164) 308 400 (76) 324
Share of results of joint ventures 12 (4) — (4) — — —
Profit / (loss) before interest and tax 2,3 468 (164) 304 400 (76) 324
Finance income 17 — 17 15 — 15
Finance costs (38) (20) (58) (39) (13) (52)
Net finance costs  6 (21) (20) (41) (24) (13) (37)
Profit / (loss) before tax 447 (184) 263 376 (89) 287
Income tax (expense) / credit 7 (110) 26 (84) (91) 15 (76)
Profit / (loss) after tax – continuing operations 337 (158) 179 285 (74) 211
Loss after tax – discontinued operations 25 — (18) (18) — (114) (114)
Profit / (loss) after tax for the period 337 (176) 161 285 (188) 97
Earnings per share (pence) 8 
Basic – continuing operations 29.3p 15.6p 29.7p 22.0p
Diluted – continuing operations 28.4p 15.1p 28.7p 21.2p
Basic – total 14.0p  10.1p
Diluted – total 13.6p 9.8p
* Headline results exclude amortisation of acquisition intangibles, Merger integration and transaction costs, property rationalisation costs, 
acquisition related costs, net interest on defined benefit pension schemes and discontinued operations (comprising Virgin Mobile France 
and Phone House operations in Germany, the Netherlands and Portugal). Such excluded items are described as ‘Non-Headline’. For further 
details see notes 4 and 25 to the financial statements. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   88 11/07/2016   18:34 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
89 
 
Year ended 
 30 April 
 2016
£million 
13 months 
ended
2 May 
 2015
£million 
Profit after tax for the period 161 97 
   
Items that may be reclassified to the income statement in subsequent years:   
Cash flow hedges  
  Fair value remeasurement losses (12) (14)
  Gains transferred to carrying amount of inventories  — 4 
Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations 66 (107)
Other foreign exchange differences 2 3 
 56 (114)
   
Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement in subsequent years:   
Actuarial (losses) / gains on defined benefit pension schemes – UK (5) (72)
  – Overseas 2 (1)
Taxation on defined benefit pension schemes (9) 15 
Foreign exchange movements — (1)
 (12) (59)
 
Other comprehensive income / (expense) for the period (taken to equity) 44 (173)
 
Total comprehensive income / (expense) for the period 205 (76)
 
 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   89 11/07/2016   18:34 Consolidated balance sheet 
90 
Note 
30 April 
 2016 
£million 
2 May
2015
£million 
Non-current assets 
Goodwill 9 3,054 2,989 
Intangible assets 10 540 525 
Property, plant & equipment 11 366 327 
Interests in joint ventures 12 5 — 
Trade and other receivables 14 408 318 
Deferred tax assets 7 234 263 
4,607 4,422 
Current assets 
Inventory 13 958 920 
Trade and other receivables 14 1,131 907 
Cash and cash equivalents 15 233 163 
2,322 1,990 
Assets held for sale 25 — 137 
Total assets 6,929 6,549 
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 16 (2,310) (1,961)
Deferred and contingent consideration 17 (12) (25)
Income tax payable (89) (89)
Loans and other borrowings 18 — (55)
Finance lease obligations 19 (2) (2)
Provisions 20 (78) (54)
(2,491) (2,186)
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 25 — (68)
(2,491) (2,254)
Non-current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 16 (423) (496)
Deferred and contingent consideration 17 (21) (6)
Loans and other borrowings 18 (409) (330)
Finance lease obligations 19 (89) (89)
Retirement benefit obligations 21 (474) (489)
Deferred tax liabilities 7 (115) (101)
Provisions 20 (47) (21)
(1,578) (1,532)
Total liabilities (4,069) (3,786)
Net assets 2,860 2,763 
Capital and reserves 
Share capital 22 1 1 
Share premium reserve 2,256 2,256 
Accumulated profits 1,398 1,369 
Translation reserve (45) (113)
Demerger reserve (750) (750)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 2,860 2,763 
The financial statements were approved by the directors on 28 June 2016 and signed on their behalf by: 
Sebastian James, Humphrey Singer,  
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   90 11/07/2016   18:34 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
91 
 
Note 
Share
capital
£million 
Share
premium 
reserve
£million 
Accumulated 
profits
£million 
Translation 
reserve 
£million 
Demerger
reserve
£million 
Total 
equity 
£million 
At 29 March 2014  1 283 1,355 (9) (750) 880 
        
Profit for the period  — — 97 — — 97 
Other comprehensive income and expense 
recognised directly in equity  — — (69) (104) — (173)
Total comprehensive income and expense  
for the period   — — 28 (104) — (76)
        
Ordinary shares issued   — 1,973 — — — 1,973 
Equity dividends 23 — — (52) — — (52)
Net movement in relation to share schemes  — — 21 — — 21 
Tax on items recognised directly in reserves  — — 17 — — 17 
At 2 May 2015  1 2,256 1,369 (113) (750) 2,763 
        
Profit for the period  — — 161 — — 161 
Other comprehensive income and expense 
recognised directly in equity  — — (24) 68 — 44
Total comprehensive income and expense  
for the period   — — 137 68 — 205
        
Net purchase of own shares 5 — — (5) — — (5) 
Equity dividends 23 — — (106) — — (106)
Net movement in relation to share schemes  — — 10 — — 10 
Tax on items recognised directly in reserves  — — (7) — — (7) 
At 30 April 2016  1 2,256 1,398 (45) (750) 2,860 
 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   91 11/07/2016   18:34 Consolidated cash flow statement 
92 
Note 
Year ended 
 30 April 
 2016 
£million 
13 months 
ended
2 May 
 2015 
£million 
Operating activities – continuing operations 
Cash generated from operations 27 485 110 
Special contributions to defined benefit pension scheme  (35) (28)
Income tax paid (56) (39)
Net cash flows from operating activities 394 43 
Investing activities – continuing operations 
Interest received — 1 
Cash acquired on the Merger — 347 
Net cash outflow arising from acquisition of subsidiaries (50) (25)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant & equipment 24 11 
Proceeds on sale of business and short term investments — 8 
Acquisition of property, plant & equipment and other intangibles (221) (166)
Investment in joint ventures (9) —
Net cash flows from investing activities (256) 176
Financing activities – continuing operations 
Interest paid (20) (30)
Repayment of obligations under finance leases (6) (7)
Net purchase of own shares (5) —
Equity dividends paid (106) (52)
Increase / (decrease) in borrowings  25 (211)
Bond redemption premium  — (38)
Facility arrangement fees paid (5) (4)
Net cash flows from financing activities (117) (342)
Increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 
Continuing operations 21 (123)
Discontinued operations 25 32 3 
53 (120)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 163 283 
Currency translation differences 17 — 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period 27 233 163 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   92 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
93 
1 Accounting policies 
a) Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on 
a going concern basis in accordance with IFRS as adopted  
by the EU, IFRS issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board, those parts of the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to those companies reporting under IFRS and 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
The financial statements have been presented in UK Sterling, 
the functional currency of the Company, and on the historical 
cost basis except for the revaluation of certain financial 
instruments, as explained below. All amounts have been 
rounded to the nearest £1 million, unless otherwise stated.  
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below. 
On 6 August 2014, the Group completed the merger of Dixons 
and Carphone (the ‘Merger’), which was implemented by way 
of a scheme of arrangement of Dixons.  
Historically, the Group prepared its financial statements to the 
Saturday closest to its accounting reference date of 31 March. 
Following the Merger, the Group changed its accounting 
reference date to 30 April which was the accounting reference 
date of Dixons, but continues to draw up accounts to the 
nearest Saturday. Accordingly the comparative financial period 
is for the 13 months ended 2 May 2015. 
The Group’s income statement and segmental analysis identify 
separately Headline performance and Non-Headline items. 
Headline performance measures reflect adjustments to total 
performance measures. The directors consider ‘Headline’ 
performance measures to be a more accurate reflection of the 
ongoing trading performance of the Group and believe that 
these measures provide additional useful information for 
shareholders on the Group’s performance and are consistent 
with how business performance is measured internally. 
Headline results are stated before the results of discontinued 
operations or exited / to be exited businesses, amortisation of 
acquisition intangibles, acquisition related costs, any 
exceptional items considered so one-off and material that they 
distort underlying performance (such as reorganisation costs, 
impairment charges, property rationalisation costs and other 
non-recurring charges) and net pension interest costs. 
Businesses exited or to be exited are those which the Group 
has exited or committed to or commenced to exit through 
disposal or closure but do not meet the definition of 
discontinued operations as stipulated by IFRS and are material 
to the results and operations of the Group. 
Non-Headline items in the current and prior period comprise 
amortisation of acquisition intangibles, Merger integration and 
transaction costs, property rationalisation costs, acquisition 
related costs, net interest on defined benefit pension schemes 
and discontinued operations (comprising Virgin Mobile France 
and Phone House operations in Germany, the Netherlands and 
Portugal). A reconciliation of Headline profit and losses to total 
profits and losses is shown in note 2. Items excluded from 
Headline results can evolve from one financial year to the next 
depending on the nature of exceptional items or one-off type 
activities described above. 
Headline performance measures and Non-Headline 
performance measures may not be directly comparable with 
other similarly titled measures or ‘adjusted’ revenue or profit 
measures used by other companies. 
Gains on disposal of non-core businesses in Southern Europe 
in the prior period have been included in Headline results net of 
restructuring costs. The net impact of these activities totalled 
£5 million. 
Going concern 
The Group’s funding arrangements and processes for 
managing its exposure to liquidity risk are set out in notes 
18 and 26.  
In their consideration of going concern, the directors have 
reviewed the Group’s future cash forecasts and profit 
projections, which are based on market data and past 
experience. The directors are of the opinion that the Group’s 
forecasts and projections, which take into account reasonably 
possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group 
is able to operate within its current facilities and comply with its 
banking covenants for the foreseeable future. In arriving at their 
conclusion that the Group has adequate financial resources, 
the directors were mindful of the level of borrowings and 
facilities as set out in note 18 to the Group financial statements 
and that the Group has a robust policy towards liquidity and 
cash flow management. 
Accordingly the directors have a reasonable expectation that 
the Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operation for the foreseeable future and 
consequently the directors continue to apply the going 
concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.  
The principal accounting policies are set out below: 
b) Accounting convention and basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the 
Company (its subsidiaries). Control is achieved where the 
Company has the power over the investee; is exposed, or has 
rights, to variable return from its involvement with the investee; 
and has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. 
The results of subsidiaries and joint ventures acquired or sold 
during the year are included in the consolidated income 
statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the 
effective date of disposal as appropriate, which is the date 
from which the power to control passes. Where necessary, 
adjustments are made to the financial statements of 
subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with 
those used by the Group. All intercompany transactions and 
balances are eliminated on consolidation.  
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   93 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
94 
c) Foreign currency translation and transactions  
Material transactions in foreign currencies are hedged using 
forward purchases or sales of the relevant currencies and are 
recognised in the financial statements at the exchange rates 
thus obtained. Unhedged transactions are recorded at the 
exchange rate on the date of the transaction. Material 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are hedged, mainly using forward foreign exchange 
contracts to create matching liabilities and assets, and are 
retranslated at each balance sheet date. Hedge accounting  
as defined by IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition  
and Measurement’ has been applied by marking to market  
the relevant financial instruments at the balance sheet date  
and recognising the gain or loss in reserves in respect of  
cash flow hedges, and through profit or loss in respect of fair 
value hedges. 
The results of overseas operations are translated at the 
average foreign exchange rates for the year, and their balance 
sheets are translated at the rates prevailing at the balance 
sheet date. Goodwill and acquisition intangible assets are held 
in the currency of the operation to which they relate. Exchange 
differences arising on the translation of net assets, goodwill 
and results of overseas operations are recognised in the 
translation reserve. All other exchange differences are included 
in profit or loss in the year in which they arise except where the 
Group designates financial instruments held for the purpose of 
hedging the foreign currency exposures that result from 
material transactions undertaken in foreign currencies as cash 
flow hedges, hedge accounting as defined by IAS 39 ‘Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ is applied. The 
effective portion of changes in the fair value of financial 
instruments that are designated as cash flow hedges is 
recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss 
relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss. 
Amounts previously recognised in equity are reclassified to 
profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is 
recognised in profit or loss. 
Where a foreign operation is disposed of, the gain or loss on 
disposal recognised in profit or loss is determined after taking 
into account the cumulative currency translation differences 
that are attributable to the operation. The principal exchange 
rates against UK Sterling used in these financial statements are 
as follows: 
 Average Closing
  2016 2015 2016 2015
Euro 1.36 1.28 1.28 1.35 
Norwegian Krone 12.51 10.86 11.77 11.51 
Swedish Krona 12.65 11.85 11.74 12.72 
 
d) Revenue 
Revenue comprises sales of goods and services excluding 
sales taxes. The following accounting policies are applied to 
the principal revenue generating activities in which the Group  
is engaged: 
• revenue from the sale of goods is recognised at the point  
of sale or, where later, upon delivery to the customer and  
is stated net of returns; 
• revenue earned from the sale of customer support 
agreements is recognised over the term of the contracts 
when the Group obtains the right to consideration as a result 
of performance of its contractual obligations. Revenue in any 
one year is recognised by reference to the stage of 
completion of the contractual terms at the balance sheet 
date. The stage of completion is estimated with reference to 
the proportion of the expected costs of fulfilling the Group’s 
total obligations under the agreements, determined by 
reference to extensive historical claims data. Reliance on 
historical data assumes that current and future experience 
will follow past trends. The directors consider that the 
quantity and quality of data available provides an appropriate 
proxy for current trends; 
• revenue arising on services (including delivery and 
installation, product repairs and product support), is 
recognised when the relevant services are provided; 
• commission receivable on sales, being commission which is 
contractually committed, and for which there are no ongoing 
performance obligations, is recognised when the sales to 
which the commission relates are made, net of any provision 
for promotional offers and network operator performance 
penalties. Commission includes a share of consumer airtime 
spend, to the extent that it can be reliably measured and 
there are no ongoing service obligations. Where the time 
value of money has a material impact, an appropriate 
discount is applied such that revenue is recognised at an 
amount equal to the present value of the future 
consideration to be received; 
• other ongoing revenue is recognised as it is earned over the 
lives of the relevant customers; 
• volume bonuses receivable from network operators are 
recognised when the conditions on which they are earned 
have been met; 
• insurance revenue relates to the sale of third party insurance 
products. Sales commission received from third parties is 
recognised when the insurance policies to which it relates 
are sold, to the extent that it can be reliably measured and 
there are no ongoing service obligations. Revenue from the 
provision of insurance administration services is recognised 
over the life of the relevant policies; 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   94 11/07/2016   18:34  
95 
• For MVNO operations where the Group is the principal, 
revenue is recognised in the period in which the 
telecommunication service, such as airtime or data, is 
provided; 
• revenue from the sale of prepaid credits is deferred until the 
customer uses the airtime or the credit expires; and 
• revenue generated from the provision of fixed and mobile 
network services is recognised as it is earned over the lives 
of the relevant customers. 
e) Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities  
held for sale 
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group which 
represents a significant separate line of business, either 
through its activity or geographical area of operation, which 
has been sold, is held for sale or has been closed.  
Where the sale of a component of the Group is considered 
highly probable and the business is available for immediate 
sale in its present condition, it is classified as held for sale. 
Such classification assumes the expectation that the sale will 
complete within one year from the date of classification. Assets 
and liabilities held for sale are measured at the lower of 
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Once 
classified as held for sale, intangible assets and property, plant 
& equipment are no longer amortised or depreciated. 
f) Share-based payments  
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair 
value at the date of grant, and expensed on a straight line 
basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the 
number of shares that will eventually vest. 
Where share-based payments are subject only to service 
conditions or internal performance criteria (such as EPS 
targets), fair value is measured using either a Binomial model 
or a Black Scholes model. Where share-based payments have 
external performance criteria (such as TSR targets) a Monte 
Carlo model is used to measure fair value. 
For all schemes, the number of options expected to vest is 
recalculated at each balance sheet date, based on 
expectations of leavers prior to vesting. For schemes with 
internal performance criteria, the number of options expected 
to vest is also adjusted based on expectations of performance 
against target. No adjustment is made for expected 
performance against external performance criteria. The 
movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance 
sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a 
corresponding entry in reserves. 
Charges also arise on loans that are provided to employees  
to fund the purchase of shares as part of long term incentive 
plans. To the extent to which the loans are not, in certain 
circumstances, repayable, the cost of the relevant part of  
such loans is expensed over the course of the relevant 
incentive plans. 
g) Retirement benefit obligations 
Company contributions to defined contribution pension 
schemes and contributions made to state pension schemes for 
certain overseas employees are charged to the income 
statement on an accruals basis when employees have 
rendered service entitling them to the contributions. 
For defined benefit pension schemes, the difference between 
the market value of the assets and the present value of the 
accrued pension liabilities is shown as an asset or liability in the 
consolidated balance sheet. The calculation of the present 
value is determined using the projected unit credit method.  
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in actuarial 
assumptions together with experience adjustments and actual 
return on assets are recognised in the consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income and expense as they arise. Such 
amounts are not reclassified to the income statement in 
subsequent years. 
Defined benefit costs recognised in the income statement 
comprise mainly net interest expense or income with such 
interest being recognised within finance costs. Net interest is 
calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined 
benefit liability or asset taking into account any changes in the 
net defined benefit obligation during the year as a result of 
contribution or benefit payments. 
h) Leases 
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of 
the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership to the lessee. The determination of the classification 
of property leases is made by reference to the land and 
buildings elements separately. All leases not classified as 
finance leases are classified as operating leases.  
The Group as a lessor 
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a 
straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial 
direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating 
lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and 
recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
The Group as a lessee  
Finance leases 
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at their fair 
value on acquisition or, if lower, at the present value of the 
minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of 
the lease and depreciated over their estimated useful lives or 
the lease term if shorter. The corresponding obligation to the 
lessor is included in the balance sheet as a liability. Lease 
payments are apportioned between finance charges and 
reduction of the lease obligation. Finance charges are charged 
to the income statement over the term of the lease in 
proportion to the capital element outstanding. 
Operating leases 
Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of  
the lease. Contingent rentals arising under operating leases  
are recognised as an expense in the period in which they  
are incurred.  
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   95 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
96 
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into 
operating leases are amortised through the income statement 
over the period of the lease.  
i) Taxation 
Current tax 
Current tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid  
or recovered using the prevailing tax rates and laws that  
have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance 
sheet date and adjusted for any tax payable in respect of 
previous years. 
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary 
differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability 
in the balance sheet and the tax base value and represent tax 
payable in future periods. Deferred tax assets are recognised 
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be 
available against which deductible temporary differences  
can be utilised.  
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except 
where the Group is able to control the reversal of the 
temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. No 
provision is made for tax which would have been payable on 
the distribution of retained profits of overseas subsidiaries or 
associated undertakings where it has been determined that 
these profits will not be distributed in the foreseeable future. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is 
probable that future taxable profits will be available against 
which the asset can be utilised. Current and deferred tax is 
recognised in the income statement except where it relates to 
an item recognised directly in reserves, in which case it is 
recognised directly in reserves. 
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are 
expected to apply in the years in which the timing differences 
are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that  
have been enacted, or substantially enacted by the balance 
sheet date. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other 
when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax 
jurisdiction and when the Group intends to settle its current  
tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. Deferred tax balances 
are not discounted. 
j) Goodwill  
On acquisition of a subsidiary or associate, the fair value of the 
consideration is allocated between the identifiable net tangible 
and intangible assets and liabilities on a fair value basis, with 
any excess consideration representing goodwill. At the 
acquisition date, goodwill is allocated to each Cash Generating 
Unit (CGU) expected to benefit from the combination and held 
in the currency of the operations to which the goodwill relates. 
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed annually for 
impairment, or more frequently where there is an indication 
that goodwill may be impaired. Impairment is assessed by 
measuring the future cash flows of the CGUs to which the 
goodwill relates. Where the future discounted cash flows are 
less than the carrying value of goodwill, an impairment charge 
is recognised in the income statement. 
On disposal of subsidiary undertakings and businesses, the 
relevant goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or 
loss on disposal. 
k) Intangible assets  
Acquisition intangibles 
Acquisition intangibles comprise brand names and customer 
relationships purchased as part of acquisitions of businesses 
and are capitalised and amortised over their useful economic 
lives on a straight line basis. These intangible assets are stated 
at cost less accumulated amortisation and, where appropriate, 
provision for impairment in value or estimated loss on disposal.  
Amortisation is provided to write off the cost of assets on a 
straight line basis on the following bases: 
Brands 7% to 20% per annum 
Customer relationships 13% to 50% per annum 
 
Software and licences  
Software and licences include costs incurred to acquire the 
assets as well as internal infrastructure and design costs 
incurred in the development of software in order to bring the 
assets into use.  
Internally generated software is recognised as an intangible 
asset only if it can be separately identified, it is probable that 
the asset will generate future economic benefits which exceed 
one year, and the development cost can be measured reliably. 
Where these conditions are not met, development expenditure 
is recognised as an expense in the year in which it is incurred. 
Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer 
software are recognised as an expense as incurred unless they 
increase the future economic benefits of the asset, in which 
case they are capitalised.  
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, 
direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads. 
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases 
the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset  
to which it relates.  
Software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and, 
where appropriate, provision for impairment in value or 
estimated loss on disposal. Amortisation is provided to write 
off the cost of assets on a straight line basis between three  
and eight years. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   96 11/07/2016   18:34  
97 
l) Property, plant & equipment  
Property, plant & equipment are stated at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment 
losses.  
With the exception of land, depreciation is provided to write off 
the cost of the assets over their expected useful lives from the 
date the asset was brought into use or capable of being used. 
Rates applied to different classes of property, plant & 
equipment are as follows: 
Land and buildings 1 ⅔% – 4% per annum 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10 – 33 ⅓% per annum 
 
Assets capitalised as finance leases are depreciated over the 
term of the lease. 
Property, plant & equipment are assessed on an ongoing  
basis to determine whether circumstances exist that could lead 
to the conclusion that the net book value is not supportable. 
Where assets are to be taken out of use, an impairment  
charge is levied. Where the property, plant & equipment form 
part of a separate CGU, such as a store or group of stores, and 
business indicators exist which could lead to the conclusions 
that the net book value is not supportable, the recoverable 
amount of the CGU is determined by calculating its value in 
use. The value in use is calculated by applying discounted 
cash flow modelling to management’s projection of future 
profitability and any impairment is determined by comparing 
the net book value with the value in use.  
m) Financial assets and investments 
The Group’s financial assets comprise cash and cash 
equivalents, and those receivables which involve a contractual 
right to receive cash from external parties. Financial assets 
comprise all items shown in notes 14 and 15 with the 
exception of prepayments. Under the classifications stipulated 
by IAS 39, cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial 
instruments, which are further described in notes 1p) and 26, 
are classified as ‘loans and receivables’ and ‘held for trading 
unless designated in a hedge relationship’, respectively. Trade 
and other receivables (excluding derivative financial assets) are 
classified as ‘loans and receivables’. 
n) Interests in joint ventures 
Joint ventures are joint arrangements whereby the parties that 
have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net 
assets of the arrangement. These consolidated financial 
statements include the Group’s share of the total recognised 
gains and losses of joint ventures using the equity method less 
any impairment losses. When the Group’s interest in a joint 
venture has been reduced to nil because the Group’s share of 
losses exceeds its interest in the joint venture, the Group only 
provides for additional losses to the extent that it has incurred 
legal or constructive obligations to fund such losses, or where 
the Group has made payments on behalf of the joint venture. 
Any associated goodwill is included within the carrying value  
of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of 
that investment. 
o) Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost comprises direct purchase cost and those 
overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories 
to their present location and condition less any attributable 
discounts and bonuses received from suppliers in respect of 
that inventory. Net realisable value is based on estimated 
selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to 
disposal. Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or 
defective items where appropriate. 
p) Cash and cash equivalents  
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in 
hand, bank overdrafts and short term highly liquid deposits 
which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 
Bank overdrafts, which form part of cash and cash equivalents 
for the purpose of the cash flow statement, are shown under 
current liabilities. 
q) Borrowings and other financial liabilities 
The Group’s financial liabilities are those which involve a 
contractual obligation to deliver cash to external parties at a 
future date. Financial liabilities comprise all items shown in 
notes 16 to 19 with the exception of deferred income and other 
non-financial creditors.  
Borrowings  
Borrowings in the Group's balance sheet represent committed 
and uncommitted bank loans. Borrowings are initially recorded 
at the consideration received less directly attributable 
transaction costs. Transaction fees such as bank fees and 
legal costs associated with the securing of financing are 
capitalised and amortised through the income statement over 
the term of the relevant facility. All other borrowing costs are 
recognised in the income statement in the period in which they 
are incurred.  
Under the classifications stipulated by IAS 39, borrowings, 
finance lease obligations and trade and other payables 
(excluding derivative financial liabilities) are classified as 
‘financial liabilities measured at amortised cost’. Derivative 
financial instruments, which are described further in note 26, 
are classified as ‘held for trading unless designated in a  
hedge relationship’. 
Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables (excluding derivative financial 
liabilities) are recorded at cost. Derivative financial instruments, 
are initially recorded at fair value and then subsequently 
remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet date and  
are held within assets or liabilities as appropriate. Gains and 
losses arising from revaluation at the balance sheet date are 
recognised in the income statement unless the derivatives  
are designated as hedges and such hedges are proved to  
be effective. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   97 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
98 
r) Provisions  
Provisions are recognised when a legal or constructive 
obligation exists as a result of past events and it is probable 
that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the 
obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount 
of the obligation. Provisions are discounted where the time 
value of money is considered to be material. 
All provisions are assessed by reference to the best available 
information at the balance sheet date. 
s) Critical accounting judgements and key sources of  
estimation uncertainty  
Critical accounting judgements and estimates used in the 
preparation of the financial statements are continually reviewed 
and revised as necessary. 
Whilst every effort is made to ensure that such judgements and 
estimates are reasonable, by their nature they are uncertain, 
and as such changes may have a material impact. The 
principal items subject to such judgements and estimates are 
as follows: 
Revenue recognition  
For certain transactions with MNOs, commission receivable on 
mobile phone sales depends on customer behaviour after the 
point of sale. The method of measuring the fair value of the 
revenue and associated receivables at the date of sale is to 
estimate all future cash flows that will be received from the 
network and then discount these based on their timing of 
receipt. The associated receivables are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost with remeasurements due to 
changes in customer behaviour recognised in the income 
statement. Assumptions are therefore required, particularly in 
relation to levels of customer default within the contract period, 
expected levels of customer spend, and customer behaviour 
beyond the initial contract period. Further details of estimates 
used to value commission receivable, carrying amounts at the 
balance sheet date, effects on the current year income 
statement of changes in estimates and sensitivity analysis of 
the carrying value can be found in note 26. 
Income received from suppliers such as volume rebates 
The Group has provided enhanced disclosure on supplier 
funding following guidance issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council in December 2014. This disclosure is aimed at assisting 
the users of the financial statements in understanding the 
judgements and estimates made in the recognition of supplier 
funding in the Group’s financial statements. 
The Group’s agreements with suppliers contain a price for units 
purchased as well as other rebates and discounts which are 
summarised below: 
Volume Rebates: This income is linked to purchases made from 
suppliers and is recognised as a reduction to cost of goods sold 
as inventory is sold. Unearned rebates that relate to inventory 
not sold are recognised within the value of inventory at the 
period end. Where an agreement spans period ends, judgement 
is required regarding amounts to be recognised. Forecasts are 
used as well as historical data in the estimation of the level of 
income recognised. Amounts are only recognised where the 
Group has a clear entitlement to the receipt of the rebate and a 
reliable estimate can be made. 
Discounts: This income is received from suppliers on a price per 
unit basis. The level of estimation is minimal as amounts are 
recognised as a reduction to cost of goods sold based on the 
agreement terms and only once the item is sold.  
Marketing income: This income is received in relation to 
marketing activities that are performed on behalf of suppliers. 
Judgement is required to ensure that income is only recognised 
when all performance obligations within the contract have been 
fulfilled and the income is expected to be collected. 
Supplier funding amounts that have been recognised and  
not invoiced are shown within accrued income on the  
balance sheet. 
Inventory valuation  
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost comprises direct purchase cost and those 
overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories 
to their present location and condition. Net realisable value 
represents the estimated selling price less all estimated and 
directly attributable costs of completion and costs to be 
incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. Net realisable 
value includes, where necessary, provisions for slow moving 
and damaged inventory. The provision represents the 
difference between the cost of stock and its estimated net 
realisable value, based on ageing and other factors. 
Calculation of these provisions requires judgements to be 
made which include forecast consumer demand, the 
promotional, competitive and economic environment and 
inventory loss trends. 
Recoverable amount of non-current assets  
All non-current assets, including goodwill and other intangible 
assets, are reviewed for potential impairment using estimates 
of the future economic benefits attributable to them. Any 
estimates of future economic benefits made in relation to non-
current assets may differ from the benefits that ultimately arise 
and materially affect the recoverable value of the asset. The 
methodology and key assumptions used in assessing the 
carrying value of goodwill is set out in note 9 and in respect of 
intangible assets and property, plant & equipment in note 1k) 
and 1l). 
Trade and other receivables  
Provisions for irrecoverable receivables are based on extensive 
historical evidence and the best available information in  
relation to specific issues, but are unavoidably dependent  
on future events. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   98 11/07/2016   18:34  
99 
Taxation  
Tax laws that apply to the Group’s businesses may be 
amended by the relevant authorities, for example as a result of 
changes in fiscal circumstances or priorities. Such potential 
amendments and their application to the Group are monitored 
regularly and the requirement for recognition of any liabilities 
assessed where necessary. The Group is subject to income 
taxes in a number of different jurisdictions and judgement is 
required in determining the appropriate provision for 
transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. 
In such circumstances, the Group recognises liabilities for 
anticipated taxes due based on best information available and 
where the anticipated liability is probable and estimable. Where 
the final outcome of such matters differs from the amounts 
initially recorded, any differences will impact the income tax 
and deferred tax provisions in the year to which such 
determination is made. Where the potential liabilities are not 
considered probable, the amount at risk is disclosed unless an 
adverse outcome is considered remote. The Group has 
recognised provisions in relation to uncertain tax positions of 
£54 million at 30 April 2016 (2015: £41 million). 
Deferred tax is recognised on taxable losses based on the 
expected ability to utilise such losses. This ability takes 
account of the business plans for the relevant companies, 
potential uncertainties around the longer term aspects of these 
business plans, any expiry of taxable benefits and potential 
future volatility in the local tax regimes. 
Provisions 
The Group’s provisions are based on the best information 
available to management at the balance sheet date. 
Judgement is required to assess the likelihood of success of 
any claim made against the Group and if any liability will arise. 
The most significant provision currently is in relation to the 
store reorganisation programme described in note 4. The costs 
and timing of cash flows are dependent on exiting the property 
lease contracts or subletting the property. Significant 
assumptions are used in estimating the ultimate cost to the 
Group including the nature, timing and cost of exiting a lease 
and the level of sublease income. The future costs assumed 
are inevitably only estimates, which may differ from those 
ultimately incurred. Refer to note 20 for further information. 
Defined benefit pension schemes 
The surplus or deficit in the UK defined benefit pension 
scheme that is recognised through the consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income and expense is subject to a number 
of assumptions and uncertainties. The calculated liabilities of 
the scheme are based on assumptions regarding salary 
increases, inflation rates, discount rates and member longevity. 
Such assumptions are based on actuarial advice and are 
benchmarked against similar pension schemes. Refer to note 
21 for further information. 
Acquisition accounting  
Accounting for the Merger involved the use of assumptions in 
relation to the future cash flows associated with acquisition 
intangibles, and the use of valuation techniques in order to 
arrive at the fair value of the other non-current assets and 
liabilities acquired. The assumptions applied were based on 
the best information available to management and valuation 
techniques were supported by third party valuation experts. 
Nevertheless, the actual performance of these assets and 
liabilities may differ from the valuations derived through this 
exercise. Judgement was required in identifying the acquirer  
in accordance with the criteria detailed in IFRS 3 'Business 
Combinations'. The factors considered when identifying the 
acquirer included: i) the entity which issued equity to effect the 
transaction and the terms on which equity interests were 
exchanged ii) the relative voting rights of the entities iii) the 
composition of the board and senior management post 
transaction iv) the existence of any significant minority 
interests; and v) the relative size of the entities. On the basis of 
this analysis we concluded that Carphone Warehouse Group 
plc was the acquirer. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   99 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
100 
t) Recent accounting developments 
There were no new IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that had to 
be implemented during the year that significantly affect these 
financial statements.  
The following new standards, which are applicable to the 
Group, have been published but are not yet effective and have 
not yet been adopted by the EU: 
• IFRS 9 'Financial Instruments'. This standard is the first step 
in the process to replace IAS 39 'Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement'. IFRS 9 introduces new 
requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets 
and affects the accounting for financial assets – IFRS 9 is 
applicable for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. 
• IFRS 15 'Revenue from Contracts with Customers' provides 
guidance on the recognition, timing and measurement of 
revenue. IFRS 15 is applicable for periods beginning on or 
after 1 January 2018. 
• IFRS 16 'Leases' establishes principles for the recognition, 
measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases –  
IFRS 16 is applicable for periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2019. 
It is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the 
effect of the adoption of the above standards until a detailed 
review has been complete, however, IFRS 16 will require the 
Group to recognise a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for 
most of those leases previously treated as operating leases. 
This will affect both non-current and current liabilities, fixed 
assets and the measurement and disclosure of expense 
associated with the leases which under the new standard will 
be treated as depreciation and financing expense which were 
previously recognised as operating expeses over the term of 
the lease. 
Certain other new accounting standards, amendments to 
existing accounting standards and interpretations which are in 
issue but not yet effective, either do not apply to the Group or 
are not expected to have any material impact on the Group's 
net results or net assets.  
2 Segmental analysis  
The Group’s operating segments reflect the segments routinely 
reviewed by the Board and which are used to manage 
performance and allocate resources. This information is 
predominantly based on geographical areas which are either 
managed separately or have similar trading characteristics 
such that they can be aggregated together into one segment.  
As explained in note 25, Virgin Mobile France, the Phone 
House operations in Germany, the Netherlands and Portugal 
have been treated as discontinued operations and are 
therefore excluded from this segmental analysis. 
The Group’s reportable segments have been identified  
as follows: 
• UK & Ireland comprises operations in the UK and Ireland  
as well as operations in airports in the UK and Ireland. 
• Nordics operates in Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark  
and Iceland.  
• Southern Europe comprises operations in Spain and Greece.  
• Connected World Services is the Group’s B2B operation 
which leverages the specialist skills, operating processes 
and technology of the Group to provide managed services 
to third parties looking to develop their own connected  
world solutions. 
UK & Ireland, Nordics and Southern Europe are involved in the 
sale of consumer electronics and mobile technology products 
and services, primarily through stores or online channels. 
Transactions between segments are on an arm’s length basis. 
 
 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   100 11/07/2016   18:34  
101 
2 Segmental analysis continued 
(a) Segmental results 
    Year ended 30 April 2016 
 
UK & 
 Ireland 
£million 
Nordics 
£million 
 Southern 
Europe
£million 
Connected 
World 
Services 
£million 
Eliminations
£million 
Total
 £million 
Headline external revenue  6,404 2,632 550 152 — 9,738 
Inter-segmental revenue  60 — — — (60) — 
Total Headline revenue  6,464 2,632 550 152 (60) 9,738 
        
Headline EBIT before share of results of  
joint ventures 
 
365 79 17 11 — 472 
Share of Headline results of joint ventures   — — — (4) — (4) 
Headline EBIT  365 79 17 7 — 468 
 
Reconciliation of Headline profit to total profit before tax 
 Year ended 30 April 2016
 
Headline
profit /
 (loss)
£million 
Amortisation 
of 
acquisition 
intangibles 
£million 
Dixons 
Retail
Merger 
£million 
Property 
rationalisation 
costs  
£million 
Acquisition 
related 
£million 
Pension 
scheme 
interest 
£million 
Total
profit / 
(loss) 
£million 
UK & Ireland 365 (24) (37) (70) (1) — 233 
Nordics 79 (13) (5) — (5) — 56 
Southern Europe 17 (2) — — — — 15 
Connected World Services 11 (1) (6) — — — 4 
EBIT before share of results of joint ventures 472 (40) (48) (70) (6) — 308 
Share of results of joint ventures  (4) — — — — — (4)
EBIT  468 (40) (48) (70) (6) — 304 
Finance income 17 — — — — — 17 
Finance costs  (38) — (4) — — (16) (58)
Profit / (loss) before tax  447 (40) (52) (70) (6) (16) 263 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   101 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
102 
2 Segmental analysis continued 
(a) Segmental results continued 
 13 months ended 2 May 2015
 
UK & 
 Ireland  
£million 
Nordics 
£million 
 Southern 
Europe
£million 
Connected 
World 
Services 
£million 
Eliminations 
£million 
Total
 £million 
Headline external revenue  5,506 2,055 564 130 — 8,255 
Inter-segmental revenue  64 — — — (64) — 
Total Headline revenue  5,570 2,055 564 130 (64) 8,255 
        
Headline EBIT before share of results of  
joint ventures 
 
313 60 20 7 — 400 
Share of Headline results of joint ventures   — — — — — — 
Headline EBIT  313 60 20 7 — 400 
 
Reconciliation of Headline profit to total profit before tax 
 13 months ended 2 May 2015
   
Headline
profit /
 (loss)
£million 
Amortisation 
of acquisition 
intangibles 
£million 
Dixons 
 Retail 
 Merger 
£million 
Pension 
scheme 
interest  
£million 
Total
profit / 
(loss) 
£million 
UK & Ireland  313 (22)(13) — 278 
Nordics  60 (10)(4) — 46 
Southern Europe  20 (2)— — 18 
Connected World Services  7 (1)— — 6 
Unallocated   — — (24) — (24)
EBIT before share of results of joint ventures  400 (35)(41) — 324 
Share of results of joint ventures    — — — — — 
EBIT   400 (35)(41) — 324 
Finance income   15 — — — 15 
Finance costs   (39) — — (13) (52)
Profit / (loss) before tax   376 (35)(41) (13) 287 
 
Unallocated Merger related costs comprise those that are not directly attributable to a specific segment.
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   102 11/07/2016   18:34  
103 
2 Segmental analysis continued 
b) Geographical information 
Revenues are allocated to countries according to the entity’s country of domicile. Revenue by destination is not materially 
different to that shown by domicile. 
c) Other information 
Non-current assets* Capital expenditure Depreciation/Amortisation
 
Year ended  
30 April
 2016 
£million 
13 months 
ended 
 2 May
2015 
£million 
Year ended 
30 April
 2016 
£million  
13 months  
ended 
 2 May 
2015 
£million 
Year ended 
30 April
 2016 
£million 
13months 
ended 
 2 May
2015 
£million 
UK & Ireland 3,086 2,916 152 127 129 106 
Nordics 1,203 1,152 57 30 40 32 
Southern Europe 62 86 5 4 6 9 
Connected World Services 17 5 7 5 2 2 
 4,368 4,159 221 166 177 149 
 
*Non-current assets above exclude deferred tax assets and assets related to discontinued operations. 
 
3 Revenue and profit / (loss) before interest, taxation and share of results of joint ventures 
 
Year ended 30 April 2016 13 months 2 May 2015
 
Headline
£million 
Non-
Headline 
 £million 
Total 
 £million 
Headline 
£million 
Non-
Headline
£million 
Total
 £million 
Revenue 9,738 — 9,738 8,255 — 8,255 
Cost of sales (7,553) — (7,553)(6,118) — (6,118)
Gross profit 2,185 — 2,185 2,137 — 2,137 
Operating expenses  (1,713) (164) (1,877) (1,737) (76) (1,813)
Profit / (loss) before interest, taxation and share  
of results of joint ventures 472 (164) 308 400 (76) 324 
 
Revenue can be further analysed as follows: 
Year ended 30 April 2016 13 months ended 2 May 2015
 
Headline
£million 
Non-
Headline 
 £million 
Total 
 £million 
Headline 
£million 
Non-
Headline
£million 
Total
 £million 
Sale of goods 7,018 — 7,018 5,641 — 5,641 
Revenue from services 2,720 — 2,720 2,614 — 2,614 
 9,738 — 9,738 8,255 — 8,255 
 
Revenue from services predominantly comprises those relating to commissions from MNOs, insurance, customer support 
agreements, delivery and installation, product repairs and product support. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   103 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
104 
3 Revenue and profit / (loss) before interest, taxation and share of results of joint ventures continued 
Profit / (loss) before interest and taxation for continuing operations is stated after charging / (crediting) the following: 
  
Year ended  
30 April  
2016 
£million 
13 months
 ended 
 2 May 
2015 
£million 
Depreciation of property, plant & equipment 98 83 
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 40 35 
Amortisation of other intangibles 39 31 
Impairment of trade receivables 11 8 
Impairment of inventory 55 68 
Loss on disposal of property, plant & equipment 1 5 
Cost of inventory recognised as an expense 7,343 6,069 
Rentals paid under operating leases:   
Non-contingent rent 340 304 
Contingent rent 17 22 
Rentals received under operating leases – subleases (6) (5)
Investment property rental income (1) (1)
Net foreign exchange losses 2 1 
Share-based payments expense 10 10 
Other employee costs (see note 5) 1,051 890 
 
Auditor’s remuneration comprises the following: 
 
Year ended  
30 April  
2016 
£million 
13 months 
ended 
2 May 
2015 
£million 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.1 0.1 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for their audit of the  
Company’s subsidiaries 1.4 1.9 
Total audit fees 1.5 2.0 
Tax advisory services — 0.2 
Tax compliance services 0.2 0.2 
Other assurance services 0.2 1.3 
Other services — 0.2 
 1.9 3.9 
 
In addition to the above fees, £0.1m (2014/15: £0.1m) of non-audit fees were paid to the auditor in respect of tax compliance and 
tax advisory services to discontinued operations. Other assurance services in the prior period related primarily to the Merger in 
respect of which the external auditor acted as reporting accountant. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   104 11/07/2016   18:34  
105 
4 Non-Headline items 
 Note 
Year ended  
30 April 
2016 
£million 
13 months
 ended 
2 May 
2015 
£million 
Included in profit / (loss) before interest and tax:     
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles (i) (40) (35)
Exceptional items – Dixons Retail Merger  (ii) (48) (41)
  – Property rationalisation costs (iii) (70) — 
  – Acquisition related (iv) (6) — 
   (164) (76)
    
Included in net finance costs:    
Net non-cash finance costs on defined benefit pension schemes (v) (16) (13)
Exceptional items – Dixons Retail Merger  (ii) (4) — 
Total impact on profit / (loss) before tax  (184) (89)
  
Tax on Non-Headline items  26 15 
Total impact on profit / (loss) after tax  (158) (74)
 
Non-Headline items also include discontinued operations, which comprise the results of Virgin Mobile France and the Phone 
House operations in Germany, the Netherlands, and Portugal. The post-tax results of these businesses have been reported 
separately and are further described in note 25. 
(i) Amortisation of acquisition intangibles: 
 A charge of £40 million arose during the year in relation to acquisition intangibles arising on the CPW Europe Acquisition and 
the Dixons Retail Merger (2014/15: £35 million). 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   105 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
106 
4 Non-Headline items continued 
(ii) Exceptional items – Dixons Retail Merger: 
 
Year ended 
30 April 
 2016 
£million 
13 months 
ended 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Merger transaction costs — (9)
Merger integration costs (48) (32)
Revolving Credit Facility fee write off (4) — 
 (52) (41)
 The Dixons Retail Merger is described further in notes 1 and 24. The Merger has given rise to the following costs which have 
been treated as exceptional items: 
• Merger transaction costs comprise banking and professional fees in relation to the transaction. 
• Merger integration costs relate to the reorganisation of the Group following the Merger and comprise the rationalisation  
of certain operational and support functions. These costs mainly comprise professional fees, employee severance and 
property costs associated with the integration process. 
• Revolving Credit Facility fee write off relates to the deferred facility fees written off following the recent refinancing.  
The fees incurred were a result of the Merger and the financing required to facilitate the Merger at short notice 
(iii) Property rationalisation costs: 
 Following the Merger it was announced that the Group would launch a major roll out of its fully refurbished 3-in1 store 
concept in the UK & Ireland. This involves merging the remaining PC World and Currys stores and inserting a Carphone 
Warehouse, reducing the overall store portfolio by 134. The costs associated with this initiative, being early lease termination 
premiums, onerous lease provisions, dilapidations and fixed asset impairments, have been treated as exceptional items. In 
addition a further 50 stores have been exited in the year in the normal course of business and their exit costs have not been 
included in the above item. 
(iv) Acquisition related:  
Acquisition related comprises an increase in the deferred consideration payable on a business acquired by Dixons in the 
Nordics in 2011/12 following better than expected actual and forecast trading (£5 million), and current year costs incurred  
in the acquisition of Simplifydigital and Infocare (£1 million) (note 24). 
(v) Net non-cash financing costs on defined benefit pension schemes:  
 Under IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’, the net interest charge on defined benefit pension schemes is calculated by applying the 
corporate bond yield rates applicable on the last day of the previous financial year to the net defined benefit obligation. 
Corporate bond yield rates vary over time which in turn creates volatility in the income statement and balance sheet and 
results in a non-cash remeasurement cost which can be volatile due to corporate bond yield rates prevailing on a particular 
day and is also unrepresentative of the actual investment gains or losses made or the liabilities paid and payable. Consistent 
with a number of other companies, the accounting effects of these non-cash revaluations of net defined benefit pension 
liabilities have been excluded from Headline earnings. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   106 11/07/2016   18:34  
107 
5 Employee costs and share-based payments  
a) Employee costs 
The aggregate remuneration recognised in the income statement for continuing operations is as follows: 
  
Year ended 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
13 months
 ended 
 2 May
2015 
£million 
Salaries and performance bonuses 921 781 
Social security costs 107 89 
Other pension costs 23 20 
  1,051 890 
Share-based payments 10 10 
  1,061 900 
 
Aggregate remuneration for discontinued operations are salaries and performance bonuses of £6 million (2014/15: £46 million), 
social security costs of £1 million (2014/15: £8 million) and other pension costs of £nil (2014/15: £1 million). 
The average number of employees for continuing operations is: 
  
Year ended  
30 April 
2016 
Number 
13 months
 ended 
2 May
2015 
Number 
UK & Ireland 27,608 23,582 
Nordics 10,283 6,492 
Southern Europe 3,764 2,675 
Connected World Services 192 85 
 41,847 32,834 
 
The average number of employees for discontinued operations is 341 (2014/15: 2,127). 
 
Compensation earned by key management, comprising the Board of directors and senior executives, is as follows: 
  
Year ended  
30 April 
2016 
£million 
13 months
 ended 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Short-term employee benefits 12 15 
Termination benefits — 1 
Share-based payments 2 1 
  14 17 
 
During the 13 months ended 2 May 2015 and year ended 29 March 2014 loans were advanced to members of key management 
in relation to the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan. At 30 April 2016, loans to key management in relation to these schemes 
totalled £10 million (2015: £16 million). Interest is charged on loans at market rates and interest of £0.3 million has been 
recognised during the period (2014/15: £0.4 million). 
Further information about individual directors’ remuneration, share interests, share options, pensions and other entitlements, 
which form part of these financial statements, is provided in the Remuneration Report. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   107 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
108 
5 Employee costs and share-based payments continued 
b) Share-based payments 
i) Share Plan 
During the year ended 29 March 2014, the Group introduced the Share Plan which allows participants to share 10% of the 
incremental value created in the Group in excess of an opening value (assessed on the value of CPW over a three-month period 
prior to approval of the plan by shareholders in June 2013 and, for new entrants during the 13 months ended 2 May 2015, 
assessed on the aggregated value of CPW and Dixons Retail over a one-month period prior to the announcement of preliminary 
merger discussions in February 2014) and beyond an annual rate of return of 7% on invested capital. The plan is underpinned  
by a minimum annual compound TSR growth of 5% and outperformance of the median TSR of the FTSE 250.  
Participants acquired, at market value, participation shares in a subsidiary company that holds the Group’s interests in CPW 
Europe and, since the Merger, Dixons Retail. The Group granted loans to participants at a commercial rate of interest to acquire 
the shares. Loans are ordinarily repayable in full if performance conditions are met.  
The performance of the scheme will ordinarily be measured on or around June 2017, when 60% of the shares vest, with 40% 
deferred for a further year. When the awards vest, the value of the shares held by participants will be based on the incremental 
value (if any) of Dixons Carphone in excess of the opening valuation together with the minimum return on invested capital. These 
shares will then be purchased by the Company for cash and / or the Company’s ordinary shares. 
A ‘bad leaver’ will be required to transfer the participation shares to such party as the Company designates for an amount equal 
to the total amount outstanding under the loan. If the market value of the shares is less than the amount of the outstanding loan 
(and any accrued interest) then the participant may be required to repay up to 20% of the shortfall out of their own resources. 
A participant shall be a ‘good leaver’ at the sole discretion of the Remuneration Committee and may be permitted to retain an 
award notwithstanding the termination of their employment.  
The mechanics of the plan may be varied by the Remuneration Committee if necessary to ensure that participants are neither 
advantaged nor disadvantaged by a variation of the share capital of the Company, bona fide merger, reconstruction or similar 
reorganisation. 
ii) Share option schemes 
During the year ended 29 March 2014, the Group introduced a share option scheme which allows nil-priced options to be 
offered to senior employees who are not participants in the Share Plan.  
Options were first granted under the scheme in January 2014. The options are subject to continuing employment and are subject 
to performance conditions based on a combination of absolute TSR performance and relative TSR performance against the 
FTSE 250 or FTSE 350. 
Following the Merger with Dixons Retail plc on 6 August 2014, the Company assumed the obligation to satisfy outstanding 
Dixons share options awarded under the Dixons Retail Employee Share Option Scheme and Executive Share Option Plan, with 
employees eligible to acquire 0.155 Dixons Carphone shares for each Dixons option held. All outstanding Dixons awards had 
vested before the Merger, and were exercisable within six months post-Merger. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   108 11/07/2016   18:34  
109 
5 Employee costs and share-based payments continued 
b) Share-based payments continued 
ii) Share option schemes continued 
The following table summarises the number and weighted average exercise price of share options for these schemes: 
  
Year ended  
30 April 2016 
13 months ended 
2 May 2015 
  
Number 
million 
WAEP 
£ 
Number 
million 
WAEP
£ 
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 17 — 9 — 
Dixons options assumed on Merger — — 1 — 
Granted during the period 1 — 11 — 
Lapsed during the period (4) — (3) — 
Exercised during the period — — (1) — 
Outstanding at the end of the period 14 — 17 — 
Exercisable at the end of the period — — — — 
 
 
Year ended  
30 April 
2016 
13 months
ended 
2 May
2015 
Weighted average market price of options exercised in the period  — £4.18 
Weighted average remaining contractual life of awards outstanding  8.3 yrs 9.1 yrs 
Exercise price for options outstanding  £nil £nil 
 
iii) SAYE scheme 
The Group has SAYE schemes which allow participants to save up to £500 per month for either three or five years. At the end  
of the savings period, participants can purchase shares in the Company based on a discounted share price determined at the 
commencement of the scheme. Participants in the Dixons Retail plc SAYE scheme had the opportunity to roll over their awards 
into options over shares in the merged entity, Dixons Carphone, on completion of the Merger. Employees who chose to roll over 
received 0.155 options in Dixons Carphone in exchange for each Dixons option held. The savings period and exercise date of 
these options remain unchanged. If employees chose not to roll over their options, they could exercise the value saved within  
six months of the Merger in return for 0.155 Dixons Carphone shares for each Dixons option held. 
The following table summarises the number and WAEP of share options for these schemes: 
 
Year ended  
30 April 2016 
13 months ended 
2 May 2015 
  
Number 
million 
WAEP 
£ 
Number 
million 
WAEP
£ 
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 13 2.71 3 2.24 
Dixons options assumed on Merger — — 6 1.20 
Granted during the period 4 3.77 7 3.44 
Exercised during the period (2) 1.03 (2) 2.24 
Lapsed during period (2) 3.13 (1) 1.76 
Outstanding at the end of the period 13 3.22 13 2.71 
Exercisable at the end of the period — — — — 
 
 
Year ended  
30 April 
2016 
13 months
 ended 
2 May
2015 
Weighted average market price of options exercised in the period  £4.38 £3.82 
Weighted average remaining contractual life of awards outstanding  2.6 yrs 2.8 yrs 
Range of exercise prices for options outstanding  
£2.09 –
£3.77 
£0.92 –
£3.44 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   109 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
110 
5 Employee costs and share-based payments continued 
b) Share-based payments continued 
iv) Fair value model 
The fair value of options was estimated at the date of grant using a Monte Carlo model. The model combines the market price  
of a share at the date of grant with the probability of meeting performance criteria, based on the historical performance of 
Carphone Warehouse and, for options issued subsequent to the Merger on 6 August 2014, the historical performance of Dixons. 
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the period was £0.74 (2014/15: £1.34). The following table lists the 
inputs to the model: 
 
Year ended  
30 April 
2016 
13 months
 ended 
2 May
2015  
Exercise price 
£nil –
£3.77 
£nil –
£3.44 
Dividend yield 2.3% 2.2% 
Historical and expected volatility 
27% –
28% 
31% –
35% 
Expected option life 
4 –  
10 yrs 
4 – 
10 yrs 
Weighted average share price £4.35 £4.14 
 
v) Charge to the income statement and entries in reserves  
During the year ended 30 April 2016, the Group recognised a non-cash accounting charge to profit and loss of £10 million 
(13 months ended 2 May 2015: £10 million) in respect of equity settled share-based payments, with a corresponding credit 
through reserves.  
c) Employee Share Ownership Trust (ESOT) 
30 April 2016 2 May 2015
 
Market 
value 
£million 
Nominal 
value
 £million 
Number 
million 
Market 
value  
£million 
Nominal 
value 
 £million 
Number 
million 
Investment in own shares 3 — 0.7 4 — 0.9 
Maximum number of shares held during the period 10 — 2.2 18 — 5.2 
 
The Group has two ESOTs for the purposes of satisfying potential awards to employees under the Group’s share plans. The 
number of shares held by the trusts, which are shown in the table above, remain held for potential awards under outstanding 
plans. The costs of funding and administering the ESOTs are charged to the income statement in the year to which they relate. 
Shareholders’ funds are reduced by the net book value of shares held in the ESOTs.  
During the year, 1.9 million shares were purchased by the Dixons Retail plc ESOT for net cash consideration (after the receipt  
of the exercise price from employees) of £5 million. 
The ESOTs have waived their rights to receive dividends and the shares have not been allocated to specific schemes.  
 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   110 11/07/2016   18:34  
111 
6 Net finance costs  
 
Year ended  
30 April 
2016 
£million 
13 months 
ended 
2 May
 2015 
£million 
Unwind of discounts on trade receivables 17 15 
Finance income 17 15 
 
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans  (16) (17)
Finance lease interest payable (6) (4)
Net interest on defined benefit pension obligations
(i)
 (16) (13)
Unwind of discounts on liabilities (10) (11)
Amortisation of facility fees (2) (3)
Revolving credit facility fee write off 
(i)
 (4) — 
Other interest expense (4) (4)
Finance costs (58) (52)
 
Total net finance costs (41) (37)
 
Headline total net finance costs (21) (24)
 
(i) Headline finance costs exclude net interest on defined benefit pension obligations and the write off of revolving credit facility fees (see note 4). 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   111 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
112 
7 Tax 
a) Tax expense  
The corporation tax charge comprises: 
   
Year ended  
30 April 
2016 
£million 
13 months
 ended 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Current tax    
UK corporation tax at 20%
 
(2014/15 20.92%
(i)
) – Headline  71 61 
       – Non-Headline * (15) (12)
Overseas tax    – Headline  23 25 
       – Non-Headline * (2) (3)
  77 71 
Adjustments made in respect of prior years:    
UK Corporation tax   – Headline  (1) 6 
      – Non-Headline * (6) — 
Overseas tax    – Headline  (5) (2)
   (12) 4 
    
Total current tax  65 75 
    
Deferred tax    
UK tax       – Headline  19 10 
       – Non-Headline * — 2 
Overseas tax    – Headline  2 (2)
       – Non-Headline * (3) (3)
  18 7 
Adjustments in respect of prior years:    
UK Corporation tax   – Headline  2 (8)
      – Non-Headline * —  1 
Overseas tax    – Headline  (1) 1 
  1 (6)
   
Total deferred tax  19 1 
    
Total tax charge  84 76 
    
Headline tax charge
(ii)
  110 91 
 
(i) The UK corporation tax rate for the 12 months ended 30 April 2016 was 20% (13 months ended 2 May 2015 was 21% for the 12 months to 
31 March 2015 and 20% thereafter). 
(ii) The Headline tax charge excludes those items marked *. 
 
Tax related to discontinued operations is included in the figures set out in note 25. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   112 11/07/2016   18:34  
113 
7 Tax continued 
b) Reconciliation of notional to actual (effective) tax rate 
The principal differences between the total tax charge shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate  
of UK corporation tax to profit / (loss) before taxation are as follows: 
Year ended 30 April 2016 13 months ended 2 May 2015
 
Headline 
£million 
Non-
Headline 
£million 
Statutory 
£million 
Headline 
£million 
Non-
Headline 
£million 
Statutory 
£million 
Profit / (loss) before taxation 447 (184) 263 376 (89) 287 
     
Tax at UK statutory rate of 20% (2014/15: 21%) 89 (37) 52 79 (19) 60 
Differences in effective overseas tax rates 5 — 5 7 (1) 6 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (5) (6) (11) (2) — (2)
Items attracting no tax relief or liability 15 16 31 11 5 16 
Movement in unprovided deferred tax 2 1 3 (5) — (5)
Effect of change in statutory tax rate 3 — 3 — — — 
Other differences 1 — 1 1 — 1 
Total tax charge / (credit) 110 (26) 84 91 (15) 76 
 
The effective tax rate on Headline earnings of 25% (2014/15: 24%) has increased compared to the prior year due to the change 
in statutory tax rate and certain non-deductible items mainly in the UK. 
Although a further reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 17% from 1 April 2020 has been announced by the UK 
Government, this has not been substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and so has not been used in the recognition  
of deferred tax balances. 
Items attracting no tax relief or liability relate primarily to non-deductible lease exit costs and capital expenditure upon which no 
tax deductions are available in respect of capital allowances (2014/15: related primarily to non-deductible lease exit costs).  
c) Deferred tax  
 
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£million 
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations 
£million 
Losses 
 carried 
forward 
£million 
Other 
temporary 
differences 
£million 
Total 
£million 
At 29 March 2014 21 — 3 12 36 
Dixons Retail Merger (41) 83 — 58 100 
Credited / (charged) directly to income statement 3 — 1 (5) (1)
Credited to equity — 15 — 12 27 
At 2 May 2015 (17) 98 4 77 162 
Charged directly to income statement (7) — (1) (11) (19)
Charged to equity — (13) — (11) (24)
Reclassification — (1) — 1 — 
At 30 April 2016 (24) 84 3 56 119 
 
Deferred tax comprises the following balances:  
 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Deferred tax assets 234 263 
Deferred tax liabilities (115) (101)
 119 162 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   113 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
114 
7 Tax continued 
Analysis of deferred tax relating to items (charged) / credited to equity in the period 
 
Year ended  
30 April 
2016 
£million 
13 months
2 May
2015 
£million 
Defined benefit pension schemes  (13) 15 
Share-based payments (7) 12 
Other temporary differences (4) — 
 (24) 27 
 
The Group has total unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses of £1,414 million (2014/15: £1,444 million). No  
deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the losses due to the lack of certainty regarding the availability of future 
taxable profits. The unrecognised tax losses may be carried forward indefinitely. 
There were no temporary differences associated with undistributable earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities  
had not been recognised at the end of either year. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   114 11/07/2016   18:34  
115 
8 Earnings per share 
 
 
Year ended 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
13 months
 ended 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Headline earnings    
Continuing operations  337 285 
    
Total earnings / (loss)    
Continuing operations   179 211 
Discontinued operations  (18) (114)
Total   161 97 
    
   Million Million
Weighted average number of shares    
Average shares in issue  1,151 964 
Less average holding by Group ESOT  (1) (3)
For basic earnings per share  1,150 961 
Dilutive effect of share options and other incentive schemes  38 32 
For diluted earnings per share  1,188 993 
    
  Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share    
Total (continuing and discontinued operations)  14.0 10.1 
Adjustment in respect of discontinued operations  1.6 11.9 
Continuing operations  15.6 22.0 
Adjustments for Non-Headline – continuing operations (net of taxation)  13.7 7.7 
Headline basic earnings per share  29.3 29.7 
    
Diluted earnings per share    
Total (continuing and discontinued operations)  13.6 9.8 
Adjustment in respect of discontinued operations  1.5 11.4 
Continuing operations  15.1 21.2 
Adjustments for Non-Headline – continuing operations (net of taxation)  13.3 7.5 
Headline diluted earnings per share  28.4 28.7 
 
Basic and diluted earnings per share are based on the profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders. Headline earnings 
per share is presented in order to show the underlying performance of the Group. Adjustments used to determine Headline 
earnings are described further in note 4. 
 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   115 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
116 
9 Goodwill  
 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
At beginning of period 2,989 481 
Additions (note 24) 26 — 
Dixons Retail Merger — 2,629 
Impairment — (35)
Foreign exchange 39 (86)
At end of period 3,054 2,989 
Cost 3,054 2,989 
Accumulated impairment — — 
 3,054 2,989 
 
a) Carrying value of goodwill 
The components of goodwill comprise the following businesses: 
 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
UK & Ireland – Dixons 1,634 1,633 
UK – Carphone Warehouse 405 405 
Ireland – Carphone Warehouse 7 7 
Nordics 959 916 
Spain 30 28 
Simplifydigital  19 — 
 3,054 2,989 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   116 11/07/2016   18:34  
117 
9 Goodwill continued 
b) Goodwill impairment testing  
As required by IAS 36, goodwill is subject to annual impairment reviews. These reviews are carried out using the  
following criteria: 
• business acquisitions generate an attributed amount of goodwill;  
• the manner in which these businesses are run and managed is used to determine the CGU grouping as defined in IAS 36 
‘Impairment of Assets’; 
• the recoverable amount of each CGU group is determined based on calculating its value in use (VIU); 
• the VIU is calculated by applying discounted cash flow modelling to management’s own projections covering a five-year 
period; 
• cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a long-term growth rate equivalent to long-term forecasts  
of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth rates for the relevant market; and 
• the VIU is then compared to the carrying amount in order to determine whether impairment has occurred.  
The key assumptions used in calculating value in use are: 
• management’s projections; 
• the growth rate beyond five years; and  
• the pre-tax discount rate.  
The long term projections, which have been approved by management, have been prepared using three-year strategic plans as  
a base extrapolated to five years and which have regard to the relative performance of competitors and knowledge of the current 
market together with management’s views on the future achievable growth in market share and impact of the committed 
initiatives. The cash flows which derive from these five-year projections include ongoing capital expenditure required to develop 
and upgrade the store network in order to maintain and operate the businesses and to compete in their markets. In forming the 
five-year projections, management draws on past experience as a measure to forecast future performance. 
Key assumptions used in determining the five year projections comprise the growth in sales and costs over this period. The 
compound annual growth rate in sales and costs can rise as well as fall year-on-year depending not only on the year five targets,  
but also on the current financial year base. These targets, when combined, accordingly drive the resulting profit margins and the 
profit in year five of the projections which is in turn used to calculate the terminal value in the VIU calculation. Historical amounts  
for the businesses under impairment review as well as from other parts of the Group are used to generate the values attributed  
to these assumptions. 
The value attributed to these assumptions for the most significant components of goodwill are as follows: 
 30 April 2016 2 May 2015 
 
Compound  
annual 
growth 
 in sales 
Compound
 annual 
growth
 in costs 
Growth rate 
beyond 
five years 
Pre-tax
 discount 
rate 
Compound 
annual 
growth
 in sales 
Compound  
annual 
growth 
 in costs 
Growth rate 
beyond 
five years 
Pre-tax 
 discount rate 
UK – Carphone Warehouse 2.8% 2.6% 2.1% 8.8% 3.2% 2.5% 2.9% 9.5% 
UK & Ireland – Dixons  2.3% 2.1% 2.1% 8.8% 2.3% 2.0% 2.9% 9.5% 
Nordics 4.4% 4.3% 2.0% 8.1% 4.9% 4.8% 2.2% 8.5% 
 
Growth rates used were determined based on third party long-term growth rate forecasts and are based on the GDP growth rate 
for the territories in which the businesses operate. The pre-tax discount rates applied to the forecast cash flows reflect current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs. 
c) Goodwill impairment sensitivity analysis  
A sensitivity analysis has been performed on each of the base case assumptions used for assessing the goodwill with other 
variables held constant. Consideration of sensitivities to key assumptions can evolve from one financial year to the next.  
The directors have concluded that there are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions which would cause the carrying 
amount of goodwill to exceed its value in use.  
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   117 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
118 
10 Intangible assets 
 Acquisition intangibles  
 
Brands 
£million 
Customer 
relationships 
£million 
Sub-total 
£million 
Software 
and 
licences 
£million 
Total 
£million 
Balance at 3 May 2015 336 26 362 163 525 
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary (note 24) — 20 20 3 23 
Additions — — — 63 63 
Amortisation (26) (14) (40) (39) (79)
Foreign exchange 7 (1) 6 2 8 
Balance at 30 April 2016 317 31 348 192 540 
      
Cost 364 73 437 277 714 
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses (47) (42) (89) (85) (174)
Balance at 30 April 2016 317 31 348 192 540 
 
 Acquisition intangibles  
 
Brands 
£million 
Customer 
relationships 
£million 
Sub-total 
£million 
Software 
and 
 licences 
£million 
Total 
£million 
Balance at 30 March 2014 8 42 50 86 136 
Dixons Retail Merger 365 8 373 30 403 
Additions — 2 2 86 88 
Amortisation (21) (17) (38) (32) (70)
Impairment (1)(6)(7) (3) (10)
Disposal of business — (1) (1) — (1)
Reclassification to held for sale — — — (2) (2)
Foreign exchange (15) (2) (17) (2) (19)
Balance at 2 May 2015 336 26 362 163 525 
      
Cost 357 54 411 209 620 
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses (21) (28) (49) (46) (95)
Balance at 2 May 2015 336 26 362 163 525 
 
Software and licences include assets with a cost of £17 million (2015: £35 million) on which amortisation has not been charged 
as the assets have not yet been brought into use.  
Individually material intangible assets  
Customer relationships and brands include intangible assets which are considered individually material to the financial 
statements. The primary intangible assets, their net book values and remaining amortisation periods are as follows: 
 
Net book 
value 
£million 
Remaining 
amortisation 
period 
Years 
CurrysPCWorld 151 14 
Elgiganten 66 14 
Elkjøp 49 14 
Gigantti 31 14 
Simplifydigital 20 5 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   118 11/07/2016   18:34  
119 
11 Property, plant & equipment 
   
Land and 
buildings 
£million 
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
other 
equipment 
£million 
Total 
£million 
Balance at 3 May 2015   93 234 327 
Acquisition of subsidiary (note 24)   — 1 1 
Additions   33 124 157 
Depreciation  (6) (92) (98)
Disposals  (20) (3) (23)
Impairment (note 4)   — (4) (4)
Foreign exchange   — 6 6 
Balance as at 30 April 2016   100 266 366 
      
Cost   117 451 568 
Accumulated depreciation   (17) (185) (202)
Balance as at 30 April 2016   100 266 366 
    
Included in net book value as at 30 April 2016      
Land not depreciated   8 — 8 
Assets in the course of construction   — 40 40 
Assets held under finance leases   57 — 57 
 
   
Land and 
buildings 
£million 
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
other 
equipment 
£million 
Total 
£million 
Balance at 30 March 2014   40 50 90 
Dixons Retail Merger   70 196 266 
Additions   4 81 85 
Depreciation  (8) (75)(83)
Disposals  (9) (5)(14)
Transferred to assets held for sale  (2) (2) (4)
Impairment  (1) (2)(3)
Foreign exchange   (1) (9) (10)
Balance as at 2 May 2015   93 234 327 
      
Cost   104 319 423 
Accumulated depreciation   (11) (85)(96)
Balance as at 2 May 2015   93 234 327 
    
Included in net book value as at 2 May 2015      
Land not depreciated   8 — 8 
Assets in the course of construction   — 16 16 
Assets held under finance leases   65 2 67 
 
Freehold land and buildings include the Group’s investment property. The fair value of investment property was determined by 
an external, independent property valuation expert as £14 million (2015: £14 million). The valuation expert has appropriate 
recognised professional qualifications as well as recent experience in the location and category of the properties being valued. 
The valuation of properties was performed by reference to appropriate yield rates and market evidence of recent transactions. 
Future minimum lease income in respect of the Group’s investment properties is set out in note 30. 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   119 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
120 
12 Interests in joint ventures 
The principal interests in joint ventures are as follows: 
Name Country of incorporation or registration Nature of business 
30 April 
2016 
Interest 
2 May
 2015 
Interest 
Sprint Connect LLC United States of America Distribution 50.0% n/a 
 
The Group’s interests in joint ventures are analysed as follows: 
 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Opening balance — — 
Additions 9 — 
Share of results (4) — 
Closing balance 5 — 
 
The share of results recognised all relate to continuing operations. There were no items of other comprehensive income in the 
period and therefore the share of results represents the Group’s share of total comprehensive income. The Group has entered 
into a joint venture with Sprint Corporation to manage Sprint branded stores in the US. The Group has committed to investing up 
to $32 million to fund the roll-out and operation of up to 500 stores. 
13 Inventory 
 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Finished goods and goods for resale 958 920 
 
14 Trade and other receivables 
  
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Trade receivables 1,304 1,010 
Less provision for bad and doubtful debts (20) (20)
 1,284 990 
Prepayments  100 124 
Other receivables 115 74 
Accrued income 22 22 
Derivative financial assets 18 15 
 1,539 1,225 
    
Non-current 408  318 
Current 1,131 907 
 1,539 1,225 
 
The majority of trade and other receivables are non-interest bearing. Non-current receivables mainly comprise commission 
receivable on sales. Where the effect is material, trade and other receivables are discounted using discount rates which reflect 
the relevant costs of financing. The carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates fair value. 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   120 11/07/2016   18:34  
121 
14 Trade and other receivables continued 
 
30 April 2016 2 May 2015
 
Gross trade 
receivables 
£million 
Provision 
£million 
Net trade 
receivables 
£million 
Gross trade 
receivables 
£million 
Provision 
£million 
Net trade 
receivables 
£million 
Ageing of gross trade receivables and provisions:       
Not yet due 1,186 (7) 1,179 848 (6) 842 
Past due:     
Under two months 57 (1) 56 52 (5) 47 
Two to four months 14 (1) 13 17 — 17 
Over four months 47 (11) 36 93 (9) 84 
 118 (13) 105 162 (14) 148 
     
 1,304 (20) 1,284 1,010 (20) 990 
 
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: 
  
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Opening balance (20) (20)
Dixons Retail Merger — (19)
Charged to the income statement (11) (8)
Receivables written off as irrecoverable 11 16 
Disposals — 2 
Transferred to assets held for sale — 8 
Foreign exchange — 1 
Closing balance (20) (20)
 
The Group’s trade receivables included the following amounts which were past due, but for which the Group has made no 
provision based on historical rates of recoverability.  
  
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Under two months 56 47 
Two to four months 13 17 
Over four months  36 84 
  105 148 
 
15 Cash and cash equivalents 
  
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Cash at bank and on deposit 233 163 
 
Cash at bank and on deposit includes short term bank deposits which are available on demand. Within cash and cash 
equivalents, £67 million (2015: £92 million) is restricted and predominantly comprises funds held under trust to fund potential 
customer support agreement liabilities as well as by the Group’s insurance businesses to cover regulatory reserve requirements. 
These funds are not available to offset the Group’s borrowings. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   121 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
122 
16 Trade and other payables 
30 April 2016 2 May 2015
 
Current 
£million 
Non-
current 
£million 
Current 
£million 
Non-
current 
£million 
Trade payables 1,373 — 1,097 — 
Other taxes and social security 271 — 205 — 
Derivative financial instruments 42 — 26 — 
Other creditors 108 206 103 277 
Accruals 360 60 384 72 
Deferred income 156 157 146 147 
 2,310 423 1,961 496 
 
Non-current other creditors relate principally to property leases that are deemed to be over-rented. These liabilities are unwound 
over the period of the relevant lease, of up to 21 years. The carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their  
fair value. 
17 Deferred and contingent consideration 
30 April 2016 2 May 2015
 
Current 
£million 
Non-
current 
£million 
Current 
£million 
Non-
current 
£million 
Deferred consideration 12 21 25 6 
 
 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Opening balance 31 50 
Dixons Retail Merger — 6 
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary (note 24) 23 — 
Settlements (26) (25)
Change in valuation (note 4) 5 — 
Closing balance 33 31 
 
Earn-out consideration of up to £23 million is payable in cash and is contingent on the performance of Simplifydigital and  
the Epoq kitchen business against earnings growth targets over a period of up to five years. The fair value of contingent 
consideration arrangements has been estimated by applying the income approach. A reduction in growth assumptions  
used in the fair value methodology would result in a reduction in the amount of contingent consideration payable. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   122 11/07/2016   18:34  
123 
18 Loans and other borrowings  
  
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Current liabilities 
Bank overdrafts — 55 
 — 55 
Non-current liabilities 
Loans and other borrowings 409 330 
 409 330 
 
Committed facilities 
On 8 October 2015 the Group signed a new multi-currency revolving credit facility for £800 million, which matures in October 
2020 and replaced the multi-currency term and revolving credit facility which was previously in place. The rate of interest payable 
on borrowings is a margin of 1.35% per annum over the applicable reference rate. 
The facilities require guarantees to be provided by certain Group entities under the facilities. 
Bank overdraft and other uncommitted facilities  
The Group has overdraft and uncommitted money market facilities totalling approximately £128 million (2015: £157 million).  
19 Finance lease obligations  
30 April 2016 2 May 2015
 
Minimum
lease
 payments 
£million 
Present 
value of 
minimum 
lease 
payments 
£million 
Minimum
lease
 payments 
£million 
Present 
value of 
minimum
lease
payments 
£million 
Amounts due:     
Within one year 9 8 8 8 
In more than one year and not more than five years 35 29 33 26 
In more than five years 111 54 114 57 
 155 91 155 91 
Less future finance charges (64) — (64) — 
Present value of lease obligations 91 91 91 91 
Less amounts due within one year (2) (2) (2) (2)
Amounts due after more than one year 89 89 89 89 
 
The majority of finance leases relate to properties in the UK where obligations are denominated in Sterling and remaining lease 
terms vary between 9 and 20 years. The effective borrowing rate on individual leases ranged between 5.51% and 8.67% (2015: 
5.51% and 8.15%). Interest rates are fixed at the contract date. All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements 
have been entered into for contingent rental payments. 
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   123 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
124 
20 Provisions 
 
   30 April 2016 2 May 2015
 
Reorg-
anisation 
£million 
Sales 
£million 
Property 
£million 
Other 
£million 
Total 
£million 
Reorg-
anisation 
£million 
Sales 
£million 
Property 
£million 
Other 
£million 
Total 
£million 
At beginning of 
period 23 6 25 21 75 22 10 — 18 50 
Dixons Retail Merger — — — — — 31 — 27 — 58 
Additions 15 42 71 4 132 39 2 1 6 48 
Released in the 
period — — 
 
— (1) (1) (4) — — — (4)
Utilised in the period (26) (40) (6) (9) (81) (63) (5) (3) (1) (72)
Reclassification to 
held for sale — — 
 
— — — (1) — — (1) (2)
Disposal of business — — — — — — — — (1) (1)
Foreign exchange — — — — — (1) (1) — — (2)
At end of period 12 8 90 15 125 23 6 25 21 75 
           
Analysed as:           
Current 12 7 44 15 78 20 6 7 21 54 
Non-current — 1 46 — 47 3 — 18 — 21 
 12 8 90 15 125 23 6 25 21 75 
 
Reorganisation provisions relate principally to Merger related costs and redundancy costs and other onerous contracts arising  
as a result of reorganisation, and are only recognised where plans are demonstrably committed and where appropriate 
communication to those affected has been undertaken at the balance sheet date.  
Sales provisions relate to ‘cash-back’ and similar promotions, product warranties, product returns, and network operator 
performance penalties. The anticipated costs of these items are assessed by reference to historical trends and any other 
information that is considered to be relevant. 
Property provisions relate mainly to costs associated with operating lease early exist premiums, onerous leases and provisions 
for dilapidations. Additions during the year ended 30 April 2016 relate principally to property rationalisation costs as described  
in note 4. 
Other provisions relate to warranties provided in relation to business disposals and provisions in respect of the expected costs  
of insurance claims, contingent liabilities recognised through business combinations, and other onerous contracts. 
Non-current provisions are expected to be utilised over a period up to ten years.  
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   124 11/07/2016   18:34  
125 
21 Retirement and other post-employment benefit obligations 
 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
 2015 
£million 
Retirement benefit obligations – UK 472 486 
    – Nordics 2 3 
 474 489 
 
The Group operates a defined benefit and a number of defined contribution schemes. The principal scheme which operates in 
the UK includes a funded defined benefit section whose assets are held in a separate trustee administered fund. The scheme is 
valued by a qualified actuary at least every three years and contributions are assessed in accordance with the actuary’s advice. 
Since 1 September 2002, the defined benefit section of the scheme has been closed to new entrants and on 30 April 2010 was 
closed to future accrual with automatic entry into the defined contribution section being offered to those active members of the 
defined benefit section at that time. Membership of the defined contribution section is offered to eligible employees. 
In the Nordics division, the Group operates small funded secured defined benefit pension schemes, which are also closed  
to new entrants, with assets held by a life insurance company as well as an unsecured pension arrangement. In addition, 
contributions are made to state pension schemes with defined benefit characteristics. 
The defined benefit pension schemes expose the Group to actuarial risks such as longer than expected longevity of members, 
lower than expected return on investments and higher than expected inflation, which may increase the liabilities or reduce the 
value of assets of the plans. 
a) Defined contribution pension schemes 
The pension charge in respect of defined contribution schemes was £23 million (2014/15: £20 million). 
b) UK Defined benefit pension scheme – actuarial valuation and assumptions 
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme was last carried out as at 31 March 2013 and showed a shortfall of assets compared  
with liabilities of £373 million. A ‘recovery plan’ based on this valuation was agreed with the Trustee post the Dixons Retail 
Merger such that contributions in respect of the scheme year end of 31 March of £35 million were made in 2015/16, rising to  
£36 million for 2016/17. Contributions rise to £47 million by 2024/25. The next triennial valuation has commenced and will be  
as at 31 March 2016. 
The principal actuarial assumptions as at 31 March 2013 were: 
  Rate per annum
Discount rate for accrued benefits
†
 – Growth portfolio 5.9% 
 – Matching portfolio 3.8% 
Rate of increase to pensions   0% – 3.8% 
Inflation  3.4% 
 
† The discount rate is based on a linear de-risking methodology which assumes the Scheme’s investment strategy switches investments from 
growth assets (such as equities) to matching assets (such as bonds) over a period of 30 years from 2013 to 2043 so that in 30 years’ time 
the asset portfolio is projected to be 80% invested in matching assets.  
 
At 31 March 2013, the market value of the scheme’s investments was £812 million and, based on the above assumptions,  
the value of the assets was sufficient to cover 69% of the benefits accrued to members with the liabilities amounting to  
£1,185 million. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   125 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
126 
21 Retirement and other post-employment benefit obligations continued 
c) UK Defined benefit pension scheme – IAS 19 
The following summarises the components of net defined benefit expense recognised in the consolidated income statement,  
the funded status and amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and other amounts recognised in the statement  
of comprehensive income. The methodologies set out in IAS 19 are different from those used by the scheme actuaries in 
determining funding arrangements. 
(i) Principal assumptions adopted 
The assumptions used in calculating the expenses and obligations are set by the directors after consultation with the 
independent actuaries. 
 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Rates per annum   
Discount rate 3.5% 3.5% 
Rate of increase in pensions in payment /  
deferred pensions (pre / post April 2006 accrual) 
2.9% / 
2.1% 
2.9% /
1.9% 
Inflation 2.95% 3.1% 
 
The Group uses demographic assumptions underlying the last formal actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 31 March 2013.  
In particular, post retirement mortality has been assumed to follow the standard mortality tables ‘S1’ All Pensioners tables 
published by the CMI, based on the experience of Self-Administered Pension Schemes (SAPS) with multipliers of 105% for 
males and 110% for females. In addition, an allowance has been made for future improvements in longevity from 2003 by using 
the new CMI 2013 Core projections with a long term rate of improvement of 1.5% per annum for men and 1.25% per annum for 
women. Applying such tables results in an average expected longevity of between 87.2 years and 88.9 years for men and 
between 88.9 years and 90.3 years for women for those reaching 65 over the next 15 years. 
(ii) Amounts recognised in consolidated income statement 
 
Year ended  
30 April 
2016 
£million 
13 months
 ended 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Net interest expense on defined benefit obligation 16 13 
 
(iii) Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: 
 
Year ended  
30 April 
2016 
£million 
13 months
 ended 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation – actuarial gains / (losses) arising from:    
Changes in financial assumptions 25 (168)
Experience adjustments 27 19 
Change in demographic assumptions — (9)
Remeasurement of scheme assets:    
Actual return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest expense) (57) 86 
Cumulative actuarial loss (5) (72)
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   126 11/07/2016   18:34  
127 
21 Retirement and other post-employment benefit obligations continued 
(iv) Amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet 
 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Present value of defined benefit obligations (1,395) (1,431)
Fair value of plan assets 923 945 
Net obligation (472) (486)
 
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation: 
 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Opening obligation at 3 May 2015  1,431 — 
Dixons Retail Merger — 1,259 
Interest cost 49 38 
Remeasurements in other comprehensive income – actuarial losses / (gains) arising from changes in:   
Financial assumptions (25) 168 
Experience (27) (19)
Demographic assumptions — 9 
Benefits paid (33) (24)
Closing obligation 1,395 1,431 
 
The weighted average maturity profile of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the year is 21 years. 
Changes in the fair value of the scheme assets: 
 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Opening fair value at 3 May 2015  945 — 
Dixons Retail Merger — 830 
Interest income 33 25 
Employer special contributions 35 28 
Remeasurements in other comprehensive income:   
Actual return on plan assets (excluding interest income) (57) 86 
Benefits paid (33) (24)
Closing fair value  923 945 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   127 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
128 
21 Retirement and other post-employment benefit obligations continued 
Analysis of scheme assets:  
  
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Overseas and global equities – Listed 277 286 
Diversified growth – Listed 170 182 
 – Unlisted 11 10 
Multi-asset credit funds – Listed 28 29 
 – Unlisted 24 23 
Emerging market multi asset funds – Listed 45 49 
 – Unlisted 3 3 
Private equity – Unlisted 37 47 
Property  – Unlisted 13 15 
Index-linked gilts  – Listed 102 101 
Corporate bonds – Listed 80 79 
Liability driven investments (LDI) – Listed 112 69 
Cash and cash instruments – Unlisted 20 51 
Other – Unlisted 1 1 
  923 945 
 
The investment strategy of the scheme is determined by the independent Trustee through advice provided by an independent 
investment consultant. The scheme invests in a diverse range of asset classes as set out above with matching assets primarily 
comprising holdings in inflation linked gilts and corporate bonds. 
Actual return on the scheme assets was a loss of £24 million (2014/15: gain of £111 million). 
(v) Sensitivities  
The value of the UK defined benefit pension scheme assets are sensitive to market conditions, particularly equity values which 
comprise approximately 64% of the scheme’s assets. Changes in assumptions used for determining retirement benefit costs 
and liabilities may have a material impact on the 2015/16 income statement and the balance sheet. The main assumptions are 
the discount rate, the rate of inflation and the assumed mortality rate. The following table provides an estimate of the potential 
impacts of each of these variables if applied to the current year consolidated income statement and balance sheet.  
Net finance costs  Net deficit
 
Year 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
13 months 
2 May 
2015 
£million 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Positive / (negative) effect     
Discount rate: 0.25% increase  2 2 75 73 
Inflation rate: 0.25% increase
†
 (2) (2) (52) (57)
Mortality rate: 1 year increase  (2) (2) (41) (42)
 
† The increase in scheme benefits provided to members on retirement is subject to an inflation cap.  
 
The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is 
unlikely that the changes in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated. 
d) Other post-employment benefits – IAS 19 
The Group offers other post-employment benefits to employees in overseas territories, in particular in Greece. These benefits are 
unfunded. At 30 April 2016 the net obligation in relation to these benefits was £3 million (2015: £3 million).  
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   128 11/07/2016   18:34  
129 
22 Share capital, retained earnings and reserves 
a) Share capital 
 
30 April 
2016 
million 
2 May 
2015 
million 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Authorised, allotted, called-up and fully paid ordinary shares of 0.1p each 1,151 1,151 1 1 
 
  
30 April 
2016  
million 
2 May 
2015 
million 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Ordinary shares of 0.1p each in issue at the beginning of the period  1,151 576 1 1 
Issued as consideration to Dixons shareholders (i) — 575 — — 
Ordinary shares of 0.1p each in issue at the end of the period  1,151 1,151 1 1 
 
(i) As part of the Dixons Retail Merger, 574.7 million shares with a mid-market price of £3.432 were issued as part of the all-share merger with 
Dixons as described in note 24.  
 
b) Retained earnings and reserves 
Movement in retained earnings and reserves during the reported periods are presented in the consolidated statement of changes 
in equity.  
Retained earnings at 30 April 2016 includes £18 million (2015: £6 million) of losses associated with derivatives which were 
designated and effective as cash flow hedges and interest rate hedges. Own shares held by the Group’s ESOTs are recognised 
in retained earnings – refer to note 5 for further information. The demerger reserve arose as part of the demerger of the Group 
from TalkTalk in 2010. 
23 Equity dividends  
  
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity shareholders in the period  
– on ordinary shares of 0.1p each   
Final dividend for the year ended 29 March 2014 of 4.00p per ordinary share — 23 
Interim dividend for the 13 months ended 2 May 2015 of 2.50p per ordinary share — 29 
Final dividend for the 13 months ended 2 May 2015 of 6.00p per ordinary share 69 — 
Interim dividend for the year ended 30 April 2016 of 3.25p per ordinary share 37 — 
  106 52 
 
The following distribution is proposed but had not been effected at 30 April 2016 and is subject to shareholders’ approval at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting: 
£million
Final dividend for the year ended 30 April 2016 of 6.50p per ordinary share  75 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   129 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
130 
24 Acquisitions and Merger 
2015/16: Acquisition of Infocare Workshop and Simplify Digital Limited 
On 30 November 2015 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Infocare Workshop. Infocare Workshop is a 
service and repair company in the Nordics region and was acquired to strengthen the Group’s strategy of owning the complete 
end-to-end customer service journey in that region. 
On 31 March 2016 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Simplify Digital Limited. Simplify Digital Limited is the 
UK’s largest and fastest growing multi-channel switching platform, offering consumers an Ofcom accredited price comparison 
and switching service for broadband, digital TV and fixed line telephone contracts. The company was acquired to further the 
Group’s position as the best place for customers to receive independent advice across all their technology, connectivity, media 
content and service needs. 
a) Fair value of assets and liabilities 
The combined fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities of Infocare Workshop and Simplify Digital Limited as at the 
acquisition date were as follows: 
 Note £million
Assets   
Intangible assets  23 
Property, plant & equipment  1 
Trade and other receivables (i) 10 
Cash and cash equivalents  11 
Total assets  45 
   
Liabilities   
Trade and other payables  (13)
Total liabilities  (13)
  
Total fair value of identifiable net assets acquired  32 
Provisional goodwill (ii), (iii) 26 
Total consideration (iv) 58 
 
(i) The fair value of trade and other receivables represents trade receivables, accrued income and prepayments whose gross contractual value 
and fair value are deemed to be £10 million. 
(ii) The finalisation of the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities of Simplify Digital Limited will be completed within 12 months of the 
acquisition and therefore remains provisional until 31 March 2017 owing to the proximity of acquisition to the balance sheet date. It is 
therefore possible that adjustments to goodwill could arise up until 31 March 2017.  
(iii) The goodwill arising on the acquisitions is not deductible for income tax purposes and consists largely of the synergies and economies  
of scale expected from combining the operations. 
(iv) Total consideration includes the fair value of contingent consideration arrangements of £13 million which is payable subject to the 
achievement of certain earnings growth targets. The total maximum payable under these arrangements is £13 million. The fair value of 
contingent consideration arrangements has been estimated by applying the income approach (note 16). Total consideration also includes 
deferred consideration of £10 million payable within one year.  
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   130 11/07/2016   18:34  
131 
24 Acquisitions and Merger continued 
b) Other information 
Acquisition related costs (included within non-headline expenses) amount to £1 million (note 4). The contribution to revenue and 
operating profit of acquisitions completed in the year was not material.  
2014/15: All-share merger of Dixons and Carphone  
On 6 August 2014, the Group completed an all-share merger of Dixons and Carphone after which the shareholders of Dixons 
and Carphone each held 50% of Dixons Carphone on a fully diluted basis taking into account existing share options and award 
schemes for both companies.  
Under the terms of the Merger, Dixons shareholders received 0.155 of a new Dixons Carphone Share in exchange for each 
Dixons share. In accordance with the criteria in IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ it has been determined that Carphone  
acquired Dixons. 
The provisional fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities of Dixons as at the acquisition date were reported in the annual 
report for the period ended 2 May 2015. In finalising the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities, no changes have been 
made to the provisional fair values. 
25 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale 
As reported at 2 May 2015, Virgin Mobile France and the Group’s retail operations in Germany, the Netherlands and Portugal 
were treated as discontinued operations following the decision to exit these businesses. The assets and liabilities associated 
with Germany, the Netherlands and Portugal were recognised as held for sale at 2 May 2015. The sale of operations in Germany 
was completed on 5 May 2015, the Netherlands on 30 June 2015 and Portugal on 31 August 2015, whilst Virgin Mobile France 
was sold on 4 December 2014.  
a) Loss after tax – discontinued operations 
The results of discontinued operations are comprised as follows: 
Year ended 30 April 2016
   
Phone 
House 
Germany 
£million 
Phone 
House 
Netherlands 
£million 
Phone 
House 
Portugal 
£million 
Total 
£million 
Revenue   — 19 13 32 
Expenses   — (20) (16) (36)
Loss before tax   — (1) (3) (4)
Income tax   — — — — 
   — (1) (3) (4)
(Loss) / profit on disposal   (10) (6) 2 (14)
   (10) (7) (1) (18)
 
The net loss on disposal recognised in the current year primarily relates to working capital adjustments agreed with acquirers, 
adjustments to net assets disposed, the recycling of foreign currency translation reserves of discontinued operations and other 
costs associated with the exits.
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   131 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
132 
25 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale continued 
13 months ended 2 May 2015
  
Virgin 
Mobile 
France 
£million 
Phone 
House 
Germany 
£million 
Phone 
House 
Netherlands 
£million 
Phone 
House 
Portugal 
£million 
Total 
£million 
Revenue  — 323 159 47 529 
Expenses  — (364) (239) (55) (658)
Loss before tax  — (41) (80) (8) (129)
Income tax  — — — — — 
  — (41) (80) (8) (129)
Profit on disposal  87 — — — 87 
Impairment losses recognised on classification as  
held for sale  — (16) (43) (13) (72)
  87 (57) (123) (21) (114)
 
b) Assets held for sale  
The Group’s assets held for sale and associated liabilities are analysed as follows: 
 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Inventory — 16 
Receivables — 66 
Cash and cash equivalents — 55 
Assets held for sale — 137 
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale – current liabilities — (68)
Net assets held for sale — 69 
 
c) Cash flows from discontinued operations  
 
Year ended  
30 April 
2016 
£million 
13 months
 ended 
 2 May
2015 
£million 
Operating activities 2 (78)
Investing activities 30 81 
 32 3 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   132 11/07/2016   18:34  
133 
26 Financial risk management and derivative financial instruments 
Financial instruments that are measured at fair value in the financial statements require disclosure of fair value measurements  
by level based on the following fair value measurement hierarchy: 
• Level 1 – quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities; 
• Level 2 – inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability either directly  
(that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices); and 
• Level 3 – inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs). 
Network commission receivables are classified as loans and receivables as defined in IAS 39 and are therefore accounted for at 
amortised cost. As the measurement of certain network commission receivables is a key source of estimation uncertainty, an 
explanation of the valuation methodology and an analysis of the sensitivity of the carrying value of receivables to the methods, 
assumptions and estimates of this methodology has been provided below in note 26(h). The carrying value of such ongoing 
network commission receivables is £904 million (2015: £629 million) which is approximately equal to their fair value. If measured 
at fair value these receivables would be categorised as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy as the valuation requires the use of 
significant unobservable inputs.  
An explanation of the valuation methodologies and the inputs to the models are provided below for network commission. 
Contingent consideration is categorised as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy as the valuation requires the use of significant 
unobservable inputs. An explanation of the valuation methodologies and the inputs to the valuation model is provided in note 17. 
The significant inputs required to fair value the Group’s other financial instruments that are measured at fair value on the balance 
sheet, primarily comprising currency contracts and interest rate swaps, are observable and are classified as level 2 in the fair 
value hierarchy. There have also been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy. 
Fair values have been arrived at by discounting future cash flows (where the impact of discounting is material), assuming no early 
redemption, or by revaluing forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to period end market rates as appropriate to the 
instrument. 
The directors consider that the book value of financial assets and liabilities recorded at amortised cost and their fair value are 
approximately equal. 
The book value and fair value of the Group’s financial assets, liabilities and derivative financial instruments are as follows: 
 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
 2015 
£million 
Cash and cash equivalents 233 163 
Trade and other receivables excluding derivative financial assets 1,421 1,086 
Net derivative financial liabilities (24) (11)
Trade and other payables (2,378) (1,933)
Finance leases (91) (91)
Deferred and contingent consideration (33) (31)
Loans and other borrowings (409) (385)
 
a) Financial risk management policies 
The Group’s activities expose it to certain financial risks including market risk (such as foreign exchange risk and interest rate 
risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s treasury function, which operates under treasury policies approved by the Board, 
uses certain financial instruments to mitigate potentially adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance from these risks. 
These financial instruments consist of bank loans and deposits, spot and forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign exchange 
swaps and interest rate swaps.  
Throughout the period under review, in accordance with Group policy, no speculative use of derivatives, foreign exchange or 
other instruments was permitted. No contracts with embedded derivatives have been identified and, accordingly, no such 
derivatives have been accounted for separately. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   133 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
134 
26 Financial risk management and derivative financial instruments continued 
b) Foreign exchange risk 
The Group undertakes certain transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies and as a consequence has exposure to 
exchange rate fluctuations. These exposures primarily arise from inventory purchases, with most of the Group’s exposure being 
to Euro, Norwegian Krone and US Dollar fluctuations. The Group uses spot and forward currency contracts to mitigate these 
exposures, with such contracts designed to cover exposures ranging from one month to one year.  
The translation risk on converting overseas currency profits or losses is not hedged and such profits or losses are converted into 
Sterling at average exchange rates throughout the year. The Group’s principal translation currency exposures are the Euro and 
Norwegian Krone.  
At 30 April 2016, the total notional principal amount of outstanding currency contracts was £2,856 million (2015: £1,540 million) 
and had a fair value of £23 million (2014/15: £11 million). Monetary assets and liabilities and foreign exchange contracts are 
sensitive to movements in foreign exchange rates. This sensitivity can be analysed in comparison to year-end rates (assuming all 
other variables remain constant) as follows: 
 
Year ended  
30 April 2016 
13 months ended 
2 May 2015 
 
Effect on 
Headline 
profit 
before tax 
£million 
Effect on 
 total equity  
£million 
Effect on 
Headline 
profit  
before tax  
£million 
Effect on 
 total equity  
£million 
10% movement in the US dollar exchange rate — 5 — 5 
10% movement in the Euro exchange rate — 58 — 57 
10% movement in the Swedish Krona exchange rate — 2 — 4 
10% movement in the Danish Krone exchange rate — 2 — 3 
10% movement in the Norwegian Krone exchange rate — 6 — 3 
 
c) Interest rate risk 
The Group’s interest rate risk arises primarily on cash, cash equivalents and loans and other borrowings, all of which are at 
floating rates of interest and which therefore expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. These floating rates are linked to 
LIBOR and other interest rate bases as appropriate to the instrument and currency. Future cash flows arising from these financial 
instruments depend on interest rates and periods agreed at the time of rollover. Group policy permits the use of long term 
interest rate derivatives in managing the risks associated with movements in interest rates. 
The effect on the income statement and equity of 1% movements in the interest rate for the currencies in which most Group 
cash, cash equivalents, loans and other borrowings are denominated and on which the valuation of most derivative financial 
instruments is based is as follows, assuming that the year-end positions prevail throughout the year: 
 
Year ended  
30 April 2016 
13 months ended 
2 May 2015 
 
Effect on 
Headline 
profit 
before tax 
increase / 
(decrease) 
£million 
Effect on 
 total equity 
increase / 
(decrease) 
£million 
Effect on 
Headline 
profit 
 before tax 
increase / 
(decrease) 
£million 
Effect on 
 total equity 
increase / 
(decrease) 
£million 
1% increase in the Sterling interest rate — 1 — 4 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   134 11/07/2016   18:34  
135 
26 Financial risk management and derivative financial instruments continued 
d) Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities 
that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by reviewing 
regularly the long term and short term cash flow projections for the business against the resources available to it.  
In order to ensure that sufficient funds are available for ongoing and future developments, the Group has committed bank 
facilities, excluding overdrafts repayable on demand, totalling £800 million (2015: £875 million). Further details of committed 
borrowing facilities are shown in note 18. 
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities into relevant maturity groupings.  
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, including both principal and interest flows, 
assuming that interest rates remain constant and that borrowings are paid in full in the year of maturity. 
 
Within  
one year 
£million 
In more 
than one 
year but 
not more 
than five 
years 
£million 
In more 
than five 
years 
£million 
Total 
£million 
30 April 2016    
Finance leases (9) (35) (111) (155)
Derivative financial instruments – payable:   
Forward foreign exchange contracts (2,856) — — (2,856)
Interest rate swaps (1) (1) — (2)
Derivative financial instruments – receivable:     
Forward foreign exchange contracts 2,832 — — 2,832 
Loans and other borrowings (7) (441) — (448)
Deferred consideration (12) (19) (2) (33)
Trade and other payables (2,112) (266) — (2,378)
 
 
Within  
one year 
£million 
In more  
than one 
year but  
not more 
than five 
years 
£million 
In more 
than five 
years 
£million 
Total 
£million 
2 May 2015    
Finance leases (8) (33) (114) (155)
Derivative financial instruments – payable:   
Forward foreign exchange contracts (1,540) — — (1,540)
Interest rate swaps (2) (2) — (4)
Derivative financial instruments – receivable:     
Forward foreign exchange contracts 1,530 — — 1,530 
Loans and other borrowings (64)(337) — (401)
Deferred consideration (25) (6) — (31)
Trade and other payables (1,584) (349) — (1,933)
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   135 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
136 
26 Financial risk management and derivative financial instruments continued 
e) Credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a counterparty fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally 
from the Group’s receivables from consumers. The Group’s exposure to credit risk is regularly monitored and the Group’s policy 
is updated as appropriate.  
The majority of the Group’s trade receivables are balances due from MNOs, which are generally major multi-national enterprises 
with whom the Group has well-established relationships and are consequently not considered to add significantly to the Group’s 
credit risk exposure. In addition credit risk is also inherently associated with the MNO end consumers. Details of the sensitivity 
analysis of a change in credit risk associated with the MNO consumer is detailed below (consumer default rates). Exposure to 
credit risk associated with the MNO consumer is managed through extensive consumer credit checking process prior to 
connection with the network. The large volume of MNO consumers reduces the Group’s exposure to concentration of credit risk. 
The Group's trade receivables also include balances due from equipment manufacturers, dealers and Connected World Services 
consumers, business to business consumers and consumer credit receivables. Where it is considered appropriate, the Group 
obtains credit insurance on accounts receivable. Provision is made for any receivables that are considered to be irrecoverable. 
Details of trade receivables which are past due but not impaired are provided in note 14. 
The credit risks on cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments are closely monitored and credit ratings are 
used in determining maximum counterparty credit risk.  
The Group’s funding is reliant on its £800 million bank facilities, which are provided by nine banks; these institutions are 
considered to be adequately capitalised to continue to meet their obligations under the facility. 
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, which is net of impairment losses, represents the 
Group's maximum exposure to credit risk. 
f) Capital risk 
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the Group will be able to continue as going concerns, whilst 
maximising the return to shareholders through a suitable mix of debt and equity. The capital structure of the Group consists of 
cash and cash equivalents, loans and other borrowings and equity attributable to equity holders of the Company, comprising 
issued capital, reserves and accumulated profits. Except in relation to minimum capital requirements in its insurance business, 
the Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements. The Group monitors its capital structure on an ongoing 
basis, including assessing the risks associated with each class of capital. 
g) Derivatives 
Derivative financial instruments comprise forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign exchange swaps and interest rate swaps. 
The Group has designated financial instruments under IAS 39 as follows: 
Cash flow hedges 
At 30 April 2016 the Group had forward and swap foreign exchange contracts in place with a notional value of £1,909 million 
(2015: £1,487 million) and a fair value of £17 million (2014/15: £6 million) that were designated and effective as cash flow hedges. 
These contracts are expected to cover exposures ranging from one month to one year. The fair value of derivative foreign 
exchange contracts and foreign exchange swaps not designated as cash flow hedges was £6 million (2014/15: £nil). 
Interest rate swaps 
The Group held interest rate swaps with a notional value of £255 million (2015: £280 million) and a fair value of £1 million 
(2014/15: £nil) whereby the Group receives a floating rate of interest based on LIBOR and pays a fixed interest rate. This contract 
matures in April 2017. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   136 11/07/2016   18:34  
137 
26 Financial risk management and derivative financial instruments continued 
h) Network commission receivables consumer behaviour risk 
Under certain arrangements with MNOs, the commission revenue on mobile phone sales depends on consumer behaviour after 
the point of sale. A discounted cash flow methodology is used to measure the fair value of the revenue and associated 
receivables at the point of sale, by estimating all future cash flows that will be received from the MNO and discounting these 
based on their timing of receipt. Subsequently network commission receivables are measured at the present value of the 
estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate determined at the date of sale. 
The key inputs to the model are: 
• revenue share percentage – the percentage of the consumer’s spend (to the MNO) to which the Group is entitled; 
• minimum contract period – the length of contract entered into by the consumer; 
• out-of-bundle spend – additional spend by the consumer measured as a percentage of total spend; 
• consumer default rate – rate at which consumers disconnect from the MNO;  
• spend beyond the initial contract period – period of time the consumer remains connected to the MNO after the initial  
contract term; and 
• upgrade propensity – the percentage of consumers initially connected by the Group estimated to be subsequently upgraded  
by an MNO. 
The last four inputs are based on extensive historical evidence obtained from the networks, and provision is made for the risk of 
potential changes in consumer behaviour. Reliance on historical data assumes that current and future experience will follow past 
trends, there is therefore a risk that changes in consumer behaviour reduce the total cash flows ultimately realised over the 
forecast period, however, the directors consider that the quantity and quality of data available provides an appropriate proxy for 
current trends.  
The table below provides the sensitivity of the carrying value of the network commission receivables to a reasonably possible 
change in input to the discounted cash flow model:  
 Sensitivity
(1)
 
Unobservable inputs  
Relationship of unobservable inputs to 
remeasurement of carrying value 
Favourable 
£million 
Unfavourable 
£million  Range
(2)
Out-of-bundle spend The higher the spend, the higher 
the carrying value 
47 (47) 7.5% – 25.9% 
Consumer default rate The higher the default rate, the 
lower the carrying value 
13 (13) 1.2% – 18.2% 
Spend after the initial contract term The higher the spend, the higher 
the carrying value 
30 (30) 1.0 months – 5.5 
months 
Upgrade propensity  The higher the propensity, the 
higher the carrying value 
10 (10) 16.9% – 24.9% 
 
(1) The sensitivity represents the favourable and unfavourable effect on the income statement of remeasuring the carrying value for a reasonably possible 
change in the value of the input used. Whilst the nature of inputs is consistent across all MNOs the value applied differs on a MNO by MNO basis. The 
sensitivity analysis performed has applied a reasonably possible change on an input by input and MNO by MNO basis. The amounts shown above are 
the cumulative sensitivities for each input across all MNOs.  
(2) The reasonably possible range disclosed represent the high and low range of each unobservable input, across all MNOs, over the previous three years. 
The sensitivities, which fall within this range, have been applied to the unobservable inputs on a MNO by MNO basis. 
 
The significant unobservable inputs in determining the amortised cost carrying values used in the table above are the same 
significant unobservable inputs that would be required if the network commission receivable was measured at fair value on  
the balance sheet. In addition, the fair value would be impacted by changes in interest rates and counterparty credit risk.  
In addition to those sensitivities disclosed above, changes to revenue may be made, where for example, more recent information 
is available, and any such changes are required to be recognised in the income statement. Changes in relation to network 
commission receivable for sales originating in previous years totalled £26 million (2014/15: £33 million). 
  
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   137 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
138 
27 Notes to the cash flow statement  
a) Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities 
 
Year ended  
30 April 
2016 
£million 
13 months
 ended 
 2 May
2015 
£million 
Profit before interest and tax – continuing operations 304 324 
Depreciation and amortisation 177 149 
Share-based payment charge 10 10 
Share of results of joint ventures 4 — 
Impairments and other non-cash items 4 4 
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 499 487 
   
Movements in working capital:   
(Increase) / decrease in inventory (18) 6 
(Increase) in receivables (247) (89)
Increase / (decrease) in payables 168 (289)
Increase / (decrease) in provisions 83 (5)
 (14) (377)
   
Cash generated from operations – continuing operations 485 110 
 
b) Analysis of net debt 
 
2 May
2015
£million 
Cash flow
£million 
Other 
 non-cash 
movements 
£million  
Currency 
translation 
 £million 
30 April 
2016
£million 
Cash and cash equivalents   163 53 — 17 233 
   163 53 — 17 233 
       
Borrowings due within one year   (55) 55 — — — 
Borrowings due after more than one year  (330) (80) — 1 (409)
Obligations under finance leases   (91) 6 (6) — (91)
  (476) (19) (6) 1 (500)
    
Net (debt) / funds  (313) 34 (6) 18 (267)
 
 
29 March
 2014 
£million 
Cash flow
£million 
Acquisitions
£million 
Other  
non-cash 
movements 
£million  
Currency 
translation 
 £million 
2 May
2015
£million 
Cash and cash equivalents  283 (120) — — — 163 
       
Borrowings due within one year   — (55) — — — (55)
Borrowings due after more than one year  (290) 249 (289) — — (330)
Obligations under finance leases   (1) 7 (93) (4) — (91)
  (291) 201 (382) (4) — (476)
      
Net funds / (debt)  (8) 81 (382) (4) — (313)
 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   138 11/07/2016   18:34  
139 
28 Related party transactions 
Transactions between the Group’s subsidiary undertakings, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and 
accordingly are not disclosed. See note 5a for details of related party transactions with key management personnel. 
The Group had the following transactions and balances with its associates: 
 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Revenue for services provided 24 8 
Amounts owed to the Group 2 — 
 
All transactions entered into with related parties were completed on an arm’s length basis. 
29 Capital commitments 
 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Contracted for but not provided for in the accounts 39 55 
 
30 Operating lease arrangements  
a) The Group as a lessee 
Total undiscounted future committed payments due for continuing operations are as follows: 
  
30 April 
2016  
2 May
2015 
 
Land and 
buildings 
£million 
Other 
assets 
£million 
Land and 
buildings 
£million 
Other
 assets 
£million 
Total undiscounted future committed payments due:     
Within one year 350 7 361 7 
Between two and five years 1,126 10 1,227 14 
After five years 785 — 1,001 1 
 2,261 17 2,589 22 
 
Operating lease commitments represent rentals payable for retail, distribution and office properties, as well as vehicles, 
equipment and office equipment. Contingent rentals are payable on certain retail store leases based on store revenues and 
figures shown include only the minimum rental component.  
The above figures include committed payments under onerous lease contracts for which provisions or accruals exist on the 
balance sheet, including those for businesses exited.  
The future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases is £21 million  
(2015: £42 million). 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   139 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Group financial statements 
140 
30 Operating lease arrangements continued 
b) The Group as a lessor 
The Group has investment properties which are let to third parties on long term leases for which the minimum future income  
is as follows: 
 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Total undiscounted future minimum lease income receivable:    
Within one year 1 1 
Between two to five years 5 5 
After five years 5 6 
  11 12 
 
31 Contingent liabilities 
 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
  — 3 
 
In addition to the figures shown in the table above, contingent liabilities also exist in respect of lease covenants relating to 
premises assigned to third parties. 
In recent years the Group has entered into agreements to dispose of certain operations. As part of these disposal agreements, 
the Group has provided the acquirer with general and tax related warranties. At the date of signing these financial statements, 
some of these warranties remain open and it is possible that claims could arise under these warranties. 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   140 11/07/2016   18:34 Company balance sheet 
141 
 Notes 
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Fixed assets     
Investments in subsidiaries C4 2,678 2,678 
      
Current assets     
Cash and cash equivalents   32 666 
Debtors: due within one year C5 1,941 223 
    1,973 889 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year C6 (1,198) (160)
Net current assets   775 729 
      
Total assets less current liabilities   3,453 3,407 
Provisions C7 (1) (2)
Loans payable C8 (409) (330)
Net assets   3,043 3,075 
      
Capital and reserves     
Share capital C9 1 1 
Share premium reserve C9 2,256 2,256 
Profit and loss account  786 818 
   3,043 3,075 
 
The financial statements of the Company (registered number 07105905) were approved by the Board on 28 June 2016 and 
signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sebastian James, Humphrey Singer,  
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   141 11/07/2016   18:34
   Company statement of changes in equity 
142 
 
   
Share capital
£million 
Share 
premium 
reserve 
£million 
Profit and 
loss 
account 
£million 
Total 
equity 
£million 
At 29 March 2014    1 283 795 1,079 
        
Net profit for the period    — — 64 64 
Other comprehensive income and expense recognised directly  
in equity  — — (3) (3)
Total comprehensive income and expense for the period  — — 61 61 
        
Issue of shares    — 1,973 — 1,973 
Equity dividends    — — (52) (52)
Net movement in relation to share schemes    — — 14 14 
At 2 May 2015    1 2,256 818 3,075 
        
Profit for the year    — — 75 75 
Other comprehensive income and expense recognised directly  
in equity  — — (1) (1)
Total comprehensive income and expense for the year   — — 74 74 
        
Equity dividends    — — (106) (106)
At 30 April 2016    1 2,256 786 3,043 
 
 
  
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   142 11/07/2016   18:34  
143 
C1 Accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
The Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom. The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis 
(see note 1 to the Group financial statements).  
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. The Company meets 
the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 (Financial Reporting Standard 100) issued by the Financial Reporting Council. 
Accordingly, in the period ended 30 April 2016 the Company has decided to adopt FRS 101 and has undergone transition from 
reporting under applicable United Kingdom accounting standards to FRS 101 as issued by the Financial Reporting Council. 
Accordingly, the financial statements have therefore been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 (Financial Reporting Standard 
101) Reduced Disclosure Framework’ as issued by the Financial Reporting Council, incorporating the Amendments to FRS 101 
issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2015 other than those relating to legal changes and has not applied the 
amendments to Company law made by The Companies, Partnerships and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2015 
that are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016. 
This transition is not considered to have had a material effect on the financial statements. 
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in 
relation to share-based payments, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of comparative information in respect 
of certain assets, presentation of a cash flow statement and certain related party transactions. 
Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated financial statements. 
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the re measurement of certain financial 
instruments to fair value. The principal accounting policies adopted are the same as those set out in note 1 to the Group financial 
statements except as noted below. 
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment. 
Prior to the Dixons Retail Merger, the Company prepared its financial statements to the Saturday closest to its accounting 
reference date of 31 March. Following the Merger, which is described further in note 24 to the Group financial statements,  
the Company changed its accounting reference date to 30 April which was the accounting reference date of Dixons Retail plc, 
but continues to draw up accounts to the nearest Saturday and accordingly the comparative financial period is for the  
13 months ended 2 May 2015. 
C2 Profit and loss account 
In accordance with the exemption permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account  
of the Company is not presented separately. The profit recognised for the year ended 30 April 2016 was £75 million  
(2014/15: £64 million). Information regarding the audit fees for the Group is provided in note 3 to the Group  
financial statements.  
C3 Equity dividends  
Details of amounts recognised as distributions to shareholders in the period and those proposed are detailed in note 23  
of the Group financial statements. 
  
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   143 11/07/2016   18:34
Notes to the Company financial statements  Notes to the Company financial statements 
144 
C4 Fixed asset investments  
  
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Opening balance 2,678 753 
Additions  — 3,965 
Disposals  — (2,040)
Closing balance 2,678 2,678 
   
Cost 2,776 2,776 
Accumulated impairments  (98) (98)
Net carrying amount 2,678 2,678 
 
Fixed asset investments comprise investments in subsidiary undertakings and other minority investments. Details of the 
Company’s investments in subsidiary undertakings are provided in note C10. 
2014/15:  
On 6 August 2014, the Group completed an all-share merger of Dixons and Carphone after which the shareholders of Dixons 
and Carphone each held 50% of Dixons Carphone on a fully diluted basis taking into account existing share options and award 
schemes for both companies.  
Under the terms of the Merger, Dixons shareholders received 0.155 of a new Dixons Carphone Share in exchange for each 
Dixons share. In accordance with the criteria in IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ it has been determined that Carphone acquired 
Dixons and accounts for the majority of the additions listed. Immediately following the Merger, the shareholding in Dixons was 
transferred to the Company’s immediate subsidiary, New CPW Limited, and this transaction accounts for the majority of the 
disposals. 
C5 Debtors: amounts falling due within one year  
  
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 1,908 194 
Derivative assets 18 17 
Deferred tax asset 2 3 
Prepayments 5 5 
Other debtors 8 4 
  1,941 223 
 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are repayable within 12 months of the balance sheet date. 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   144 11/07/2016   18:34   
145 
C6 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 
  
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1,061 119 
Other creditors 1 5 
Derivative liabilities 41 26 
Overdrafts 84 — 
Corporation tax 5 — 
Accruals and deferred income  6 10 
  1,198 160 
 
C7 Provisions 
  
30 April 
2016 
£million 
2 May
2015 
£million 
Opening balance  2 2 
Utilised  (1) — 
Closing balance 1 2 
 
C8 Loans payable 
Details of loans payable are provided in note 18 to the Group financial statements. 
C9 Share capital and share premium  
Details of movements in share capital and share premium are disclosed in note 22 to the Group financial statements. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   145 11/07/2016   18:34 Notes to the Company financial statements 
146 
C10 Subsidiary undertakings 
a) Principal subsidiaries as at 30 April 2016 
The Company has investments in the following principal subsidiary undertakings. All holdings are in equity share capital and give 
the Group an effective holding of 100% on consolidation. 
Name 
Country of
incorporation or registration Share Class(es) Held % Held Business Activity 
Carphone Warehouse Europe Limited England & Wales A & B Ordinary 100 Holding Company 
Dixons Retail plc
1
 England & Wales Ordinary and Deferred 100 Holding Company 
Dixons South East Europe A.E.V.E. Greece Ordinary 100 Retail 
DSG International Holdings Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100 Holding Company 
DSG Retail Ireland Limited Ireland Ordinary 100 Retail 
DSG Retail Limited England & Wales 
Irredeemable Cumulative 
Preference Shares 
and Ordinary Shares 
100 Retail 
Elgiganten Aktiebolag Sweden Ordinary 100 Retail 
ElGiganten A/S Denmark Ordinary 100 Retail 
Elkjøp Nordic AS Norway Ordinary 100 Retail 
GEAB The Phone House Aktiebolag Sweden Ordinary 100 Distribution 
Gigantti Oy Finland Ordinary 100 Retail 
ISE-NET Solutions Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100 IT 
New CPW Limited England & Wales 
Ordinary 100
2
 
Holding company 
Deferred 100
2
 
 A Ordinary 37.1
3
 
B Ordinary 3.5
3
 
New Technology Insurance Ireland Ordinary 100 Insurance 
The Carphone Warehouse Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100 Distribution 
The Carphone Warehouse Limited Ireland Ordinary 100 Distribution 
The Phone House Spain S.L.U. Spain A & B Shares 100 Distribution 
 
 
 
1  Dixons Retail plc became a private limited company called Dixons Retail Group Limited after year end. 
2  Interest held directly by Dixons Carphone plc. 
3  This is the only interest of Dixons Carphone plc, directly or indirectly, in this class of shares. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   146 11/07/2016   18:34 147 
C10 Subsidiary undertakings continued 
b) Other subsidiary undertakings
The following are the other subsidiary undertakings of the Group, all of which are wholly owned unless otherwise indicated. All 
these companies are either holding companies or provide general support to the principal subsidiaries listed on the previous page.  
Name 
Country of 
incorporation or registration Share Class(es) Held % Held 
Adiumentum Oy Finland Ordinary 100
Carphone Warehouse Ireland Mobile Limited Ireland Ordinary 100
Charterhouse Management Limited Isle of Man Ordinary 100
Codic GmbH (in liquidation) Germany Ordinary 100
Connected World Services Distributions Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100
Connected World Services Europe S.L. Spain Ordinary 100
Connected World Services LLC USA Ordinary 100
Connected World Services Netherlands BV Netherlands Ordinary 100
Connected World Services SAS France Ordinary 100
CPW Acton Five Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100 
CPW Acton One Limited Isle of Man Ordinary 100
2
CPW Brands 2 Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100
CPW Consultancy Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100
CPW CP Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100
CPW Distribution Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100
CPW GC Holdings BV Netherlands Ordinary 100
CPW Irlam Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100
CPW Tulketh Mill Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100
Currys Group Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100
CWIAB Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100
DISL 2 Limited Isle of Man Ordinary 100
DISL Limited Isle of Man A, B, C & D Preference 
and Ordinary B 
100 
DISL UK Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100
Dixons Group Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100
Dixons Retail SSC s.r.o.  Czech Republic Business Shares 100 
Dixons Sourcing Limited Hong Kong Ordinary 100
Dixons Stores Group Retail Norway AS Norway Ordinary 100
Dixons Travel srl Italy Ordinary 100
DSG Boxmoor Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100
DSG Card Handling Services Limited England & Wales Cumulative C & D 
Preference and Ordinary 
100 
DSG Corporate Services Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100
DSG European Investments Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100
DSG Fleet Management Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100
DSG Hong Kong Sourcing Limited Hong Kong Ordinary 100
DSG International Belgium BVBA Belgium Ordinary 100
DSG International Retail Properties Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100
DSG International Treasury Management Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100
DSG Ireland Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   147 11/07/2016   18:34
2
2
2
2
2 Notes to the Company financial statements 
148 
C10 Subsidiary undertakings continued 
b) Other subsidiary undertakings 
Name 
Country of 
incorporation or registration Share Class(es) Held % Held 
DSG KHI Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100 
DSG Overseas Investments Limited England & Wales Preference, B Preference 
and Ordinary 
100 
DSG Retail Ireland Pension Trust Limited  Ireland Ordinary 100 
El-Giganten Logistik AB Sweden Ordinary 100 
Elkjøp Kleiverenga AS Norway Ordinary 100 
Elkjøp Norge AS Norway Ordinary 100 
Epoq Holding AB Sweden Ordinary 100 
Epoq Logistic DC k.s. Czech Republic Ordinary 100 
ID Mobile Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100 
InfoCare CS AB Sweden Ordinary 100 
InfoCare Workshop AS Norway Ordinary 100 
InfoCare Workshop Holding AS Norway Ordinary 100 
InfoCare Workshop Oy Finland Ordinary 100 
Kereru Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100 
Lefdal Elektromarked AS Norway Ordinary 100 
Leverstock Investments Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100 
Markan talo Oy Finland Ordinary 100 
Mastercare Service and Distribution Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100 
Mohua Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100 
MSG The Phone House AB Sweden Ordinary 100 
MTIS Limited Ireland Ordinary 100 
NSS Financials A/S Denmark Ordinary 100 
OSAA – Sociedade Gestora De Participações  
Sociais, Lda 
Portugal Ordinary 100 
Osfone Comercio de Aparelhos de 
Telecomunicações, Lda 
Portugal Ordinary 100 
Osfone Negócios – Comercio de Aparelhos  
de Telecomunicações, Lda 
Portugal Ordinary 100 
PC City (France) SNC France Partnership 100 
PC City Norge AS Norway Ordinary 100 
PC City Spain SA Spain Ordinary 100 
Pelham Limited Isle of Man Ordinary 100 
Petrus Insurance Company Limited  Gibraltar Ordinary 100 
Phone House International AB Sweden Ordinary 100 
Simplify Digital Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100 
Simplify Digital Systems Limited England & Wales A Ordinary 100 
TalkM Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100 
The Carphone Warehouse (Digital) Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100
2
The Carphone Warehouse Resources Limited Isle of Man Ordinary 100
The Carphone Warehouse UK Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100 
The Phone House Holdings (UK) Limited England & Wales Ordinary 100 
 
1  Dixons Retail plc became a private limited company called Dixons Retail Group Limited after year end. 
2  Interest held directly by Dixons Carphone plc. 
3  This is the only interest of Dixons Carphone plc, directly or indirectly, in this class of shares. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   148 11/07/2016   18:34
2   
149 
C10 Subsidiary undertakings continued 
c) Subsidiary undertakings exempt from audit 
The following subsidiaries, all of which are incorporated in England & Wales and are all included in section b) on pages  
147 to 148, are exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of individual accounts by  
virtue of section 479A of that Act: 
Name Company registration number 
CPW Acton Five Limited 05738735 
  CPW Brands 2 Limited 07135355 
CPW Consultancy Limited 07881879 
CPW CP Limited 06585457 
CPW Irlam Limited 05825842 
CPW Tulketh Mill Limited 06585719 
CWIAB Limited 02441554 
DSG Boxmoor Limited 05430014 
DSG Card Handling Services Limited 04185110 
DSG International Retail Properties Limited 00476440 
DSG Ireland Limited 00240621 
The Carphone Warehouse (Digital) Limited 03966947 
The Carphone Warehouse UK Limited 03827277 
The Phone House Holdings (UK) Limited 03663563 
 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   149 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Investor information
Five year record (unaudited)  
150 
Headline results – continuing operations
(1)
  
 
2015/16
 
£million 
2014/15
 
£million 
2013/14
 
£million 
2012/13
 
£million 
2011/12
 
£million 
Statutory      
Revenue 9,738 8,255  1,943  11 6 
      
Profit after tax – wholly owned operations 341 285  100  4 3 
Share of results of joint ventures and associates (after tax) (4) —  3  48 46 
Net profit after tax 337 285  103  52 49 
      
Earnings per share      
– Basic 29.3p 29.7p 18.6p  10.9p  10.7p 
– Diluted 28.4p 28.7p 18.3p  10.8p  10.2p 
      
Pro forma Headline results
(2)
      
Revenue 9,738 9,750 9,752 9,517 8,820 
EBIT 468 413 359 310 277 
Interest (21) (32) (43) (33) (39)
Profit before taxation 447 381 316 277 238 
 
(1) Headline results – continuing operations reflect the statutory results of the Group excluding items classified as non-Headline. 
(2) Pro forma results are presented as though the Dixons Retail Merger and the CPW Europe Acquisition had occurred at the beginning of the 
five-year period. This financial information has been prepared by aggregating the five year records presented by Carphone Warehouse in its 
2013/14 annual report and accounts on page 97 and by Dixons Retail in its 2013/14 annual report and accounts on page 127, and adjusting 
for discontinued operations. 
 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   150 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Investor information
Pro forma information (unaudited) 
151 
Basis of preparation 
The basis of preparation of Headline pro forma information is described in the Performance Review on page 24. Following the 
Merger, the Group changed its year end to be the Saturday closest to 30 April. The 2014/15 financial year as disclosed in the 
2014/15 annual report and accounts therefore comprised the 13 months to 2 May 2015 for the Carphone Warehouse business. 
So as to enable a better year-on-year comparison, the pro forma prior period results of the Carphone Warehouse business have 
been restated to exclude the results of the additional five weeks trading. 
2014/15 Pro forma income statement reconciliation 
 
  
Statutory 
 basis – Total
(1)
£million 
Non-headline 
items
(2)
£million 
Dixons Retail 
Merger
 (3)
£million 
Pro forma – 
Headline
 (4) 
£million 
Carphone 
Warehouse 
April 2014
(5)
£million 
Restated 
Pro forma 
basis – 
Headline
(6)
£million 
UK and Ireland 5,506 — 945 6,451 (137) 6,314 
Nordics 2,055 — 663 2,718 (9) 2,709 
Southern Europe 564 — 73 637 (31) 606 
Connected World Services 130 — — 130 (9) 121 
Revenue 8,255 — 1,681 9,936 (186) 9,750 
         
UK and Ireland 278 35 (7) 306 (1) 305 
Nordics 46 14 26 86 — 86 
Southern Europe 18 2 (6) 14 1 15 
Connected World Services 6 1 1 8 (1) 7 
Unallocated (24) 24 — — — — 
EBIT 324 76 14 414 (1) 413 
Interest (37) 13 (9) (33) 1 (32)
Profit before tax 287 89 5 381 — 381 
Tax (76) (15) 3 (88) — (88)
Profit after tax 211 74 8 293 — 293 
Discontinued operations (114) 114 — — — — 
Profit after tax 97 188 8 293 — 293 
       
Basic earnings per share (pence)
 (7)
 10.1 19.6 (4.2) 25.5 — 25.5 
 
(1) Total statutory results as reported on pages 88 and 102 in the Group’s 2015/16 financial statements. 
(2) Non-Headline items as described in notes 4 and 25 to the Group’s financial statements are excluded from pro forma Headline results. 
(3) Consolidated results of Dixons Retail plc for the period prior to 6 August 2014 have been extracted without material adjustment from the 
consolidation schedules which support the Group’s 2014/15 financial statements and are included in pro forma Headline results. 
(4) Pro forma Headline income statement as reported on page 24 in the 2014/15 annual report and accounts.  
(5) Results for the 5 weeks to 3 May 2014 for the Carphone Warehouse business have been extracted without material adjustment from the 
consolidation schedules which support the Group’s 2014/15 financial statements and are excluded from the restated pro forma Headline 
results. 
(6) Pro forma Headline income statement as reported on page 24. 
(7) Pro forma earnings per share has been calculated assuming the number of shares on issue at 2 May 2015, adjusted for the number of 
shares held by the Group’s ESOTs, apply from the start of the current and comparative periods. The effect of this adjustment to average 
number of shares has been included as part of the ‘Dixons Retail Merger’ adjustments. 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   151 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Investor information
Pro forma information (unaudited) 
152 
2014/15 Pro forma cash flow statement reconciliation 
 
 
Statutory 
basis
(1)
£million 
Net funds 
(debt) 
 basis
(2)
£million 
Non-
headline 
 items
(3)
£million 
Dixons 
Retail 
Merger
(4)
£million 
Pro Forma 
basis
(5) 
£million 
Carphone 
Warehouse 
April 2014
(6) 
£million 
Restated 
Pro Forma 
basis
(7)
£million 
EBIT 324 — 76 14 414 (1) 413 
Depreciation and amortisation 149 — (35) 27 141 (4) 137 
Working capital (377) — (16) 27 (366) 207 (159)
Capital expenditure (166) — — (20) (186) 4 (182)
Taxation (39) — — (26) (65) 3 (62)
Interest (36) — — (11) (47) 1 (46)
Other items – Free cash flows 25 — — (12) 13 (9) 4 
Free cash flow before restructuring items – 
continuing operations (120) — 25 (1) (96) 201 105 
Restructuring costs — — (16) — (16) — (16)
Free Cash Flow (120) — 9 (1) (112) 201 89 
        
Dividends (52) — — — (52) — (52)
Merger transaction costs (42) — (9) (39) (90) — (90)
Acquisitions, disposals, discontinued operations 333 — — (374) (41) 43 2 
Pension contributions (28) — — — (28) — (28)
(Decrease) / increase in borrowings (211) 211 — — — — — 
Other items — — — — — — — 
Movement in net funds / (debt) (120) 211 — (414) (323) 244 (79)
Opening net funds 283 (291) — 71 63 (244) (181)
Closing net (debt) / funds 163 (80) — (343) (260) — (260)
 
(1) Total statutory cash flows as reported on pages 92 and 138, using the presentation provided in the performance review on pages 26 to 27. 
Cash flows from the statutory cash flow statement have been aggregated as described below:  
• Interest comprises interest received, interest paid and repayment of obligations under finance leases. 
• Other items – Free cash flows comprise share based payment charge, non-cash movements on joint ventures, impairment and other  
non-cash items and proceeds from disposal of property, plant & equipment. 
• Acquisitions, disposals, discontinued operations comprise net cash outflow arising from CPW Europe Acquisition, cash acquired on the 
Merger, proceeds on sale of business and short term investments and discontinued operations.  
• Merger transaction costs comprise bond redemption premium and facility arrangement fees paid. 
• Opening, closing and movement in net funds (debt) relate to the opening, closing and movement in cash and cash equivalents. 
(2) Adjustment to present the cash flows on the basis of net funds (debt) rather than cash and cash equivalents, consistent with the 
performance review on page 25 of the 2014/15 annual report and accounts. 
(3) Non-Headline cash flows as described in notes 4 and 24 to the Group’s 2014/15 financial statements are excluded from pro forma free  
cash flows. 
(4) Consolidated cash flows of Dixons Retail plc for the period prior to 6 August 2014 have been extracted without material adjustment from the 
consolidation schedules which support the Group’s 2014/15 financial statements and are included in pro forma cash flows. 
(5) Pro forma cash flow statement as reported on page 25 of the 2014/15 annual report and accounts.  
(6) Cash flows for the five weeks to 3 May 2014 for the Carphone Warehouse business have been extracted without material adjustment  
from the consolidation schedules which support the Group’s 2014/15 financial statements and are excluded from the restated pro forma 
cash flows. 
(7) Pro forma cash flow statement as reported in the Performance Review on pages 26 to 27. 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   152 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Investor information
Shareholder and corporate information 
153 
Dixons Carphone plc is listed on the main market of the 
London Stock Exchange (stock symbol: DC) and is a 
constituent of the FTSE 100. 
Registrars 
Equiniti  
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA  
United Kingdom 
0371 384 2089 (UK only) 
+44 (0)121 415 7047 (from outside the UK) 
 
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday  
(UK time), excluding public holidays in England & Wales. 
You can manage your shareholdings via an electronic 
communications service called Shareview, 
www.shareview.co.uk. To register, you will need your 
shareholder reference number, which can be found on 
your share certificate, dividend tax voucher or proxy card. 
Registration and use of the service is free. 
Financial calendar 
Ex-dividend date (final dividend 2015/16)   25 Aug 2016 
Record date (final dividend 2015/16)         26 Aug 2016 
Annual General Meeting                     8 Sep 2016 
Intended dividend payment date (final 
dividend 2015/16) 
 
23 Sep 2016 
American Depositary Receipts (‘ADR’s) 
Dixons Carphone plc has established a sponsored Level 1 
ADR program and has appointed Deutsche Bank Trust 
Company Americas (‘Deutsche Bank’) as the depositary 
bank. The ADRs trade on the US over-the-counter (OTC) 
market under the symbol DXCPY (they are not listed on a 
US stock exchange). Each ADR represents two ordinary 
shares in Dixons Carphone plc. 
Contact details for ADR investors and brokers 
Deutsche Bank ADR broker services desks 
New York: +1 212 250 9100 
London: +44 (0)207 547 6500 
Contact details for registered ADR holders 
Deutsche Bank Shareholder Services 
American Stock Transfer & Trust Company 
Operations Center 
6201 15th Avenue 
Brooklyn, NY 11219 
United States 
Email: DB@amstock.com 
Toll free number (from within the US): (866) 249 2593 
Direct Dial (from outside the US): +1 718 921 8124 
Registered office / Head office 
1 Portal Way 
London 
W3 6RS 
United Kingdom 
+44 (0)208 617 6002  
www.dixonscarphone.com 
Company registration number 
07105905 
Company Secretary 
Enquiries should be directed to: 
Nigel Paterson 
General Counsel and Company Secretary 
cosec@dixonscarphone.com 
Investor relations  
Enquiries should be directed to: 
Kate Ferry, IR, PR and Corporate Affairs Director 
Mark Reynolds, Head of Investor Relations 
ir@dixonscarphone.com 
Advisors 
Auditor 
Deloitte LLP 
2 New Street Square 
London 
EC4A 3BZ 
www.deloitte.com 
Joint Stockbrokers 
Deutsche Bank AG 
1 Great Winchester Street 
London 
EC2N 2DB 
www.db.com 
Citigroup Global Markets Limited 
33 Canada Square 
Canary Wharf 
E14 5LB 
www.citigroup.com
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   153 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Investor information
Glossary and definitions 
154 
The following definitions apply throughout this Annual Report and Accounts unless the context otherwise requires: 
Acquisition intangibles Acquired intangible assets such as customer bases, brands and other intangible assets 
acquired through a business combination capitalised separately from goodwill 
ARPU Average revenue per user
B2B Business to business
Best Buy Best Buy Co., Inc. (incorporated in the United States) and its subsidiaries and interests 
in joint ventures and associates 
Best Buy Europe Best Buy Europe Distributions Limited and its subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures 
and associates (incorporated in England & Wales) 
Board The Board of directors of the Company
Carphone, Carphone Warehouse  
or Carphone Group  
The Company or Group prior to the Merger on 6 August 2014 
CGU Cash Generating Unit
Company or the Company  Dixons Carphone plc (incorporated in England & Wales under the Act, with registered 
number 07105905), whose registered office is at 1 Portal Way, London W3 6RS 
CPW The continuing business of the Carphone Group
CPW Europe Best Buy Europe’s core continuing operations
CPW Europe Acquisition  The Company’s acquisition of Best Buy’s interest in CPW Europe, which completed 
on 26 June 2013 
CWS The Connected World Services division of the Company
Dixons or Dixons Retail Dixons Retail plc and its subsidiary companies
Dixons Carphone or Group The Company, its subsidiaries, interests in joint ventures and other investments 
Dixons Retail Merger or Merger The all share merger of Dixons Retail plc and Carphone Warehouse plc which occurred 
on 6 August 2014 
Earnings Profit or loss after taxation, unless the context otherwise requires 
EBIT  Earnings before interest and taxation
EBITDA  Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation 
EPS Earnings per share (basic unless otherwise indicated)
ESOT  Employee share ownership trust
Free Cash Flow Free Cash Flow comprises cash generated from / (utilised by) continuing operations 
before special pension contributions, less net finance expense, less income tax paid 
and net capital expenditure. The directors consider that ‘Free Cash Flow’ provides 
additional useful information to shareholders in respect of cash generation and is 
consistent with how business performance is measured internally 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   154 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Investor information
 
155 
Headline results  Results before Non-Headline results. The phrases ‘Headline earnings’, ‘Headline EBIT’, 
‘Headline EBITDA’ and ‘Headline EPS’ should be interpreted in the same way  
HMRC Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union
Like-for-like revenue Like-for-like revenue is calculated based on Headline store and internet revenue using 
constant exchange rates. New stores are included where they have been open for a full 
financial year both at the beginning and end of the financial period. Revenue from 
franchise stores are excluded and closed stores are excluded for any period of closure 
during either period. Customer support agreement, insurance and wholesale revenues 
along with revenue from Connected World Services and other non-retail businesses are 
excluded from like-for-like calculations. Revenue from Carphone Warehouse SWAS are 
included in like-for-like. Like-for-like revenue reflects the 12 months to 30 April 2016 
compared to the 12 months to 2 May 2015. 
Market position Ranking against competitors in the electrical and mobile retail market, measured by 
market share. Market share is measured for each of the Group’s markets by comparing 
data for revenue or volume of units sold relative to similar metrics for competitors in the 
same market 
MNO Mobile network operator
MVNO  Mobile virtual network operator
New CPW New CPW Limited (incorporated in England & Wales)
Non ‑Headline results Non-Headline results comprise the results of discontinued operations or exited / to be 
exited businesses, amortisation of acquisition intangibles, any exceptional items 
considered so one-off and material that they distort underlying performance (such as 
reorganisation costs, impairment charges and other non-recurring charges) and net 
pension interest costs. Businesses exited or to be exited are those which the Group 
has exited or committed to or commenced to exit through disposal or closure but do 
not meet the definition of discontinued operations as stipulated by IFRS and are 
material to the results and operations of the Group 
NPS Net promoter score, a rating used by the Group to measure customers’ likelihood to 
recommend its operations 
Old Carphone Warehouse  TalkTalk Telecom Holdings Limited (formerly ‘The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC’) 
(incorporated in England & Wales) 
PAT  Profit after taxation
PBT Profit before taxation
Pro forma Results incorporating Dixons Retail plc as if it had been owned by the Group 
for the entire previous reporting period. In addition the 2014/15 pro forma results  
of the Carphone Warehouse business have been restated to exclude the results  
of the additional five weeks trading to ensure an equal length period for  
comparative purposes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   155 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Investor information
Glossary and definitions 
156 
ROCE Return on capital employed. Calculated on a pre-tax and lease adjusted basis. The 
return is based on Headline EBIT, adjusted to add back the interest component 
associated with capitalising operating lease costs. Capital employed is based on net 
assets including capitalised leases, but excluding goodwill, cash, tax and the defined 
benefit pension obligations. The calculation is performed on a moving annual total in 
order to best match the return on assets in a year with the assets in use during the year 
to generate the return 
RCF  Revolving credit facility
Sharesave or SAYE Save as you earn share scheme
SWAS Stores-within-a-store
TalkTalk or TalkTalk Group  TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC and its subsidiaries and other investments 
TSR  Total shareholder return
UK GAAP  United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law
Virgin Mobile France  Omer Telecom Limited (incorporated in England & Wales) and its subsidiaries, 
operating an MVNO in France as a joint venture between the Company, Bluebottle UK 
Limited and Financom S.A.S. 
WAEP Weighted average exercise price
 
 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   156 11/07/2016   18:34 Designed and produced by Whitehouse Associates London
Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group
This report is printed on Oxygen Offset 100% Recycled board and 
Soporset paper. Both papers are FSC certified and produced in 
ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certified paper mills.  Dixons Carphone plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Dixons Carphone plc
1 Portal Way
London
W3 6RS
United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0) 208 617 6002
Email: ir@dixonscarphone.com
www.dixonscarphone.com 
