 Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
 Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2016  o UK performance continues to underpin growth 
with 7.5% like-for-like (‘LFL’) sales
2
 o Continued success of digital investment programmes 
in the UK with digital sales now representing 72% 
of all delivered sales
 o Record new store opening programme in the UK
 o 81 (2015: 61) stores opened in the year 
 o Improving performance in international businesses
 o Economic recovery and operational 
improvements continue in ROI
 o Strategic investments in Germany, which has 
acquired the largest pizza delivery chain in the 
German market
 o Continued progress being made in Switzerland
 o Significant investment in the Domino’s business 
in the Nordics
6
 o New 5-year £175m unsecured multi-currency revolving 
credit facility agreed 
 o Group underlying operating profit from continuing 
operations up by 17.8%
3
 o Basic earnings per share (‘EPS’) up 10.3%
 o Statutory revenue
4 
from continuing operations up 
13.8% on last year
SYSTEM SALES
1
 
£m
£1,004.2m
UK LIKE-FOR-LIKE 
SYSTEM SALES
2
 GROWTH %
7.5%
UNDERLYING
3
 
OPERATING PROFIT
5 
£m
£86.2m
BASIC EPS
7
 
p
13.1p
2016 1,004.2 2016 7.5 2016 86.2 2016 13.1
2015 877.2 2015 11.7 2015 73.2 2015 11.9
2014 757.8 2014 11.3 2014 62.8 2014 9.9
2013 668.8 2013 7.0 2013 47.9 2013 8.0
2012 586.5 2012 5.2 2012 47.2 2012 7.4
A year of record store openings and investment in new opportunities overseas.
1  System sales represent the sum of all sales made by both franchisee and corporate stores 
in the United Kingdom, ROI and Switzerland to consumers.
2  Like-for-like system sales are defined as system sales from stores that were opened before 
28 December 2014, compared to the corresponding 52-week period in the prior year.
3  Underlying is defined as excluding amounts in relation to costs of acquisition of joint 
ventures, associates and subsidiaries, restructuring and one-off items.
4  Statutory revenues represent revenues directly attributable to Domino’s Pizza Group plc 
(‘DPG’), being derived from monies paid by franchisees for foodstuffs together with royalty 
payments for use of the Domino’s brand, rental income from freehold and leasehold property 
and corporate store sales in Switzerland.
5  2016 from continuing operations (2014–2015 restated; 2012–2013 not restated).
6 Nordics comprises our investments in Sweden, Norway and Iceland.
7  2016 from continuing operations (2012–2015 restated for the 3 for 1 sub-division of shares 
effective on 27 June 2016).
Use of non-GAAP measures: In addition to performance measures directly observable in 
the Group Financial Statements (IFRS measures), additional financial measures (described as 
non-GAAP) are presented that are used internally by management as key measures to assess 
performance. Non-GAAP measures are either not defined under IFRS or are adjusted IFRS 
figures. Further explanation in relation to these measures can be found on pages 16 and 17, 
and reconciliations to IFRS figures, where they have been adjusted, are on page 73.
Throughout the Annual Report, the following terms 
are used to describe Domino’s financial performance
 o EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation
 o System sales represent the sum of all sales made by both franchisee and corporate 
stores in the UK, ROI and Switzerland to consumers
 o Underlying is defined as excluding amounts in relation to costs of acquisition 
of joint ventures, associates and subsidiaries, restructuring and one-off items
 o Like-for-like sales excluding the impact on mature stores in which the territory they 
operate in had one or more additional new stores added in the year
 o Restated results have been adjusted for the 3 for 1 sub-division of shares effective 
on 27 June 2016
 o “Store splits” increases density in an area currently serviced by an existing Domino’s 
store by opening up additional stores
 o Nordics comprises our investments in Sweden, Norway and Iceland CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT
02 Group at a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Chief Executive Officer’s statement
10 Integrated business model
12 Our markets
14 Our strategy
16 Key performance indicators
18 Risk management
23 Longer-term viability statement
24 Financial review
26 Corporate social responsibility report
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
30 Board of Directors
32 Corporate governance
38 Nomination Committee report
39 Report of the Audit Committee
41 Directors’ remuneration report
62 Directors’ report
65 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 Independent auditor’s report
73 Group income statement
74  Group statement of comprehensive income
75 Group balance sheet
76 Group statement of changes in equity
77 Group cash flow statement
78 Notes to the Group financial statements
115 Company balance sheet
116 Company statement of changes in equity
117 Notes to the Company financial statements
124 Five-year financial summary
IBC Shareholder information
STRATEGIC REPORT
Domino’s Pizza Group plc (‘DPG’)
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 02
Group at a glance
We aim to be the number one pizza company in each neighbourhood 
in which we operate, through a commitment to offering the best product, 
service and quality to our customers.
We continue to invest in technology with 
digital platforms delivering a number of benefits 
for our consumers and franchisees. Ease of 
ordering and accessibility to promotional offers 
continue to drive our success. We are relentless 
in our pursuit of using technology to make our 
customers’ lives that little bit easier.
We continue to innovate and in 2016 we 
launched our Italiano range of handmade 
Italian inspired pizzas. Our customers can 
be confident that we use the best possible 
ingredients and that they are buying carefully 
sourced and prepared foods without 
hydrogenated fats or artificial flavourings 
and colourings.
Product Technology
94m
PIZZAS SOLD 
IN THE YEAR
14.9m
APP DOWNLOADS
DOMINO’S DIFFERENCE
WHAT WE DO, WHERE AND WHY WE DO IT
Domino’s Pizza International Franchising Inc. (‘DPIF’) is the owner of the 
Domino’s brand across the globe. We have two Master Franchise Agreements 
in place with DPIF, which gives us exclusive rights to the markets in the 
UK, the Republic of Ireland, Switzerland, Luxembourg and Liechtenstein. 
In addition, we have associate investments in Germany, Iceland, Norway 
and Sweden. Our aim is to be the number one pizza company in every 
neighbourhood in which we operate.
We do this by making, selling and delivering pizzas and other products 
to our customers. This is either through our own corporate stores or 
through stores operated by our franchisees. In addition, we buy the 
products and make the fresh dough used in our pizzas and where we 
have franchisee stores we sell these products to the franchisee who 
then makes, sells and delivers the products.
Master 
franchise markets
 o UK
 o Republic of Ireland
 o Switzerland
Associate 
investment markets
 o Germany
 o Iceland
 o Norway 
 o Sweden Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 03
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
Engagement Performance
We are driven day in, day out by our 
brand purpose “to feed the power of possible, 
one pizza at a time”. This desire to never 
stand still and push forward, be it in terms 
of store openings, technological and 
product innovation, customer service and 
the support for our franchisees, underpins 
our performance.
We take pride in the image we portray to 
customers. We invest the national advertising 
fund to help build the profile of the brand 
amongst our target audience. We have recently 
refreshed our store design to better celebrate 
the theatre of making fresh pizza. Our new store 
design reflects the freshness of the ingredients 
and provides customers with a window into the 
world of pizza making, showcasing that every 
one of our pizzas is made fresh to order.
1m
FACEBOOK 
FANS
7.5%
UK SALES 
GROWTH
HOW WE OPERATE
Supply chain
Our passion for only the finest quality ingredients ensures we continue 
to maintain an excellent relationship with our suppliers. We negotiate the 
best commercial terms and have many long-term supplier agreements 
in place. Our Supply Chain Centres continue to lead the way in relation 
to standards of excellence throughout Domino’s worldwide. We deliver 
480 loads to c.1,000 stores on average three times per week.
Franchisees
Our network of exceptional franchisees remains committed to 
promoting the Domino’s brand. Their entrepreneurial spirit and 
drive ensure our continued success on the high street. It is our 
job to support our franchisees in their efforts to run profitable 
businesses and to ensure that high brand standards are 
achieved in all stores.
1,013
TOTAL STORES
81
NEW UK STORES 
OPENED IN THE YEAR
72%
OF UK SALES 
THROUGH E-COMMERCE
77
FRANCHISEES
12.9
AVERAGE STORES 
PER FRANCHISEE STRATEGIC REPORT
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 04
I am very proud that the Group has produced 
another excellent set of results with record sales 
and profits. We continue to deliver as one of the 
leading franchises across the Domino’s network 
worldwide and we are proud of our achievement 
as the number one pizza company in the UK 
and Republic of Ireland. We are in a strong 
position to build for the future.
In the UK and ROI, our success in 2016 is once again rooted in 
revenue-driven profit growth based on continued investment in 
e-commerce initiatives and record levels of new store openings, 
underpinned by strong franchisee profitability. 
I am encouraged by the signs of progress we are seeing in Switzerland. 
Total sales were up 21.1% (2015: 18.4%) with like-for-like sales in local 
currency up 5.8% (2015: 5.4%).
Towards the beginning of the year, we invested in a strategic partnership 
with Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Limited in order to acquire Joey’s Pizza, 
Germany’s largest pizza delivery chain. This has given us the opportunity 
to participate in a larger scale business in this market. I am very pleased 
with the success of the conversion of Joey’s Pizza stores into Domino’s stores.
During the year, we took a strategic stake in Domino’s in Iceland, 
Norway and Sweden. We are expanding through local partnerships with 
strong local Domino’s businesses, which combine their local knowledge 
with DPG’s expertise in franchising, e-commerce and supply chain.
 o System sales increased by 14.5% 
to £1,004.2m (2015: £877.2m)
 o Underlying operating profit of £86.2m, 
up 17.8% (2015: £73.2m) 
 o Basic earnings per share up 10.3% 
to 13.1p (2015: 11.9p
1
)
 o Final dividend increased by 14.8% to 
4.5p per share (2015: 3.9p) bringing the 
total dividend for the year to 8p per 
share, up 15.6% (2015: 6.9p
1
)
1  2015 has been adjusted for the 3 for 1 sub-division of shares 
effective on 27 June 2016.
SUMMARY
ANOTHER YEAR 
OF EXCELLENT 
PROGRESS
Chairman’s statement Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 05
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
The Group’s business model continues to be highly cash generative 
and will allow us to invest in the future growth strategy of the business, 
to invest in operating assets and to support the capital returns policy.
Dividend
The Board recommends a final dividend for 2016 of 4.5p 
(2015: 3.9p) per share, being a 14.8% increase on the final dividend 
for the prior year. Together with the interim dividend of 3.5p per share 
paid on 2 September 2016, the total dividend for the year will be 8.0p 
per share, representing an increase of 15.6% on the dividend paid for 
the prior year (2015: 6.9p). The full year dividend is 1.7 times covered by 
underlying profits after tax (2015: 1.7 times). Subject to receiving shareholder 
approval at the Annual General Meeting on 20 April 2017, the final 
dividend will be paid on 25 April 2017 to shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 17 March 2017.
Our people
Our business relies on a network of entrepreneurial, diligent and driven 
franchisees who serve our customers day and night. Every year, I continue 
to be amazed by their ability to improve our business, for our mutual 
benefit. This year is no exception and I would like to place on record 
my thanks for all of their hard work and commitment, which continues 
to be the lifeblood of the business. Their willingness to invest in new 
stores and to explore other means of growth gives the Board continued 
confidence for the future.
Our franchisees in turn depend on their employees, and I want to thank 
them for their ongoing commitment and contribution, helping to keep us 
as the number one pizza company in every neighbourhood in which we 
operate, despite ever increasing competitive pressures.
Board changes 
In my report last year, I noted that we were seeking a new 
Chief Financial Officer. On 10 October 2016, Rachel Osborne joined 
the Board and was appointed as our CFO. Rachel has significant commercial 
finance experience having previously worked most recently at Vodafone 
and John Lewis Retail, in addition to other consumer-facing businesses. 
Rachel also serves as a non-executive director of HM Courts and Tribunals 
Service. I am delighted that Rachel has joined Domino’s at such an exciting 
time for the Group. I have no doubt that her extensive experience of 
financial and strategic management gained across blue-chip retailers 
will be an asset for Domino’s.
Additionally, we reported in last year’s corporate governance statement 
that we intended to appoint one of our independent non-executive Directors 
as the Senior Independent Director. I’m pleased to report that Helen Keays 
was appointed to this role on 20 April 2016.
Conclusion
In summing up, 2016 has been another year of excellent progress, 
and one in which we are well positioned for the future. I continue to be 
delighted with the momentum across the business and the entire team 
can be very proud of its efforts. Our focus is now on 2017 and I look 
forward with optimism to our continued progress in the next phase of 
the Group’s development.
Stephen Hemsley
Non-executive Chairman
8 March 2017
We are driven day in, day out by our brand purpose:
TO FEED THE POWER OF POSSIBLE ONE PIZZA AT A TIME
This inspires and motivates us on three levels:
1 
ENTREPRENEURIAL 
SPIRIT
It taps into the entrepreneurial spirit 
embodied by our franchisees. It recognises 
the opportunity the brand has afforded 
to people to pursue their own dream 
of business ownership, populating our 
Company culture with stories of “driver 
to manager to single-store franchisee 
to multi-store business owner”.
2 
DEDICATED TO 
INNOVATION
It aligns with our desire never to stand 
still and to innovate continually to improve 
our product, service, image and, increasingly, 
use of technology. Innovation is in the DNA 
of the brand, be that from the invention 
of the “spoodle”, our patented heatwave 
technology, or the development of online 
and mobile ordering platforms.
3 
KEEPING OUR 
PROMISES
It inspires us to commit relentlessly 
to delivering one pizza at a time. 
We know that downtime is precious, 
we know that money is still tight and we 
understand that delivered food cannot 
be a disappointment. We know that we 
have to deliver a hot, fresh, tasty pizza 
when we say we will. STRATEGIC REPORT
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 06
Overview
2016 was another very successful year for the Group with double-digit 
system sales growth, and I am particularly pleased with the strong 
performance of new stores in the UK, where we achieved a record 
number of openings at very strong average sales per address. This is 
the result of a relentless focus on driving our digital offering through 
investment and innovation, ambitious targets for new store openings 
and a continued focus on franchisee profitability.
We had a good year in ROI, with volume growth driven by improved 
performance from digital channels and a strong economy aiding 
consumer spending. We made a strategic investment to acquire the 
largest pizza delivery chain in Germany through our associate investment. 
I am also encouraged by our continued progress in Switzerland, where 
we have generated a positive EBITDA for the first time since our acquisition. 
Our investment in the Nordics, which we announced in June, gives us 
access to over 15m people in three markets and our partnership with 
our colleagues is off to a promising start.
Our strategy remains simple and clear. We aim to be the number 
one pizza company in each neighbourhood in the countries in which 
we operate, through a commitment to offering the best product and 
service to our customers.
UK and ROI
UK
The UK business delivered a robust set of results from the 950 stores 
that were trading at the year end (2015: 869). System sales were 13.8% 
ahead, driven by strong like-for-like performance with growth of 7.5%
 
(9.8% removing the impact of split stores). Like-for-like order volumes 
were ahead by 4.5% whilst average order value grew by 3.0%, helped 
by an increased proportion of bundle deals offering value for money.
 o UK system sales up by 13.8% 
to £938.7m
 o ROI system sales up by 10.1% 
to €61.7m
 o 81 new stores in the UK
 o Group Operating Profit up by 13.5% 
to £83.0m
 o Investments in Germany, Iceland, 
Norway and Sweden of £46.8m
 o Underlying profit before tax for the 
Group up by 17.1% to £85.7m
DOUBLE-DIGIT SALES 
AND EARNINGS 
GROWTH
SUMMARY
Chief Executive Officer’s statement Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 07
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
We believe that our continued focus on the three priorities set out in 
our preliminary announcement two years ago remains fundamental to 
our success in the UK:
 o New store openings: The rate of new store openings continued 
to increase in the period and the UK opened a record 81 new stores 
in 2016; these continue to perform well, providing a foundation for 
future growth and confirming our long-term opportunity.
 o Digital: We have continued to increase investment in our digital 
offering, driving an increased number of customer visits, improved 
conversion rates and higher order values.
 o Franchisee profitability: The Group has continued to focus on 
franchisee profitability by passing on cost savings, fuelling the 
appetite for further investment.
New stores
2016 saw record store openings of 81 in the UK, bringing the total 
portfolio to 950 (2015: 869). The performance of these new stores 
has been excellent with strong penetration in the territories in which 
they have opened. These stores are operating in lower address count 
areas with a 15.4% increase in sales per address. They include both 
virgin territories and those existing areas which have been “split”, 
increasing density, improving service for customers, and raising sales 
and profitability for franchisees. 53 of the 81 stores opened were splits. 
We provide incentive packages to franchisees to encourage opening 
of stores in areas that meet our strategic requirements for the estate, 
including lower address counts and splits. Depending on the nature 
of the incentive these may be spread over the life of the lease. No stores 
were closed in 2016.
We continue to enjoy strong 
like-for-like sales growth, up 
7.5% in the UK.
2016 saw record store growth 
of 81 new stores in the UK 
and one in Switzerland
In 2016, ‘easy-order’ 
was made available on 
Facebook Messenger
Digital
The Group’s investment in e-commerce software development increased 
significantly in 2016, reflecting our continued commitment to providing 
the business, our customers and franchisees with a best-in-class digital 
platform. In the UK, online system sales now represent 72% of all delivered 
sales, up from 67% in 2015, with mobile sales accounting for 73% of 
online system sales. This will drive further growth in the UK business.
Digital channels deliver a number of benefits for both the consumer 
and our franchisees. From a consumer perspective, ordering is easier and 
promotional offers are more easily accessed. Franchisees benefit through 
store labour efficiencies and being better able to target local marketing 
campaigns, particularly through customer relationship management.
The results of this strategy are continuing to pay off, with total online 
orders in the UK 18% ahead and average order value 2.6% ahead of last 
year. Mobile sales continue to drive much of our success, with orders 
2.7% ahead and mobile order value 2.9% ahead of last year. 
14.9m customers have downloaded the app.
Despite these strong results we are striving to deliver further digital 
innovation in order to improve our customer experience even more.
In August 2016, Domino’s launched chat-bot via Facebook Messenger, 
the first app allowing us to broaden our e-commerce platform from 
ordering to customer service. 
Brand
Our brand purpose is to fuel the power of possible one pizza at a time.
The origins of this stem right back to the foundations of the brand, 
when Tom Monaghan challenged convention and set about delivering 
pizzas to customers, at a time when it was not possible to have a pizza 
delivered to your door. Innovation is in the very DNA of the brand, be that 
the invention of the spoodle (a device for applying pizza sauce quickly), 
or the revolutionary heat-wave bag, to the first forays into e-commerce 
back in 1999. We are fuelled by our desire to inspire our customers 
through our actions.
It also plays right into the heart of the service we provide to our 
customers. We recognise that Domino’s has the power to bring busy 
families together in front of the TV on a Saturday night, provide comfort 
and relaxation on a lazy Sunday or that much needed downtime during 
the busy working week. STRATEGIC REPORT
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 08
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
UK and ROI continued
UK continued
Brand continued
It also taps into the franchisee ownership of the business, how Domino’s can 
turn drivers into shift runners, into store managers and into entrepreneurial 
franchisees who run multi-site retail operations.
It is underpinned by our relentless commitment to uphold our promise 
to our customers to handcraft every one of our pizzas just for them and 
to give exceptional service all the time, providing delicious tasting pizza 
at great value.
Domino’s now enjoys dominant levels of awareness in the branded delivery/ 
takeaway category, and market-leading levels of customer satisfaction.
Smart deployment of the national advertising fund allows us to 
drive growth through broadcast communication that places the brand 
top of mind at key occasions, to increase saliency and relevance by 
communicating product and service benefits. Demand is then increased 
through digital performance channels with more precise targeting that 
optimises conversion to sale by customer, and is then optimised further 
through our own digital, social media and CRM tools with content that 
engages with customers.
Product
In 2016, we launched our biggest ever refresh of our menu. The Italiano 
range is a range of handmade Italian inspired pizzas, that take our signature 
fresh dough and authentic Italian ingredients like Ventricina Salami and 
Prosciutto Ham with premium toppings like Roquitto Pepper Pearls and 
fresh Rocket leaves; alongside new sides such as Italiano Garlic Bread and 
a Tomato & Mozzarella Salad, with classic Italian inspired desserts like 
Sicilian Lemon Cheesecake and Tiramisu. Since launch we have now sold 
over 2 million Italiano pizzas, and reached out to a different customer base 
generating strong repurchase rates and comments like….“The new Italiano 
We remain committed 
to high quality ingredients, 
with our dough freshly 
made at our commissaries 
Since its launch in 2016, our 
handmade Italiano range has 
sold over 2 million pizzas
We continue to innovate, 
refresh and improve our 
product range to respond to 
changing customer demand.
range is superb. My husband is not a big pizza fan but thought the 
Domino’s Verona pizza was the best pizza he’d ever had!”.
Franchisees
Our franchisees are some of the best entrepreneurs in the Domino’s 
system worldwide, and we continue to share in their success and provide 
the support and guidance to assist them in their future growth and 
ambition. The Group is committed to ensuring that they are successful, 
and in 2016 cash profitability improved year on year, primarily as a result 
of increased sales and the benign food cost environment combined with 
the DPG’s purchasing power. This has enabled the franchisees to invest 
the additional profits in labour and to deliver improved service. During the 
year, we passed on food savings in the region of £5m. DPG has agreed 
the prices of its main food costs, except for dairy, well into the first half 
of 2017 and there was a negligible impact on input prices as a result 
of the UK’s decision to leave the EU.
Supply chain
We are particularly proud of our supply chain in the UK, which is 
one of the most sophisticated and efficient across the Domino’s global 
network. Our main facility is located at West Ashland, Milton Keynes, 
with a secondary plant in the North West in Penrith and satellite bases 
in Livingston and Bristol. We have broken ground on our new facility 
in Warrington, which is due to open in early 2018. Although the supply 
chain handled record volumes in 2016, it did so whilst improving on 
already excellent service levels to stores, with delivered-on-time to 
stores measures increasing to 99.9%.
It is our commitment to franchisees that we provide them with high 
quality products at low cost. Our philosophy is based on establishing 
long-term relationships and we are able to leverage the Group’s buying 
power to secure the most competitive deals with quality suppliers.
ROI
ROI delivered a good set of results, with system sales of  
€61.7m (2015: €56.0m) in local currency, a sterling value of £50.1m 
(2015: £40.7m). In local currency, sales were ahead by 10.1%, but in 
sterling they were 23.2% ahead, reflecting the relative strength of the 
euro against sterling. We operate 47 stores across the ROI with the 
Dublin stores performing well and benefiting from the continued economic 
recovery. We will be upgrading our Supply Chain Centre capability.
Our digital channels continue to improve in ROI. Online system sales 
were 26% ahead of 2015 and now represent 49% of total system sales, 
up from 43% last year. Mobile-based growth continues to drive digital 
adoption and now accounts for 74.4% of online system sales 
(2015: 68.6%). Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 09
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
Switzerland
We made good progress in Switzerland with strong local currency 
sales growth of 21.1% to CHF 20.6m (sterling 33.1% and £15.4m). 
Like-for-like sales were 5.8% ahead of last year in local currency, with 
the mature store portfolio significantly improving profitability. We had 
one new store opening, resulting in 16 stores at the end of 2016  
(2015: 15), all of which are under corporate ownership and operation. 
There were discernible improvements in all operational metrics at store 
level, which contributed to the better financial outcome.
Underlying operating losses for the year were £1.3m (2015: £1.3m). 
This business broke even at EBITDA, up from a loss of £0.5m in 2015. 
We remain encouraged by the improving performance of our mature 
stores, which provides a solid footprint for the future, while focusing 
management attention on accelerating the maturity curve for new 
and immature stores.
A further major contributor to the better Swiss performance has 
been the progress with online ordering. The website was relaunched in 
January 2016 and online sales grew steadily through the year, reaching 
59.9% by Q4.
Germany
The acquisition of Joey’s Pizza, the largest German pizza delivery 
business in Germany through our associate Daytona JV Limited, in 
which we hold a one-third stake, was completed on 1 February 2016. 
Contingent consideration was payable by the associate based on the 
rate at which existing franchisees signed up to become Domino’s 
franchisees. We are delighted to report that conversion has been very 
successful and consequently this was paid earlier than anticipated 
during H1 2016.
The investment has performed well and in line with plan, contributing  
£0.7m to the underlying Group profit before tax. The programme to 
convert Joey’s stores to Domino’s and subsequent rebranding have 
been a success, with all stores now converted. The Group’s share of 
these costs amounted to £3.1m and is included in non-underlying items.
Discontinued operations includes £8.1m income in respect of the 
Market Access Fee, which is the fair value of the deferred consideration 
payable by Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd (‘DPE’) for the divestment 
of our German business. This becomes payable from 2017.
Nordics
On 8 June 2016, the Group acquired an interest in the Domino’s 
business in Norway, Sweden and Iceland for consideration of £24m 
payable in cash. This strategic investment means that the Group holds a 
49% interest in Iceland and a 45% interest in both Norway and Sweden 
through direct and indirect holdings. Existing management continues 
to run the business and will be responsible for executing the strategy to 
expand further in Norway and to open up the Swedish market over the 
medium term. This is an exciting opportunity for us in attractive growth 
markets and will enable us to grow the Domino’s brand further.
Profit contribution for the 7 month investment was £0.2m.
Leadership team
During the year, we promoted our Sales and Marketing Director, 
Simon Wallis, to the role of Chief Operating Officer for the UK and ROI. 
Simon has been with Domino’s for seven years, during which time he 
has made a major contribution to our success and the promotion is 
richly deserved. He is succeeded by Tony Holdway, an experienced 
multi-site marketing professional, who joined us in September 2016.
During 2017 we expect to 
open around 80 new stores 
in the UK
We also recruited a new Supply Chain Director, Peter Trundley, to replace 
Mike Botha. Peter Trundley has deep manufacturing and supply chain 
experience from roles in Masterfoods and ABF.
In addition, Robin Caley was promoted to Property & Business 
Development Director, succeeding Julia Poulson in July 2016.
Finally, Jane Franks, our long-serving HR Director, decided to step down 
after 30 years in the business. She left with our appreciation of a significant 
contribution to the Company. We were delighted to appoint Nadine Wyncoll 
as her successor. Nadine has operations and HR experience from Tesco 
and Dixons Carphone.
Our people
I would like to thank the Domino’s team for its hard work in a most 
challenging year. I also want to echo the appreciation from our Chairman 
of the franchisee community. Our success is in large measure due to its 
unrelenting efforts, pride in the brand and determination to bring its 
vision to life.
Outlook
2016 has been a record year for system sales, and also saw us entering 
into a landmark investment transaction to transform our activities in 
Germany as well as a new partnership in the Nordics. In Switzerland, 
we are seeing encouraging signs of progress with the business profitable 
at EBITDA level. The UK and ROI business continues to set sales records, 
and we sold 94m pizzas in the year, averaging over 257,000 per day. 
We are very happy with the new store opening programme, in particular 
the average sales per address of these stores. We continue to exploit the 
opportunities of new technology to the full, with online orders now being 
the source of over 71.5% of our total system sales. This has been a year 
of significant positive change. The strength of the core business and 
international investments gives us the ability to build for the future. 
During 2017 we expect to be opening around 80 new stores in the UK, 
and we are investing in additional supply chain centres to ensure we can 
supply our new long-term store target of 1,600 UK stores and 76 stores 
in ROI. We look forward to the continuing success of the Swiss, German 
and Nordics businesses.
David Wild
Chief Executive Officer
8 March 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 10
Integrated business model
Our business is built on relationships, with our suppliers, our franchisees, 
our customers and Domino’s Pizza International Franchising Inc. (‘DPIF’). 
We work with our franchisees to manage and invest in each part of the 
end-to-end customer journey with our integrated business model.
How we make money
Business structure
DOMINO’S 
PIZZA INC.
The master franchisor 
of Domino’s Pizza 
across the globe
SHAREHOLDERS
Investing in the future 
of the business
CUSTOMERS
We are passionate about 
keeping our promises to 
our customers
FRANCHISEES
A committed and 
entrepreneurial group 
of franchisees
DOMINO’S 
PIZZA GROUP 
PLC
BRAND INVESTMENT
 o We hold the rights to use the Domino’s 
brand, which is highly respected globally. 
In each territory, we hold an exclusive 
ten-year Master Franchise Agreement, 
with the option to extend for a further 
ten years, for which we pay royalties to 
DPIF. Provided we are in good standing, 
we have the legal right to renew each 
of these MFAs.
 o We invest in our Supply Chain Centres 
that manufacture fresh dough that forms 
the bases of our pizzas.
 o Our corporate stores (in Switzerland) are 
operated directly by DPG.
FRANCHISEE RELATIONSHIPS
 o In our franchisee-operated stores we have 
an integrated operating model:
 o we choose our franchisees carefully for 
their commitment and entrepreneurial 
approach, which drives the growth of the 
business. Each franchisee signs up to a 
Standard Franchise Agreement (‘SFA’) for 
each store;
 o we work with the franchisees to choose 
the right store sites. We enter into the head 
leases and sub-let to the franchisee. This 
means we can grow our network of pizza 
stores without committing significant 
amounts of capital and if the franchisee 
chooses to leave the system, we still 
control the site;
 o we sell them dough and other food and 
non-food products at a margin from which 
they then make the end products that they 
then sell to customers (‘the System Sales’);
 o we charge them a royalty fee of 5.5% of 
their system sales and we pass on 2.7% of 
the system sales to DPIF as a royalty cost;
 o we invest in our digital customer ordering 
platforms, which makes ordering easier for 
our customers, which drives higher loyalty, 
frequency of order and increased order 
values. We pass this cost on to our 
franchisees; and
 o all our franchisees contribute to a national 
advertising fund which we co-ordinate and 
recommend a range of advertising and 
promotional activity to drive store sales. Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 11
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
PEOPLE
 o We recognise the importance of a happy workplace and believe 
our employees are one of the main champions of the brand, so 
we place significant emphasis on how we recruit and develop them. 
 o We put safeguards in place to require that our franchisees treat 
their staff with respect and in accordance with brand standards. 
We continually strive to update and train our staff on a regular 
basis, and encourage franchisees to invest in their people on 
the same basis.
 o We are passionate about keeping our promises to our customers.
EFFICIENT STORES
 o Our goals are to drive like-for-like sales from our existing 
stores, and to seek and exploit every opportunity to grow 
our store portfolio.
 o Our strong brand drives customer demand, which leads 
to higher volumes through our stores.
 o The stores are efficient to operate: online and takeout sales 
reduce labour costs, the use of technology innovation in store 
means we can increase throughputs and effective scheduling 
of labour keeps costs lower.
 o The stores have moderate costs to open, small square footage 
and standardised makeline, oven and point-of-sale systems.
 o This leads to strong store economics and profitable 
franchisees, willing to reinvest in further store growth.
BRAND AND SYSTEM STRENGTH
 o The Domino’s brand enjoys leading brand awareness, 
a scale marketing advantage and preferred marketing and 
is a leader in online innovation. Customers know that it is 
the sign of consistently great pizzas and other products.
 o Quality ingredients – our customers tell us they would rather 
spend a little bit more on a hot, fresh meal made with superior 
ingredients. We source fresh, authentic ingredients.
 o Our scale means we can source better quality ingredients 
at competitive prices. 
 o We have access through the MFA to significant know-how 
and other intellectual property, which we can build on with 
our knowledge of the territories in which we operate.
 o Our franchisees are some of the best in the world and many 
have been with us for over 20 years.
PRODUCTION AND DELIVERY EFFICIENCY
 o Our growth means we can invest in more productive 
dough-making capacity and effective logistics.
 o We have our own dedicated fleet, our drivers unload every 
delivery into store, we control the supply chain and our drivers 
make the difference.
 o Speed of delivery – customers trust us to deliver a high quality 
product on time.
 o Ease of ordering – over 80% of our delivered orders are 
now placed via digital channels. Customers value the ease 
of ordering we offer, especially through our phone and tablet 
apps, which now make up about half of our digital orders.
Our system monitors and controls the product quality, online ordering, service 
standards and delivery times to ensure a superior customer experience.
TARGETED STORE GROWTH
FOCUS ON PRODUCT, 
LOWER COST TO SERv E
ENGAGED WORKPLACE
DOMINO’S 
DIFFERENCE
IMAGE AND SERv ICE STRATEGIC REPORT
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 12
Our markets
The UK remains one of the 
most dynamic food markets 
in the world, as it continues to 
become a nation of ‘foodies’.
UK
SUPPLY CHAIN 
CENTRES
25
NORTH EAST
58
YORKSHIRE 
AND THE 
HUMBER
26
NORTHERN 
IRELAND
103
NORTH WEST
71
EAST MIDLANDS
102
EAST OF ENGLAND
74
WEST MIDLANDS
39
WALES
69
SCOTLAND
163
SOUTH EAST
128
LONDON
90
SOUTH WEST
2
MOBILE UNITS
We have increased confidence in the 
headroom for growth within the UK.
Whilst we may live in uncertain times, we are certain that the historic 
tailwinds that have driven the market are set to continue. 
Population trends remain positive.
Penetration of the delivery market is expected to continue, driven in part 
by the maturity of younger pizza-eating groups, alongside an increased 
propensity for delivered food fuelled by the growth of delivery service 
companies providing more variety of delivered food and propelled by the 
increase in media spend promoting the benefits of home-delivered food. 
Frequency of order continues to be driven by the trend towards 
digital ordering; customers’ need for increased convenience, speed 
and control; and a trend from independents to chains.
Additionally, customers have an increased propensity to spend more 
on delivery and takeaway food. 
The recent trading environment has seen more turbulence, consumer 
confidence is fragile, the weakening pound will drive imported food cost 
inflation and the impact on the labour market remains unclear. The UK 
eating out market has not been immune, seeing a slow-down in traffic 
following a period of consistent growth in people eating out.
950 STORES
Whilst the impact of Brexit on the labour market remains unclear, 
there is no doubt that the growth in delivery in general has made the 
labour environment for drivers more competitive. Consistent increases 
in the minimum and living wage have applied some cost pressure, but 
also contribute towards an increase in disposable income amongst 
our customers. It is imperative in this current climate to be an employer 
of choice.
Domino’s has positioned itself at the forefront of technology for consumers. 
We are excited about the technology trends that continue to shape our 
customers’ lives. Be that the arrival of the “internet of things”, the truly 
“on-demand customer” who is “mobile enabled” or the use of “bots”, 
“artificial intelligence”, “machine learning” and “immersive technology”, 
all provide opportunities to engage with our customers through technology. 
We are increasingly optimistic about how technology can be used 
to improve labour productivity.
Following the publication of the government’s Childhood Obesity Strategy 
in 2016, we have reiterated our philosophy “to provide feel good food 
people can feel good about”. This is centred around a commitment to 
providing customers with honest and transparent information about the 
nutritional content of our food, to providing the customer with choice 
and variety, and to making progressive changes to our food ahead 
of government regulations and in line with customer expectations.
£319.0m
OF GROUP REVENUE 
FROM UK Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 13
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
There is also a more 
pronounced trend for local 
provenance of ingredients.
Consumer trends affecting 
consumption of delivery/
takeaway food continue 
to look positive.
ROI
SWITZERLAND
We believe the stable economy and 
consistent GDP growth provide a robust 
platform for us to grow.
Economic indicators continue to indicate stability in the market. 
Gross domestic product has been flat, unemployment rates have 
increased marginally (albeit from a very low base), and inflation rates 
have remained very low. Consumer prices are tumbling, with the notable 
exception of rents. However, it is expected that with improvements 
in the international economy there should be a gradual improvement 
in the Swiss economy. 
Consumer trends affecting consumption of delivery/takeaway food 
continue to look positive. Longer working hours, an increase in single person 
households and demands for more convenient meal solutions ordered 
via digital platforms continue to bode well for the growth of the category. 
The delivery/takeaway market continues to be dominated by 
independents. Historically, US brands have enjoyed mixed success 
in Switzerland, in part due to the high cost structure of the market 
and selective food import controls. The market has been invigorated 
by the growth of branded pizza delivery chains such as Domino’s.
There is a tremendous opportunity to demonstrate the quality and 
freshness of our food, which are key drivers of choice and differentiating 
factors, and to drive customers in store to experience our dough show, 
alongside a continuous drive to increase online participation rates. 
We believe the continued economic 
recovery in ROI will support improved 
business performance.
Economic predictors remain strong, with Ireland now one of the fast-growing 
economies in the EU. Dublin remains at the centre of this recovery, 
benefiting from increased foreign investment and low unemployment 
rates. However, the recovery is now being felt more strongly in provincial 
towns outside of Dublin. Rural areas continue to recover at a lower rate 
where unemployment rates have been higher and the pains of negative 
equity have compromised customer spending habits.
This recovery is being felt in the delivery/takeaway market, with consumers 
now claiming to spend more on delivery/takeaway food than they were 
a year ago. Consumers continue to demand freshness, health and value 
for money, with a continued desire for local provenance. Delivery service 
companies have now entered the market via Dublin and started to deploy 
media spend promoting the benefits of home delivery.
As in the UK, the impact of Brexit on the labour market remains unclear, 
with much speculation around cross-border movement providing an even 
more competitive labour environment. As in the UK, it is imperative in 
this tightening labour market to be an employer of choice. 
Historically, online capabilities has lagged behind the UK and other 
European countries. However, we are now seeing significant growth, 
fuelled in particular by smartphone penetration. 
Health remains firmly on the government agenda with the launch of the 
Healthy Weight for Ireland plan; we operate the same philosophy as we 
do in the UK “to provide feel good food that people can feel good about”. 
16 STORES
47 STORES
£26.0m
OF GROUP REVENUE 
FROM IRELAND
£15.6m
OF GROUP REVENUE 
FROM SWITZERLAND Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 14
Our strategy
ACCELERATE SALES 
GROWTH IN THE UK
ACCELERATE LEADERSHIP 
IN DIGITAL AND MOBILE 1 2
FOCUS FOR 2017
 o Continue to improve performance of our key performance 
metrics of conversion rate, basket abandonment rate, bounce 
rate and basket spend.
 o Continue to invest in improving the performance of our 
mobile platforms. 
 o Also, start to use technology to improve in-store productivity.
PERFORMANCE IN 2016
 o We successfully grew like-for-like system sales by 7.5% fuelled 
by like-for-like order count growth of 4.5%. On a two-year basis, 
our like-for-like system sales performance stands at 20.1% and our 
two-year like-for-like order count growth at 13.9%. Our three-year 
like-for-like system sales performance stands at 33.7% and our 
three-year like-for-like order count growth at 23.6%. This gives 
us confidence that the business has momentum.
 o We opened 81 new stores across a balance of existing and virgin 
territories. System sales from immature stores rose by 7% in 2016, 
giving us further confidence about future sales performance 
from new store openings.
 o We launched our Italiano range of pizzas and sides in October 
2016; fresh dough thin crust pizzas with high quality toppings.
 o Independent econometric analysis has demonstrated we have 
increased return on investment from national marketing spend, 
as a larger store footprint benefits better from national 
advertising activity, and the digitalisation of the business enables 
us to attribute more sales directly from digital marketing spend.
PERFORMANCE IN 2016
 o We accelerated UK online sales from £556.1m to £673.9m, 
an increase of 21%, continuing our leadership in e-commerce 
retailing. We have seen UK mobile sales increase by 31%.
 o We have increased frequency, conversion and average basket 
spend on the website.
 o Our commitment to innovate in this space continues with 
the Easy Order one-touch order button being made available 
on Facebook Messenger in August 2016. Together with our 
Pizza Tracker, Legends create your own pizza option, launch 
on Snapchat in January 2016 and Facebook Live event 
in November 2016 we continue to lead in this space.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
 o Grow system sales through:
 o like-for-like system sales driven predominantly 
by an increase in like-for-like order count;
 o opening new stores in existing and virgin territories; and
 o keeping the brand up to date through store re-images.
 o Innovate through the introduction of new products.
 o Improve marketing spend effectiveness.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
 o Increased conversion of system sales from online 
and mobile. 
 o Improve commercial performance of online 
and mobile platforms.
 o Innovate in digital to ensure the brand remains top 
of mind, it is easy to order and places the customer 
in control.
Number of orders  
up 10.8%
Investment in digital drives 
increased online order growth 
up 18.9%
STRATEGIC REPORT
FOCUS FOR 2017
 o Continue to grow sales at the midweek and weekend dinner 
occasions by providing the best quality and the most convenient 
complete meal solutions.
 o Continue to optimise marketing spend effectiveness through the 
optimal combination of broadcast and digital marketing channels. 
 o Convert a healthy pipeline of new store targets and franchisee 
interest into new store openings and continue our store 
re-image programme. Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 15
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
FOCUS ON 
FRANCHISEE PROFITABILITY
GROW INTERNATIONAL 
MARKETS PROFITABLY 4 3
FOCUS FOR 2017
 o Drive like-for-like sales growth in Ireland and begin a new store 
opening plan.
 o Drive like-for-like sales in Switzerland through improved 
e-commerce platforms and open new corporate stores.
 o Support the delivery of sales growth in Germany through 
our investment.
 o Through our investment leverage market leadership in Iceland, 
with modest new store growth; open ten stores per annum in 
Norway; and begin operations in Sweden, with three stores open 
by end of Q1 2017.
PERFORMANCE IN 2016
 o We successfully improved franchisee profitability per store 
with store EBITDA performance up 4.4%.
 o Initiated trials of GPS to enhance delivery times 
and efficencies for our franchisees.
 o Began time and motion study to identify labour 
opportunities in store.
 o We passed on £5m in food savings to franchisees during 2016.
PERFORMANCE IN 2016
 o We have seen strong like-for-like sales growth in ROI 
(2016: 10.3%; 2015: 8.6%) and further increases in 
e-commerce participation.
 o Strong sales in Switzerland and growth of our e-commerce 
participation. Our mature stores are cash positive.
 o We completed our investment with DPE to transform our activities 
in Germany, this includes the acquisition of Joey’s Pizza and the 
subsequent conversion of 215 stores, which was completed by 
December 2016.
 o We acquired a significant interest in the Domino’s business in 
the Nordics. This strategic investment means that the Group 
holds a 49% interest in Iceland and a 45% interest in both 
Norway and Sweden through direct and indirect holdings. 
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
 o Improve franchisee profitability year on year.
 o Continue to source high quality and fresh food 
at most competitive cost.
 o Reward volume growth.
 o Identify productivity opportunities in store.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
 o Leverage leadership position and open 
stores in ROI.
 o Drive profitability in Switzerland and exploit 
market opportunities.
 o Work with DPE to create the largest pizza chain 
in Germany.
 o Develop Nordics region to its full potential through 
our investments.
Increased focus on store 
productivity to improve 
franchisee profitability
Increased confidence in our 
international businesses with 
strong sales growth
FOCUS FOR 2017
 o Increase marketing investment to grow sales per store to leverage 
store-level profitability – grow the top line to grow the bottom line. 
 o Investing in capacity and productivity in our supply chain to 
improve costs to serve.
 o Focus on managing food price inflation whilst ensuring 
consistently high food quality and competitive food cost supply 
with better rewards for volume growth.
 o Using technology to help franchisees find opportunities to 
improve productivity both in store and in delivery labour costs. STRATEGIC REPORT
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 16
Key performance indicators
(Including Non-GAAP measures) used by management
In order to continue to implement, develop and measure the Group’s strategic 
performance, we monitor eight financial and non-financial key performance indicators 
(‘KPIs’) in addition to the Group’s income statement results.
UK LIKE-FOR-LIKE
 
SYSTEM SALES GROWTH %
7.5%
2016 7.5
2015 11.7
2014 11.3
2013 7.0
2012 5.2
DESCRIPTION
Like-for-like system sales 
growth relates to system sales 
and represents a very useful 
barometer of organic growth 
and is an accepted measure 
of performance across all 
retailing sectors.
Like-for-like system sales 
are system sales in UK 
stores that were open before 
28 December 2014 compared 
to the corresponding 52-week 
period in the prior year.
SYSTEM SALES 
£m
£1,004.2m
2016 1,004.2
2015 877.2
2014 757.8
2013 668.8
2012 586.5
DESCRIPTION
System sales represents the 
most useful indicator of the 
overall strength of the Domino’s 
brand. The Group measures the 
total sales of the Group’s franchisee 
and corporate store system in 
the UK, ROI and Switzerland 
to external customers for the 
52-week period.
Systems sales does not represent 
revenue attributable to Domino’s as 
it is derived mainly from stores 
owned by franchisees.
STRATEGY
1
2 4
3
Accelerate leadership in digital and mobile
Accelerate system sales growth in the UK Focus on franchisee profitability
Grow international markets profitably
STATUTORY REVENUE 
£m
£360.6m
2016 360.6
2015 316.8
2014 288.7
2013 268.9
2012 240.5
DESCRIPTION
Statutory revenue represents 
revenues directly attributable to 
DPG being derived from monies 
paid by franchisees for foodstuffs 
together with royalty payments for 
use of the Domino’s brand, rental 
income from freehold and leasehold 
property, and corporate store 
sales in Switzerland.
 2016 from continuing operations 
(2014–15 restated). (2012–2013 
not restated).
NEW STORE 
OPENINGS
82
2016 82
2015 65
2014 44
2013 57
2012 69
DESCRIPTION
A strong indicator of growth 
in our business is continued 
presence by increasing 
store numbers.
LINK TO STRATEGY
1234
PERFORMANCE IN 2016
-4.2%
UK like-for-like growth slowed 
in the second half with Q3 
like-for-like growth of 3.9% and 
Q4 like-for-like growth of 4.8%.
LINK TO STRATEGY
1234
PERFORMANCE IN 2016
+14.5%
The growth in markets was 
13.8% in the UK, 10.1% in ROI, 
and 21.1% in Switzerland 
(reported currency).
LINK TO STRATEGY
1234
PERFORMANCE IN 2016
+13.8%
Statutory revenue up 13.8% 
from increased like-for-like sales 
growth of 8.3% and new store 
growth of 26%.
LINK TO STRATEGY
1234
LINK TO STRATEGY
1234
PERFORMANCE IN 2016
+82 stores
New store openings up 26% 
with 81 stores opened in the UK 
and one store in Switzerland. Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 17
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
UNDERLYING OPERATING 
PROFIT £m
£86.2m
2016 86.2
2015 73.2
2014 62.8
2013 47.9
2012 47.2
DESCRIPTION
Underlying operating profit excludes 
the impact of costs of restructuring, 
acquisitions of JVs, associates and 
one-off items.
Underlying Group operating profit
 
is a good indicator of the efficiency 
of the business model for the 
shareholders and franchisees alike. 
The Group measures underlying 
operating profit compared to the 
52-week reporting period 
in 2012–2015.
2016 from continuing operations 
(2014–15 restated). (2012–2013 
not restated).
BASIC EPS 
p
13.1p
2016 13.1
2015 11.9
2014 9.9
2013 3.6
2012 6.3
DESCRIPTION
Profit after tax divided by 
the number of total shares. 
Basic earnings per share 
(‘EPS’) represents profit for 
the year attributable to equity 
shareholders. EPS provides 
a comparable measure 
of shareholder return. 
2016 from continuing operations 
(2012–2015 restated for the 3 for 
1 sub-division of shares effective 
on 27 June 2016).
DIVIDEND PER SHARE 
p
8.0p
2016 8.0
2015 6.9
2014 5.8
2013 5.3
2012 4.8
DESCRIPTION
The interim dividend paid and the 
final dividend proposed divided 
by the number of shares eligible 
for dividends.
2016 from continuing operations 
(2012–2015 restated for the 3 for 
1 sub-division of shares effective 
on 27 June 2016).
DELIVERED ON TIME
 
%
82.9%
2016 82.9
2015 82.0
2014 82.0
2013 82.8
2012 83.4
DESCRIPTION
The UK and ROI’s target is to 
safely deliver its product to its 
customer within 30 minutes 
of an order being placed. 
This measure is important to 
maintaining the quality of our 
product to the consumer.
LINK TO STRATEGY
1234
PERFORMANCE IN 2016
+15.6%
Dividend per share increase 
of 15.6% reflects improved 
returns for our shareholders.
PERFORMANCE IN 2016
+0.9%
The percentage of orders 
delivered within 30 minutes has 
increased 0.9% as a result of 
continued focus on key metrics 
and store splits.
LINK TO STRATEGY
1234
PERFORMANCE IN 2016
+17.8%
Underlying operating profit 
£86.2m achieved through strong 
store growth and like-for-like 
system sales.
LINK TO STRATEGY
1234
PERFORMANCE IN 2016
+10.3%
Basic EPS growth 
driven by strong underlying 
performance and profits on 
non-continuing operations.
LINK TO STRATEGY
1234
STRATEGY
1
2 4
3
Accelerate leadership in digital and mobile
Accelerate system sales growth in the UK Focus on franchisee profitability
Grow international markets profitably STRATEGIC REPORT
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 18
Risk management
The Board has continued to identify, evaluate and monitor risks facing the Group 
and, during the year under review, a particular focus has been placed on assessing 
the likely impact that each identified risk could have on the business.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The business faces a wide range of risks on a daily basis. The Board has 
undertaken a robust assessment of what it believes are the principal risks 
facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity. The table overleaf summarises 
these principal risks and how they are being managed or mitigated.
The risks in this table have been assessed on a residual basis according 
to our current view of the potential severity (being the combination of 
impact and probability) and assume that existing controls are effective. 
We have linked the risks to the strategic pillars described on pages 14 
and 15. The environment in which we operate is constantly evolving; 
new risks may arise, the potential impact of known risks may increase 
or decrease and/or our assessment of these risks may change. The risks 
therefore represent a snapshot of what the Board believes are the principal 
risks and are not an exhaustive list of all risks the Company faces. 
The Board has considered the risk posed by Brexit and has noted that 
there are likely to be risks associated with increases in the cost of raw 
materials and potential labour cost increases for franchisees. At the 
present time, the Board does not consider Brexit to be a principal risk 
to the business model, but will continue to monitor and evaluate this 
risk and reassess the exposure as necessary.
Our approach
All businesses choose to take considered risks in the expectation 
of earning a return for their shareholders. The Board has determined 
its risk appetite, stating the risks it seeks to take (or is prepared to 
face) within the Company’s business model and the adopted strategy, 
and has also defined the risks it is not prepared to take. The latter are 
avoided or eliminated as far as possible, or transferred to insurers.
The Board is responsible for overseeing management’s activities 
in identifying, evaluating and managing the risks facing the Group. 
Importantly, we treat identifying and managing risk as an integral part 
of managing the business, and not as an additional bureaucratic chore. 
Principal risks are recorded in the Group’s risk register and regularly 
reviewed and evaluated. Each risk has a business owner, responsible 
for managing that risk, implementing appropriate controls and mitigating 
actions and reporting on it to the leadership team. In turn, the principal 
risks are reported on to the Board.
As a sense-check on management’s actions, the Board undertakes its 
own assessment of principal risks in each year, which is then integrated 
into the risk register. These known risks are taken into account in 
developing the Group’s strategy and business plans.
BUSINESS 
OWNER
GROUP 
EXECUTIVE
LEADERSHIP 
TEAM
IDENTIFY 
RISK
ASSESS RISK 
AND IMPACT
REGULARLY 
REVIEW AND 
EVALUATE
CREATE 
MITIGATION 
STRATEGY
UPDATE 
KEY RISK 
REGISTER
THE BOARD Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 19
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC RISKS
People-related risks
Link to strategic pillars
1234
Risk
The business is overly dependent on 
key individuals (either at Executive level 
or in relation to specialist skills), possibly 
exacerbated by a failure to attract or retain 
the skilled and experienced people it needs
Potential impact
Medium
Probability
Medium
Mitigation
The Board considers succession planning on 
a regular basis and has set the CEO a personal 
objective of developing multiple potential 
successors. Contingency plans are in place 
which could be implemented on a short-term 
basis should we suddenly lose a key Executive. 
The business is considering whether to open 
a site away from Milton Keynes to assist in 
the recruitment and retention of specialist 
IT developers
Nature of threat
These risks could have some impact on future 
performance, for a limited time
Change from 2015

Commentary
The overall risk rating remains unchanged. 
A new Human Resources Director was 
appointed during the year who is leading 
the development of the Group’s HR operating 
model. There has been significant change 
of senior management during the year which 
has included the recruitment of a new 
Chief Financial Officer
Failure to respond to and 
overcome competitive pressures
Link to strategic pillars
1234
Risk
The business faces strong competition from 
a range of players, including those exploiting 
emerging technologies or new food options 
and new entrants into the UK market
Potential impact
High
Probability
Low
Mitigation
Management keeps the competitive landscape 
under continual review and the Board also 
monitors the markets in which it operates, 
as well as KPI data on the current business. 
Strategy is reviewed and developed by the 
Board on at least an annual basis
Nature of threat
These risks have the potential to compromise 
our future performance or, in an extreme 
scenario, even the business model
Change from 2015

Commentary
This risk has not changed materially during 
the year
Inability to react to changes in 
the health debate and public 
desire for healthier food
Link to strategic pillars
1234
Risk
As society’s expectations evolve, and 
governmental acts on public health concerns, 
we may need to change the products we offer 
and our approach to marketing
Potential impact
Medium
Probability
High
Mitigation
Management keeps consumers’ purchasing 
preferences under continual review and 
adjusts menus in response to these. We also 
engage, appropriately, with the government 
on the public health debate to ensure that 
our views are understood by policy makers 
and influencers
Nature of threat
These risks have the potential to compromise 
our future performance or, in an extreme 
scenario, even the business model
Change from 2015

Commentary
The Group has developed a “food philosophy” 
which includes structured objectives, action 
plans and governance structure. We are working 
towards meeting the childhood obesity 
requirements detailed on page 26 STRATEGIC REPORT
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 20
Risk management continued
STRATEGIC RISKS CONTINUED OPERATIONAL RISKS
Failure to achieve UK growth 
through new store openings
Link to strategic pillars
1234
Risk
Failure to meet store growth targets would be 
a breach of our Master Franchise Agreements. 
Our ability to open new stores depends on our 
ability to lease or buy suitable premises, obtain 
the necessary planning approvals and identify 
a suitable franchisee to run the store
Potential impact
High
Probability
Low
Mitigation
Board approval is needed for the targets 
contained within the MFAs, and the Board 
monitors the pipeline of proposed store 
openings on a continual basis. Franchisee 
development programmes are run and we 
employ surveyors to identify and secure 
appropriate premises
Nature of threat
These risks could have an impact on future 
performance. In an extreme case an 
unremedied breach of the MFA could threaten 
the Company’s business model and liquidity
Change from 2015

Commentary
This risk has not changed materially during 
the year. The Group opened an additional 
82 stores in the year and we remain confident 
of our ability to continue opening new stores 
to meet the requirements of the MFA
Commercial leverage of large 
franchisees
Link to strategic pillars
1234
Risk
The Group has a number of franchisees whose 
businesses run large numbers of stores, and so 
enjoy some commercial leverage. The Group 
may be unable to persuade these franchisees 
to implement our preferred strategies, or to 
pass on cost increases in full or in part
Potential impact
High
Probability
Medium
Mitigation
Open and transparent relationships with 
multi-site franchisees are managed at senior 
levels of the Group. We also explain the 
profit-sharing model to all franchisees, so 
that they understand that success is mutual. 
Numbers of stores managed by the large 
franchisees are monitored
Nature of threat
These risks have the potential to compromise 
our future performance for a period of time
Change from 2015

Commentary
This risk has not changed materially during 
the year
Food safety
Link to strategic pillars
1234
Risk
There is the risk of contamination in either the 
pre-proved dough we produce at the Group’s 
Supply Chain Centres, or in the pizza topping 
ingredients we distribute to our franchisees’ 
stores. In Switzerland, we operate corporate 
stores, and are responsible for finished 
products, which exacerbates this risk
Potential impact
High
Probability
Medium
Mitigation
The business has implemented a 
rigorous regime of standards and food 
safety checks, working with the appropriate 
government regulator
Nature of threat
If this risk materialised, it could have a significant 
impact on future performance and potentially 
liquidity, for a limited time. The reputational 
impact could have a longer-term effect on 
performance and, in an extreme case, 
threaten the business model
Change from 2015

Commentary
This risk has not changed materially during 
the year. The risk is monitored on a regular 
basis by a qualified in-house resource. 
The Board routinely receives a presentation 
on “food safety” risk controls Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 21
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
OPERATIONAL RISKS
Interruption of raw material 
supplies
Link to strategic pillars
1234
Risk
The business relies on a number of third-party 
suppliers for pizza toppings, some of whom 
provide the sole source of an ingredient. 
These suppliers must make a commercial 
return to stay in business and reinvest in their 
operations. The Group would be vulnerable 
if a supplier decided to cease trading, suffered 
a major interruption or food safety incident, or 
was responsible for an ethical breach of such 
severity that the Group would no longer trade 
with them
Potential impact
High
Probability
Low
Mitigation
Suppliers who are selected through 
competitive tendering and appropriate due 
diligence processes supply the Group under 
long-term contracts. The economics of their 
businesses are kept under review and their 
performance against their obligations 
monitored. We assess their compliance with 
acceptable business standards
Nature of threat
These risks have the potential to compromise 
our future performance for a limited time
Change from 2015

Commentary
This risk has not changed materially 
since 2015
Supply Chain Centres are unable 
to supply the stores
Link to strategic pillars
1234
Risk
We distribute both the pre-proved dough we 
produce and third-party pizza toppings to our 
franchisees’ stores. In the event of physical 
damage to, or loss of, a Supply Chain Centre 
we would need to make urgent contingency 
arrangements wherever possible. However, the 
space required to hold dough whilst proving 
forms a critical constraint to our business
Potential impact
High
Probability
Medium
Mitigation
In the event of the loss of a Supply Chain 
Centre, third-party ingredients could be 
delivered to stores direct, at an additional cost. 
The Group is considering developing additional 
dough proving facilities, which would mitigate 
this risk significantly. Loss of our dough 
production facilities would be more difficult to 
overcome, but contract production of dough 
would be possible, at an additional cost
Nature of threat
These risks could have a significant impact on 
future performance and potentially liquidity, 
for a limited time
Change from 2015

Commentary
The level of risk remains as last year 
but will reduce as new facilities in ROI 
and Warrington become operational 
Failure of online ordering systems 
for a prolonged or critical period
Link to strategic pillars
1234
Risk
Over 75% of delivered sales are now placed 
online, around half of which are using apps 
for mobile devices. As well as the reliance on 
data centres and our own software developed 
in house, there is also a risk from malicious 
denial of service attacks
Potential impact
High
Probability
Medium
Mitigation
Cyber risk appears on the Board agenda on at 
least an annual basis and management reviews 
the performance of its IT infrastructure on a 
continual basis. Our systems are hosted by 
third-party specialists, with parallel processing 
across multiple sites and real-time replication 
and appropriate protection from malicious 
attempts to disrupt the availability of our sites. 
The business is considering whether to open 
a site away from Milton Keynes to assist in 
the recruitment and retention of specialist 
IT developers
Nature of threat
These risks could have some impact on future 
performance, for a limited time
Change from 2015

Commentary
The overall level of risk has remained 
unchanged during the year. The IT function has 
continued to increase the technical capability 
to improve resilience and has recently achieved 
Level 1 PCI compliance status STRATEGIC REPORT
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 22
Risk management continued
OPERATIONAL RISKS CONTINUED
Loss of personal data relating to 
customers, employees or others; 
loss of corporate data
Link to strategic pillars
1234
Risk
For ease of use, our online ordering systems 
hold some customer data, the loss of which 
(whether accidental or following hacking) 
would cause disruption and cost to the 
Group. In addition, the Group’s own data on 
employees and suppliers is exposed to the 
same risks of loss
Potential impact
High
Probability
Medium
Mitigation
Cyber risk appears on the Board agenda 
on at least an annual basis and management 
keeps the security of data under its ownership 
or control under continual review. We do not 
hold customer credit card data on our systems. 
Franchisees are trained in their obligations in 
respect of personal data and are required to train 
their staff appropriately. Appropriate IT security 
is in place and kept under continual review
Nature of threat
These risks have the potential to compromise 
our future performance. In an extreme scenario, 
the reputational damage could possibly threaten 
the business model if we suffered a total loss 
of consumer confidence
Change from 2015

Commentary
Cyber risk remains a significant threat across 
all industries and we have raised the risk profile 
to reflect the current industry-wide exposure. 
The Board received regular updates on the 
cyber security controls that operate within the 
business and our IT security infrastructure has 
continued to evolve and mature during the year
Implementation of enterprise 
resource planning (‘ERP’) system
Link to strategic pillars
1234
Risk
The Group implemented an ERP system 
during 2016. The new system is expected 
to improve the internal control environment, 
though the migration from legacy IT systems 
creates continuity risks. The implementation 
of new operating practices and culture needed 
to bring the ERP system into full effect creates 
further risk to the Group’s business
Potential impact
High
Probability
Medium
Mitigation
The business had planned the implementation 
of ERP for 2½ years and selected a product 
with a good track record on ease of installation 
supported by an experienced consultancy for 
the implementation
Nature of threat
These risks have the potential to compromise 
our future performance, for a limited time
Change from 2015

Commentary
The Group’s ERP system became operational 
during Q4 of 2016. The new systems will take 
time to become embedded fully but initial 
indicators are showing that the platform 
is stable. We have therefore concluded that 
the overall level of risk has reduced Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 23
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
Longer-term viability statement
The Company’s current position
The Group’s business model, which is explained on page 10, has been 
shown to be robust since the business was formed. We operate under 
what is effectively a perpetual Master Franchise Agreement in each key 
territory, so our business model is long-term and effectively open-ended. 
The Group’s strategy, which is explained on pages 14 and 15, is well 
established and we have a market-leading position in the UK and ROI 
business and have successfully exploited the emergence of e-commerce 
as a sales channel. We continue to open new pizza stores and drive 
increases in like-for-like sales, and can demonstrate strong growth in 
system sales, and Group turnover and profitability, over many years. 
Our business is profitable and we successfully convert almost all of this 
into cash generation. At 25 December 2016, the Group has net debt of 
£34.6m and a committed £175m five-year multi-currency bank facility, 
which expires in July 2021.
The Board has considered its appetite for risk and there is a clearly 
articulated statement of this which forms the basis for the Group’s risk 
management activities.
Our strategic planning process
The CEO, supported by the leadership team, is responsible for the Group’s 
strategic planning process. This is an annual review of the current strategy, 
informed by monitoring of market trends and developments and in-house 
analysis, supported where necessary by external market research. This 
results in a draft strategic plan, supported by detailed financial modelling, 
which is debated by the Board at its annual strategy away-day. The Board’s 
role includes considering whether the plan appropriately factors in the 
changing external environment and whether the Group has access to 
the financial, technical and human resources necessary to implement 
it successfully.
The resulting agreed strategic plan is generally prepared on a five-year 
basis, but both management and the Board are aware that we operate 
in a fast-moving environment. For example, a significant proportion 
of the Group’s system sales are placed using mobile devices, some 
of which were only brought to market in the last five years. As a result, 
while the early years of that strategy form the business plan against 
which management will be held to account, the later years are an 
extrapolation of those early years and one therefore subject to 
revision in light of changing circumstances.
The process of assessing our viability 
and key assumptions
The strategic plan reflects the Directors’ best estimate of the future 
prospects of the business, but we have also assessed the potential 
impact on the Group of a number of scenarios based on each of the 
principal risks and uncertainties described in this section of the Annual 
Report. Those risks are “key” because they could prevent the Group from 
delivering on its strategy. Although our strategic plans have a five-year 
horizon, we chose to model the impact of these risks over a period 
of three years in view of the dynamic nature of our business and the 
environment in which we operate, and also the inherent unreliability 
of some data when forecast five years in advance.
We have also explored the impact of “severe but plausible” 
combinations of these risks, in circumstances that we believe 
the Group could experience, including:
 o only managing to open half of the planned number of new pizza 
stores, while simultaneously suffering an assumed 20% increase 
in the costs of sourcing food ingredients; and
 o the complete failure of our e-commerce ordering systems in the 
two busiest weeks of our trading year, while simultaneously suffering 
a breach of data security leading to additional costs and a 5% reduction 
in sales due to lost customer confidence. 
The key assumption in this modelling of our strategy and the impact 
of the principal risks includes:
 o while a number of industry commentators believe that there is a natural 
ceiling on the number of pizza stores we can open, the Group has 
consistently delivered growth ahead of these predictions. We continue 
to assume that the UK market, in particular, is capable of sustaining 
the growth in store numbers we anticipate.
This key assumption is one of the Group’s principal risks and explained 
further in the risk management section. 
The results of this modelling showed that, due to the inherent strength 
and stability of our business, the Group should be able to withstand the 
impact should any of these scenarios materialise over the three-year period.
We also investigated whether “reverse stress-testing” would offer an 
alternative view. Although we have net debt and a committed bank 
facility, we could find no plausible scenario which had such an impact 
on the Group’s future performance, solvency or liquidity that it would 
lead to the Group’s financial failure. The most obvious risk which could 
have such an effect would be a breach of the Master Franchise Agreement, 
which is highly improbable.
Longer-term viability statement
Based on their assessment of prospects and viability above, the Directors 
confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be 
able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over 
the three-year period to the end of December 2019. STRATEGIC REPORT
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 24
Financial review
The Group operates across a number of territories. 
The key performance indicators shown below 
relate to continuing operations.
25 December
2016
27 December
2015 Variance
System sales (£m)
UK and ROI £988.8m £865.6m 14.2%
Switzerland £15.4m £11.7m 31.6%
Like-for-like sales growth
UK 7.5% 11.7%
ROI 10.3% 8.6%
Switzerland 9.3% 5.4%
Statutory revenue (£m)
UK £323.4m £283.7m 14.0%
ROI £21.6m £21.4m 0.8%
Switzerland £15.6m £11.7m 32.9%
Underlying operating 
profit/(loss) (£m)
UK and ROI £86.5m £74.5m 16.0%
Switzerland £(1.3)m £(1.3)m 0.0%
International Associates £1.0m – n/a%
Underlying basic 
EPS (pence) 13.8p 11.9p 15.6%
DRIVING 
SUSTAINABLE
GROWTH
 o System sales increased by 14.5% 
to £1,004.2m (2015: £877.2m)
 o Underlying profit before tax of £85.7m, 
up 17.1% (2015: £73.2m)
 o Underlying earnings per share of 13.8p, 
up 15.6% (2015: 11.9p)
 o International investment in the Nordics 
and Germany of £46.8m
 o New five-year credit facility of £175m
 o Distribution of surplus cash to shareholders 
via buyback and dividends
 o Investment in 2 new SCC facilities 
(forecast £50–£60m)
SUMMARY Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 25
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
Revenue
System store sales grew by 14.5% driven by UK like-for-like sales of 7.5%. 
New store openings increased to 82 bringing the total stores in operation 
to 1,013 at the end of the financial year (2015: 931). DPG revenues grew 
by £43.8m or 13.8%. The DPG revenues are driven by sales of food and 
non-food from our supply chain centre, royalties’ payable by franchisees 
and our corporate store sales in Switzerland.
Commodity prices
During 2016, we and our franchisees continued to enjoy the benefits 
of stable food prices, passing on the benefit of savings from supply 
contract negotiations for key products, to help minimise the headwind 
post-Brexit.
Underlying operating profit/(loss)
Underlying profit before tax increased by 17.1% to £85.7m, reflecting 
higher system sales and our focus on driving efficiencies in our operating 
model to drive sustainable profit growth.
In the UK and ROI, underlying operating profit increased by 16.2% 
to £86.5m (2015: £74.5m), compared with system sales growth 
of 13.1%. The share of profits from our investments in UK associates 
and joint ventures has increased to £2.1m, up from £1.7m in 2015. 
We continue to view these joint operations as an excellent value 
generator and the opportunity to share in the full value chain 
of the Domino’s system.
In Switzerland the underlying operating loss was £(1.3)m (2015: £(1.3)m 
loss) with the launch of the website in January 2016 and continued focus 
on consumer offering driving underlying EBITDA in our mature stores.
Discontinued operations
The strategic investment in Germany in December 2015 resulted 
in the Group ceasing direct operations in this market. These results 
are disclosed as discontinued operations. In 2016 the total profit from 
the closure of the German operations was £6.7m (2015: £9.6m loss), 
which includes the proceeds from the Market Access Fee (MAF) payable 
by Domino Pizza Enterprises Ltd (DPE).
The tax impact of discontinued operations is a £2.7m charge 
(2015: £0.4 credit).
Interest
Net interest expense for 2016 was £0.5m (2015: £nil), and includes 
banking facility interest expense of £1.0m reflecting the new Revolving 
Credit Facility agreed in July to finance the international associates 
investments and future SCC capacity increases.
Taxation
The underlying effective tax rate is 20.3% (2015: 19.0%), reflecting 
the impact of some prior year adjustments and the decrease in the UK 
corporation tax rate from 21% to 20% from 6 April 2015. Statutory effective 
tax rate was 21.9% (2015: 21.7%) reflecting prior year adjustments relating 
to the German discontinued operations.
Earnings per share
Underlying basic earnings per share for the period was 13.8p, 
representing 15.6% growth over last year (2015: 11.9p). Underlying 
diluted earnings per share for the period was 13.6p, up 15.3% on the 
prior year (2015: 11.7p).
Statutory basic earnings per share from continuing operations 
for the period was 13.1p, up 10.3% on the prior year (2015: 11.9p). 
Statutory diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for 
the period of 12.9p was up 10.1% on the prior year (2015: 11.7p).
Statutory basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing 
and discontinued operations for the year were 14.5p (2015: 10.0p) 
and 14.3p (2015: 9.8p) respectively.
Cash flows and cash balance
During the year the Group invested in new international associates. 
In addition, there was a return to shareholders of £37.0m in dividends 
and £32.4m in share buybacks. This moved the position at the end of 
the period to a net debt of £(34.6)m from a net cash balance of £40.4m 
at the end 2015.
Capital employed and balance sheet
Non-current assets increased from £95.7m to £181.0m, from investments 
in associates of £50.7m fixed assets additions, capital expenditure on 
SCC facilities of £7.7m, and loans to associates of £11.4m and new ERP 
system costs of £3.6m.
Current assets decreased from £89.7m to £75.4m. This was due to 
a reduction in cash and cash equivalents of £29.8m and £0.9m asset 
held for sale; offset by an increase in trade and other receivables 
of £13.6m and inventories of £3.0m.
Current liabilities increased from £71.3m to £84.8m. This was due to 
a £10.0m share buyback obligation in 2016 (2015: £nil), and £13.3m 
uplift in trade creditors from higher sales and increased inventory at the 
year end.
Total provisions decreased by £4.7m to £2.7m, which reflects the usage 
of prior year provisions for German closure costs.
Treasury management
In July, the Group successfully negotiated a new five-year £175m 
unsecured revolving multi-currency facility, with two one-year extension 
options and a £75m accordion mechanism. The new facility attracts 
a margin of 75-150bps above LIBOR and a utilisation fee at 0-30% 
of the margin.
The Group monitors its overall level of financial gearing on a regular basis 
to ensure that it remains well within its targets and banking covenants. 
The Group monitors its cash resources through short, medium and 
long-term cash forecasting. Surplus cash is pooled into an interest 
bearing account.
In addition, the Group has invested in operations outside the UK and 
also buys and sells goods and services in currencies other than sterling. 
As a result, the Group is affected by movements in exchange rates, the 
euro in particular. It is the Group’s policy to mitigate these effects by 
agreeing fixed euro rates with its suppliers, wherever possible.
The strategic report was approved by the Board on 8 March 2017 
and signed on its behalf by:
Rachel Osborne
Chief Financial Officer
8 March 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 26
FOOD
We are proud of the food we serve. Every Domino’s 
pizza is bursting with great quality ingredients like 
hand-stretched fresh dough, Welsh mozzarella and 
vine-ripened tomatoes. That’s why our pizzas can 
transform any occasion, from a relaxing evening 
at home to a big family party.
Healthy eating
As customers’ tastes change, choice is becoming increasingly important. 
At Domino’s, we are passionate about innovation, so we are constantly 
looking for ways to improve our food.
We follow the ongoing public debate on healthy eating closely. 
This year, we set up a dedicated internal steering group focused 
on ensuring we are making progressive changes to our food ahead 
of evolving customer expectations.
We want our customers to be in charge. They are able to choose the 
toppings, the crust, the type of cheese and, most importantly, the number 
of slices they eat. We generally recommend about three slices per person. 
We also continue to offer Delight Cheese with a third less fat than standard 
mozzarella, and in 2016, we launched our new “Italiano” artisan range 
with a thinner base.
We are proud to be one of the few pizza chains to offer a reduced fat 
mozzarella option. Since the beginning of 2012, we have removed over 
40 tonnes of salt from our pizzas and reduced fat content in ingredients 
such as pepperoni and beef.
In August 2016, the government published its Childhood Obesity Strategy, 
which outlined requirements to reduce sugar across a range of product 
categories in the UK. We are reformulating our desserts to meet the 
required 5% reduction in sugar by September 2017.
We continue to work with our suppliers to reduce the amount of salt in 
our products. We are committed to meeting the Food Standards Agency 
salt targets for 2017 on individual ingredients, as well as achieving our 
own pledge as part of the Department of Health’s Responsibility Deal 
relating to out-of-home food.
Nutrition
We know it is possible to include pizza in a balanced diet, and we are 
committed to providing transparent nutritional information to enable our 
customers to make informed decisions.
To ensure this transparency, we provide calorie information on 
our website and via our app. We publish detailed nutritional profiles for 
more than 1,000 combinations of regular pizzas and those made with 
our Delight Cheese. In 2016, we also developed a planner on our corporate 
website which shows customers how our pizzas can fit into a nutritionally 
balanced menu.
We also recently created an ingredients bible listing all additives included 
in our products to help customers understand why they are present.
We are proud to state we continue not to use artificial colours or flavourings 
in any of our pizzas or side orders and removed trans fats several years 
ago. We also offer a gluten-free pizza base, which is becoming increasingly 
popular with our customers.
Product sourcing and animal welfare
The origin and quality of the food we offer our customers is paramount.
We have developed long-term relationships with our suppliers, many 
of whom have been in place for more than a decade. We also take great 
pride in ensuring the quality of our products and continually assess each 
of our suppliers.
The welfare of animals is important to us. We work closely with our suppliers 
to ensure they are able to exhibit normal behaviour patterns and are 
properly supervised. All our animals are stunned prior to slaughter.
In 2016, we began a programme of annual audits for all our meat suppliers, 
including farm visits, to ensure compliance with welfare standards, including 
the use of antibiotics. We continue to take steps to improve standards 
and are committed to providing more information so all our stakeholders 
are aware of the measures we are taking in this important area.
Objectives for 2017
 o Further reduce the salt and sugar content of our products 
to meet 2017 targets.
 o Continue to reformulate products, helping to further improve 
our health and quality credentials.
 o Publish an animal welfare policy for suppliers, which includes 
the responsible use of antibiotics.
ENvIRONMENT
Achievements in 2016
 o 4.2% rate reduction in electricity consumption at our Milton Keynes 
Supply Chain Centre.
 o 94.1% of waste was either recycled or recovered across our 
Supply Chain network.
 o LED lighting upgrades at our Penrith and Kingston sites.
 o Double-decker trailers introduced on trunking routes to reduce 
CO
2
 emissions.
Investment in energy efficiency
During 2016 we have made the following investments to improve 
the energy efficiency of our Supply Chain Centres:
 o We have installed new air compressors at our main Supply Chain 
Centre in Milton Keynes, which are delivering a 5% reduction in 
energy consumption at this site. 
Corporate social responsibility report
Community values have always been 
at our heart. There is more to being a 
responsible business than our charitable 
funding, namely the quality of our food, 
the impact we have on the environment 
and how we treat our employees.
In 2013, we began to develop a corporate social responsibility (‘CSR’) 
strategy by analysing our current business practices and devising a plan 
for the years to come. We have a successful business, built on a simple 
business model – deliver hot, freshly made pizza to our customers as 
quickly as is safely possible.
We have a responsibility to uphold the solid reputation our business 
has formed since we arrived in the UK in 1985. To ensure we build a 
sustainable business for the future, we have developed a responsible 
delivery plan, our CSR strategy. Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 27
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
 o We have replaced fluorescent lighting with energy-efficient LED 
lighting at our Penrith and Kingston sites.
 o As part of a medium-term programme, electric motors at the end 
of serviceable life have been replaced by IE4 category motors.
Striving for zero waste to landfill
We continue to strive towards achieving zero waste to landfill. In 2016, 
the proportion of our waste that was either recycled or recovered increased 
from 92% in 2015 to 94.1% in 2016.
Reduction in delivery mileage
Working in conjunction with our third-party logistics providers we 
have reduced our delivery mileage by 52,800 miles in 2016, through 
the implementation of double-decker trailers. Increased utilisation 
of double-decker trailers in 2017 will deliver an additional reduction 
of c.180,000 miles per annum.
Intensity ratio
We continue to track GHG emissions over time against our dough production 
levels and we are becoming increasingly resource efficient: our intensity 
ratio for scope 1 and 2 for this reporting year is 0.33 tCO
2
e/tonne of dough 
produced compared to our baseline figure of 0.42 tCO
2
e/tonne of dough 
produced. This has decreased by 22% putting us in a good position to 
meet our 25% relative reduction target by 2018. These indicators have 
been adjusted to reflect the sale of our German stores.
Methodology
Domino’s Pizza Group reports on all emissions sources stipulated under 
the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic and Directors’ Reports) Regulations 
2013. The methodology used to compile this data is in accordance with 
the requirements of the following standards:
the World Resources Institute’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol and Defra’s 
Environmental Reporting Guidelines: Including mandatory greenhouse 
gas emissions reporting guidance (June 2013) and ISO 14064 – part 1.
We have adopted a financial control approach to define our organisational 
boundary; as a result, we report GHG emissions from all three markets 
considered as part of the Group’s current financial consolidation: the 
United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland and Switzerland. Accountability for 
our overall environmental performance rests with our Executive Committee.
Our franchisees’ emissions are currently excluded from our reporting 
on the basis that we don’t have sufficiently accurate information to report 
on their impacts. Where data was incomplete (i.e. less than 12 months 
of data were available) GHG emissions were extrapolated from the available 
information and references to the accounting and calculation methodologies 
for any assumptions, estimations and recalculations performed have 
been documented.
For more insight into our overall environmental performance 
please access the Environment page on our corporate website 
corporate.dominos.co.uk/csr.
Objectives for 2017
 o To maintain accreditation to ISO 50001.
 o To introduce double-decker trailers supplying the Livingston 
(Scotland) depot.
 o To continue our policy of reducing fuel consumption relative 
to tonnage delivered.
 o To reduce our maximum daily demand on water consent 
by at least 10%.
 o To continue to focus on electricity reduction associated with 
lighting, refrigeration and motor replacement.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Our reporting period for GHG emissions is 1 October to 30 September
1
 and the 2015/2016 GHG emissions inventory marks our fourth year of GHG emissions 
reporting. Our material GHG emissions from business activities in this period amount to 11,889 tonnes tCO
2
e, consisting of:
Emissions source
Tonnes of CO
2
e
2
(baseline
2012/2013)
3
Tonnes of CO
2
e
(2014/2015)
3
Tonnes of CO
2
e
(2015/2016)
Percentage change
(from baseline)
Scope 1: CO
2
e from the combustion of fuel and the operation 
of any facilities
Natural gas 586 526 529 -10%
Kerosene 99 41 46 -54%
Refrigerant 189 302 0 -100%
Owned vehicles
4
6,507 6,340 6,997 +7.5%
Scope 2: CO
2
e from the purchase of electricity, heat, 
steam or cooling by the Company for its own use
Purchased 
electricity 4,206 4,533 4,318 +3%
Total 11,587 11,742 11,889 +3%
Notes
1 Our financial reporting year is the calendar year; however, we have set our reporting period back by a quarter to facilitate data collection.
2  We report all material GHG emissions, using “tonnes of CO
2
-equivalent” (tCO
2
e) as the unit, to account for all GHGs which are attributable to human activity, 
as defined in section 92 of the Climate Change Act 2008(a). The only exception is for GHG emissions from electricity is the ROI and Switzerland where the GHG 
emissions are reported in CO
2
.
3 These figures have been adjusted to reflect the sale of our German operations.
4 Includes fuel consumed (petrol, diesel and red diesel) by our supply chain delivery fleet, our company cars and our corporate store delivery fleet.
A closer look at the numbers
Despite a 32% increase in production since the baseline year, our GHG emissions have remained relatively unchanged, demonstrating that our 
business is becoming more efficient:
 o Owned vehicles, which accounts for our company-owned cars and the fleet of trucks delivering dough to the stores, has increased by only 7.5%. 
We continue to improve loading and routing and to put in place measures to ensure efficient driving.
 o Electricity emissions have increased by 3% due to increased production activity. Since 2015 we have reviewed our electricity usage on a daily 
basis and have been introducing energy-efficiency technology upgrades across the sites to help us reduce our consumption. STRATEGIC REPORT
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 28
Corporate social responsibility report continued
EMPLOYEES
Achievements for 2016
 o Celebrated success with our colleagues through regular pizza lunches, 
recognition vouchers, a summer family day and a Christmas party.
 o We are pleased to have taken part in the UK Corporate Games with 
colleagues entering football and dragon boat teams.
 o Launched a recruitment campaign and interview and induction tools 
to London stores to support recruitment for our peak period.
 o Built an in-house recruitment function and launched a colleague 
“recommend a friend programme”.
 o Launched “The Box”, our colleague recognition and reward portal 
to enhance our total reward package.
 o Launched our people plan focused on core pillars to support future 
growth, talent attraction and development, reward and recognition, 
culture and engagement and HR service delivery.
In last year’s Annual Report and Accounts, we set ourselves 
a number of goals and we have taken great strides in the year 
towards achieving these.
Engagement and wellbeing
We strive to provide a happy and safe environment for our colleagues 
and are always seeking to understand what improvements we make 
in our colleagues’ experience at work. Our Happiness at Work team 
helps us keep focused on work-life balance initiatives and provide 
opportunities for colleagues to connect and socialise through team 
days, our family summer barbecue and our Christmas party.
We provide all colleagues who work with us with an excellent benefits 
package which includes benefits to help them get healthier and look 
after their wellbeing through schemes such as PruHealth “Vitality”.
Participation continues to increase as our colleagues focus on their 
health and wellbeing and track their steps, utilise discounted rates 
at gyms and get rewarded for healthy shopping habits.
To understand true levels of engagement, in 2017 we will launch a new 
engagement survey to measure our team member satisfaction. We will ask 
our colleagues to answer questions that tell us their level of functional 
and emotional loyalty to our brand. Action planning in our teams will be 
the key to its success so we can ensure a great place to work and make 
improvements where our team tells us things could be better.
Performance and development
We launched a high performance programme to some members 
of our leadership team to give them tools so they can thrive, be at 
their best and help their teams be the best they can be. In 2017 
we will embed the principles of a high performance culture and all 
the aspects that make a high-performing team in the launch of the 
Domino’s Way of managing performance and developing our core skills. 
This will be launched to all members of the senior leadership team 
in Head Office and our supply chain.
Attracting talent and succession planning
This year we have progressed on our journey to build an in-house 
recruitment function helping us own more of the narrative directly 
with new colleagues at this critical stage of the colleague lifecycle. 
This journey will continue in 2017 as we expand our talent attraction 
team and launch further employer brand tools which will support our 
line managers to recruit to retain.
In 2017, we will introduce an internal talent development role to focus 
on learning and development across our Head Office and supply chain 
functions showing our commitment to ensuring we are best placed to 
find, keep and develop the best talent.
GENDER DIvERSITY
Female Male
SENIOR LEADERSHIP TEAM (SWITZERLAND AND UK AND IRELAND)
12 of 34
65%
22 of 34
2015
12 of 37
68%
25 of 37
2016
35%
32%
ALL GROUP EMPLOYEES (SWITZERLAND AND UK AND IRELAND)
168 of 894 726 of 894
81% 2015
193 of 999 806 of 999
81% 
19%
19% 2016
DIRECTORS OF GROUP SUBSIDIARIES (SWITZERLAND AND UK AND IRELAND)
75%
5 of 20 15 of 20
2015 25%
5 of 18
72%
13 of 18
2016 28%
Objectives for 2017
 o Continue to embed the employee value proposition across our stores, 
Head Office and supply chain.
 o Launch recruitment and onboarding tools to all stores to enhance 
the experience of joining Domino’s.
 o Expand our in-house recruitment function to improve the 
candidate experience.
 o Build our internal learning and development offer and enhance our 
succession planning processes in Head Office and our supply chain.
 o Enable a high-performing culture through the launch of the Domino’s 
Way of managing performance and developing our core skills.
 o Measure our team member satisfaction to ensure we are a great 
place to work.
 o Focus on our colleagues’ health and wellbeing and promote the 
benefits they receive by working for Domino’s. Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 29
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
COMMUNITY
Achievements in 2016
Raised over £1.1m for charity:
 o over £963,130 for Teenage Cancer Trust;
 o over £15,600 for Barretstown;
 o over £51,700 for the Northern Ireland Children’s Hospice;
 o over £56,300 for Pennies; and
 o over £14,500 for Special Olympics Great Britain (the partnership 
with Special Olympics Great Britain came to an end in June 2016).
Pennies
We have a long-running partnership with the charity Pennies. Its digital 
charity box has enabled customers using our website and apps to round 
up their orders to the nearest pound. 2016 was by far the most successful 
year to date and, on behalf of the charities, we would like to pass on a big 
“thank you” to our customers who have embraced Pennies in their millions.
 o The average weekly donation total was £14,458 in 2016.
 o Domino’s customers have raised over £2.8m since 2010. In 2016 alone, 
they raised over £750,000 through almost 4 million micro-donations.
 o Boosted fundraising by launching Pennies in the Republic of Ireland 
for Barretstown in September 2016.
We are proud to have been the landmark partner for Pennies and 
to have seen this trend of online donations grow considerably since 
it began in 2010. In September 2016, we heralded another first 
for Pennies, becoming the first brand to launch the digital charity 
box in the Republic of Ireland.
Pennies receives 7.5% of all donations as a contribution to its charitable 
objectives and to drive the movement for the benefit of the charitable 
sector as a whole.
The full 92.5% of donations in Great Britain went to our 2016 beneficiary, 
Teenage Cancer Trust. In Northern Ireland, the Northern Ireland Children’s 
Hospice also received the full 92.5%, and in the Republic of Ireland, our 
new charity partner Barretstown also began receiving 92.5% of customers’ 
donations from launch in September 2016.
Teenage Cancer Trust: Over £1m raised 
and we’re still going!
Teenage Cancer Trust was appointed as our charity partner of choice 
in England, Scotland and Wales in the Summer of 2015, with a goal 
of raising £1m over a two-year period. To date, we have already raised 
approximately £1.3m, which equates to 45,000 hours of expert care 
from a specialist nurse for a young person with cancer. The overwhelming 
engagement of our customers, franchisees, store teams and office colleagues 
meant that we hit – and exceeded – our goal after just 14 months.
Throughout 2016, Domino’s team members and franchisees took part 
in various fundraising challenges and customer-facing activities and 
provided pizza for “Unit Pizza Nights”. Domino’s was also a sponsor 
at Teenage Cancer Trust’s flagship Royal Albert Hall event in March.
Right now, for every young person Teenage Cancer Trust reaches, 
there’s another they can’t. To reach every young person who needs 
them, Teenage Cancer Trust is expanding its team of expert nurses 
to work in local hospitals and patients’ homes so that young people 
can receive the expert treatment they need, no matter where they live. 
They need to raise £20m a year by 2020 to make this happen, and 
Domino’s is proud be part of helping them get there.
We have now committed to raising £2m to support Teenage Cancer Trust 
with their 2020 goal. Young people and their families remain at the heart 
of our business, so a partnership with a charity that supports this age 
group and their families through one of the most difficult times in their 
lives continues to make sense to us.
Our social impact:
 o To date, Domino’s has raised over £1,360,000 for Teenage Cancer 
Trust. In 2016 alone, the fundraising total equated to 32,105 hours 
of expert care from a specialist nurse for a young person with cancer.
 o Since our partnership began in 2009, Domino’s has raised over 
£103,000 for the Northern Ireland Children’s Hospice. The 2016 
fundraising total equates to 1,724 nursing hours.
 o Since our partnership began in 2004, Domino’s has raised over 
£200,000 for Barretstown. The 2016 fundraising total made it 
possible for seven children living with a serious illness to attend 
a seven-day summer camp to take part in a life-changing programme 
of therapeutic recreation. The 2016 donation has also maintained 
the three automated external defibrillators in the Med Shed.
Charity objectives for 2017
 o Evolve the charity programme in line with fresh business priorities.
 o Increase overall giving, aided by the introduction of Pennies into the ROI.
 o Continue to galvanise fundraising with our customers, franchisees, 
store teams and office colleagues.
We consider our place to 
be at the heart of the local 
community and support a 
number of charities working 
nationally and locally. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 30
Board of Directors
DAVID WILD COLIN HALPERN STEPHEN HEMSLEY
HELEN KEAYS EBBE JACOBSEN
R A
A
R
N
Audit Committee member
Remuneration Committee member
Nomination Committee member
Committee Chairman
KEVIN HIGGINS
R A
N
STEVE BARBER
R A
N N
RACHEL OSBORNE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 31
Ebbe Jacobsen
Non-executive Director
Ebbe was appointed to the Board in January 2014 
and is a member of the Nomination Committee. 
He has wide experience of operating in Germany 
and other European countries, most recently with 
Delsey. He has been in retail all his working life 
and has pan-EU retail knowledge with significant 
experience in franchising, multi-site and single 
brand retail. He pioneered the introduction of 
US fast food chain Burger King into the Nordic 
countries in the 1970s and held the position 
of director and operating partner when the 
franchise was sold in 1985. Other significant 
retail experience includes having been CEO 
of IKEA in Germany, CEO of Delsey and CEO 
of Habitat.
Rachel Osborne
Chief Financial Officer
Rachel was appointed Chief Financial Officer 
in October 2016. She joined the Group from 
Vodafone, where she was CFO for Group 
Enterprise. Prior to this she was finance and 
strategy director for John Lewis and also 
held senior roles at Sodexo, Kingfisher and 
PepsiCo. Rachel is a chartered accountant 
and also currently non-executive director of 
HM Courts and Tribunals Service, an agency 
of the Ministry of Justice.
Kevin Higgins
Non-executive Director
Kevin was appointed to the Board in 
September 2014. He is Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and a member of 
the Audit Committee. His career spans more 
than 20 years in branded consumer foods in 
both Europe and the United States. Kevin is 
non-executive chairman of Lunch Garden, a 
Belgian restaurant chain, and has previously 
served as president of Burger King Europe, 
Middle East and Africa. Prior to his role with 
Burger King, Kevin served as general manager 
of Yum! Brands (Pizza Hut, KFC and Taco Bell) 
Europe and Russia Franchise Business Unit 
based in Switzerland. Earlier in his career he 
held executive roles with PepsiCo and Mars.
Stephen Hemsley
Non-executive Chairman
Stephen joined the Board as Finance Director 
in 1998, was appointed as Chief Executive 
in 2001 and as Executive Chairman in 2008 
and finally became non-executive Chairman 
in March 2010. He also chairs the Nomination 
Committee. Stephen is also chairman of 
AIM-listed Franchise Brands plc and its 
subsidiary companies. He is a chartered 
accountant by profession.
Colin Halpern
Non-executive Vice-Chairman
Colin acquired the Domino’s Pizza 
Master Franchise Agreement for the UK 
and ROI in 1993 through International 
Franchise Systems Inc. In 1999, with Colin 
as Chairman, the Company was taken public 
and listed on AIM and subsequently moved to 
the Main Market in 2008. Colin is the managing 
director of HS Real Company LLC and Dayenn 
Limited and non-executive director of several 
other companies.
David Wild
Chief Executive Officer
David was appointed to the Board as a 
non-executive Director in November 2013, 
became Interim Chief Executive Officer in 
January 2014 and was appointed as Chief 
Executive Officer on 30 April 2014. David is a 
non-executive director of Bankers’ Investment 
Trust. Previously, David was chief executive 
officer of Halfords Group plc and held senior 
roles within Walmart Stores Inc., Tesco Stores 
plc and RHM Foods Limited and was a 
non-executive director of the multi-channel 
consultancy Practicology Limited.
Helen Keays
Non-executive Director 
and Senior Independent Director
Helen was appointed to the Board in 
September 2011 and is a member of the 
Company’s Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees and was appointed as the Senior 
Independent Director on 20 April 2016. Helen 
has over 20 years’ experience in travel, retail, 
consumer markets and telecoms. She is currently 
a non-executive director of Communisis plc 
and a trustee of the Shakespeare Birthplace 
Trust and has held a number of other 
non-executive directorships, including most 
recently at Majestic Wine. The majority of her 
executive career was spent at GE Capital and 
Vodafone, where she held various senior 
marketing roles.
Steve Barber
Non-executive Director
Steve was appointed to the Board as a 
non-executive Director in July 2015. He is the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member 
of the Remuneration Committee. He is currently 
a non-executive director of Next plc, where he 
also chairs the audit committee. He has almost 
30 years’ experience in accountancy, principally 
with PricewaterhouseCoopers, where he was 
a senior partner, and also with Ernst & Young. 
He has also worked in industry, and was formerly 
the chief operating officer of Whitehead Mann 
and the finance director of Mirror Group plc. 
He is a founder of The Objectivity Partnership, 
a member of the steering group of the Audit 
Quality Forum and a director of Fenwick Limited. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 32
Corporate governance
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
Domino’s Pizza Group plc (‘the Company’) is incorporated and has 
a premium listing in the UK. As a result, it is required to report on 
its compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’) 
or explain why it has chosen not to comply. For the year ended 
25 December 2016, it was subject to the edition of the Code published 
by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014, which is 
available from www.frc.org.uk. 
The Code contains 18 main principles, which are expanded on in 
supporting principles and detailed provisions. Together, these set out 
the key components of effective Board practice, and we explain in this 
report how we have applied these during the year. Where appropriate, 
some explanations are contained in the Nomination Committee report, 
the Audit Committee report, the Directors’ remuneration report and the 
Directors’ report.
The Company did not comply fully with Code provision A.4.1 throughout 
the whole year. In last year’s report we stated our intent to nominate one 
of the independent non-executive Directors as the Senior Independent 
Director and Helen Keays was appointed as the SID on 20 April 2016. 
The Board does not believe that this non-compliance created risk for 
shareholders. All other provisions of the Code were met in full 
throughout the year.
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION
I am pleased to introduce this section of 
the Annual Report. The Board is committed 
to ensuring the Group’s corporate governance 
arrangements are effective, as this is how the 
Board is able to direct and control the Group, 
provide strategic leadership and effective oversight 
and maintain a framework within which the 
Executive leadership team can conduct its 
day-to-day operational management of 
the business.
The Board plays a vital role in developing and 
maintaining the Group’s culture and values by 
setting the “tone from the top” and determining 
the behaviours expected by the Board and 
ensuring that ethical standards are maintained. 
In so doing, the Board aims to strike the right 
balance between entrepreneurial leadership 
and the prudent and effective management of 
risk, both of which are essential to maintaining 
a sustainable business and creating value 
for shareholders.
Our corporate governance framework continues 
to evolve and improve. The following report 
sets out the how the Board has applied the 
principles of good governance during the year. 
Stephen Hemsley
Non-executive Chairman
8 March 2017
The Board plays a vital role in 
developing and maintaining the 
Group’s culture and values by 
setting the “tone from the top” 
and determining the behaviours 
expected by the Board and 
ensuring that ethical standards 
are maintained.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 33
Leadership – our governance framework
The Company is led by the Board, whose members are collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company. Day-to-day management 
of the business is delegated to management, led by the Chief Executive Officer. The role of the Board can be summarised as follows:
Decide on the longer-term aims
 o Agree the Company’s business model
 o Agree an appetite for risk
 o Set values and standards for the Company
 o Provide entrepreneurial leadership
 o Appoint the CEO
Monitor and manage performance
 o Monitor management’s performance in delivering the strategy, 
and challenge or support as necessary
 o Approve major expenditure and other commitments
 o Monitor the risk environment in which the Company operates 
and review internal controls
 o Determine the remuneration of Executive Directors 
and senior management
 o Oversee the governance of the Company and Group to ensure 
shareholders’ interests are protected
Decide on the short-term goals
 o Review and approve strategy, providing constructive 
challenge as necessary
 o Ensure the necessary financial and human resources 
are in place
 o Agree business plans and budgets
 o Review the risk management process and internal 
control environment
Report to, and engage with, shareholders
 o Monitor the integrity of financial information and the reporting 
of performance generally
 o Report to shareholders on business performance
 o Ensure other external obligations are met, including reporting 
to other stakeholders
 o Understand shareholders’ views and act as necessary
Within the delegation framework described above, the Board retains 
certain key decision-making responsibilities:
 o setting and approving overall Group strategy; 
 o setting a risk appetite, within which management is required 
to operate; 
 o reviewing and approving business plans and budgets;
 o reviewing and approving major business decisions;
 o reviewing major risks and the implementation of mitigation strategies;
 o reviewing the functioning of the internal control environment;
 o monitoring operational and trading results against previously 
approved plans;
 o reviewing and approving significant contractual and other 
commitments, including capital expenditure;
 o reviewing corporate governance arrangements;
 o reviewing succession plans for Board, Executive Director and senior 
management positions; and
 o exercising its control by an annual review of “matters reserved” for 
the Board’s decision.
As noted above, the Board is responsible for determining the nature 
and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic 
objectives. It also retains oversight of the risk management and internal 
control systems with the aim that these are sound and protect 
shareholders’ interests.
The Board is supported in its work by three Committees:
Terms of reference for these Committees, which are regularly reviewed 
by the Board, are available on the Company’s investor relations website 
(investors.dominos.co.uk) as is the formal schedule of matters reserved 
for the Board’s decision.
THE BOARD
AUDIT 
COMMITTEE
NOMINATION 
COMMITTEE
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 34
Corporate governance continued
Leadership – our governance framework continued
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities 
for the integrity of the financial statements, reviewing the internal control 
environment and risk management systems, managing the relationship 
with the external auditor and monitoring the effectiveness and objectivity 
of the external and internal auditors. 
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee oversees the recruitment of the Directors 
and senior management and advises on matters relating to the Board’s 
membership and Committee appointments, including reviewing succession 
plans. The Nomination Committee also regularly reviews and monitors 
the overall skills and experience of the Board. 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee determines the terms and conditions 
of employment, remuneration and rewards of the Executive Directors, 
the Chairman and the leadership teams. The Remuneration Committee 
aims to offer an appropriate balance of fixed and performance-related, 
immediate and deferred remuneration, but without overpaying or creating 
the risk of rewards for failure. 
Board composition
The Board’s preferred structure is to be led by a non-executive Chairman, 
to have high calibre Executive Directors to drive the performance of the 
business under the leadership of a Chief Executive Officer, and to have 
a number of non-executive Directors drawn from a range of backgrounds, 
whose role is to provide constructive challenge. Our aim is that the 
independent non-executive Directors always constitute at least half of the 
Board. This structure and the integrity of the individual Directors should 
ensure that no single individual or group dominates the decision-making 
process. There is a common purpose of promoting the overall success of 
the Group with a unified vision of the definition of success, the core strategic 
principles, and the understanding, alignment and mitigation of risk. 
Non-executive Directors are appointed for three-year terms (subject 
to annual re-election by shareholders) and the offer of any further 
term of appointment after year six would be weighed carefully by the 
Nomination Committee, which keeps the need for progressive refreshing 
of the Board (particularly to maintain an appropriate balance of skills 
and experience) and orderly succession to key appointments under 
continual review.
Independence
The Board reviews the independence of its non-executive Directors 
annually. In assessing the independence of each Director, the Board 
considers whether each is independent in character and judgement 
and whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely 
to affect, or could appear to affect, the Director’s judgement.
Board roles and responsibilities
There is a clear separation between the roles of the Chairman and the 
Chief Executive Officer, which is recorded in a document approved by 
the Board in September 2015 and summarised below. In essence, the 
Chairman manages the Board and the CEO manages the business. 
Importantly, no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The Chairman meets with the Chief Executive Officer at least once a 
month, including visits to pizza stores, and they are in contact between 
these occasions as required. The Chairman also has separate discussions 
with the non-executive Directors.
Chairman
The role of the Chairman is:
 o providing leadership to and ensuring the effectiveness of the Board;
 o ensuring that agendas emphasise strategic, rather than routine, issues 
and that the Directors receive accurate and clear information well 
ahead of the time when a decision is required;
 o promoting a culture of openness and constructive debate, and 
facilitating an effective contribution by the non-executive Directors;
 o arranging informal meetings of the Directors, including meetings 
of the non-executive Directors;
 o ensuring effective communication by the Group with its shareholders;
 o arranging for the Chairs of the Committees to be available to answer 
questions at the AGM and for all Directors to attend; and
 o taking the lead in providing a properly constructed, full, formal 
and tailored induction programme and ongoing development for 
new Directors.
Chief Executive Officer
The role of the Chief Executive Officer is:
 o leading the development of the Group’s strategic direction 
and objectives;
 o identifying and executing acquisitions and disposals and leading 
geographic diversification initiatives;
 o reviewing the Group’s organisational structure and recommending 
changes as appropriate;
 o identifying and executing new business opportunities;
 o overseeing risk management and internal control;
 o managing the Group’s risk profile, including the health and safety 
performance of the Group;
 o implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees;
 o building and maintaining an effective Group leadership team; and 
 o ensuring the Chairman and the Board are alerted to forthcoming 
complex, contentious or sensitive issues affecting the Group.
Senior Independent Director
The SID focuses on:
 o meeting regularly with the independent non-executive Directors;
 o providing a sounding board for the Chairman and acting as an 
intermediary for other Directors;
 o being available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact 
through the normal channels of Chairman or Chief Executive Officer 
has failed to address or would be inappropriate; and
 o holding annual meetings with non-executive Directors without the 
Chairman present.
Non-executive Director
The role of a non-executive Director is:
 o providing creative contribution to the Board by way 
of constructive criticism;
 o bringing independence, impartiality, experience, specialist 
knowledge and a different perspective to the Board;
 o providing guidance on matters of concern and strategy; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 35
 o overseeing risk management and internal control;
 o protecting shareholder and stakeholder interests;
 o constructively challenging the Executive Directors and monitoring 
Executive performance;
 o supporting the Executive team in shaping and delivering the strategic 
goals of the business;
 o optimising shareholder return and protection of shareholder assets; and
 o ensuring the Board is able to work together effectively and make 
maximum use of its time.
Diversity
The Board’s policy on diversity is explained in the Nomination Committee 
report on page 38.
Leadership in action
This section of the corporate governance report explains how the Board 
has fulfilled its duties and obligations during the year under review.
Board membership 
The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, the 
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, a non-executive 
Vice-Chairman and four independent non-executive Directors, one 
of whom acts as the Senior Independent Director. The names and 
biographical details of the serving Directors, and the offices held 
by them, can be found on page 31. 
We believe that the Board is of sufficient size that the requirements of 
the business and good governance can be met and normal succession 
challenges managed, but is not so large as to be unwieldy.
Board composition
The eight continuing members of the Board on 25 December 2016 
were drawn from a range of backgrounds and gained their experience 
in a range of relevant industry sectors:
The current non-executive Directors’ tenure reflects our approach 
of progressively refreshing the Board:
1  Stephen Hemsley was appointed as non-executive Chairman in March 2010. 
However, he was first appointed to an Executive Director role in 1998 and as a 
Director of the Company on incorporation in 1999. Full details of Stephen’s history 
with the Company can be found in the Directors’ biographies on page 31.
2   Colin Halpern acquired the Domino’s Pizza master franchise for the UK and 
Ireland in 1993 and has held a variety of senior Executive roles within the Group. 
He became a non-executive Director in December 2007. Full details of Colin’s 
history with the Company can be found in the Directors’ biographies on page 31.
Independence
The Board has considered the independence of the current non-executive 
Directors, other than the Chairman. It does not believe that Colin Halpern 
is independent in view of his long service with the Company (including his 
former Executive responsibilities) and the contractual relationship with 
the Group in which he is involved.
Board balance
The Board composition creates a majority of independent non-executive 
Directors (excluding the Chairman), with the current position being:
38+ 50+12+z 50+ 38+12+z GENDER BALANCE
Male 6
Female 2
75+ 25+z Steve 
Barber
2
Kevin 
Higgins
Ebbe 
Jacobsen
3 3
Helen 
Keays
5
Stephen 
Hemsley
1
7
Colin 
Halpern
2
9
CURRENT YEAR OF NON-EXECUTIVE 
TENURE, AT 25 DECEMBER 2016
38+ 12+50+z PRIMARY EXPERIENCE
Consumer retail 4
Food retail  3
Professional services 1
PROFESSIONAL SKILLS
Accounting 3
Retail management  4
Marketing  1
BOARD BALANCE
Non-independent Directors 3 
Colin Halpern 
David Wild 
Rachel Osborne
Chairman  1 
Stephen Hemsley
Independent 
non-executive Directors 4 
Steve Barber 
Kevin Higgins 
Ebbe Jacobsen 
Helen Keays CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 36
Corporate governance continued
Leadership in action continued
Board Committees
Membership of the three Board Committees during the year ended 
25 December 2016 was as follows:
Audit
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Stephen Hemsley Chairman
Colin Halpern
David Wild
Rachel Osborne
Kevin Higgins Member Chairman
Steve Barber Chairman Member 
Ebbe Jacobsen Member 
Helen Keays Member Member Member
Senior Independent Director
Helen Keays was appointed the Senior Independent Director on 
20 April 2016.
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings
The Board is scheduled to meet seven times in each year. Additional 
meetings are arranged as necessary which do not necessarily require 
the full participation of all Directors. Committees meet as necessary 
to discharge their duties. Attendance of individual Directors at meetings 
of the Board (including additional meetings) and its Committees during 
the year ended 25 December 2016 was as follows:
Board
Audit
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Stephen Hemsley 14 of 14 3 of 3
Colin Halpern
1
13 of 14
David Wild 14 of 14
Rachel Osborne 3 of 3
Kevin Higgins
1
11 of 14 3 of 3 5 of 5
Steve Barber
1
12 of 14 3 of 3 5 of 5
Ebbe Jacobsen
1
12 of 14 3 of 3
Helen Keays
1, 2
12 of 14 3 of 3 2 of 3 5 of 5
1  All Directors attended the scheduled Board meetings. There were seven unscheduled 
Board meetings held during the year and some of the Directors were not available 
for all of these unscheduled meetings due to other diary commitments.
2  Helen Keays did not attend the Nomination Committee meeting at which her 
appointment as Senior Independent Director was discussed and recommended 
to the Board.
Each non-executive Director has committed to the Company that 
they are able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge 
their responsibilities effectively. Any additional appointments they are 
contemplating taking on are discussed with the Chairman in advance, 
including the likely time commitment and whether these could in any 
way constitute a conflict of interest. These matters are formally reviewed 
by the Board on an annual basis.
Meetings of non-executive Directors
The non-executive Directors, led by the Chairman, meet without 
the Executive Directors being present. In addition, the independent 
non-executive Directors, led by the SID, meet during the year as 
needed, including to review the performance of the Chairman.
Board effectiveness
We believe that there are five key steps in creating an effective Board:
1. Recruit the right people
We have a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment 
of new Directors to the Board, overseen by the Nomination Committee. 
For each appointment, we develop an objective brief summarising the 
role and the skills and experience required and use an appropriate 
head-hunting firm with proven expertise in the relevant field. As noted 
above, we take care to ensure that we recruit on merit, from the widest 
possible range of backgrounds, recognising the benefits of diversity, 
and the search firms we use are signatories to the Code of Conduct for 
executive search firms. Before confirming an appointment, we check 
whether the preferred individual can commit to the time expected 
including, in the case of an appointment to the chairmanship, the 
need to be available in the event of a crisis.
2. Make sure Directors have the right tools
All Directors go through a tailored, formal induction process on 
joining the Board, including the opportunity to meet major shareholders. 
The aim of this is to ensure that they understand the Company and its 
business model, our strategy, the drivers of value in the business and 
the key risks we face, and that they understand the legal and regulatory 
environment in which we operate and their own personal obligations. 
Directors are expected to update and refresh their skills and knowledge 
on an ongoing basis, and to continue to build their familiarity with the 
Company and its business throughout their tenure. The Company will 
provide the necessary resources for developing and updating its 
Directors’ knowledge and capabilities, including access to our 
operations, staff and franchisees.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary, 
and the opportunity to seek independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their 
responsibilities as Directors or as members of Board Committees. 
If Directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the running 
of the Company or a proposed action, they can require that their 
concerns are recorded in the Board minutes, or provide a written 
statement to the Chairman, for circulation to the Board.
The Board is supplied with information in a form and of a quality 
appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties effectively. This is 
provided in good time ahead of all meetings and decisions, and 
non-executive Directors are encouraged to seek clarification from 
management whenever they feel appropriate.
3. Identify and manage any conflicts of interest
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid actual or potential conflicts 
of interest. However, the Company’s Articles of Association allow the 
Board to “authorise” conflicts, where felt appropriate. Any Director who 
becomes aware that he or she is in a situation which does or could 
create a conflict of interest, or has an interest in an existing or proposed 
transaction in which the Company also has an interest, is required to 
notify the Board in writing as soon as possible. The interests of new 
Directors are reviewed during the recruitment process and authorised 
(if appropriate) by the Board at the time of their appointment.
No Director had a material interest in any contract of significance in 
relation to the Company’s business at any time during the year or to 
the date of this report.
Executive Directors are permitted, and where felt appropriate even 
encouraged, to hold non-executive directorships outside the Group. 
However, the Board would not agree to a full-time Executive Director 
taking on more than one non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 
company nor the chairmanship of such a company. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 37
4. Formally check on effectiveness
The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own 
performance in each year. It also reviews the performance of the Board 
Committees and the Nomination Committee reviews the performance of 
individual Directors. Board and Committee evaluation considers the balance 
of skills, experience (including familiarity with the Company and its business) 
and independence of the Group taken as a whole, and also the diversity, 
including gender, of the Directors. The process also examines how the 
Directors work together as a unit, and explores other factors relevant to 
effectiveness. The Chairman acts on the results of the performance 
evaluations as necessary including, where appropriate, proposing new 
members be appointed to the Board or seeking the resignation of Directors.
Individual evaluation aims to determine whether each Director continues 
to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to the role 
(including commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings 
and any other duties).
In 2016 the Board evaluation process was facilitated by an independent 
third party. Three potential service providers were approached for 
proposals to conduct the evaluation exercise, and Independent Audit 
Limited (‘IAL’) was selected for the assignment. IAL reviewed the Board 
and Committee papers over an annual cycle and then conducted an 
interview with each of the Directors and the Company Secretary. They 
compiled a report summarising their findings relating to the performance 
of the Board, the Chairman and the Committees, and they made a number 
of recommendations. The report was discussed with the Chairman and 
Senior Independent Director and then presented to the Board by IAL. 
The findings were discussed and the Board agreed a number of areas 
of focus for 2017 , several of which reflect an ongoing process of enhancing 
governance. These include:
 o making changes to the strategic development process;
 o improving the content of Board packs and the dissemination 
of information to the Board;
 o arranging greater interaction of the non-executive Directors with the 
wider management team and employee community;
 o increasing focus on Executive succession planning 
and talent management;
 o ensuring that management continues to embed the risk framework 
throughout the organisation;
 o increasing oversight of the internal control framework; and
 o making changes to the Board’s meeting calendar to make the most 
effective use of Board time during both formal and informal Board 
meetings and non-executive Directors’ meetings.
The Chairman reviewed the performance of the individual Directors, informed 
by observations made by IAL, and the Senior Independent Director undertook 
a review of the Chairman’s performance, providing feedback to him.
5. Ask shareholders to confirm appointments
Ultimately, the Directors’ main responsibility is to promote the long-term 
success of the Company, acting in shareholders’ best interests. All of our 
Directors submit themselves for re-election at each AGM and we provide 
shareholders with sufficient information in the meeting papers for them 
to decide whether their commitment and performance warrant a further 
year in office. At the 2016 AGM, each serving Director was re-elected, 
with votes in favour exceeding 97% of those cast in all cases.
Accountability to shareholders
The Board has established formal and transparent arrangements for 
considering how they apply the principles of sound corporate reporting, 
risk management and internal control and how the Company and Board 
maintain an appropriate relationship with the Company’s auditor. These 
responsibilities are overseen by the Audit Committee and are explained 
in its report from page 39 onwards.
The Board considers that the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as 
a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy. Details of how we do this 
are also explained in the Audit Committee’s report.
Remuneration
There are formal and transparent procedures for developing policy 
on Executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of 
individual Directors, which are overseen by the Remuneration Committee 
and are explained in its report from page 41 onwards. This report explains 
how Executive Directors’ remuneration is designed to promote the long-term 
success of the Company and shows how the performance-related 
elements are transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
Relations with shareholders
We maintain a dialogue with shareholders throughout the year, 
which we intend to be based on a mutual understanding of objectives. 
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, 
and the Company Secretary all variously and routinely engage with 
analysts, institutional and retail shareholders and potential investors. 
Our aim is to ensure that there are strong relationships, through which 
we can understand those parties’ views on material issues. Feedback is 
provided to the Board, particularly where there are issues or concerns 
and the Company’s brokers also provides independent feedback from 
investors. All brokers’ notes are circulated to the entire Board in order 
that the Board maintains an understanding of market perceptions of 
the Company. In addition, the Chairman, the Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee and the Company Secretary meet with major shareholders, 
principally relating to remuneration and governance issues. The other 
non-executive Directors are available for meetings with shareholders 
on request to the Company Secretary.
The AGM is treated as an opportunity to communicate with all of 
our shareholders, and their participation is encouraged. The Chairs 
of all Board Committees attend the AGM and are available to answer 
questions. An explanatory circular containing the notice of meeting is 
sent to shareholders at least 20 working days beforehand, with separate 
votes being offered on each substantive issue. All proxy votes received are 
counted with the balance for and against and any votes withheld announced 
at the meeting and published on the Company’s investor relations website 
after the meeting. This website, corporate.dominos.co.uk, also contains 
a host of up-to-date information on the Group. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 38
Nomination Committee report
The Company Secretary attends meetings in his capacity as Secretary 
of the Nomination Committee and the Chief Executive is expected to 
attend whenever necessary.
The majority of members of the Nomination Committee are independent 
non-executive Directors. While the Chairman of the Board chairs the 
Nomination Committee in normal circumstances, he would abstain in 
matters relating to the appointment of a successor to the chairmanship. 
The number of meetings held in the year and attendance at those 
meetings is shown on page 36.
Purpose
The Nomination Committee has four principal duties:
 o to ensure that plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments 
to the Board and to senior management, so as to  maintain an appropriate 
balance of skills and experience within the Company and on the Board 
and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board;
 o to lead the process for Board and Committee appointments and make 
recommendations to the Board; 
 o where external recruitment is required, to evaluate the balance 
of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board 
and, in light of this evaluation, prepare a description of the role and 
capabilities required for a particular appointment. The Nomination 
Committee would then oversee the selection process with the aim 
of ensuring that this results in an appointment made on merit, against 
objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on 
the Board, including gender; and
 o to undertake formal performance evaluation of non-executive Directors 
who are standing for re-election and to ascertain whether the individual’s 
performance continues to be effective and they demonstrate sufficient 
commitment to the role.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee were reviewed by 
the Board and updated in February 2017. These terms of reference are 
available on the Company’s investor relations website.
MEMBERS
 o Stephen Hemsley (Chair)
 o Ebbe Jacobsen
 o Helen Keays
Chairman’s overview
The principal purpose of the Nomination Committee is to ensure that 
the Company has the right leadership, both on the Board and in the 
ranks of senior management. This is a combination of continual review 
and monitoring of, and also responding to, specific situations as needed.
Activities in 2016
During the year the Committee met to consider the following key matters: 
 o the review of the performance of all the non-executive Directors 
seeking re-election at the 2016 AGM; 
 o the nomination of one of the independent non-executive Directors as 
the Board’s Senior Independent Director, following which Helen Keays 
was nominated to the Board and was appointed as the Senior 
Independent Director with effect from 20 April 2016; and
 o the recruitment of a Chief Financial Officer. A brief was developed 
and the Nomination Committee engaged Russell Reynolds, an executive 
search firm with no other connections to the Company, to manage the 
selection process. In addition, members of the Nomination Committee 
received direct approaches from candidates wishing to be considered 
for the role and these candidates were considered alongside candidates 
identified through the executive search process. Given the short tenure 
of previous CFOs, the Committee deliberated carefully over the pool 
of available candidates to ensure that the appointee had the right 
balance of skills and personal attributes to be successful in the role. 
Following this process, Rachel Osborne’s appointment was announced 
on 11 July 2016 and she joined the Board on 10 October 2016.
Policy on diversity
It is important that the Directors have the appropriate balance 
of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company 
to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities 
effectively. They play a key governance role in protecting shareholders’ 
interests by ensuring that the Board and management are challenged, 
constructively and effectively, and it is important that they do so from 
a range of perspectives.
An important factor in achieving this effectiveness is drawing members 
from a range of backgrounds, which has been shown to help avoid 
“group-think”. We are proud of the diversity in our business and we 
recruit and develop people regardless of their gender, race or any 
other characteristic. We are of the view that it is in the interests of the 
Company to recruit and develop the very best people, drawn from the 
widest pool of talent. The policy of the Board on recruitment is always 
to seek to appoint the best candidate to each role. However, the Board 
seeks to achieve an appropriate balance of male and female members. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 39
Report of the Audit Committee
Steve Barber is a chartered accountant with considerable experience and 
the Board has determined he has recent and relevant financial experience 
which qualifies him to chair the Audit Committee. Both Kevin Higgins 
and Helen Keays have considerable business experience which enables 
them to make a positive contribution to the Audit Committee.
Meetings of the Audit Committee have been attended by the Chairman 
of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, 
the external auditor, the Company Secretary (as Secretary to the Audit 
Committee) and other Directors and members of management by invitation. 
The number of meetings held in the year and attendance at those 
meetings is shown on page 36.
The Audit Committee has direct access to members of management 
and the external auditor. It is able to seek further professional advice 
at the Company’s cost if deemed necessary.
Significant accounting issues
The Audit Committee’s reviews of the half and full year financial 
statements focused on the following areas of significance:
 o consideration of the need to provide for a potentially significant 
employment tax liability that could arise from historic employee 
share schemes (see note 1 to the accounts) – certain of the Group’s 
historic share-based remuneration arrangements have been the subject 
of protective assessments from HMRC in relation to the employment 
tax treatment. The Group has received professional advice confirming 
that no provision is considered necessary and therefore no provision 
has been made;
 o the appropriateness of assumptions in respect of material 
accounting judgements – this covered provisions for onerous leases 
and expenditure charged to the national advertising fund. The Audit 
Committee, following confirmations from management and the external 
auditor, satisfied itself as to the reasonableness and consistency of 
these assumptions when compared to prior years;
 o the valuation of the Market Access Fee arising from last year’s 
transaction in Germany together with the accounting treatment 
for conversion costs in the German investment – the Committee 
received a third-party valuation of the market access fee and 
management’s assessment of the quantum and treatment of the 
conversion costs. The Committee considered the underlying 
assumptions in the valuation to be reasonable;
 o distributions made other than in compliance with the Companies Act 
– following the failure to file interim parent company financial statements 
at Companies House during the year, a thorough review of distributable 
reserves was performed by management which identified that certain 
distributions had been made otherwise than in accordance with the Act. 
This resulted in the circular to shareholders dated 1 December 2016 
and approval by the shareholders of the resolutions to restore all parties 
to the position originally intended. Strict procedures have been put in 
place to ensure that this omission will not be repeated; and
MEMBERS
 o Steve Barber (Chairman) 
 o Kevin Higgins
 o Helen Keays
 o acquisition of interests in Iceland, Norway and Sweden – the 
accounting for these acquisitions was reviewed and approved and the 
Committee concurred with management’s judgement that these represent 
investments in associates as the Group does not have control under 
the terms of the agreement.
These issues were discussed with the external auditor at both the planning 
and execution stages of the external audit and there were no significant 
differences between management’s and the external auditor’s conclusions.
New accounting standards
As mentioned last year, the impact on the financial statements of the 
new accounting standard for leasing (IFRS 16), which will be effective 
for the year ending in December 2020, will have no net cash flow 
impact but could significantly change the composition of the consolidated 
balance sheet and phasing of the charges in the Income Statement, 
however the full impact assessment has yet to be completed. In view 
of the back-to-back nature of the majority of the Group’s leases (from 
landlords and then to franchisees), the Audit Committee is advised that 
the impact may not be as great as initially anticipated. The company has 
yet to determine whether to adopt the new standard on a full retrospective 
or modified retrospective basis and the Audit Committee will report next 
year on the expected method of adoption together with the anticipated 
impact of the standard on the financial statements.
The impact of the new accounting standard for statutory revenue recognition 
(IFRS 15), effective 1 January 2018, is not expected to have a significant 
impact on the Group’s revenues. The majority of the Group’s statutory 
revenues are derived from sales to and fees from franchisees and the 
new standard is not expected to impact the recording of these. The Group 
has yet to determine whether the new standard would require the national 
advertising fund to be consolidated in the profit and loss account, but if 
this were required the impact would only be to increase turnover and cost 
of sales by £41.5m, with no impact on profit.
IFRS 9, the new financial instruments standard will be applicable 
from 1 January 2018. An assessment of the impact of this standard 
is in progress but initial estimates are that the overall impact is not 
expected to be material.
Presentations from management 
and professional advisers
The Audit Committee received a number of presentations from 
management and professional advisers, including:
 o IT and cyber security – the Group’s system sales are highly dependent 
on its e-commerce IT systems, particularly apps for mobile devices. 
Although there can be no guarantee as to the resilience of the Group’s 
systems to outside attack, the Audit Committee was assured as to the 
structure of the systems to minimise such impact; CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 40
Report of the Audit Committee continued
Presentations from management 
and professional advisers continued
 o risks and controls – in view of the Group’s rapid growth over the 
past few years, it does not have a formalised internal audit function. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers (‘PwC’) was engaged in 2015 to ensure that 
the Group complied with the new requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code in relation to internal controls and risk management. 
The results of its work highlighted that the Group’s internal control 
environment was informal and often undocumented. PwC was therefore 
engaged to improve documentation, working in collaboration with 
management. Its work was completed by the 2015 year end and initial 
remedial action taken. In view of the implementation of the Group’s 
new Enterprise Resource Planning system (‘ERP’) during the year 
(see below), which has required a wholesale change in the processes 
and controls across the Group, the focus in the year has been on the 
ERP implementation rather than reviewing individual aspects of control. 
Documentation and processes to support the Board’s assessment of 
principal risks have been in place throughout the year although work 
continues to embed risk management processes into the Group’s 
operations and this will be a major focus during 2017;
 o enterprise resource planning system – during the year, management 
implemented a new ERP system which went live in September 2016. 
The new systems are designed to assist in delivering operational 
efficiency gains, improve controls and accommodate the continued 
growth of the business. Implementation of major changes to operating 
systems will always entail a degree of uncertainty. Early indications 
are that the systems are working satisfactorily. Management will 
continue to evaluate operation of the new systems and modify the 
processes and controls based on experience gained from using 
the systems in a live environment; and
 o taxation – the Group engaged FTI to assist in the management 
of its tax affairs in 2016 and believes that there has been a significant 
improvement in the processes necessary to ensure compliance with 
local legislation.
Brexit
The impact of the UK’s vote to leave the European Union is at present 
difficult to quantify but the majority of the raw materials purchased by 
the Group are inevitably impacted by world prices and exchange rates. 
As a result, it is likely that raw material prices will increase. It is anticipated 
that such increases would be passed to franchisees, although it is not 
possible to determine what the effect of such price rises might be on 
consumer demand.
Internal audit
The Group does not have a formal internal audit department. This is a 
reflection of the small number of Group personnel and the rapid growth 
of the Group in recent years. However, the Group’s operational auditors 
regularly audit franchisees to support compliance with franchise agreements 
and brand standards. During the year the Committee considered the 
Group’s use of internal audit services and what structure would be most 
appropriate for the Group’s operations. The Committee concluded that 
an outsourced model would be most appropriate and the management 
team will be progressing engagement of a third-party provider in 2017.
Going concern and viability statement
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee reviewed the Group’s 
projected cash flows, facilities and covenants as well as reviewing the 
assumptions underlying the viability statement and concluded that 
it could recommend to the Board that it should be able to make the 
relevant statements. 
External auditor
The Audit Committee has reviewed the independence, objectivity 
and effectiveness of the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP (‘EY’),
and considers that EY continues to possess the skills and experience 
required to fulfil its duties effectively and efficiently. The Audit Committee’s 
review of the effectiveness of EY as the external auditor is based on 
discussions with the senior finance team, the robustness of the audit, 
the quality of reporting to the Audit Committee and reports published 
by the FRC.
EY has confirmed that in its professional judgement it is independent 
within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and the 
objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired. 
The Audit Committee has held meetings with the external auditor without 
management and there is regular dialogue with the audit partner.
EY has been the Group’s auditor since 1997 and no competitive tender 
has been conducted during that time. The lead audit partner is rotated 
every five years, with the last change being after the 2013 audit. In 
compliance with the CMA Statutory Audit Services Order, the Group 
intends to put the audit out for tender during the 2017 financial year 
so as to at least coincide with the rotation of the current audit partner. 
Accordingly, the Audit Committee has recommended the re-appointment 
of EY as external auditor to the Board, which has agreed to recommend 
this at the 2017 AGM.
The Audit Committee agrees the fees for the external auditor and has 
strict policies regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external 
auditor which can be found on the Company’s website. These include 
specific pre-approvals for proposed work and fees, a prohibition on certain 
services and a restriction on total non-audit fees as a percentage of the 
total audit and audit-related services, except in exceptional circumstances.
During the year, the level of non-audit fees payable to EY for 2016 are 
as set out below:
£000
Total estimated audit and audit-related fees 434
Non-audit fees:
Market survey 160
Due diligence for German investment 20
Assurance services 6
Total non-audit services 186
The market survey was performed by an affiliate of EY which was best 
placed to perform that work as it had provided similar services in 2015 
and was able to undertake the assignment cost effectively by building 
on work undertaken during the previous assignment.
The Audit Committee believes that the non-audit fees were appropriate 
in the circumstances, particularly as EY has considerable knowledge 
of the Group’s business.
Fair, balanced, understandable 
and comprehensive reporting
The Audit Committee has provided advice to the Board on whether the 
Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s position and performance, business model 
and strategy. Each Director was also asked to provide this confirmation. 
When doing so, both the Committee and the individual Directors were 
provided with a set of questions designed to test the quality of reporting 
and asked to satisfy themselves that the levels of disclosure were appropriate.
Terms of reference
The terms of reference for the Audit Committee were reviewed by the 
Board during the year and revised in February 2017. These terms of 
reference are available on the Company’s investor relations website. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 41
CHAIRMAN’S SUMMARY STATEMENT
Dear shareholder,
I am pleased to present, on behalf of the Board, the Directors’ 
remuneration report for the year ended 25 December 2016. In this 
report, we review the Group’s performance in the year and explain the 
pay which resulted for the Executive Directors, we explain the fees we 
paid to the non-executive Directors and also we set out how we intend 
to implement our remuneration policy in 2017.
Performance and remuneration for 2016
2016 was another successful year for Domino’s. The Group achieved 
significant profit growth, driven by sustained system sales performance 
and supported by growth in the number of stores, which saw 81 new 
stores in the UK during the year. In February 2016 we completed a strategic 
investment in Germany to acquire Joey’s Pizza and progress with conversion 
of these stores to Domino’s franchisees has been very successful. We also 
announced in June 2016 that we had made a strategic investment in the 
Nordic region which provides a vehicle for further growth outside of our 
core markets. Further progress was also made in improving the trading 
performance of our Swiss business towards profitability.
Reflecting 2016’s strong trading performance, the PBT element of 
the CEO’s annual bonus (being 70% of the total) was met partially and 
the Remuneration Committee assessed that he had met the majority 
of the personal performance objectives (being the balancing 30% of his 
bonus) so that overall he achieves a payment of 81% of the maximum. 
This will result in a bonus of £413,091 becoming payable to David Wild. 
Following shareholders’ approval of the revised remuneration policy 
at last year’s AGM, David’s annual bonus entitlement was reduced to 
100% of salary (previously 150%) and his annual bonus will be settled 
wholly in cash. Rachel Osborne joined as Chief Financial Officer on 
10 October 2016. As Rachel held office for only a small proportion of 
the year, her bonus entitlement has been based solely on the Group’s 
financial performance for 2016 and has been awarded a pro-rata bonus 
of £66,111, two-thirds of which will be settled in cash and the remaining 
one-third settled in shares and deferred for two years.
Directors’ remuneration report
In 2014, LTIP awards were made to David Wild over 947,652 Ordinary 
shares (after adjustment for the three-for-one sub-division of shares 
effective on 27 June 2016). The LTIP awards are subject to stretching 
performance targets, with 50% of the award being subject to EPS growth 
and 50% subject to a TSR target. Over the performance period underlying 
EPS grew by 69.8% and the Company’s share price performance was in the 
upper quartile of the relevant comparator group. Accordingly the performance 
conditions for the award were met in full.
In 2016 the Board became aware of certain issues in respect of the 
Company’s procedures for the payment of certain dividends, share 
buybacks and EBT funding in that year and certain prior years. At a 
General Meeting held on 10 January 2017, 99.95% of shareholders 
gave the Board authority to enter into various deeds of release to put 
all potentially affected parties, so far as possible, in the position in which 
they were always intended to be had the relevant distributions been made 
in accordance with the Companies Act. The Committee has considered 
carefully whether there was a case for recovering incentive awards under 
the Company’s incentive plans as a result of this breach. It has concluded 
that this is not necessary as the actual reported earnings figures (upon 
which certain incentive awards’ outcomes were based) were a fair reflection 
of the actual profit delivered by the Company and the number of shares 
that were used to determine EPS was the actual number of shares in 
issue in each of the impacted years.
The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration outcomes for David 
and Rachel for the 2016 financial year are fully justified, in light of the 
business and individual performance during the year, and are in the 
best interests of the Company and shareholders. 
Appointment of Chief Financial Officer
Rachel Osborne joined as Chief Financial Officer in October 2016 on a 
base salary of £325,000 p.a. On joining the Company, Rachel received 
an award over a total of 45,968 Ordinary shares to compensate for share 
awards that were forfeited on leaving her previous employer. Full details 
of the compensatory awards are set out on pages 58 to 59. Rachel’s 
remuneration is in line with the approved policy and is set out in more 
detail below.
MEMBERS
 o Kevin Higgins (Chairman)
 o Steve Barber 
 o Helen Keays CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 42
2016 remuneration policy and application for 2017
As reported last year, the Committee undertook a comprehensive 
review of Executive remuneration. The new remuneration policy, which 
was approved by 92.36% of shareholders at the 2016 AGM, creates 
a closer and sharper alignment between strategic delivery, shareholder 
returns and Executive reward over a five-year period. The remuneration 
structure keeps fixed pay at relatively low levels but places a higher 
weighting on long-term performance, subject to achieving stretching 
performance targets.
For 2017:
 o the CEO’s base salary, which is frozen for the three-year policy 
period, remains at £510,000 p.a. There will be no change to the 
CFO’s base salary reflecting her relatively recent appointment;
 o the CEO’s annual bonus opportunity remains at 100% of salary, 
reflecting the restructuring of his package, and will be 125% 
of salary for the CFO; and
 o the CEO will not receive an award due to the single up-front grant 
of performance shares in 2016 under the 2016 LTIP, which replaces 
three annual grants over the period 2016–2018. The first tranche 
capable of vesting shall be in 2019. 
 o It is anticipated that the CFO will receive an award under the 2012 
LTIP with a face value of 125% of salary in 2017, which shall be 
subject to stretching EPS and TSR performance targets. 
Shareholders’ views
The Committee carried out an extensive consultation exercise with 
key institutional shareholders and their representative bodies prior 
to the vote on the new remuneration policy and LTIP at the 2016 AGM. 
The Committee continues to take an active interest in shareholders’ 
views and looks forward to maintaining an open and transparent 
dialogue in the future. We look forward to your support at the 
2017 Annual General Meeting.
Kevin Higgins
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
8 March 2017
Directors’ remuneration report continued FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 43
INTRODUCTION
This report sets out the Company’s policy on Directors’ remuneration 
as well as information on remuneration paid to Directors in the 
financial year ended 25 December 2016. The report complies with 
the requirements of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 
(‘the Regulations’) and has been prepared in line with the 
recommendations of the Code and the UK Listing Authority 
Listing Rules (‘the Listing Rules’). 
The report has been divided into two sections:
 o Directors’ remuneration policy report – the revised policy was 
approved at the 2016 AGM and became effective on that date. 
The substantive terms of the approved remuneration policy have 
been included for ease of reference; and 
 o annual report on remuneration – this, together with the Chairman’s 
annual statement, will be subject to a single advisory vote at the 
2017 AGM. The report sets out the remuneration paid or payable 
in relation to the year ended 25 December 2016 and how we 
intend to implement the policy for the year ahead. 
Those parts of the report which have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP 
are clearly identified.
Remuneration policy report
This part of our Directors’ remuneration report sets out the 
remuneration policy for the Company which was approved by 
shareholders at the 2016 AGM. 
Policy overview
In setting the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, 
the Remuneration Committee took into account the following: 
 o the need to set appropriate remuneration policies and packages 
which will attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and senior 
management acting in the long-term interests of the Company but 
avoid paying more than is necessary;
 o setting base salary at or below comparable market rates but 
weighting a significant proportion of total remuneration towards 
variable pay with an above-market incentive opportunity linked 
to the delivery of truly exceptional performance;
 o having demanding short and long-term performance targets 
that are specific, measurable and aligned fully with the Company’s 
business objectives to provide strong linkage between remuneration 
and performance;
 o creating a strong alignment between the interests of senior Executives 
and the delivery of value to shareholders; 
 o avoiding creating excessive risks in the achievement of performance 
targets; and
 o conducting periodic external comparisons to examine current market 
trends and practices and equivalent roles in similar companies, taking 
into account their size, business complexity, international scope and 
relative performance.
The 2016 remuneration policy was drafted to explain clearly what 
would happen depending on the outcome of the binding shareholder 
vote. The remuneration policy table has been updated to reflect the 
successful approval of the remuneration policy.  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 44
Remuneration policy report continued
Executive Director policy table
Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Base salary o Reflects the responsibility level and complexity 
of the role
 o Reflects skills and experience over time
 o Provides an appropriate level of basic fixed income 
avoiding excessive risk arising from over-reliance on 
variable income
 o Salaries will typically be reviewed annually with 
the exception of the CEO whose salary will be 
frozen at £510,000 until 2019 (for the three-year 
duration of the policy) following his participation 
in the 2016 LTIP
 o Salary levels take periodic account of pay levels 
in companies with similar characteristics and 
sector comparators
 o Set in the context of pay and employment 
conditions in the Group 
 o Salaries will typically be targeted at or below the 
relevant market rate 
 o Salaries will typically be eligible for increases on an annual basis 
(except for David Wild, as explained in the Operation column) with 
the rate of increase (in percentage terms) typically linked to those 
of the wider workforce 
 o If there are significant changes in responsibility, a change of scope 
in a role, a material sustained change in the size and/or complexity 
of the Company or very strong performance may merit base salary 
increases beyond those of the wider workforce
 o If pay is set at a discount to the Company’s normal policy on 
appointment, it may be appropriate to phase an individual towards 
an appropriate rate using increases above those of the wider 
workforce based on performance and experience
 o n/a
Pension o Provides market-competitive, yet cost-effective 
retirement benefits
 o Opportunity for Executives to contribute to their own 
retirement plan
 o Defined contribution or cash supplement
 o HMRC-approved salary sacrifice arrangement
 o Salary sacrifice for employee contribution
 o Monthly employer contribution to a pension arrangement or 
payment of a cash allowance in lieu of a pension up to 15% of 
basic salary
 o n/a
Other benefits o Provide cost-effective insured benefits to support 
the individual and their family 
 o Access to company car to facilitate effective travel
 o Benefits are provided through third-party 
providers and include medical and life insurance
 o Company cars or cash equivalents provided
 o The Committee may offer Executive Directors 
other employee benefits from time to time on 
broadly the same terms as provided to the 
wider workforce
 o Family-level private medical insurance cover provided
 o Life insurance cover of four times multiple of salary
 o Company car or cash allowance in lieu
 o The value of insured benefits will vary from year to year, 
based on the cost from third-party providers
 o n/a
Annual performance bonus o Incentivise annual delivery of financial and 
operational goals linked to the Company’s strategy
 o Up to two-thirds of the annual bonus is paid in 
cash and one-third deferred into shares that will 
vest after two years and are subject to forfeiture, 
with the exception of participants in the 2016 
LTIP whose bonus will be settled entirely in cash
 o Dividends which accrue on vested shares may 
be payable
 o Not pensionable
 o Clawback provisions apply
 o Stretching targets drive operational efficiency 
and influence the level of returns that should 
ultimately be delivered to shareholders through 
share price and dividends
 o The maximum bonus opportunity is 150% of salary, but 
David Wild’s bonus opportunity is 100% of salary as he 
participated in the 2016 LTIP
 o The CFO has a maximum bonus opportunity of 125% of salary
 o Bonuses will be subject to a combination of financial and strategic 
targets that are set by the Committee on an annual basis
 o The majority of the bonus will be measured against financial metrics 
(e.g. underlying PBT) with a graduated scale set around the target
 o A minority of the bonus may be set based on strategic targets which 
are aligned to the key objectives from year to year
 o A minority of each element will be payable for achieving the threshold 
performance level. In relation to financial targets, 20% of this part of 
the bonus becomes payable for achieving the threshold performance 
target. In relation to any strategic or individual measures used, it is not 
always practicable to set a sliding scale for each objective. Where it is, 
a similar proportion of the bonus becomes payable for achieving the 
threshold performance level as for financial targets
 o Details of the bonus measures and targets operated each year will be 
included in the relevant Directors’ remuneration report
2012 Long Term Incentive 
Plan (‘2012 LTIP’)
 o Participating in the 2016 LTIP will preclude eligibility 
for future grants under the 2012 LTIP, until 2019
 o Aligned to main strategic objectives of delivering 
sustained profitable growth
 o Aids retention of senior management
 o Creates alignment with shareholders and provides 
focus on increasing the Company’s share price over 
the medium term
 o Annual grant of market value options 
or performance shares
 o Subject to performance conditions measured 
over three years
 o Clawback provisions apply
 o Dividends which accrue may be paid 
on vested shares
 o Maximum annual opportunity of 200% of salary 
in performance shares
 o The normal policy is to grant annual awards of performance 
shares at up to 175% of salary to each Executive Director
 o Long-term incentive awards vest based on three-year performance 
against a challenging range of financial targets and relative TSR 
performance set and assessed by the Committee at its discretion
 o Financial targets will determine vesting in relation to at least 50% 
of a performance share award
 o A maximum of 15% of any award vests for achieving the threshold 
performance level with 100% of the awards being earned for maximum 
performance (there is graduated vesting between these points)
 o The performance period for financial targets and relative TSR targets 
is not less than three financial years
Directors’ remuneration report continued FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 45
Remuneration policy report continued
Executive Director policy table
Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Base salary o Reflects the responsibility level and complexity 
of the role
 o Reflects skills and experience over time
 o Provides an appropriate level of basic fixed income 
avoiding excessive risk arising from over-reliance on 
variable income
 o Salaries will typically be reviewed annually with 
the exception of the CEO whose salary will be 
frozen at £510,000 until 2019 (for the three-year 
duration of the policy) following his participation 
in the 2016 LTIP
 o Salary levels take periodic account of pay levels 
in companies with similar characteristics and 
sector comparators
 o Set in the context of pay and employment 
conditions in the Group 
 o Salaries will typically be targeted at or below the 
relevant market rate 
 o Salaries will typically be eligible for increases on an annual basis 
(except for David Wild, as explained in the Operation column) with 
the rate of increase (in percentage terms) typically linked to those 
of the wider workforce 
 o If there are significant changes in responsibility, a change of scope 
in a role, a material sustained change in the size and/or complexity 
of the Company or very strong performance may merit base salary 
increases beyond those of the wider workforce
 o If pay is set at a discount to the Company’s normal policy on 
appointment, it may be appropriate to phase an individual towards 
an appropriate rate using increases above those of the wider 
workforce based on performance and experience
 o n/a
Pension o Provides market-competitive, yet cost-effective 
retirement benefits
 o Opportunity for Executives to contribute to their own 
retirement plan
 o Defined contribution or cash supplement
 o HMRC-approved salary sacrifice arrangement
 o Salary sacrifice for employee contribution
 o Monthly employer contribution to a pension arrangement or 
payment of a cash allowance in lieu of a pension up to 15% of 
basic salary
 o n/a
Other benefits o Provide cost-effective insured benefits to support 
the individual and their family 
 o Access to company car to facilitate effective travel
 o Benefits are provided through third-party 
providers and include medical and life insurance
 o Company cars or cash equivalents provided
 o The Committee may offer Executive Directors 
other employee benefits from time to time on 
broadly the same terms as provided to the 
wider workforce
 o Family-level private medical insurance cover provided
 o Life insurance cover of four times multiple of salary
 o Company car or cash allowance in lieu
 o The value of insured benefits will vary from year to year, 
based on the cost from third-party providers
 o n/a
Annual performance bonus o Incentivise annual delivery of financial and 
operational goals linked to the Company’s strategy
 o Up to two-thirds of the annual bonus is paid in 
cash and one-third deferred into shares that will 
vest after two years and are subject to forfeiture, 
with the exception of participants in the 2016 
LTIP whose bonus will be settled entirely in cash
 o Dividends which accrue on vested shares may 
be payable
 o Not pensionable
 o Clawback provisions apply
 o Stretching targets drive operational efficiency 
and influence the level of returns that should 
ultimately be delivered to shareholders through 
share price and dividends
 o The maximum bonus opportunity is 150% of salary, but 
David Wild’s bonus opportunity is 100% of salary as he 
participated in the 2016 LTIP
 o The CFO has a maximum bonus opportunity of 125% of salary
 o Bonuses will be subject to a combination of financial and strategic 
targets that are set by the Committee on an annual basis
 o The majority of the bonus will be measured against financial metrics 
(e.g. underlying PBT) with a graduated scale set around the target
 o A minority of the bonus may be set based on strategic targets which 
are aligned to the key objectives from year to year
 o A minority of each element will be payable for achieving the threshold 
performance level. In relation to financial targets, 20% of this part of 
the bonus becomes payable for achieving the threshold performance 
target. In relation to any strategic or individual measures used, it is not 
always practicable to set a sliding scale for each objective. Where it is, 
a similar proportion of the bonus becomes payable for achieving the 
threshold performance level as for financial targets
 o Details of the bonus measures and targets operated each year will be 
included in the relevant Directors’ remuneration report
2012 Long Term Incentive 
Plan (‘2012 LTIP’)
 o Participating in the 2016 LTIP will preclude eligibility 
for future grants under the 2012 LTIP, until 2019
 o Aligned to main strategic objectives of delivering 
sustained profitable growth
 o Aids retention of senior management
 o Creates alignment with shareholders and provides 
focus on increasing the Company’s share price over 
the medium term
 o Annual grant of market value options 
or performance shares
 o Subject to performance conditions measured 
over three years
 o Clawback provisions apply
 o Dividends which accrue may be paid 
on vested shares
 o Maximum annual opportunity of 200% of salary 
in performance shares
 o The normal policy is to grant annual awards of performance 
shares at up to 175% of salary to each Executive Director
 o Long-term incentive awards vest based on three-year performance 
against a challenging range of financial targets and relative TSR 
performance set and assessed by the Committee at its discretion
 o Financial targets will determine vesting in relation to at least 50% 
of a performance share award
 o A maximum of 15% of any award vests for achieving the threshold 
performance level with 100% of the awards being earned for maximum 
performance (there is graduated vesting between these points)
 o The performance period for financial targets and relative TSR targets 
is not less than three financial years CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 46
Remuneration policy report continued
Executive Director policy table continued
Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
2016 Long Term Incentive Plan 
(‘2016 LTIP’)
 o Aligned to main strategic objectives of delivering 
sustained profitable long-term growth
 o Aids retention of senior management
 o Creates alignment with shareholders and provides 
focus on increasing earnings and the Company’s 
share price over the medium term
 o Single grant of performance shares to cover three 
years of normal annual grants of performance 
shares in 2016, 2017 and 2018
 o Awards vest in three tranches three, four and five 
years after the start of the performance period
 o Subject to: (i) performance conditions measured 
over three, four and five years; and (ii) the absolute 
TSR underpin mechanism
 o Clawback provisions apply
 o Dividends which accrue may be paid on vested 
shares up to their vesting date and on vested 
shares that are subject to a holding period
 o A holding period applies which prevents the sale 
of any vested shares before the fifth anniversary 
of the start of the performance period (except to 
fund tax or similar obligations)
 o Individual limit of 1,602,000
1
 performance shares covering 
the life of the policy
 o One-third of each tranche will vest subject to a relative TSR condition 
measured against the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts). 15% 
of this element will vest for median performance rising up to full vesting 
for an upper quartile ranking or better
 o One-third will be set against stretching EPS targets and the final third 
against super-stretch EPS targets, all using 2015 EPS as the base year
 o For threshold levels of performance, 10% of stretch EPS-linked awards 
and 0% of super-stretch EPS-linked awards will vest
 o Once the potential vesting outcomes are known, an underpin mechanism 
will apply which only permits the release of vested awards in proportion 
to the extent that TSR has increased in absolute terms, up to a 100% 
absolute TSR target. Awards will only be released in full if our absolute 
TSR has increased by 100%. The underpin will be reviewed every 
six months over the seven-year life of the award
Share ownership guidelines o To provide alignment between Executives 
and shareholders
 o To encourage a focus on sustainable 
long-term performance
 o Executives are expected to retain shares from the 
vesting of options and awards (on an after-tax 
basis) to build and maintain a shareholding 
equivalent to the guideline multiple of salary 
within five years of joining
 o At least 150% of salary holding for Executive Directors, with 200% 
for participants in the 2016 LTIP 
 o n/a
1 Adjusted for the three-for-one sub-division of the Company’s shares effective on 27 June 2016. The original award was over 534,000 Ordinary shares.
Non-executive Director policy table
Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum
Non-executive  
Director fees
 o Reflects the value of the individual’s skills 
and experience
 o Recognises expected time commitments 
and responsibilities
 o Chairman’s fee set by the Committee.  
Non-executive Directors’ fees set by the Board
 o Fees are normally reviewed biennially, 
effective 1 January
 o Takes into account periodic external reviews 
against companies with similar characteristics 
and sector comparators
 o Set in the context of time commitments 
and responsibilities
 o A base fee is provided to all non-executive 
Directors with supplemental fees payable for 
chairing the sub-Committees and for holding 
the Senior Independent Director position
 o Non-executive Directors do not participate 
in any annual bonus, share incentive plans, 
or pension arrangements
 o Non-executive Directors shall be reimbursed 
for any expenses (on a gross of tax basis) incurred 
in the course of carrying out their role which are 
deemed to be taxable by HMRC (or equivalent body)
 o The fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, with reference to 
the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies 
of comparable size and complexity
 o The fee levels will be eligible for increases during the three-year 
period that the remuneration policy operates from the effective 
date to ensure they appropriately recognise the time commitment 
of the role, increases to fee levels for non-executive Directors in 
general and fee levels in companies of a similar size and complexity
 o Flexibility is retained to go over the above fee levels, if necessary to 
do so, to appoint a new Chairman or non-executive Director of an 
appropriate calibre
Directors’ remuneration report continued FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 47
Remuneration policy report continued
Executive Director policy table continued
Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
2016 Long Term Incentive Plan 
(‘2016 LTIP’)
 o Aligned to main strategic objectives of delivering 
sustained profitable long-term growth
 o Aids retention of senior management
 o Creates alignment with shareholders and provides 
focus on increasing earnings and the Company’s 
share price over the medium term
 o Single grant of performance shares to cover three 
years of normal annual grants of performance 
shares in 2016, 2017 and 2018
 o Awards vest in three tranches three, four and five 
years after the start of the performance period
 o Subject to: (i) performance conditions measured 
over three, four and five years; and (ii) the absolute 
TSR underpin mechanism
 o Clawback provisions apply
 o Dividends which accrue may be paid on vested 
shares up to their vesting date and on vested 
shares that are subject to a holding period
 o A holding period applies which prevents the sale 
of any vested shares before the fifth anniversary 
of the start of the performance period (except to 
fund tax or similar obligations)
 o Individual limit of 1,602,000
1
 performance shares covering 
the life of the policy
 o One-third of each tranche will vest subject to a relative TSR condition 
measured against the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts). 15% 
of this element will vest for median performance rising up to full vesting 
for an upper quartile ranking or better
 o One-third will be set against stretching EPS targets and the final third 
against super-stretch EPS targets, all using 2015 EPS as the base year
 o For threshold levels of performance, 10% of stretch EPS-linked awards 
and 0% of super-stretch EPS-linked awards will vest
 o Once the potential vesting outcomes are known, an underpin mechanism 
will apply which only permits the release of vested awards in proportion 
to the extent that TSR has increased in absolute terms, up to a 100% 
absolute TSR target. Awards will only be released in full if our absolute 
TSR has increased by 100%. The underpin will be reviewed every 
six months over the seven-year life of the award
Share ownership guidelines o To provide alignment between Executives 
and shareholders
 o To encourage a focus on sustainable 
long-term performance
 o Executives are expected to retain shares from the 
vesting of options and awards (on an after-tax 
basis) to build and maintain a shareholding 
equivalent to the guideline multiple of salary 
within five years of joining
 o At least 150% of salary holding for Executive Directors, with 200% 
for participants in the 2016 LTIP 
 o n/a
1 Adjusted for the three-for-one sub-division of the Company’s shares effective on 27 June 2016. The original award was over 534,000 Ordinary shares.
Non-executive Director policy table
Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum
Non-executive  
Director fees
 o Reflects the value of the individual’s skills 
and experience
 o Recognises expected time commitments 
and responsibilities
 o Chairman’s fee set by the Committee.  
Non-executive Directors’ fees set by the Board
 o Fees are normally reviewed biennially, 
effective 1 January
 o Takes into account periodic external reviews 
against companies with similar characteristics 
and sector comparators
 o Set in the context of time commitments 
and responsibilities
 o A base fee is provided to all non-executive 
Directors with supplemental fees payable for 
chairing the sub-Committees and for holding 
the Senior Independent Director position
 o Non-executive Directors do not participate 
in any annual bonus, share incentive plans, 
or pension arrangements
 o Non-executive Directors shall be reimbursed 
for any expenses (on a gross of tax basis) incurred 
in the course of carrying out their role which are 
deemed to be taxable by HMRC (or equivalent body)
 o The fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, with reference to 
the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies 
of comparable size and complexity
 o The fee levels will be eligible for increases during the three-year 
period that the remuneration policy operates from the effective 
date to ensure they appropriately recognise the time commitment 
of the role, increases to fee levels for non-executive Directors in 
general and fee levels in companies of a similar size and complexity
 o Flexibility is retained to go over the above fee levels, if necessary to 
do so, to appoint a new Chairman or non-executive Director of an 
appropriate calibre CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 48
Remuneration policy report continued
Operation of the annual bonus plan and LTIP policy
The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, the 2012 LTIP and 
the 2016 LTIP scheme in accordance with their respective rules and in 
accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC requirements where relevant. 
Within these rules, the Remuneration Committee is required to retain a 
number of discretions to ensure an effective operation and administration 
of these plans. These discretions are consistent with standard market 
practice and include (but are not limited to):
 o who participates in the plans;
 o when awards are granted and/or paid;
 o the size of an award and/or a payment (subject to the limits stated 
in the policy table above);
 o how to determine the level of vesting; 
 o how to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the Group;
 o how to determine a good/bad leaver for incentive plan purposes;
 o how to determine any adjustments required in certain circumstances 
(e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, events and special 
dividends); and
 o reviewing the performance conditions (range of targets, measures 
and weightings) for the annual bonus plan and LTIP from year to year.
If certain events occur, such as a material acquisition or the divestment 
of a Group business, the original performance conditions may no longer be 
appropriate. Therefore, the Remuneration Committee retains the discretion 
to make adjustments to the targets and/or set different measures and alter 
weightings as they deem necessary to ensure the conditions achieve their 
original purpose, are appropriate in the revised circumstances and, in 
any event, are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in 
the Directors’ remuneration report and may, where appropriate, be the 
subject of prior consultation with the Company’s major shareholders.
Share-settled incentive awards and any arrangements agreed prior 
to the effective date of this policy will remain eligible to vest or pay out 
based on their original award terms. This includes any awards granted 
under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan (‘DSBP’) or the 2012 LTIP scheme. 
In addition, all arrangements previously disclosed in prior years’ 
Directors’ remuneration reports will remain eligible to vest or become 
payable on their original terms.
Balance between fixed and variable pay
The performance-related elements of remuneration are dependent 
upon the achievement of outcomes that are important drivers of 
sustainable growth for the business and therefore the creation of value 
for shareholders. The remuneration package offered to Executive Directors 
by the Company is therefore more heavily performance related than that 
operated in comparatively sized leisure companies and companies in 
the upper half of the FTSE 250 more generally, particularly at higher 
levels of performance.
Illustration of remuneration scenarios
The chart below illustrates the total remuneration for the Chief Executive 
Officer and Chief Financial Officer based on the current policy under three 
different scenarios – minimum, target and maximum. Given that the 2016 
LTIP is expected to cover three grants, we have applied a value to each 
tranche to arrive at an annualised value.
Assumptions
Minimum – comprises fixed pay being the value of 2017 base salary, 2016 benefits 
(annualised for a full year for Rachel Osborne) and a pension contribution in line with 
the approved policy.
Target – for David Wild, minimum plus a bonus payout of 50% of salary plus threshold 
vesting of one tranche of the 2016 LTIP under the relative TSR and stretch EPS parts 
of the award. It assumes no vesting under the super-stretch EPS targets. The absolute 
TSR underpin mechanism assumes 75% vesting is achieved. For Rachel Osborne, 
minimum plus a bonus payout of 50% of the maximum (62.5% of salary) and threshold 
vesting under the LTIP.
Maximum – minimum plus maximum bonus. For David Wild, it assumes full 
vesting of one tranche of the 2016 LTIP and achievement of the absolute TSR 
underpin. For Rachel Osborne, it assumes full vesting of an LTIP with a face value 
of 125% of salary.
This has been modelled at a share price of 356.8p, being that in force on the last 
day of the 2016 financial year. No account has been taken of any prospective share 
price increases.
Choice of performance metrics
As detailed in the strategic report on pages 2 to 29, the Group seeks 
to accelerate sales growth in the UK, build on its leadership in digital 
and mobile ordering, drive further improvements in franchisee profitability 
and grow its international markets profitably. For incentive purposes, 
this results in underlying profit before tax being used as the primary 
performance metric in the annual bonus plan and a combination of 
relative TSR and growth in EPS being used as the performance metrics 
within the 2012 LTIP. For the 2016 LTIP, these metrics apply and are 
supplemented with an absolute TSR underpin.
Underlying EPS measures the Company’s success in delivering 
long-term profit growth, a key contributor to the Company’s valuation, 
and is considered by the Committee to be the most appropriate 
measure of long-term financial performance. It is also used by the 
Board to determine success in executing our strategy.
Relative TSR helps align management’s and shareholders’ interests, since 
the Executives will only be rewarded to the extent that the Company delivers 
a return to shareholders above the median company of comparable size, 
with full vesting on this measure requiring top quartile performance.
Absolute TSR helps address the issue of being the best performer in a 
falling market, by requiring that there has been a positive growth in TSR 
over the measurement period. 
All incentives are capped in order that inappropriate risk taking is neither 
encouraged nor rewarded. For financial targets, a sliding scale is applied, 
with a very modest amount being payable for threshold levels of performance. 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Below target
0
£500
£1,000
£1,500
£2,000
£2,500
£3,000
£000
Target Maximum
100%
£575
Fixed pay Bonus LTIP
£3,500
62% 21%
CEO – David Wild
Below target Target Maximum
100% 59% 32%
26%
£943
12%
17%
62%
£2,901
CFO – Rachel Osborne
£388
31%
9%
£652
34%
34%
£1,200 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 49
Choice of performance metrics continued
A number of the Company’s non-financial strategic objectives have been 
incorporated into the annual bonus for Executive Directors and will be 
applied on an individual basis for a minority of the overall bonus opportunity. 
These objectives will also be measured on a sliding scale of performance. 
The Committee will review the continued appropriateness of the annual 
bonus (and, if applicable, 2012 LTIP) performance conditions on an 
annual basis to ensure that they remain aligned to the Company’s strategy. 
The Committee will make necessary changes to the weightings of measures 
and/or introduce new measures which they believe would provide a closer 
link to the business strategy within the confines of the policy detailed 
above. Shareholder dialogue would take place, as appropriate, should 
there be any material change of emphasis in relation to current practices.
How employees’ pay is taken into account
Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group were considered when 
finalising the current policy for the Executive Directors. In particular, 
the Committee is updated on salary increases for the general employee 
population, Company-wide benefit provision, level of annual bonuses 
and staff participation in long-term incentive schemes, so it is aware 
of how the total remuneration of the Executive Directors compares 
with the average total remuneration of employees generally.
The Committee does not formally or directly consult with employees 
on Executive pay but does receive periodic updates from the Group 
HR Director. The Committee is also informed of the results of employee 
engagement surveys, which do not contain any specific questions related 
to Executive Director remuneration, but the most recent of which indicated 
that most employees show high levels of engagement and feel that reward 
is an important attribute of their job.
How the Executive Directors’ remuneration policy 
relates to the Group
The remuneration policy described above provides an overview 
of the structure that operates for the most senior Executives in the 
Group, with a significant element of remuneration dependent on 
Company and individual performance.
A lower aggregate level of incentive payment applies below Executive 
Director level, driven by market comparatives, internal relativities and the 
potential impact of the role. The vast majority of the Group’s employees 
participate in an annual bonus plan, with the limits and performance 
conditions varying according to job grade.
The Committee believes that broad-based employee share ownership 
provides a key element in retention and motivation in the wider workforce. 
Long-term incentives are provided through the Group’s discretionary 
share schemes to Executives and managers in all territories in which 
Group companies operate. The Company also offers a HMRC-registered 
savings-related share option scheme for all UK-based employees with 
more than six months’ service, including Executive Directors.
All newly appointed employees, including Executive Directors, are 
eligible to join a defined contribution pension plan, whereby they make 
a contribution to the nominated plan, with the Company typically 
contributing double the amount paid by the employee.
How is risk managed in relation to short 
and long-term incentives?
The Committee believes that the consideration and management of risk 
is important when formulating and then operating appropriate remuneration 
structures (notably the performance criteria) for senior management. All of 
the members of the Committee are also members of the Audit Committee, 
whose Chairman is also a member of the Remuneration Committee. 
The Remuneration Committee has a good understanding of the key risks 
facing the business and the relevance of these to the remuneration strategy, 
most particularly when setting targets for performance-related pay.
In line with the Investment Association’s Guidelines on Responsible 
Investment Disclosure, the Remuneration Committee ensures that the 
incentive structure for Executive Directors and senior management will 
not raise environmental, social or governance (‘ESG’) risks by inadvertently 
motivating irresponsible behaviour and remuneration design can be 
flexed to address ESG issues when appropriate. The Committee has due 
regard to issues of general operational risk when structuring incentives.
The clawback provisions in respect of annual bonuses and long-term 
share plans also provide the Committee with a mechanism to recover 
monies in certain circumstances, for example, if a misstatement of 
results is identified. Share ownership guidelines and the design of the 
2016 LTIP help to ensure that the Executive Directors have a strong 
personal focus on long-term sustainable performance, heavily driven 
by the relative and absolute returns delivered to shareholders. 
How shareholders’ views are taken into account
The Committee considers shareholder feedback received around 
the AGM and analyses the votes cast on the relevant items of business. 
This feedback, plus views received during meetings with institutional 
shareholders and their representative bodies, is considered as part of 
the Company’s annual review of remuneration policy. The Remuneration 
Committee also consults with its key shareholders whenever appropriate. 
A comprehensive consultation exercise was undertaken during early 2016 
with shareholders’ views being reflected in the revised policy, which has 
been in effect since the 2016 AGM. The Committee values feedback 
from its shareholders and seeks to maintain a continued open dialogue. 
Investors who wish to discuss remuneration issues should contact the 
Company Secretary.
Service contracts and policy on exit
The Committee reviews the contractual terms for new Executive Directors 
to ensure that these reflect best practice. 
Service contracts are normally entered into on a rolling basis, with notice 
periods given by the employing company limited to 12 months or less. 
Should notice be served by either party, the Executive can continue to 
receive basic salary, benefits and pension for the duration of their notice 
period, during which time the relevant Group company may require the 
individual to continue to fulfil their current duties or may assign a period 
of garden leave. An Executive Director’s service contract may be terminated 
without notice and without any further payment or compensation, save 
for sums accrued up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of certain 
events of gross misconduct. If the Company terminates the employment 
of an Executive Director in breach of contract, compensation is limited 
to salary due for any unexpired notice period and any amount assessed 
by the Committee as representing the value of other contractual benefits 
which would have been received during the unexpired notice period.
The policy for any new Executive Director would be based on terms that 
are consistent with these provisions but will also include the ability for the 
Company to make a payment in lieu of notice (limited to a maximum value 
of 12 months’ base salary, pension and benefits). Payments in lieu of notice 
may be made in monthly instalments and would reduce proportionately 
to the extent that alternative employment income was received (i.e. phased 
payments, subject to mitigation).
David Wild, the Chief Executive Officer has a rolling contract dated 
30 April 2014. Rachel Osborne, the Chief Financial Officer, has a 
rolling contract dated 10 October 2016. Both Executives’ contracts 
are terminable on six months’ notice from either party and include 
payment in lieu of notice provisions as per the policy detailed above.
Payments in lieu of notice are not pensionable. In the event of a change 
of control of the Group, there is no enhancement to contractual terms. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 50
Remuneration policy report continued
Service contracts and policy on exit continued
In summary, the contractual provisions for the Executive Directors are as follows:
Provision Detailed terms
Notice period 12 months or less
Maximum termination payment Base salary plus benefits and pension, subject to mitigation for new Directors
Remuneration entitlements A pro rata bonus may also become payable for the period of active service along with vesting 
for outstanding share awards (in certain circumstances – see below)
In all cases performance targets would apply
Change of control As on termination
Any share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director under the Company’s LTIP schemes or bonus entitlement under the annual performance 
bonus will be determined based on the relevant plan rules. 
With regard to the circumstances under which the Executive Directors might leave service, these are described below with a description of the 
anticipated payments:
Remuneration element “Bad” leaver (e.g. resignation)
Departure on agreed terms (e.g. 
asked to leave due to revised skill 
sets required for role) “Good” leaver (e.g. ill health, retirement)
Salary in lieu 
of notice period
Salary for proportion of notice 
period served
Treatment will 
normally fall between 
good leaver and bad 
leaver treatment, subject 
to the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee 
and the terms of any 
termination agreement
Up to a maximum of 100% of salary
Pension and benefits Provided for proportion of notice 
period served
Up to one year’s worth of pension and benefits 
(e.g. redundancy)
Possible payment of pension and insured benefits 
triggered by the leaver event (this would be 
governed by the terms of the benefits provided)
Bonus If resigns, reduced pro rata to 
reflect proportion of bonus year 
employed (provided performance 
conditions met) at the discretion 
of the Remuneration Committee. 
If dismissed for cause, 
none payable
Reduced pro rata to reflect proportion of bonus year 
elapsed (provided performance conditions met)
Long-term 
incentive entitlements 
(2012 LTIP)
Lapse Up to full vesting, based on performance tested 
over the full performance period (or to the date 
of cessation at the discretion of the Committee)
Where awards are granted as market value 
options, the award may also be reduced pro rata 
(at the discretion of the Committee) to reflect the 
proportion of the performance period elapsed to 
the date of cessation
Where awards are granted as performance shares, 
awards will be subject to a pro rata reduction unless 
the Committee determines otherwise
Long-term 
incentive entitlements 
(2016 LTIP)
Lapse Awards will normally continue to be capable of 
vesting subject to performance measured at the 
normal calculation date (or until the absolute TSR 
condition has been satisfied prior to the award’s 
expiry) and a pro rata reduction by reference to the 
proportion of the relevant three, four and five-year 
performance periods that have expired, unless the 
Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, on 
an exceptional basis
Other payments None Disbursements such as legal costs and outplacement and redundancy entitlements
Directors’ remuneration report continued FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 51
Non-executive Director remuneration
The non-executive Directors are not employed under service contracts and do not receive compensation for loss of office. With the exception 
of Colin Halpern, who is nominated to the Board pursuant to a contractual agreement, each of the non-executive Directors is appointed for a fixed 
term of three years, renewable for a further three-year term if agreed and subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The following table shows details of the terms of appointment for the non-executive Directors:
Appointment date
Date most recent
term commenced
Expected date of
expiry of current term
Stephen Hemsley 1 January 2008
(as Executive Chairman)
30 March 2016
(as non-executive Chairman)
30 March 2019
Colin Halpern 15 November 1999 Rolling annual
n/a
Helen Keays 20 September 2011 20 September 2014 20 September 2017
Ebbe Jacobsen 31 January 2014 31 January 2017 31 January 2020
Kevin Higgins 8 September 2014 8 September 2014 8 September 2017
Steve Barber 1 July 2015 1 July 2015 1 July 2018
Recruitment and promotion policy
When facilitating an external recruitment or an internal promotion the Committee will apply the following principles: 
Remuneration element Policy
Base salary Salary levels will be set based on the experience, knowledge and skills of the individual and in the context of market rates 
for equivalent roles in companies of a similar size and complexity. The Committee will also consider Group relativities when 
setting base salary levels
The Committee may set initial base salaries below the perceived market rate with the aim to make multi-year staged 
increases to achieve the desired market position over time. Where necessary these increases may be above those 
of the wider workforce, but will be subject to continued development in the role
Benefits Benefits will be as provided to current Executive Directors
The Committee will consider meeting the cost of certain reasonable relocation expenses and legal fees as necessary
Pension A defined contribution or cash supplement at a level no more (as a percentage of salary) than current Executive Directors
Annual bonus The annual bonus would be operated in line with that set out in the policy table for current Executive Directors
For a new joiner, the bonus would be pro rated for the period of service
Due to the timing or nature of the appointment, the Committee may determine it necessary to set different modified performance 
conditions for the first year of appointment
Long-term incentives Participation will be in accordance with the information set out in the policy table
Awards may be made shortly after an appointment, subject to prohibited periods
Any new appointment would be eligible to participate in the all-employee share options arrangements on the same terms as 
all other employees
For internal promotions, existing awards will continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as 
at the date of grant
Additional incentives 
on appointment
The Committee will assess whether it is necessary to buy out remuneration which would be forfeited from a previous employer
The Committee will, where possible, seek to offer a direct replacement award taking into account the structure, quantum, time 
horizons and relevant performance conditions which would impact on the expected value of the remuneration to be forfeited
The Committee will use the existing remuneration plans where possible, although it may be necessary to grant outside 
of these schemes using exemptions permitted under the Listing Rules 
External appointments
The Committee recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive Directors in other companies and that these appointments 
can enhance their knowledge and experience to the benefit of the Company. Subject to pre-agreed conditions, and with prior approval of the Board, 
each Executive Director is permitted to accept one appointment as a non-executive director in another listed company. The Executive Director is 
permitted to retain any fees paid for such service.  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 52
Annual report on remuneration
Role and membership
The Committee is responsible for the Chairman’s and the Executive Directors’ remuneration and also oversees the remuneration packages of other 
senior Executives. The remuneration and terms of appointment of the non-executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole. 
The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are consulted on proposals relating to the remuneration of relevant Senior Executives and, when 
appropriate, are invited by the Remuneration Committee to attend meetings but are not present when their own remuneration is considered.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Remuneration Committee. 
The role of the Remuneration Committee is set out in its terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and can be found on the Group’s website, 
investors.dominos.co.uk. The Remuneration Committee normally meets up to four times in each year and additionally as circumstances dictate.
During the year, the members of the Remuneration Committee and their attendance at the meetings were:
Name Member since Attendance
Kevin Higgins (Chairman) 22 September 2014 5
Helen Keays 22 September 2014 5
Steve Barber 16 September 2015 5
External advisers
Throughout the year, New Bridge Street (‘NBS’), a trading name of AON plc, was retained by the Remuneration Committee to provide it with 
relevant consultancy services. NBS was selected on an arm’s length basis and appointed by the Remuneration Committee. NBS is a signatory to 
the Remuneration Consultants’ Code of Conduct and did not provide any other services to the Company except in relation to senior management 
remuneration matters. The total fees for NBS services in the year were £141,446 excluding VAT. The Remuneration Committee reviews its relationship 
with external advisers on a regular basis and, noting that NBS does not provide any other services to the Group, continues to believe that there are 
no conflicts of interest.
What has the Remuneration Committee done during the year?
The Remuneration Committee met five times during the year to consider and, where appropriate, approve key remuneration items including the following: 
A) Management of individual remuneration
 o reviewed and approved Executive Directors’ and senior management base salaries and benefits;
 o reviewed year end business performance and performance-linked rewards in order to determine annual bonus payouts and vesting 
of long-term incentives;
 o approved long-term incentive awards made in 2016 under the 2012 LTIP and 2016 LTIP; and
 o reviewed the non-executive Chairman and non-executive Directors’ fees.
B) Governance of the remuneration programme
 o consulted with investors and proxy agencies, taking on Board feedback and concluding the design of the remuneration policy for Executive Directors 
and senior management, which was approved at the 2016 AGM;
 o reviewed and approved the Directors’ remuneration report including the remuneration policy;
 o monitored guidance and directional themes from institutional shareholder bodies in relation to new reporting requirements;
 o reviewed 2016 AGM results and feedback from institutional shareholders; and
 o confirmed that the remuneration arrangements are not anticipated to inadvertently encourage any undue risk taking.
Directors’ remuneration report continued FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 53
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2017
Base salary
The salary for the Chief Executive Officer will be frozen at £510,000 
until 2019. The Chief Financial Officer’s salary shall remain at £325,000, 
her salary at the date of appointment, until 2019.
Annual performance bonus (‘APB’)
As the CEO participates in the 2016 LTIP , his maximum bonus opportunity 
for 2017 will be 100% of salary (payable in cash) and the CFO’s maximum 
bonus will be 125% of salary.
The APB provides a focus on the delivery of the stretching targets that 
are set by the Committee following consideration of the Company’s annual 
operating plan by the Board each year and there is a threshold level of 
performance below which no award is paid. 
The performance conditions for the APB for the 2017 financial year will 
be based both on achieving and exceeding the Group’s underlying PBT 
growth targets set by the Board (70% of bonus) and on achieving individual 
business objectives (30% of bonus) which support the business plan. 
The underlying PBT measure is based on internally set targets and pays 
out 20% at threshold (95% of target) rising on a pro rata basis to 50% 
payout at target with full payment only due if we achieve 110% of target. 
For 2017, strategic objectives will be set by the Committee linked to the 
Company’s strategic goals. None of the strategic element of the bonus 
may be earned unless a threshold level of Group underlying PBT has 
been achieved. Where appropriate, individual objectives are also set 
on a sliding scale based around a target. 
The Committee considers that the performance targets in relation to 
the APB are commercially sensitive and therefore will not be disclosed 
on a prospective basis, but intends that the targets and outcomes are 
disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report once they are no longer 
considered sensitive, as has been its practice in recent years.
The CEO’s bonus will be payable in cash as he participates in the 2016 
LTIP. For the CFO, two-thirds of any bonus payments will be made in 
cash, with the remaining third deferred into Company shares, which will 
vest after two years during which time they remain subject to forfeiture. 
Dividend equivalents may be payable on vested shares. 
Long-term incentives
The CEO’s participation in the 2016 LTIP means that he is not eligible 
for an LTIP grant in 2017 or 2018. 
It is intended that the CFO will receive an award of performance shares 
under the 2012 LTIP plan with a face value of 125% of salary. Awards 
will vest after three years subject to two independent performance metrics.
50%: earnings per share growth
Three-year underlying EPS growth (over 2016 base year)
Vesting
(% of EPS part of award)
Below 30% 0%
30% 10%
40% 45%
50% 80%
60% 100%
Straight-line vesting in between the performance 
points above
The above underlying EPS targets are considered to be appropriately 
demanding given the quantum of the awards proposed, current market 
expectations of the Company and internal long-term planning.
50%: relative TSR performance
The remaining half of the award will vest in accordance with the following 
vesting schedule based on the Company’s TSR performance against the 
constituents of the FTSE 250 index, excluding investment trusts, over 
three financial years.
Ranking of the Company’s TSR
Vesting
(% of EPS part of award)
Below median 0%
Median 15%
Upper quartile or higher 100%
Straight-line vesting in between the performance 
points above
In choosing underlying EPS and TSR as the metrics, the Committee has 
sought to provide a balance between incentivising delivery against our key 
measure of success in delivering profitable growth (underlying EPS) and 
aligning the CFO and senior management with shareholders through a 
TSR measure.
Benefits and supplements
Benefits in kind provided for Executive Directors are principally company 
car provision or an allowance in lieu of company car, mobile telephone, 
life insurance cover and private health cover for Executive Directors and 
their family. Benefits in kind are not pensionable and are not taken into 
account when determining base salary for performance-related remuneration. 
Pension
The Committee reviews the pension arrangements for Executive Directors 
to ensure that the benefits provided are consistent with those provided by 
other similar companies and take account of changes in relevant legislation.
The Company does not offer a defined benefit pension scheme. 
Instead, the Company contributes to the Executive Directors’ 
personal pensions or provides a cash supplement at a rate 
of up to 15% of base salary.
The Committee approves the pension arrangements and contributions made 
by the Group on behalf of the Executive Directors. The Company does not 
contribute to any pension arrangements for the non-executive Directors.
New appointments
The remuneration arrangements for any new appointments to the 
Board will be consistent with the Company’s approved remuneration 
policy and policy table. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 54
Annual report on remuneration continued
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2017 continued
Non-executive Directors’ fees 
Non-executive Directors’ fees are reviewed biennially and the last review was carried out in February 2016; therefore, the fees below remain unchanged 
from last year’s remuneration report. The fee structure for the Chairman and other non-executive Directors for 2016 and 2017 is as follows:
 o Chairman – £225,000;
 o Non-executive Director base fee – £47,000;
 o Audit Committee Chairman fee – £10,000;
 o Remuneration Committee Chairman fee – £10,000;
 o Nomination Committee Chairman fee – £5,000; and
 o Senior Independent Director fee – £7,000.
Statement of shareholder voting at AGM
At the AGM held on 20 April 2016 there were three items of remuneration-related business: the Directors’ remuneration report, the Directors’ 
remuneration policy and the adoption of the 2016 LTIP. 
The voting results were as follows: 
Annual report on remuneration Directors’ remuneration policy Adoption of 2016 LTIP
Total number
 of votes % of votes cast
Total number
 of votes % of votes cast
Total number
 of votes % of votes cast
For 125,567,881 98.52% 117,297,203 92.36% 114,560,818 91.18%
Against 1,885,504 1.48% 9,704,133 7.64% 11,082,870 8.82%
Total votes cast (for and against) 127,453,385 100% 127,001,336 100% 125,643,688 100%
Votes withheld* 187,610 – 639,659 1,997,307
Total votes cast (including withheld votes) 127,640,995 – 127,640,995 127,640,995
* A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast “For” and “Against” a resolution.
Single total remuneration figure for each Director (audited)
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
£000
Fixed pay Performance-related pay
Total
remuneration
in 2016 Salary
Benefits
1
 and
supplements Pension Subtotal Bonus
LTIP
vesting
9
Subtotal
Executives 
David Wild 510 14 51 575 413 3,489 3,902 4,477
Rachel Osborne
2
69 3 10 82 66 – 66 148
Former Executives
Paul Doughty
3
5 – 1 6 – – – 6
Non-executives 
Stephen Hemsley 230 2 – 232 – – – 232
Colin Halpern
4
181 31 – 212 – – – 212
Helen Keays 52 – – 52 – – – 52
Ebbe Jacobsen 47 – – 47 – – – 47
Kevin Higgins 57 – – 57 – – – 57
Steve Barber
6
57 – – 57 – – – 57
Total 1,208 50 62 1,320 479 3,489 3,968 5,288
Directors’ remuneration report continued FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 55
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2017 continued
Single total remuneration figure for each Director (audited) continued
52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
£000
Fixed pay Performance-related pay
Total
remuneration
in 2015 Salary
Benefits
1
 and
supplements Pension Subtotal Bonus
LTIP
vesting Subtotal
Executives 
David Wild 510 14 50 574 669 – 669 1,243
Paul Doughty
3
181 8 27 216 – – – 216
Former Executives
Sean Wilkins
5
24 1 2 27 – – – 27
Non-executives
Stephen Hemsley 195 2 – 197 – – – 197
Colin Halpern
4
265 31 – 296 – – – 296
Helen Keays 41 – – 41 – – – 41
Ebbe Jacobsen 41 – – 41 – – – 41
Kevin Higgins 48 – – 48 – – – 48
Steve Barber
6
21 – – 21 – – – 21
Michael Shallow
7
33 – – 33 – – – 33
Total 1,359 56 79 1,494 669 – 669 2,163
Prior year 
reported total
8
1,450 57 58 1,565 293 – 293 1,858
Notes:
1  The value of benefits relates primarily to the provision of a company car allowance and, if applicable, health cover.
2   Rachel Osborne took up the position of Chief Financial Officer with effect from 10 October 2016 on an annual salary of £325,000 and is eligible to receive benefits 
and a pension and participate in the incentive plans in line with the prevailing remuneration policy.
3   Paul Doughty tendered his resignation on 19 November 2015 and stepped down from the Board as Chief Financial Officer shortly after the financial year end, 
on 31 December 2015. He was not eligible for a bonus and did not receive any awards under the LTIP scheme. 
4   Colin Halpern is not remunerated by the Company and for the 2016 financial year a management fee of £181,000 was paid to HS Real Company LLC in the year in 
respect of his services. During the year the terms of the management agreement were renegotiated and the management fee reduced to £140,000 per annum with 
effect from 25 April 2016. A further benefit of £31,000 relating to life insurance premiums was also paid to HS Real Company LLC during the year. The same overall 
structure of payment of fees operated in 2015.
5   Sean Wilkins stepped down from the Board as Chief Financial Officer with effect from 20 January 2015.
6  Steve Barber was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2015. 
7  Michael Shallow retired from the Board on 31 July 2015. 
8  As required by the regulations, this row sets out the total reported in the remuneration report for the prior financial year.
9  David Wild received awards under the 2012 LTIP on 30 May 2014. The performance conditions applying to these awards were met in full. In accordance with the 
legislation, these awards have been valued using the three month average share price to 25 December 2016 (346.77 pence). In addition a dividend equivalent award 
equal to £203,397 has been included in the value of the vested award.
Defined contribution pensions (audited)
Executive Directors receive up to 15% of salary from the Company, either as contributions to a personal pension fund or in cash. In the year ended 
25 December 2016 this totalled £51,000 for David Wild and £10,312 for Rachel Osborne. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 56
Annual report on remuneration continued
Details of variable pay earned in the year 
Annual bonus plan
The incentive for the financial year ended 25 December 2016 was in the form of a bonus based on performance against a combination of financial targets, 
specifically a significant increase in the Group’s underlying PBT, and non-financial targets, incentivising a number of the Company’s strategic priorities.
The CEO had a bonus opportunity of up to 100% of salary in respect of the 2016 financial year. Of this opportunity, 70% was linked to Group underlying 
PBT and operated on a banded basis, commencing at 20% for threshold levels of profit performance, 50% of bonus at target, with the full 100% 
only payable at stretch performance levels, being materially in excess of budget.
The CFO’s bonus for the period from 10 October 2016 to 25 December 2016 (77 days) was based on Group underlying PBT.
2016 was a successful year for the Group, with the underlying PBT of £85.67m.
Performance hurdle
Targets
1
 set for year
(underlying PBT) Actual performance achieved Resulting bonus out-turn Resulting bonus payable
Growth in underlying profit before tax of 
between 95% of target (20% payout) and 110% 
or more (full payout). Graduated scale operates 
between performance points
Threshold: £77.19m
Target: £81.26m
Maximum: £89.38m
Actual underlying PBT
 was £85.67m
77.1% of maximum CEO: £275,391
CFO: £66,111
1.  The original targets were adjusted to take account of the additional IFRS 2 charges, arising from the 2016 LTIP approved by shareholders on 20 April 2016, which had 
not been calculated when the performance targets were set.
The non-financial targets set for the CEO, which accounted for 30% of his bonus opportunity, related to a number of key strategic objectives for 2016 
which included:
 o A successful transition of the German business to a joint venture.
 o Accelerated shop openings in London.
 o Successful implementation of the ERP system.
The Remuneration Committee’s assessment of performance against the above objectives concluded that there was strong progress with these 
strategically linked personal objectives and 27% points of the 30% forming this part of the bonus should be paid, equating to £137,100.
Payment of the bonus is subject to reaching a threshold level of profitability, and this underpin was met. Accordingly, David Wild is entitled to receive 
a bonus in respect of 2016 performance amounting to £413,091, equating to 81% of the maximum opportunity and c.81% of salary. The bonus is 
payable in cash. 
Rachel Osborne’s bonus opportunity was pro-rated to reflect the period in employment. Based on performance set out above, she is entitled to receive 
a bonus in respect of 2016 performance amounting to £66,111, equating to 77.1% of the maximum opportunity and c.20.34% of salary. In line with 
the policy, two-thirds of the bonus will be payable in cash and one-third will be deferred into shares that vest after two years and are subject to forfeiture.
LTIPs 
An LTIP award of nil-cost options granted to David Wild on 30 May 2014 will vest on 30 May 2017, based on performance over the three-year period 
ending on 25 December 2016. The award will vest in full according to the performance below. The initial award to the Chief Executive Officer of 350% 
of salary was agreed as part of the terms of his appointment on a permanent basis.
50%: EPS performance
Half of future awards vest subject to growth in the Company’s adjusted EPS on the following basis:
Metric
Actual
performance
EPS performance
condition Maximum
% of award 
vesting
Three-year adjusted earnings per share (‘EPS’) 69.8% growth 30% growth
(10% vesting)
40% growth
(45% vesting)
50% growth
(80% vesting)
60% growth
(100% vesting)
100%
Straight-line vesting in between the performance points.
50%: TSR performance
The remaining half of awards vest based on the following vesting schedule based on the Company’s TSR performance measures against the 
constituents of the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) over three financial years:
Metric
Actual
performance Threshold Maximum
% of award
vesting
Ranking of the Company’s TSR Upper quartile Median
(15% vesting)
Upper quartile
(100% vesting)
100%
Straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
For reporting purposes David Wild’s 2014 LTIP award was valued using the three month average share price to 25 December 2016 (346.77 pence) 
plus a dividend equivalent award of £203,397.
Directors’ remuneration report continued FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 57
Details of variable pay earned in the year continued
Share awards granted during the year (audited)
Deferred Share Bonus Plan
The bonuses in respect of 2015 performance were settled two-thirds in cash and one-third in shares, the receipt of the latter being deferred for two years. 
The award granted in 2016 represents one-third of the gross bonus due to David Wild for the financial year ended 27 December 2015. 
DSBP Basis of award Face value Number of shares Vesting date
David Wild 33.33% of ABP value £223,121 67,239
1
11/03/2018
1 Adjusted for the three for one sub-division of the Company’s shares effective on 27 June 2016. The original award was in respect of 22,413 Ordinary shares.
This award, which is structured as a nil-cost option, vests subject to continuous employment and no other performance criteria. Dividend equivalents 
will become payable on exercise.
LTIP awards 
Following the approval of the 2016 LTIP and the 2016 remuneration policy at the 2016 AGM, an award was granted to David Wild on 22 April 2016. 
This grant covers three years of normal annual grants of performance shares in 2016, 2017 and 2018 and was over 1,602,000 nil-cost options 
(following an adjustment for the three for one sub-division of the Company’s shares effective on 27 June 2016). 
Executive Date of grant Type of award Award tranche
Number of awards
granted
Face value of
award *
Vesting % at
threshold
Performance
period
Performance
conditions
David Wild 22 April 2016 Conditional
award of
shares
Tranche 1 534,000 £1,666,080 10%–15% Three financial
years from
2015 to 2018
66.6%: EPS growth
33.3%: RTSR, with
 an absolute TSR
 underpin
Tranche 2 534,000 £1,666,080 10%–15% Four financial
years from
2015 to 2019
66.6%: EPS growth
33.3%: RTSR, with
an absolute TSR
underpin
Tranche 3 534,000 £1,666,080 10%–15% Five financial
years from
2015 to 2020
66.6%: EPS growth
33.3%: RTSR, with
an absolute TSR
underpin
* Based on an adjusted share price of 312p (the original share price was 936p, being the closing share price at the date of grant. 
Dividend equivalents will be payable on the number of awards that ultimately vest.
Performance conditions
One-third of each tranche will vest subject to a relative TSR condition measured against the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts). 15% of this element 
will continue to vest for median performance rising up to full vesting for an upper quartile ranking or better, measured over three, four and five years 
as appropriate. The second one-third of each tranche will vest subject to stretching EPS targets and the final third will vest subject to exacting 
super-stretch EPS targets. Both EPS components will use actual 2015 EPS as the base year from which growth is measured.
Targets for each element across the various tranches are as follows:
Weighting
Vesting of each tranche
(straight line
between each point)
Tranche 1 –
performance to
 end of FY18
Tranche 2 –
 performance to
 end of FY19
Tranche 3 –
performance to
 end of FY20
One-third relative TSR targets 0% Below median Below median Below median
15% Median Median Median
100% Upper quartile Upper quartile Upper quartile
One-third stretch targets: 0% <30% <40% <50%
Cumulative growth in EPS 10% 30% 40% 50%
45% 40% 50% 60%
80% 50% 60% 75%
100% 60% 75% 90%
One-third super-stretch targets: 0% 60% 75% 90%
Cumulative growth in EPS 50% 70% 85% 105%
100% 80% 100% 120%
At the end of the relevant performance periods, the provisional vesting outcome will be determined by reference to TSR and EPS performance. 
This will determine the maximum percentage of awards capable of vesting. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 58
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration continued
Details of variable pay earned in the year continued
Share awards granted during the year (audited) continued
Absolute TSR underpin
Once the potential vesting outcomes are known for each tranche, an underpin mechanism will apply which only permits the release of vested awards 
if TSR has increased in absolute terms with awards released on a proportionate basis. For example, if the Company’s TSR at the calculation date for 
a particular tranche is 75%, then only three-quarters of the awards capable of vesting under that tranche (having applied the EPS and relative TSR 
tests) will be released. Awards will only be released in full if our absolute TSR has increased by 100%. Progression towards the TSR doubling target 
will be assessed upon the completion of the relevant performance period and every six months thereafter until the expiry of the award shortly after 
its seventh anniversary of grant, in 2023. 
This additional absolute TSR requirement provides further alignment between reward outcomes and shareholder returns. 
The above underlying EPS targets are considered to be appropriately demanding given the quantum of the awards proposed, current market 
expectations of the Company and internal long-term planning. Furthermore, given the reliance placed on long-term incentives in our overall 
remuneration policy, the proposed targets are considered to provide an appropriate range of stretching but achievable targets that will both retain 
and motivate the Executive team to deliver the Board’s strategy. 
As for the awards made under the 2012 LTIP, EPS and TSR provide a balance between incentivising delivery against our key measure of success in 
delivering profitable growth (underlying EPS) and further aligning the Executives with shareholders through the introduction of a relative TSR condition. 
The absolute TSR underpin applying to the 2016 LTIP provides a requirement for delivering absolute shareholder returns through distributions and 
share price growth.
Clawback and malus
A recovery provision will apply to all awards made under the LTIP which will enable the Committee to recover any value which was overpaid in the 
event of a misstatement of the Company’s accounts or other relevant measure of performance, either through withholding future incentive pay or 
through asking for the net of tax excess value received to be repaid. 
Awards granted to Rachel Osborne
In line with the approved Remuneration Policy the Company agreed to compensate Rachel Osborne for share-based incentives awarded at her 
previous employer and forfeited as a consequence of joining Domino’s Pizza.
The compensation comprised the grant, on 13 October 2016, of an award over 114,921 shares in the Company under and subject to the terms of a 
share award agreement entered into upon reliance of FCA Listing Rule 9.4.2(2).
The award comprised two tranches of conditional share awards and was made on a like-for-like basis at a level consistent with fair value at the time 
of recruitment and matches the original vesting timeframe. Further details are provided in the table below.
Tranche
Number of shares
comprised within tranche
Tranche’s relevant 
vesting date Details
One 37,482 1 November 2017 This tranche replaces forfeited share awards which did not have any performance 
criteria and were due to vest on 1 November 2017. The value of the replacement 
award is equal to the face value of the forfeited awards at the time of replacement. 
Two 8,486 1 June 2018 2/3rd of the forfeited awards were subject performance and service and 1/3rd 
subject to service only, due to vest in March 2018.
Replacement awards were granted of equivalent face value with all awards subject 
to the performance criteria that applied to the August 2015 Domino’s Pizza LTIP 
awards and continued service. 
On exercise the tranches will be satisfied using existing shares only.
The replacement awards are no more valuable and do not vest any earlier than the remuneration forfeited. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 59
Details of variable pay earned in the year continued
Awards held in the year (audited)
Details of options and conditional awards over shares held by Directors who served during the year are as follows:
Plan
Outstanding
shares at
27 December 2015 
1
Granted/
awarded in
 2016 (number)
Exercised/
vested (number)
Lapsed
 (number)
Outstanding
shares at 25
December 2016
Exercise
price
 (pence) Date of grant
Date from which
exercisable/
capable
of vesting
David Wild
2012 LTIP 541,515 – – – 541,515 n/a 30/05/14 30/05/17
2012 LTIP 
(additional award) 406,137 – – – 406,137 n/a 30/05/14 30/05/17
Sharesave 8,448 – – – 8,448 213 29/04/15 01/06/18
DSBP 40,098 – – – 40,098 n/a 21/12/15 27/02/17
2012 LTIP 227,679 – – – 227,679 n/a 21/12/15 21/12/18
DSBP – 67,239 
1
– – 67,239 n/a 11/03/16 11/03/18
2016 LTIP 
all tranches – 1,602,000 
1
– – 1,602,000 n/a 22/04/16 22/04/23
Rachel Osborne 
2012 LTIP – 68,953 – – 68,953 n/a 13/10/16 13/10/19
2012 LTIP 
(additional award) – 8,486 – – 8,486 n/a 13/10/16 01/06/18
2012 LTIP 
(additional award) – 37,482 – – 37,482 n/a 13/10/16 01/11/17
1  Outstanding share awards as at 27 December 2015, and shares awards made during the year prior to 27 June 2016, have been adjusted for the three for one 
sub-division of the Company’s shares effective on 27 June 2016.
Vesting of LTIP awards is subject to the achievement of performance conditions and continued employment. DSBP and Sharesave awards vest 
subject to continued employment only.
Dilution limits
The Company operates within best practice guidelines published by the Investment Association. These broadly provide that where new-issue shares are 
used to satisfy awards made under employee share schemes, the aggregate number of shares placed under award (disregarding any awards which have 
lapsed) across all such schemes operated by the Company should not exceed 10% of the Company’s issued share capital in any ten-year rolling period.
Termination payments (audited)
Paul Doughty resigned as a Director with effect from 31 December 2015. He received payment of his salary and benefits up to that date. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 60
Annual report on remuneration continued
Details of variable pay earned in the year continued
Directors’ shareholdings (audited)
To reinforce the linkage between Senior Executives and shareholders, the Company has adopted a shareholding policy that applies to Executive Directors 
under its long-term incentive arrangements. The Executive Directors are required to retain sufficient shares from the vesting of awards to build up 
and retain a personal shareholding worth an equivalent of a minimum of 150% of base salary for Rachel Osborne and 200% of base salary for David Wild. 
It is expected that the required shareholding will be built up over a maximum of five years. The Committee has discretion to waive the shareholding 
requirement in exceptional circumstances. Once attained, a subsequent fall below the required level may be taken into account by the Committee 
when determining the grant of future awards.
The Committee has decided that awards made under the DSBP shall count (assuming the sale of sufficient shares to fund the employee’s tax 
and NI obligations) towards this target. 
Legally owned
shares at
25 December 2016 
(or earlier date of cessation)
Legally owned
shares at
27 December
2015
1
Conditional shares
subject to
performance
conditions
(2012 LTIP and 2016 LTIP)
Share options
not subject to
performance
conditions
(DSBP/Sharesave)
Market value
of shareholding
as a % of salary 
[2]
Executive Directors
David Wild 13,650 13,650 2,777,331 115,785 49%
Rachel Osborne – n/a 77,439 37,482 nil
Non-executive Directors
Stephen Hemsley
3
1,800,000 1,800,000 – – n/a
Colin Halpern
4
1,673,700 1,673,700 – – n/a
Helen Keays – – – – n/a
Ebbe Jacobsen – – – – n/a
Kevin Higgins – – – – n/a
Steve Barber – – – – n/a
Former Directors
Paul Doughty
5
– – – – –
Notes:
1 Outstanding share interests as at 27 December 2015 have been adjusted for the three for one sub-division of the Company’s shares effective on 27 June 2016. 
2  Based on a share price of 356.8p prevailing at the end of the financial year and the number of shares in which the Director has a beneficial interest and calculated 
on the salary paid in the year.
3  1,800,000 Ordinary shares (2015: 1,800,000) are held by The Stephen Hemsley No. 5 Trust, a discretionary trust of which Stephen Hemsley and his family are 
potential beneficiaries. 
4  1,673,700 Ordinary shares (2015: 1,673,700) are held by HS Real LLC. HS Real LLC is owned by a discretionary trust, the beneficiaries of which are the adult 
children of Colin and Gail Halpern. 
5 Paul Doughty had resigned as an employee during the financial year and resigned as a Director on 31 December 2015.
CEO remuneration
Year ended Chief Executive Officer
Total
remuneration
£000
Annual bonus
(% of max)
LTIP vesting
(% of max)
25 December 2016 David Wild 4,477 81% 100%
27 December 2015 David Wild 1,243 87.5% –
28 December 2014 David Wild 864 58.6% –
29 December 2013* Lance Batchelor 532 0% –
30 December 2012 Lance Batchelor 852 50% –
25 December 2011 Lance Batchelor 256 60% –
25 December 2011 Chris Moore 630 60% 100%
26 December 2010 Chris Moore 809 100% 100%
*  Lance Batchelor resigned as CEO on 16 March 2014. David Wild assumed the position of Interim CEO on 31 January 2014 and his appointment as the Group’s CEO 
was formally confirmed on 30 April 2014. For comparative purposes the total remuneration shown for the year ended 28 December 2014 includes remuneration 
received in both roles.
The first LTIP awards granted to the current CEO that become capable of vesting based on performance ending in FY16 were in 2014 and these 
have been included in the above table. 
Directors’ remuneration report continued FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 61
Details of variable pay earned in the year continued
Total shareholder return
The graph below illustrates the Company’s TSR performance over the eight financial years to 25 December 2016, plotted against the TSR 
performance of the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) over the same period. 
TSR reflects movements in the share price, adjusted for capital events and assuming all dividends are reinvested on the ex-dividend date. The FTSE 250 Index 
(excluding investment trusts) has been selected for this comparison because (i) this is the index in which the Company’s shares have been quoted 
since admission to the Official List and (ii) it forms the comparator group for the TSR performance condition used in the Group’s 2012 LTIP and 
2016 LTIP. 
The graph shows the value, at 25 December 2016, of £100 invested in the Company on 28 December 2008 compared with the value of £100 
invested in the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts). The other points plotted are the values at the relevant financial year ends.
Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer
2016
%
Chief Executive Officer
Salary 0%
Benefits 0%
Bonus (38.3%)
Average employee (on a per capita basis)
Salary 14.8%
Benefits 22.5%
Bonus (8.1%)
The table above shows the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive Officer between the current and previous 
financial year, and compares this to the equivalent year-on-year changes averaged across all Group employees and expressed on a per capita basis. 
Pay for Group employees includes material proportions paid in euros and swiss francs, and the translation into pounds for the purposes of this 
year-on-year comparison includes exchange effects.
During the year the Group discontinued operations in Germany which reduced the number of people employed in our corporate stores. This change 
increased the proportion of employees in our Group franchising operations, which generally receive higher salaries and benefits.
Relative importance of spend on pay
2016
2015
(restated where necessary) % change
Staff costs (£m) 41.4 39.3 5.3%
of which Directors’ pay (£m) 1.8 2.2 (18.2%)
Dividends and share buybacks (£m) 69.3 31.0 123.5%
Underlying PBT (£m) 85.7 73.2 17.1%
Underlying PBT was chosen as a comparator as it reflects the profit generated by the Group’s continuing operations, virtually the whole of which leads 
to cash generation. This therefore creates the opportunity for the Board to reinvest in the Group’s business, or make distributions to shareholders, or 
both. It is the same comparator as used in prior years’ remuneration reports.
On behalf of the Board
Kevin Higgins
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
8 March 2017 
Value (£) (rebased)
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
December 
2008
December 
2009
December 
2010
December 
2011
December 
2012
December 
2013
December 
2014
December 
2015
December 
2016
Domino’s Pizza Group plc FTSE 250 (excl. investment trusts) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 62
Directors’ report
The Directors have pleasure in presenting the statutory financial 
statements for the Group for the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016.
The Company has chosen in accordance with section 414C(11) 
of the Companies Act 2006 to include the disclosure of likely future 
developments in the strategic report (on pages 2 to 29), which 
includes the following:
 o the Chairman’s statement on pages 4 and 5;
 o the Chief Executive Officer’s statement on pages 6 to 9;
 o a description of the business structure, model, markets and strategy 
on pages 10 to 15;
 o the key performance indicators on pages 16 and 17;
 o the discussion of risk management, the table of principal risks and 
uncertainties and the longer-term viability statement on pages 18 to 23;
 o the financial review on pages 24 to 25; and
 o the corporate social responsibility report on pages 26 to 29.
Together, this information is intended to provide a fair, balanced and 
understandable analysis of the development and performance of the 
Group’s business during the year, and its position at the end of the year, 
its strategy, likely developments and any principal risks and uncertainties 
associated with the Group’s business. 
Details of the Group’s policy on addressing financial risks and details 
about financial instruments are shown in note 29 to the Group financial 
statements on pages 108 and 109.
The sections of the Annual Report dealing with corporate governance, 
the reports of the Nomination Committee and Audit Committee and the 
Directors’ remuneration report set out on pages 32 to 61 inclusive are 
hereby incorporated by reference into this Directors’ report. 
For the purposes of compliance with DGTR 4.1.5R(2) and DGTR 4.1.8R, 
the required content of the “Management Report” can be found in the 
strategic report and Directors’ report including the sections of the 
Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
For the purposes of LR 9.8.4C R, the information required to be 
disclosed by LR 9.8.4 R can be found in the following locations:
Section topic Location 
(1) Interest capitalised Note 16 to
the accounts
(2) Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable
(4) Details of long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report
(5) Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable
(6) Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable
(7) Non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
(8)  Item (7) in relation to major 
subsidiary undertakings
Not applicable
(9)  Parent participation in a placing 
by a listed subsidiary 
Not applicable
(10) Contracts of significance Directors’ report
(11)  Provision of services by 
a controlling shareholder
Not applicable
(12) Shareholder waivers of dividends Directors’ report
(13) Shareholder waivers of future dividends Directors’ report
(14) Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable
All the information cross-referenced above is hereby incorporated by 
reference into this Directors’ report.
Group results
The Group profit for the period from continuing operations after 
taxation was £65.2m (2015: £59.3m). This is after a taxation charge 
of £17.4m (2015: £13.9m) representing an underlying effective tax rate 
of 20.3% (2015: 19%). The financial statements setting out the results 
of the Group for the period ended 25 December 2016 are shown on 
pages 73 to 124.
Dividends 
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 4.5p per 
Ordinary share, to be paid on 25 April 2017 to members on the register at 
the close of business on 17 March 2017 (ex-dividend date 16 March 2017), 
subject to shareholder approval. Together with the interim dividend of 
3.5p per Ordinary share paid on 2 September 2016, the total dividend 
in respect of the period will be 8.0p compared with 6.9p for the 
previous year, an increase of 15.6%. 
Dividends are recognised in the accounts in the year in which they are 
paid or, in the case of the final dividend, when approved by shareholders. 
Therefore, the amount recognised in the 2016 accounts, as described 
in note 14 on page 94, comprises the 2015 final dividend and the 2016 
interim dividend.
Share capital
As at 25 December 2016, the Company’s authorised share capital was 
£4,000,000 divided into a single class of 768,000,000 Ordinary shares 
of 25/48p each (following the three for one sub-division of the Company’s 
shares which was effective on 27 June 2016) and there were 520,742,012
1
 
Ordinary shares in issue (including 4,072,590 Ordinary shares held in 
treasury). All issued Ordinary shares are fully paid up. The Ordinary 
shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in 
certificated or uncertificated form.
Holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at general 
meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies and, if they 
are corporations, corporate representatives who are entitled to attend 
general meetings and to exercise voting rights. 
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder 
of Ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall 
have one vote, unless the proxy is appointed by more than one shareholder 
and has been instructed by one or more shareholders to vote for the 
resolution and by one or more shareholders to vote against the resolution, 
in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against. This reflects 
the position in the Shareholders’ Rights Regulations 2009 which amended 
the Companies Act 2006. On a poll, every member present in person or 
by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every Ordinary share 
held. None of the Ordinary shares carry any special voting rights with regard 
to control of the Company. The Articles specify deadlines for exercising 
voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to 
resolutions to be passed at the AGM. The relevant proxy votes are 
counted and the number for, against or withheld in relation to each 
resolution are announced at the AGM and published on the Company’s 
website after the meeting. 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in the Company 
other than certain restrictions that may be imposed from time to time by the 
Articles, law or regulation and pursuant to the Listing Rules whereby certain 
Directors, officers and employees require approval to deal in Ordinary shares 
of the Company. The Group is not aware of any agreements between holders 
of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares.
Shares held by employee share trusts 
The Group has had an employee benefit trust (‘EBT’) for a number of years, 
the trustee of which is Intertrust Fiduciary Services (Jersey) Limited. As at 
25 December 2016, the EBT held 168,756 shares, which are used to satisfy 
awards under employee share schemes. The voting rights in relation to 
these shares are exercisable by the trustee; however, in accordance with 
best practice guidance, the trustee abstains from voting.
1 See note 1 on page 63. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 63
Dividend waivers 
A dividend waiver is in force in relation to shares in the Company held by the 
EBT (see previous paragraph), which relates to a total of 168,756 shares. 
Purchase of own shares
At the 2016 AGM, a special resolution was passed to authorise the Company 
to make purchases on the London Stock Exchange of up to 10% of its 
Ordinary shares for the year under review. The Company engages in share 
buybacks to create value for shareholders when cash flows permit and 
there is no immediate alternative investment use for the funds.
During the year the Company made purchases of 9,077,304 Ordinary 
shares with a nominal value of £47,277 (adjusted for the three for one 
sub-division of the Company’s shares effective on 27 June 2016). Since 
the year end the Company has made purchases over 2,679,364 Ordinary 
shares with a nominal value of £13,955, under the terms of the Share 
Purchase Programme announced on 22 December 2016. Shareholders 
will be requested to renew this authority at the forthcoming AGM, to be 
held on 20 April 2017.
1  During the course of the financial period for the 52 weeks ended 
25 December 2016, the Directors became aware that certain Relevant 
Distributions had been made during the period from 2000 to 2016 otherwise 
than in accordance with the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 (‘the Acts’). 
The Relevant Distributions included various share buybacks, as described 
and defined in the Circular dated 1 December 2016 (‘the Circular’) sent to 
shareholders. As such, the cancellation of those Ordinary shares resulting from 
the purported buybacks was void. 22,068,513 of the Ordinary shares which were 
the subject of the share buybacks were purportedly cancelled. Therefore, as 
at 25 December 2016, the Company had 520,742,012 Ordinary shares in 
issue. Following the passing of the resolution (as defined in the Circular) on 
10 January 2017, the 22,068,513 Ordinary shares were bought back and 
cancelled, following which the total issued share capital of the Company was 
498,683,862 (including 4,072,590 Ordinary shares held in treasury). As at 
10 January 2017, and following the resolution being passed and the share 
buybacks being effective, the total voting rights were 494,611,272. The overall 
effect of the passing of the resolution was to put all potentially affected parties 
so far as possible in the position in which they were always intended to be had 
the Relevant Distributions been made in accordance with the Acts. The resolution 
constituted a related party transaction as defined in the Listing Rules and under 
the terms of IAS 24. For further details refer to note 35 of the Company 
accounts on page 90.
Substantial shareholdings 
As at 8 March 2017, the Company had been notified, in accordance 
with the FCA’s Disclosure, Guidance and Transparency Rules, of the 
following holdings of voting rights attaching to the Company’s shares:
Number of
shares
% of total
 voting rights
 as at
25 December
 2016 
1
% of total
 voting rights
 as at
10 January
 2017
Oppenheimer Funds Inc 55,053,340 10.66 11.13
MFS Investment Management 25,011,405 4.84 5.05
On 12 January 2017 the Company was notified by Oppenheimer Funds 
Inc that it had an interest in 55,042,305 Ordinary shares. No other 
notifications under DGTR 5.3.1R(1) have been received since 
25 December 2016.
Directors and their interests
The Directors in service at 25 December 2016 were Stephen Hemsley, 
Colin Halpern, David Wild, Rachel Osborne, Helen Keays, Ebbe Jacobsen, 
Kevin Higgins and Steve Barber.
On 13 October 2016, Rachel Osborne was appointed as a Director 
and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. The biographical details 
of the present Directors are set out on page 31 of this Annual Report.
The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by the 
Articles of the Company, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the 
Companies Act 2006 and related legislation. Subject to the Articles 
of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by 
special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the 
Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The interests of Directors and their immediate families in the shares 
of the Company, along with details of options and awards held by 
Executive Directors, are contained in the Directors’ remuneration 
report set out on pages 41 to 61. Should any Ordinary shares be 
required to satisfy awards over shares, these may be provided by 
the EBT.
There have not been any changes in the interests of the Directors, 
including share options and awards, in the share capital of the Company 
between the year end and 8 March 2017. None of Directors have 
a beneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary.
In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Board has clear procedures 
for Directors to formally disclose any actual or potential conflicts to the 
whole Board for authorisation as necessary. All new conflicts are required 
to be disclosed as and when they arise. There is an annual review of 
conflicts disclosed and authorisations given. The register of Directors’ 
conflicts is maintained by the Company Secretary. 
Directors’ indemnities 
The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity provision contained in the 
Articles of Association. The provision, which is a qualifying third-party 
indemnity provision (as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006), 
was in force during the year ended 25 December 2016 and remains in 
force and relates to certain losses and liabilities which the Directors may 
incur to third parties in the course of acting as Directors or employees 
of the Company.
The Group maintained a directors’ and officers’ liability insurance policy 
throughout the financial year, although no cover exists in the event that 
Directors or officers are found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly. 
No indemnity is provided for the Group’s auditor.
Employees
The Group employed 999 people as at 25 December 2016 
(2015: 1,157 – including discontinued operations).
For further details please refer to note 8 on page 89.
Employment policies
The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in 
employment. The Group recruits and selects applicants for employment 
based solely on a person’s qualifications and suitability for the position, 
whilst bearing in mind equality and diversity. It is the Group’s policy to 
recruit the most capable person available for each position. The Group 
recognises the need to treat all employees honestly and fairly. The Group 
is committed to ensuring that its employees feel respected and valued 
and are able to fulfil their potential and recognises that the success 
of the business relies on their skill and dedication.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment 
from disabled persons, with regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities. 
Efforts are made to continue the employment of those who become 
disabled during their employment.
For more information on the Company’s employment practices please 
see page 28. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 64
Directors’ report continued
General information
Annual General Meeting
The notice convening the AGM to be held at 12.00p.m. on 20 April 2017 
at the Company’s Supply Chain Centre, 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, 
Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, is contained in a separate shareholder circular. 
Full details of all resolutions to be proposed are provided in that document. 
The Directors consider that all of the resolutions set out in the Notice of 
AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a 
whole. The Directors will be voting in favour of them and unanimously 
recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
Significant agreements and change of control provisions
The Group judges that the only significant agreements in relation 
to its business are the UK and ROI Master Franchise Agreement, the 
Know How Licence Agreement and the Switzerland, Luxembourg and 
Liechtenstein Master Franchise Agreement pursuant to which certain 
of the Group’s companies are granted the right to franchise stores 
and operate commissaries in the territories by Domino’s Pizza 
International Franchising Inc.
The Group’s significant agreements listed above do not terminate 
on a change of control. The Group does not have agreements with any 
Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office 
or employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the 
Group’s employee share schemes may cause options and awards granted 
to employees, including Directors, to vest on a change of control. The Group’s 
banking arrangements do contain change of control provisions which, if 
triggered, could limit future utilisations, require the repayment of existing 
utilisations or lead to a renegotiation of terms.
Articles of Association
The Articles of Association remained unchanged during the 2016 financial 
year and can only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting 
of the shareholders. 
Branches
Domino’s Pizza Germany Limited (a subsidiary company of the Company) 
operated via a branch in Germany, Domino’s Pizza Deutschland, for the 
period to 1 February 2016.
Environmental and social responsibility 
and GHG emissions
The Group acknowledges that it is part of a wider community and 
recognises that it has a responsibility to act in ways that respect the 
environment and the social wellbeing of others. Details of the Group’s 
approach to these issues and emissions attributable to all activities are 
set out in the corporate social responsibility report on pages 26 to 29.
Political donations 
The Company made no political donations in the year (2015: £nil).
Key performance indicators (‘KPIs’)
Details of the Group’s KPIs can be found on pages 16 and 17. 
Auditor
EY has signified its willingness to continue in office as auditor to the 
Company and the Group is satisfied that EY is independent and there 
are adequate safeguards in place to safeguard its objectivity. A resolution 
to re-appoint EY as the Company’s auditor will be proposed at the 
2017 AGM.
Directors’ statement of disclosure 
of information to auditor
Having made the requisite enquiries, the Directors in office at the date 
of this Annual Report and Accounts have each confirmed that, so far as 
they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Group’s 
auditor is unaware and each Director has taken all the steps he/she ought 
to have taken as a Director to make himself/herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Group’s auditor is aware of 
that information.
Going concern
The Company’s business activities, together with the factors likely 
to affect its future development, performance and position are set out 
in the strategic report on pages 2 to 29. The financial position of the 
Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described in the financial review on pages 24 to 25. In addition, notes 
28 and 29 to the Group financial statements include the Company’s 
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial 
risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and 
hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company 
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Cautionary statement
This Annual Report and Accounts contains forward-looking statements. 
These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance; 
rather, they are based on current views and assumptions as at the date 
of this Annual Report and Accounts and are made by the Directors in 
good faith based on the information available to them at the time of their 
approval of this report. These statements should be treated with caution 
due to the inherent risks and uncertainties underlying any such 
forward-looking information. The Group undertakes no obligation 
to update these forward-looking statements.
By order of the Board
Adrian Bushnell
Company Secretary
8 March 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 65
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Directors’ responsibility statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts, 
the Directors’ remuneration report and the financial statements (Group 
and Company) in accordance with applicable UK laws and regulations. 
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors have prepared the 
Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (‘IFRS’) and 
applicable UK law. Further, they have elected to prepare the Company 
financial statements in accordance with UK accounting standards (UK 
GAAP) and applicable UK law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements 
unless they are satisfied that they are a true and fair view of the Group 
and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the Group financial statements, the Directors are required to:
 o select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 
(Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors) 
and then apply them consistently;
 o present information, including accounting policies, in a manner which 
presents relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information;
 o provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the 
Group’s financial position and financial performance; and
 o state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
In preparing the Company financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
 o select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
 o make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 o state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the 
financial statements; and
 o prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the 
Annual Report and Accounts and financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and, with regard to the Group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for the system of 
internal control for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group 
and hence for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
A copy of the financial statements of the Company is posted on the 
Company’s website. The Directors are responsible for the maintenance 
and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the 
website. Information published on the Company’s website is accessible 
in many countries with different legal requirements. Legislation in the 
UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
DTR 4.1 statement
Each of the Directors, the names and functions of whom are set out 
on page 31, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge, they have 
complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable accounting standards and that the financial 
statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the Group and the Company and of the Group’s 
income statement for that period. In addition, each of the Directors 
confirms that the strategic report represented by the Directors’ report 
includes a fair review of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Company and Group, together with 
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations. Having taken advice 
from the Audit Committee, the Board considers the Annual Report and 
Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and 
that it provides the information necessary for the shareholders to assess 
the Company’s and Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
Signed on behalf of the Board
David Wild
Chief Executive Officer
8 March 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 66
Independent auditor’s report
to the members of Domino’s Pizza Group plc
What we have audited
Domino’s Pizza Group plc’s financial statements comprise:
Group Parent company
Group balance sheet as  
at 25 December 2016
Balance sheet as at 
25 December 2016
Group income statement for  
the 52 week period then ended
Group statement of comprehensive 
income for the 52 week period then ended
Group statement of changes in equity 
for the 52 week period then ended
Statement of changes 
in equity for the 52 week 
period then ended
Group cash flow statement for the 52 week 
period then ended
Related notes 1 to 35 to 
the Group financial statements
Related notes 1 to 11 to 
the financial statements
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation 
of the group financial statements is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation 
of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice), including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”.
Our opinion on the financial statements
In our opinion:
 o the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 25 December 2016 
and of the group’s profit for the 52 week period then ended;
 o the group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
 o the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework; and
 o the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview of our audit approach
Materiality o Overall Group materiality of £4m which represents 5% of profit before non-underlying items and taxation 
from continuing operations.
Audit scope o We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 5 components and audit procedures 
on specific balances for a further 5 components.
 o The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 99% of profit before 
non-underlying items and taxation from continuing operations, 100% of revenue and 98% of total assets.
 o The components subject to review scope procedures covered the remaining 1% of profit before non-underlying 
items and taxation from continuing operations and 2% total assets.
Risks of material misstatement o Susceptibility to management override in recharging expenditure incurred by the group to the 
National Advertising Fund.
 o Susceptibility to management override in the recognition of revenue through manual journals.
 o Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets of the business in Switzerland.
 o Distributions made other than in compliance with the Companies Act.
What has changed o In the prior year, our auditor’s report included two additional risks of material misstatement in relation to:
 o Classification of discontinued operations and completeness of related restructuring provisions in respect 
of the exit from the German business; and
 o Reversionary interest-share based compensation schemes.
 o The exit from the German business was accounted for in the prior year and there have been no further 
discontinued operations during the year.
 o The reversionary interest-share based compensation schemes continue to be an area of audit focus however 
as there has been no further development during the year, this risk did not have a significant effect on our audit 
strategy in the current year or our allocation of resources.
 o One component, that was full scope in the prior year, was assigned specific scope in the current year as 
it ceased trading during the year. In addition, in the current year we have included in scope the performance 
of specified procedures by a non-EY component team over an investment in associate entity. This was a new 
investment during the year. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 67
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the group and the parent company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 
Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge 
acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware 
of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider 
the implications for our report.
Our application of materiality
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the 
audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit 
and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in 
the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a 
basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £4m (2015: £3.4m), which 
is 5% of profit before non-underlying items and taxation from continuing 
operations (2015: 5% of profit before taxation from continuing operations).
We use profit before non-underlying items and taxation from continuing 
operations as reported by the group to exclude the impact of one-off, 
exceptional items and the impact of discontinued operations which do 
not reflect the underlying trading performance of the group. This avoids 
inappropriate variations in our materiality as a result of non-recurring items.
 o Profit before taxation from continuing  
operations – £82.5m
 o Non-underlying items before tax – £3.1m
 o Totals £85.6m [materiality basis] – profit 
before non-underlying items and taxation from 
continuing operations
 o Materiality of £4m (5% of materiality basis)
Starting 
basis
Adjustments
Materiality
Performance materiality
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level. 
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability 
that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements 
exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, the implementation of a new ERP 
platform and our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, 
our judgement was that performance materiality should be set at 50% 
(2015: 50%) of our materiality, namely £2m (2015: £1.8m). We have 
maintained performance materiality at this percentage reflecting the 
results of our testing of the Group’s systems and processes and 
historical audit findings.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit 
coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken 
based on a percentage of total performance materiality. The performance 
materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and 
risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment 
of the risk of misstatement at that component. In the current year, the 
range of performance materiality allocated to components was £0.4m 
to £2.0m (2015: £0.4m to £1.8m).
Reporting threshold
An amount below which identified misstatements are considered 
as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all 
uncorrected audit differences in excess of £0.2m (2015: £0.16m), which 
is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that 
threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative 
measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant 
qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
The scope of our audit
Tailoring the scope
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our 
allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for 
each entity within the Group. Taken together, this enables us to form 
an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. In determining 
audit scope we take into account size, risk profile, the organisation 
of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the 
business environment and other factors such as findings from third 
party assurance reviews when assessing the level of work to be 
performed at each component.
The Group manages its wholly owned operations from a single location 
in the UK and has common financial systems, processes and controls 
covering full scope and specific scope components. The audit of in-scope 
components is performed by the Group audit team. The audit team 
includes tax and valuation specialists.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial 
statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of 
significant accounts in the financial statements, of the sixteen reporting 
components of the Group, we selected ten components covering entities 
within the UK, Ireland and Switzerland, which represent the principal 
business units within the Group. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 68
Independent auditor’s report continued
to the members of Domino’s Pizza Group plc
The scope of our audit continued
Tailoring the scope continued
Of the ten components selected, we performed an audit of the complete 
financial information of five components (“full scope components”) which 
were selected based on their size or risk characteristics. For the remaining 
five components (“specific scope components”), we performed audit 
procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered 
had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in 
the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts 
or their risk profile.
In tailoring our scope, we considered the risk of material misstatement 
to the Group financial statements, arising from the investment in joint 
ventures and associates. This resulted in one investment in associate 
entity being included in scope. We instructed non-EY component auditors 
to perform specified procedures and determined the appropriate level 
of involvement to enable us to obtain sufficient audit evidence had been 
obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements 
as a whole.
2016
2015
Number
% Group
 adjusted
profit
 before tax
% Group
 revenue
% Total
assets See note Number
% Group
 adjusted
profit
 before tax
% Group
 revenue
% Total
assets
Full scope
1,2
5 100% 96% 89% 1,2 6 102% 96% 92%
Specific scope
2,3,4
5 (1%) 4% 9% 2, 3, 4 4 (3%) 3.5% 5%
Full and specific
scope coverage 10 99% 100% 98% 10 99% 99.5% 97%
Remaining components
5
6 1% – 2% 5 5 5% 0.5% 3%
Total reporting components 16 100% 100% 100% 15 104% 100% 100%
Notes
1  The Group audit risk in relation to susceptibility to management override in 
recharging expenditure incurred by the group to the National Advertising Fund 
and distributions made other than in compliance with the Companies Act was 
subject to audit procedures by the primary audit team on the entire balance.
2  The Group audit risk in relation to susceptibility to management override in the 
recognition of revenue through manual journals was subject to audit procedures 
at each of the full and specific scope locations with Revenue.
3  The Group audit risk in relation to impairment of property, plant and equipment, 
goodwill and intangible assets of the business in Switzerland was subject to 
specific scope audit procedures in 1 component.
4  The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all 
significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage 
of significant accounts tested for the Group.
5  Of the remaining 6 components that together represent 1% of the Group’s 
profit before non-underlying items and taxation from continuing operations, 
none are individually greater than 1% of the Group’s profit before non-underlying 
items and taxation from continuing operations. For these components, we 
performed other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation 
journals and intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation 
recalculations to respond to potential risks of material misstatement to the 
Group financial statements.
Changes from the prior year
One component, that was a full scope component in the prior year, was 
confirmed as specific scope in the current year due to the component 
ceasing trading during the year. In addition in the current year we have 
included in scope the performance of specified procedures by a non-EY 
component team over an investment in associate entity. This was a new 
investment during the year.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement
We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those 
that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation 
of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team. 
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which 
were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, 
consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 69
Risk Our response to the risk
Key observations communicated 
to the Audit Committee Risk movement
National Advertising Fund expenditure
Refer to the Accounting policies (page 83); 
and Note 23 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements (page 102).
Franchisees pay contributions which are 
collected by the Group for specific use 
within the National Advertising Fund (‘NAF’). 
The fund is operated by the Group on behalf 
of franchisees with the objective of driving 
revenues for their stores. Total contributions 
made to the NAF for the 52 week period 
amounted to £41.5m (2015: £41.8m) and 
the NAF balance at 25 December 2016 
was a creditor of £1.9m (2015: £0.3m).
The NAF is governed by a framework. 
The description of activities to be expensed 
against the fund is such that judgement is 
required to determine the appropriateness 
of the nature and extent of costs to be 
recharged from the Group to the fund. 
The recharging of expenditure incurred by 
the Group on behalf of the NAF is susceptible 
to management override through inappropriate 
expenditure being charged to the NAF.
We inspected the franchise agreement 
framework to determine the extent of 
influence that the Group has over the 
use of the resources held by the NAF 
to determine whether it should be 
consolidated with the Group’s accounts.
We performed testing to confirm that 
costs charged to the fund are permitted 
costs under the fund rules by selecting 
a sample of expenses and corroborating 
to supporting documentation.
We identified manual journals posted 
to the NAF fund and, where significant, 
understood the rationale for the journal 
entry and agreed the journals to relevant 
supporting documentation.
We performed a proof in total 
of credits to the NAF based upon 
a fixed percentage of system sales. 
System sales were substantively 
tested by selecting a sample of items 
to test to supporting documentation.
The franchisees’ ability to control the use 
of the resources in the NAF supports the 
Group’s judgement not to consolidate the 
income and expenditure of the NAF.
Due to the existing agreement being 
a framework, judgement is required 
for items that are recharged to the NAF. 
We did not identify expenses which had 
been inappropriately expensed against 
the NAF.
No change
Revenue recognition
Refer to the Accounting policies (page 84); 
and Note 3 Revenue of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements (page 86).
Total Group revenue is £360.6m 
(2013: £316.9m). The Group’s significant 
revenue streams include royalties, corporate 
store sales, sales to franchisees and 
rental income.
We continue to assess revenue recognition 
as an area of audit risk which has a significant 
effect on our audit strategy and our allocation 
of resources.
There is a risk of misstatement of revenue 
arising from the susceptibility to management 
override through recording of inappropriate 
manual journals.
We performed detailed testing over 
revenue recognition as follows:
We performed detailed testing on a 
sample of sales transactions across the 
year and across each significant revenue 
stream tracing from origination through 
to the general ledger to ensure that the 
revenue was appropriately recorded in 
the correct period and at the correct value.
We performed data analysis 
techniques to understand the flow 
of revenue transactions in the general 
ledger. In addition, we performed 
substantive analytical procedures using 
the inter-relationship of system sales, royalty 
income and sales to franchisees to analyse 
movements in revenue year on year. 
In the execution of our journal entry testing, 
we performed testing over manual journal 
entries recorded in each revenue account. 
We tested to supporting documentation 
of the journal entry and validated that 
amounts were correctly recorded.
Revenue was recognised in accordance 
with the Group’s accounting policies and 
no matters in respect of inappropriate 
manual journals were identified.
No change
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement continued FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 70
Independent auditor’s report continued
to the members of Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Risk Our response to the risk
Key observations communicated 
to the Audit Committee Risk movement
Risk of Impairment in Switzerland
Refer to the Accounting policies (page 82); 
and Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements (page 95).
Given the continued losses made by the 
Swiss business, there is an increased risk 
of impairment. There is a high degree of 
management judgement in assessing the 
potential impairment of the goodwill and 
assets relating to the Switzerland business.
Goodwill and Intangibles of £4.6m 
(2015: £4.0m) are included in the 
consolidated balance sheet in respect 
of the Swiss business. In addition, property, 
plant and equipment (‘PPE’) with a carrying 
value of £6.8m (2015: £5.4m) relate to the 
operations in Switzerland.
We obtained the impairment analysis 
performed by management and compared 
the consistency of the current year 
methodology to prior year. 
We performed testing over the impairment 
analysis for logical and arithmetic accuracy 
and to ensure that it has been prepared in 
line with the guidance provided in IAS 36.
We performed a retrospective review 
of historic performance against budgets 
and forecasts in order to identify bias 
within management’s assumptions.
We performed procedures to 
obtain an understanding of the 
underlying assumptions made in 
the forecasts and corroborated the 
appropriateness of these assumptions 
to supporting documentation.
The key assumptions included:
 o discount rate; and
 o medium-term growth rate.
In respect of the discount rate, an 
independent assessment was made 
by our experts based on general 
market indicators.
We tested the reasonableness of the 
medium-term growth rates by examining 
store performance following the recent 
strategic and operational improvements 
implemented by management.
We performed sensitivity analysis 
over the key assumptions within the 
impairment model.
The cash flow projections prepared 
by management support the carrying 
value of the goodwill, intangible assets 
and PPE held in respect of Domino’s Swiss 
business. The headroom in the value in 
use model has increased compared to 
the prior year.
No change
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement continued CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 71
Risk Our response to the risk
Key observations communicated 
to the Audit Committee Risk movement
Distributions made other than in 
Compliance with the Companies Act
Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 39);  
and Note 11 of the Company Financial 
Statements (page 123).
During the year it was identified that certain 
distributions were not made in accordance with 
Companies Act. This included distributions 
relating to the payments of dividends, purchases 
of own shares and funding by the Company 
of the Employee Benefit Trust. The unlawful 
distributions arose as a result of failings to comply 
with Company Law in the following areas:
 o distributions when insufficient 
distributable reserves were available; and
 o failure to file interim accounts with the 
Registrar (where these were needed as 
relevant accounts to support a distribution 
or share buyback).
The total amount of unlawful distributions 
over a period of 16 years from 2000 
was £84.7m. 
We obtained the analysis of reserves and 
distributions performed by management 
and tested the accuracy of the 
underlying data.
We read the legal correspondence 
provided to the Company by the Group’s 
external legal advisors and checked it 
was consistent with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006. We checked the 
accounting considerations underpinning 
the legal advice were consistent with 
relevant accounting guidance in Tech 
Release 02/10.
We traced each of the transactions 
and distributions to the relevant accounts 
that were filed with Companies House. 
We corroborated to supporting evidence 
the timing of transactions and distributions 
to ensure the completeness of unlawful 
distributions identified.
We inspected the Circular to Shareholders 
and the minutes of the EGM. We ensured 
that the disclosures in the accounts 
regarding the presentation of equity, 
earnings per share and certain related 
party transactions were appropriate.
The financial statements reflect fairly the 
substance of the unlawful distributions.
Decrease
In the prior year, our auditor’s report included a risk of material 
misstatement in relation to the classification of discontinued operations 
and completeness of related restructuring provisions in respect of the exit 
from the German business. The accounting for the impact of the transaction 
was appropriately reflected in the prior year financial statements with 
the German operations presented as discontinued. In the current year, 
the direct operations in Germany have ceased and the presentation as 
discontinued remains appropriate. The audit of remaining provisions for 
restructuring costs remains an area of audit focus but is not considered 
an area of significant risk.
In addition in the prior year, our auditor’s report included a risk of 
material misstatement in relation to reversionary interest share-based 
compensation schemes. Significant judgement continues to be required 
to determine the treatment of such compensation from an employment tax 
perspective. In the current year, there has been no further correspondence 
from HMRC or confirmation of HMRC’s position regarding the non-taxable 
treatment of the schemes. Therefore there remains uncertainty as to the 
extent, if any, of the Group’s exposure to employment taxes in respect of 
the schemes. As there has been no further development during the year, 
this risk did not have a significant effect on our audit strategy in the 
current year or our allocation of resources.
In the prior year, the risk of misstatement relating to revenue recognition 
specified, in addition to the risk of management override, the risk of cut 
off errors. We have reassessed this risk and based on our understanding 
of the typical volume of trade around the year end, historical audit findings 
and our current audit work, we no longer consider it an area of 
significant risk.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set 
out on page 65, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for 
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
 o the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
 o based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: 
 o the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement continued FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 72
Independent auditor’s report continued
to the members of Domino’s Pizza Group plc
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
ISAs (UK and Ireland) 
reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information 
in the annual report is:
 o materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 o apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge 
of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 o otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between 
our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors’ statement that 
they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entity’s performance, 
business model and strategy; and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters 
that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
We have no 
exceptions to report.
Companies Act 2006 
reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 o adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 o the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 o certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 o we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no 
exceptions to report.
Listing Rules review 
requirements
We are required to review:
 o the directors’ statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 64, and longer-term 
viability, set out on page 23; and
 o the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance with 
the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have no 
exceptions to report.
Statement on the Directors’ Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity
ISAs (UK and Ireland) 
reporting
We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw 
attention to in relation to:
 o the directors’ confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment 
of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity;
 o the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are 
being managed or mitigated;
 o the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate 
to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of 
any material uncertainties to the entity’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 
twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements; and
 o the directors’ explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the 
entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, 
and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, 
including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing 
material to add or 
to draw attention to.
Christopher Voogd (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
Birmingham
8 March 2017
Notes
1  The maintenance and integrity of the Domino’s Pizza Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve 
consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they 
were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 73
Group income statement
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
Continuing operations Notes
52 weeks ended
25 December
2016
Total
£000
52 weeks ended
27 December
2015 
Total
£000
Revenue 3 360,577 316,788
Cost of sales (215,719) (193,171)
Gross profit 144,858 123,617
Distribution costs (23,900) (18,949)
Administrative costs (37,826) (33,211)
83,132 71,457
Share of post-tax (losses)/profits of associates and joint ventures 20 (85) 1,724
Operating profit 5 83,047 73,181
Finance income 9 726 362
Finance expense 10 (1,250) (380)
Profit before taxation 82,523 73,163
Taxation 11 (17,369) (13,874)
Profit for the period from continuing operations 65,154 59,289
Discontinued operations
Profit/(loss) for the period from discontinued operations 12 6,662 (9,626)
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 71,816 49,663
Earnings per share 
From continuing operations
– Basic (pence) 13 13.1 11.9
– Diluted (pence) 13 12.9 11.7
From continuing and discontinued operations
– Basic (pence) 13 14.5 10.0
– Diluted (pence) 13 14.3 9.8
Non-GAAP measure: underlying profit before taxation
Operating profit 83,047 73,181
– Restructuring costs within Daytona JV Limited 7 3,144 –
Underlying operating profit 86,191 73,181
Net finance costs (524) (18)
Underlying profit before tax 85,667 73,163
Taxation (17,369) (13,874)
Underlying profit for the period from continuing operations 68,298 59,289 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 74
52 weeks ended
25 December
2016
Total
£000
52 weeks ended
27 December
2015
Total
£000
Profit for the period 71,816 49,663
Other comprehensive expense:
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss:
Exchange gain/(losses) on retranslation of foreign operations 7,287 (852)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the period, net of tax 7,287 (852)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to owners of the parent 79,103 48,811
Group statement of comprehensive income
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 75
Group balance sheet
at 25 December 2016
Notes
At
25 December
2016
£000
 At
 27 December
2015
£000
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 15 18,209 12,000
Property, plant and equipment 16 67,827 58,566
Prepaid operating lease charges 17 821 1,010
Trade and other receivables 18 20,962 7,107
Net investment in finance leases 19 200 1,209
Available-for-sale financial asset 29 8,050 –
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 58,751 7,985
Deferred tax asset 11 6,133 7,851
180,953 95,728
Current assets
Inventories 21 9,240 6,208
Prepaid operating lease charges 17 118 194
Trade and other receivables 18 42,392 28,747
Net investment in finance leases 19 577 774
Cash and cash equivalents 22 23,091 52,860
Assets classified as held for sale 12 – 935
75,418 89,718
Total assets 256,371 185,446
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 23 (59,425) (52,912)
Deferred income (5,553) (4,312)
Financial liabilities 24 (668) (988)
Financial liabilities – share buyback obligation 24 (10,000) –
Deferred and contingent consideration 25 (1,077) (2,865)
Current tax liabilities (6,213) (4,151)
Provisions 27 (1,457) (6,113)
(84,393) (71,341)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 23 (2,798) (316)
Financial liabilities 24 (56,980) (11,450)
Deferred income (3,465) (3,334)
Deferred tax liabilities 11 (360) (115)
Provisions 27 (1,217) (1,215)
Total liabilities (149,213) (87,771)
Net assets 107,158 97,675
Shareholders’ equity
Called up share capital 30 2,597 2,606
Share premium account 36,629 29,155
Capital redemption reserve 457 425
Capital reserve – own shares (12,310) (2,238)
Currency translation reserve 7,007 (280)
Retained earnings 72,778 68,007
Total equity shareholders’ funds 107,158 97,675
David Wild
Director
8 March 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 76
Share
capital
£000
Share
premium
account
£000
Capital
redemption
reserve
£000
Capital
reserve –
own
shares
£000
Currency
translation
reserve
£000
Retained
earnings
£000
Equity
shareholders’
funds
£000
At 28 December 2014 2,592 25,597 425 (2,238) 572 46,450 73,398
Profit for the period – – – – – 49,663 49,663
Other comprehensive expense – exchange differences – – – – (852) – (852)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the period – – – – (852) 49,663 48,811
Proceeds from share issues 14 3,558 – – – – 3,572
Share transaction charges – – – – – (8) (8)
Tax on employee share options – – – – – 1,580 1,580
Share options and LTIP charge – – – – – 1,328 1,328
Equity dividends paid – – – – – (31,006) (31,006)
At 27 December 2015 2,606 29,155 425 (2,238) (280) 68,007 97,675
Profit for the period – – – – – 71,816 71,816
Other comprehensive income – exchange differences – – – – 7,287 – 7,287
Total comprehensive income for the period – – – – 7,287 71,816 79,103
Proceeds from share issues 23 7,474 – – – – 7,497
Share buybacks (32) – 32 (10,072) – (22,346) (32,418)
Share buybacks obligation – – – – – (10,000) (10,000)
Tax on employee share options – – – – – 78 78
Share options and LTIP charge – – – – – 2,186 2,186
Equity dividends paid – – – – – (36,963) (36,963)
At 25 December 2016 2,597 36,629 457 (12,310) 7,007 72,778 107,158
Group statement of changes in equity
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 77
Group cash flow statement
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
Notes
52 weeks
ended
25 December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended
27 December
2015
£000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the period 71,816 49,663
Income tax expense 20,116 13,501
Net finance costs 524 17
Share of post-tax losses/(profits) of associates 20 85 (1,724)
Amortisation and depreciation 5 7,616 6,779
Impairment – 326
(Profit)/loss on disposal of non-current assets (137) 84
Profit on disposal of direct interest in German business 12 (8,050) –
Share option and LTIP charge 2,264 1,328
Increase in inventories (2,866) (1,402)
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (17,382) 1,804
Increase in payables 8,216 5,775
Increase in deferred income 1,338 131
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (4,868) 4,091
Cash generated from operations 78,672 80,373
UK corporation tax paid (13,588) (10,922)
Overseas corporation tax paid (2,046) (476)
Net cash generated by operating activities 63,038 68,975
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 304 191
Dividends received from associates 813 490
(Increase)/decrease in loans to associates and joint ventures (11,012) 542
Decrease in loans to franchisees 1,257 2,174
Payments to acquire finance lease assets (15) (93)
Receipts from repayment of franchisee leases 1,206 1,288
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 16 (14,069) (6,763)
Deferred consideration for Domino’s Leasing Limited 25 (2,884) (3,517)
Purchase of intangible assets (8,389) (5,267)
Receipts from the sale of other non-current assets 2,923 –
Investment in joint ventures and associates 20 (42,803) –
Net cash used by investing activities (72,669) (10,955)
Cash (outflow)/inflow before financing (9,631) 58,020
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid (925) (278)
Issue of Ordinary share capital 7,494 3,572
Purchase of own shares (32,418) –
Payments under LTIP schemes – (8)
New bank loans and facilities draw down 150,556 5,657
Repayment of borrowings (107,477) (16,329)
Equity dividends paid (36,963) (31,006)
Net cash used by financing activities (19,733) (38,392)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (29,364) 19,628
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 52,860 33,743
Foreign exchange gain on cash and cash equivalents (405) (511)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 23,091 52,860 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 78
1. Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS
The financial statements of the Group for the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2017 
and the balance sheet was signed on the Board’s behalf by David Wild. The Company is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom 
under the Companies Act 2006 (registration number 03853545). The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and its registered address is 1 Thornbury, 
West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB. The Company’s Ordinary shares are listed on the Official List of the FCA and traded on the Main Market of 
the LSE.
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the 
European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the period ended 25 December 2016.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
2. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial 
statements of the Group for the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. The accounting 
policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016.
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds (£000) except when 
otherwise indicated. The financial statements are prepared using the historic cost basis with the exception of the available-for-sale financial 
assets which are measured at fair value in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The Group financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Please refer to the Directors’ report for further details.
Discontinued operations
In the Group’s financial statements, the results and cash flows of discontinued operations are presented separately from those of continuing operations. 
An operation is classified as discontinued if it is a component of the Group that (i) has been disposed of, or meets the criteria to be classified as held 
for sale, and (ii) represents a separate major line of business or geographic area of operations or will be disposed of as part of a single co-ordinated 
plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographic area of operations. The discontinued operations results and cash flows relate to 
the formation of a German venture, Daytona JV Limited, in which the Group then acquired a 33.3% interest and the sale or closure of the Group’s 
directly managed German stores.
Adoption of new and revised standards
The following standards are effective for this financial year but have not had significant impact on the reported financial performance or position 
of the Group:
 o amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payments: the amendment defines ‘performance condition’ and ‘service condition’ to clarify various issues. 
This amendment did not have an impact on the financial performance of the Group;
 o amendment to IFRS 3 Business Combinations: the amendment clarifies that all contingent consideration arrangements classified as liabilities or assets 
arising from a business combination must be subsequently measured at fair value through profit and loss whether or not they fall within the scope 
of IFRS 9 (or IAS 39 as applicable). This amendment did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group;
 o amendment to IFRS 8 Operating Segments: the amendment clarifies that an entity must disclose the judgements made by management in applying 
the aggregation criteria in IFRS 8.12, including a brief description of operating disclosures that have been aggregated and the economic characteristics 
used to assess whether the segments are similar. The amendment also clarifies that the reconciliation of segment assets to total assets is required 
to be disclosed only if the reconciliation is reported to the chief operating decision maker, similar to the required disclosures for segment liabilities. 
See note 4 for further information;
 o amendment to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets: the amendments are in relation to the revaluation method 
and the proportionate restatement of accumulated depreciation/amortisation. As the Group does not apply a revaluation method this amendment 
did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group; and
 o amendment to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: the amendment clarifies that a management entity (an entity which provides key management 
personnel services) is a related party subject to the related party disclosures. In addition, the entity that uses a management entity is required to 
disclose the expenses incurred for management services. This amendment did not have an impact on the disclosures of the Group.
Notes to the Group financial statements
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 79
2. Accounting policies continued
Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for 
assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the period. The nature of estimation 
means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
The following judgements have had the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the financial statements:
 o franchisees within the Domino’s Pizza system pay a percentage of their sales into a central fund designed to build store sales through increased 
public recognition of the Domino’s Pizza brand (‘the Fund’). The Fund is managed for the benefit of franchisees in the system with the objective 
of driving revenues for the franchised stores. The Fund is used to pay for national marketing strategies and promotional plans. The Fund is planned 
to operate at break-even with any short-term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group balance sheet:
 o as all Fund income is designated for specific purposes and does not result in a profit or loss for the Group, the revenue recognition criteria as 
outlined in our accounting policy are not met and therefore the income and expenses of the Fund are not included in the Group income statement;
 o the assets and liabilities relating to the Fund are included in the appropriate headings in the Group balance sheet as the related legal, but not 
beneficial, rights and obligations rest with the Group. These assets and liabilities include the short-term timing surpluses and deficits and any 
receivables and payables related to the Fund; and
 o the cash flows relating to the Fund are included within “Cash generated from operations” in the Group statement of cash flows due to the close 
interrelationship between the Fund and the trading operations of the Group.
 o Domino’s Pizza Group plc’s (‘DPG’) associate company, Daytona JV Limited, acquired Joey’s Pizza delivery chain in 2016, and is converting the 
Joey’s Pizza stores to the Domino’s brand. The costs related to this conversion meet the definition of restructuring costs as included in our accounting 
policy and are therefore treated as non-underlying items. Judgement is required to determine which costs are appropriately classified as non-underlying 
(as included in our non-GAAP performance measures policy).
 o Investments in associates undertaken during 2016 are treated as associate investments as operational control remains with the original operating 
management team in the Nordics and with Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Limited (‘DPE’) for the Daytona JV Ltd due to their majority share holding 
and voting rights. The judgement has therefore been taken that the Group do not control the entities in accordance with IFRS 10.
 o Certain of the Group’s historic share-based compensation arrangements dating from 2003 to 2010 involve a degree of estimation and judgement 
in respect of their employment tax treatment. The Group has received advice from its tax advisers reconfirming the support for the non-taxable 
accounting treatment of these arrangements following HMRC’s protective assessments in the current year and prior years relating to these historic 
schemes. The beneficiaries of the arrangements, which amongst others include certain current and former Directors, have provided the Group 
with indemnities to settle potential future personal tax liabilities should they crystallise. This uncertainty may give rise to material income statement 
and/or cash flow variances. It is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the potential impact on the financial statements.
The following estimates are dependent upon assumptions which could change in the next financial year and have a material effect on the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities recognised at the balance sheet date:
 o Determining the fair value of acquired intangible assets and goodwill acquired in business combinations requires the use of estimates regarding 
the value of the intangible assets and deferred consideration payable. These values are applicable in respect to the operation in Switzerland and are 
determined using discounted cash flows based on latest approved business plans. Subsequent impairment reviews also require the use of estimates 
to value the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated. These value in use calculations are rerun on an annual basis for goodwill or 
when there is an indicator of impairment for tangible and intangible fixed assets to determine whether there is any impairment to the carrying value 
of assets arising from business combinations. For details see note 15.
 o The estimation of share-based payment costs requires the selection of an appropriate valuation model, consideration as to the inputs necessary for 
the valuation model chosen and the estimation of the number of awards that will ultimately vest, inputs for which arise from judgements relating to 
the probability of meeting non-market performance conditions and the continuing participation of employees, as detailed in note 31.
 o Determining the fair value of the Market Access Fee (‘MAF’), which relates to the amounts payable by DPE to Domino’s Pizza Group plc in future 
years, requires judgement in the selection of an appropriate valuation input and the profitability assumptions underlying the business case on which 
the payment of the MAF instalments is based. The business case valuation applies a discount rate to future cash flows as detailed in note 29.
Basis of consolidation
The full year consolidated financial statements incorporate the results and net assets of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up on 
a 52-week basis to a Sunday either end of 31 December each year. 
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until 
the date that such control ceases. Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit 
from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights; through currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights; 
or by way of contractual agreement. Where necessary adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to align with the Group 
accounting policies. All intercompany transactions and balances between Group entities, including unrealised profits arising from them, are 
eliminated upon consolidation. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 80
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
2. Accounting policies continued
Interests in associates and joint ventures
The Group’s interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, 
are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. The Group has also entered into a number of contractual arrangements with other parties 
which represent joint ventures. These take the form of agreements to share control over other entities and share of rights to the net assets of the joint 
venture. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities 
require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. The considerations made in determining significant influence on joint control are similar 
to those necessary to determine control over subsidiaries. Where the joint venture is established through an interest in a company, the Group recognises 
its interest in the entities’ assets and liabilities using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or joint venture is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the 
Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint venture, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of individual investments. 
The Group’s income statement reflects the Group’s share of the associate or joint venture’s results after tax. The Group statement of comprehensive 
income reflects the Group’s share of any income and expense recognised by the associate or joint venture outside profit and loss.
The foreign exchange gains or losses on the Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint venture are reflected in the statement of other 
comprehensive income.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate or joint venture, representing the excess of the cost of the investment compared to the Group’s 
share of the net fair value of the associate or joint venture’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying amount 
of the associate or joint venture and is not amortised. To the extent that the net fair value of the associate or joint venture’s identifiable assets, liabilities 
and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised and added to the Group’s share of the associate or joint venture’s 
profit or loss in the period in which the investment is acquired.
Financial statements of associates and joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group. Where necessary, adjustments are 
made to bring the accounting policies used in line with those of the Group, to take into account fair values assigned at the date of acquisition and to 
reflect impairment losses where appropriate. Adjustments are also made in the Group’s financial statements to eliminate the Group’s share of unrealised 
gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures.
Foreign currencies
The functional currency of each company in the Group is that of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates. The Group’s most 
significant functional currency is sterling. Transactions in other currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying spot exchange 
rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each statement of financial position date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange prevailing on the same date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair 
value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Gains and 
losses arising on translation are taken to the income statement, except for exchange differences arising on monetary assets and liabilities that form 
part of the Group’s net investment in a foreign operation. These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time 
they are recognised in profit or loss.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations are translated into sterling at exchange rates prevailing on the statement 
of financial position date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period. Exchange differences arising, if any, 
are classified as equity and are taken directly to a translation reserve. Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the 
period in which the operation is disposed of. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets 
and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Business combinations and goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration 
transferred, measured at the acquisition-date fair value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. Acquisition costs incurred are 
expensed and included in administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in 
accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair 
value of any contingent consideration deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in the income statement. If the contingent consideration is 
classified as equity, it should not be remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount 
recognised for the non-controlling interest (and, where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s 
previously held equity interest in the acquiree) over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the 
business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships 
or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements, are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and 
applicable IFRSs. Identifiable intangible assets meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criteria are recognised separately from goodwill. 
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can be measured reliably.
If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest (and where 
the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree) is lower 
than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the 
difference is recognised in profit and loss. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 81
2. Accounting policies continued
Business combinations and goodwill continued
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill 
acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units (or groups of cash generating 
units) that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units. 
Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal 
management purposes.
When goodwill forms part of a cash generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation 
disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation, when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed 
of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash generating unit retained.
Intangible assets
Computer software
Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment loss. Externally acquired computer software and software 
licences are capitalised at the cost incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software. Internally developed computer software programmes 
are capitalised to the extent that costs can be separately identified and attributed to particular software programmes, measured reliably, and that the 
asset developed can be shown to generate future economic benefits. These assets are considered to have finite useful lives and are amortised on a 
straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of each of the assets, considered to be between three and ten years.
Master franchise fees
Master franchise fees are fees paid towards the acquisition of the master franchise for the markets in which the Group operates. In previous years, 
these were carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment loss. The accounting policy on MFA useful life was reviewed during 
the year to reflect the commercial return of the asset and is now considered to be indefinite. This judgement is based on the sufficiency of available 
evidence supporting the ability of the Group to renew the underlying agreements beyond their initial terms without incurring significant cost. The 
change in useful economic life did not have material impact upon the financial statements for the current or prior years.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not 
be recoverable.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment in value. Cost comprises 
the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to making 
the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their residual values, on a straight-line method on the following bases:
 o Freehold land   Not depreciated
 o Freehold buildings   50 years
 o Assets under construction  Not depreciated
 o Leasehold improvements  Over the life of the lease
 o Fixtures and fittings  Over 5 to 10 years
 o Supply Chain Centre equipment Over 3 to 30 years
The assets’ residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, on an annual basis. The majority 
of assets within Supply Chain Centre equipment are being depreciated over ten years or more. An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised 
upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset 
(calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in the income statement in the 
year that the asset is derecognised.
All items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets when there are indications 
that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Prepaid short leasehold costs
Prepaid short leasehold property costs are classified as current and non-current prepayments. On initial recognition these assets are held at cost 
and subsequently at amortised cost over the length of the lease.
Available-for-sale financial assets
The Market Access Fee is classified as an available-for-sale financial asset and is measured at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised 
in other comprehensive income except for foreign exchange gains and losses, and impairment, which are recognised in profit or loss. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 82
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
2. Accounting policies continued
Leases
Group as lessee
Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group. 
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held as finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease 
payments during the lease term at the inception of the lease. Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease liability and 
finance charges in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest in the remaining balance of the liability. Assets held under 
finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the assets and the lease term.
Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the balance sheet. Rental payments are charged directly to the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease incentives, primarily up-front cash payments or rent-free periods, are capitalised and spread over the 
period of the lease term. Payments made to acquire operating leases are treated as prepaid lease expenses and amortised over the life of the lease.
Group as lessor
Rental income, including the effect of lease incentives, is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Plant and equipment leased out 
under operating leases are included in property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives. 
Where the Group transfers substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset, the arrangement is classified as a finance lease and a 
receivable is recognised for the initial direct costs of the lease and the present value of the minimum lease payments. Finance income is recognised 
in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of return on the remaining net investment in the lease.
Impairment of assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when 
annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount 
is the higher of an asset’s or cash generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless 
the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of 
an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, 
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Impairment losses on continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in those 
expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist 
or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if 
there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is 
the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that 
would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised 
in profit or loss. After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount, less any 
residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events for which it is probable that an outflow 
of economic benefit will be required to settle the obligation and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably measured. The amount recognised 
as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the 
risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, 
its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows if the impact of discounting is material.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation 
in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it. The 
measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both 
necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Present obligations arising under onerous lease contracts are recognised and measured as provisions. An onerous contract is considered to exist when 
the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be 
received under it.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined on a first in, first out basis. Net realisable value is based 
on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to disposal. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 83
2. Accounting policies continued
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables, which generally have seven to 28-day terms, are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable 
amount. Provision is made when it is likely that the balance will not be recovered in full. Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is 
considered remote.
The Group provides interest-free loans to assist franchisees in the opening of new stores. The difference between the present value of loans recognised 
and the cash advanced has been capitalised as an intangible asset in recognition of the future value that will be generated via the royalty income 
and Supply Chain Centre sales that will be generated. These assets are amortised over the life of a new franchise agreement of ten years.
National advertising fund
In addition to franchise fees, franchisees pay contributions which are collected by the Group for specific use within the national advertising fund. 
The Group operates the funds on behalf of the franchisees with the objective of driving revenues for their stores. The fund is specifically used to pay 
for marketing and advertising. The fund is planned to operate at break-even with any short-term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group balance 
sheet within working capital. As all fund contributions are designated for specific purposes and do not result in a profit or loss for the Group, revenue 
recognition criteria are not met and therefore the income and expenses of the fund are not included in the Group income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months 
or less.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when the Group becomes party to the related contracts and are measured initially at fair value 
less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or other cancellation of liabilities are recognised 
respectively in finance revenue and finance cost.
Income taxes
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws 
that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between the tax bases and the accounting bases of assets 
and liabilities. Deferred tax is calculated on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled 
or the asset is realised, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised 
for all temporary differences, with the following exceptions:
 o where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss;
 o in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the 
reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future; and
 o deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary 
differences, carried forward tax credits or losses can be utilised.
Tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income or to 
equity, in which case the income tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity respectively.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and 
liabilities and the deferred tax relates to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction on either the same taxable entity, or on different taxable 
entities which intend to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously in each 
future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax liabilities are expected to be settled or recovered.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold or cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability 
are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, 
such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 84
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
2. Accounting policies continued
Pensions
The Group contributes to the personal pension plans of certain staff with defined contribution schemes. The contributions are charged as an 
expense as they fall due. Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as an accrual at that date. The Group has no further 
payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Capital reserve – own shares
Domino’s Pizza Group plc shares held by the Company and its Employee Benefit Trust (‘EBT’) are classified in shareholders’ equity as “Capital 
reserve – own shares” and are recognised at cost. No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase or sale of such shares.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration net of returns, rebates and value-added taxes. Franchisee rebates are recognised as an expense 
within revenue on an accruals basis on the expected entitlement which has been earned up to the balance sheet date.
The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised:
Royalties
Royalties are based on Domino’s Pizza store sales to customers and are recognised as the income is earned. 
Franchise fees
The franchise fee is effectively a joining fee; it is non-refundable and no element of the franchise fee relates to subsequent services. Revenue from 
franchisee fees is recognised when a franchisee opens a store for trading.
Sales to franchisees
Revenue from sales to franchisees is recognised on delivery to stores.
Corporate store sales
Revenue from pizza delivery is recognised on delivery to customers.
Sale of goods
Supply Chain Centre and equipment sales are recognised on delivery to franchisees.
Rental income on leasehold and freehold property
Rental income arising from leasehold properties is recognised on a straight-line basis in accordance with the lease terms.
Finance lease income
Interest income is recognised as the interest accrues, using the effective interest method. 
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are generally expensed as incurred. Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset are 
capitalised while the asset is being constructed as part of the cost of that asset. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other finance costs that the 
Group incurs. The policy is adopted for all assets that meet the definition of qualifying assets under IAS 23.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs commences when:
 o expenditures for the asset and borrowing costs are being incurred; and
 o activities necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use are in progress.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs ceases when the asset is substantially ready for its intended use. 
For borrowing associated with a specific asset, the actual borrowing costs less any investment income on temporary investment of those borrowings 
are capitalised. To the extent funds are borrowed generally and used for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the amount of borrowing costs 
eligible for capitalisation shall be determined by applying a capitalisation rate to the expenditure on that asset. The capitalisation rate shall be the 
weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to the borrowings of the entity that are outstanding during the period, other than borrowings 
made specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset.
Share-based payments
The Group provides benefits to employees (including Executive Directors) in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render 
services as consideration for equity instruments (equity-settled transactions). The cost of the equity-settled transactions is measured by reference to 
the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the 
relevant employees become fully entitled to the award. Fair values of employee share option plans are calculated using a Stochastic model for awards 
with TSR-related performance conditions and a Black-Scholes model for SAYE awards and other awards with EPS-related performance conditions. 
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service and performance (vesting conditions), other than performance conditions 
linked to the price of the shares of the Company (market conditions). Any other conditions which are required to be met in order for an employee to 
become fully entitled to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions. Like market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken 
into account in determining the grant date fair value. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 85
2. Accounting policies continued 
Share-based payments continued
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting 
condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other 
performance conditions and/or service conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired 
and the Directors’ best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest on achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions 
or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vested as described above.
The movement in the cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with the corresponding 
increase in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on 
the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period. In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the 
new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair 
value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification. No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income 
statement for the award is expensed immediately. This includes anywhere non-vesting conditions within the control of either the entity or the employee 
are not met. However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the 
cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph. All cancellations 
of equity-settled transaction awards are treated equally.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair 
value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share (further details 
are given in note 13).
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards so as to apply IFRS 2 only to those 
equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 3 January 2005.
Non-GAAP performance measures
In the reporting of financial information, the Group uses certain measures that are not required under IFRS. The Group believes that these additional 
measures, which are used internally, are useful to the users of the financial statements in helping them understand the underlying business performance, 
as defined in the key performance indicator section of the strategic report. 
The principal non-GAAP measures the Group uses are underlying profit before tax, underlying earnings per share and system sales. Underlying 
measures remove the impact of non-underlying items from earnings and are reconciled to operating profits, system sales measure the performance 
of the overall business, as defined in the key performance indicator section of the strategic report.
While the disclosure of non-underlying items and system sales is not required by IFRS, these items are separately disclosed either as memorandum 
information on the face of the income statement and in the segmental analysis, or in the notes to the accounts as appropriate. Non-underlying items 
include restructuring costs, gains and losses in connection with changes in stake in associated or joint venture undertakings, gains and losses on 
fair values of financial instruments and acquisition costs. These items are not considered to be underlying as they are one-off business improvement 
costs incurred to ensure new associates or joint venture undertakings are operating effectively in the Group. System sales represent the sum of all 
sales made by both franchisee and corporate stores in the United Kingdom, ROI and Switzerland to consumers.
New standards and interpretations not applied
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations that are relevant to the Group, which have not 
been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective. With the exception of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16, none are anticipated to 
significantly impact the Group’s results or assets and liabilities and are not expected to require significant amendments to disclosure. The full financial 
impact and disclosure impact of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 are still to be finalised.
Effective for periods
beginning on or after:
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’)
Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations 1 January 2016
Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions 1 January 2018
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 1 January 2018
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018
IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019
International Accounting Standards (‘IAS’)
Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2017
Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses 1 January 2017
IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration 1 January 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 86
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
3. Revenue
Revenue recognised in the income statement is analysed as follows:
Continuing operations
52 weeks
ended
25 December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended
27 December
2015
£000
Royalties, franchise fees and sales to franchisees 326,454 288,464
Corporate store sales 15,550 11,698
Rental income on leasehold and freehold property 18,491 16,491
Finance lease income 82 135
360,577 316,788
Discontinued operations
Royalties, franchise fees and sales to franchisees 989 1,933
Corporate store sales 769 3,913
Rental income on leasehold and freehold property 27 35
362,362 322,669
4. Segmental information
For management purposes, the Group is organised into four geographical business units, based on the territories governed by the MFA: the UK, 
Ireland, Switzerland and International Investments. These are considered to be the Group’s operating segments as the information provided to the 
chief operating decision makers, who are considered to be the Executive Directors of the Board, is based on these territories. Revenue included in 
each includes all sales (royalties, Supply Chain Centre sales, rental income and finance lease income) made to franchise stores and by corporate 
stores located in that segment. Segment results for the Ireland segment include both the ROI and Northern Ireland as both of these territories are 
served by the same Supply Chain Centre.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance 
assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss. Group financing (including finance costs and finance revenue) and 
income taxes are managed on a Group basis and are not allocated to operating segments.
In 2016 the Group made significant financial investments into overseas associated undertakings. They comprise its investment in the Domino’s 
operation in the Nordics, including Iceland, Norway and Sweden, which are managed by the same management team and new strategic associate 
arrangement with Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Limited in the German Domino’s operation. This is the basis on which investment performance is 
reported to the DPG Board. For segmental purposes these are classified as ‘International Investments’.
Unallocated assets include cash and cash equivalents and taxation assets. Unallocated liabilities include the share buyback obligation, bank 
revolving facility, deferred consideration and taxation liabilities.
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Deferred tax asset 6,133 7,851
Cash and cash equivalents 23,091 52,860
Unallocated assets 29,224 60,711
Deferred consideration – 2,865
Current tax liabilities 6,213 4,151
Deferred tax liabilities 360 115
Bank revolving facility 56,719 10,485
Share buyback obligation 10,000 –
Unallocated liabilities 73,292 17,616 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 87
4. Segmental information continued
Operating segments
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 52 weeks ended 27 December 2015 
Switzerland
£000
Ireland
£000
UK
£000
International*
 Investments
£000
Total
£000
Switzerland
£000
Ireland
£000
UK
£000
Total
£000
Segment revenue
Revenue from external customers 15,550 26,003 319,024 – 360,577 11,698 21,381 283,709 316,788
Results
Segment result (1,300) 7,242 77,190 – 83,132 (1,303) 5,035 67,725 71,457
Underlying share of post-tax 
profit of associates – – 2,095 964 3,059 – – 1,724 1,724
Non-underlying share of post-tax losses 
of associates – – – (3,144) (3,144) – – – –
Group operating profit (1,300) 7,242 79,285 (2,180) 83,047 (1,303) 5,035 69,449 73,181
Net finance costs (524) (18)
Profit before taxation 82,523 73,163
Taxation (17,369) (13,874)
Profit/(loss) for the period 
from discontinued operations 6,662 (9,626)
Profit for the year attributable to owners 
of the parent 71,816 49,663
Other segment information
Depreciation 1,535 122 3,289 – 4,946 707 105 2,482 3,294
Amortisation 34 18 2,618 – 2,670 302 16 2,714 3,032
Share-based payment charge 126 – 2,060 – 2,186 45 – 1,218 1,263
Entity-wide disclosures
Royalties, corporate store sales – 25,099 301,355 – 326,454 – 20,675 267,777 288,452
Corporate store sales 15,550 – – – 15,550 11,698 – – 11,698
Rental income on leasehold 
and freehold property – 904 17,587 – 18,491 – 705 15,786 16,491
Finance lease income – – 82 – 82 – – 147 147
15,550 26,003 319,024 – 360,577 11,698 21,380 283,710 316,788
Assets
Segment current assets 1,064 2,311 48,672 – 52,047 901 1,132 33,839 35,872
Segment non-current assets 11,856 3,256 81,452 11,456 108,020 9,672 1,960 68,160 79,792
Equity accounted investments – – 11,933 46,818 58,751 – – 7,985 7,985
Total segment assets 12,920 5,567 142,057 58,274 218,818 10,573 3,092 109,984 123,649
Unallocated assets 29,224 60,711
Assets relating to discontinued operations 8,329 1,086
Total assets 256,371 185,446
Liabilities
Segment liabilities 2,796 4,763 64,358 1,077 72,994 1,615 1,612 60,253 63,480
Unallocated liabilities 73,292 17,616
Liabilities relating to 
discontinued operations 2,927 6,675
Total liabilities 149,213 87,771
Additions to non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 2,820 1,072 10,516 – 14,408 3,482 100 1,963 5,545
Intangible assets 59 – 8,330 – 8,389 87 – 4,956 5,043
Prepaid operating lease charges – – – – – – – 156 156
2,879 1,072 18,846 – 22,797 3,569 100 7,075 10,744
*  The Group made financial investments in its associated undertaking in Germany and the Nordics (comprising Iceland, Norway and Sweden) during 2016. There are 
no corresponding amounts in 2015. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 88
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
4. Segmental information continued
Major customers
Annual revenue from two franchisees amounted to £76,906,000 (2015: £50,153,000) and £67,409,000 (2015: £54,864,000) respectively, arising 
from sales reported in the United Kingdom segment.
5. Group operating profit
This is stated after charging:
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
52 weeks
ended 25
December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended 27
December
2015
£000
52 weeks
ended 25
December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended 27
December
2015
£000
52 weeks
ended 25
December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended 27
December
2015
£000
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 4,946 3,362 – 65 4,946 3,427
Amortisation of prepaid lease charges 177 196 – – 177 196
Amortisation of intangible assets 2,493 3,151 – 5 2,493 3,156
Total depreciation and amortisation expense 7,616 6,709 – 70 7,616 6,779
Operating lease payments (minimum lease payments)
– Land and buildings 20,351 18,094 – 258 20,351 18,352
– Plant, machinery and vehicles 2,692 2,851 – 110 2,692 2,961
Total operating lease payments recognised in the income statement 23,043 20,945 – 368 23,043 21,313
Impairment loss/(reversal) recognised on non-current assets – 333 – (7) – 326
Net foreign currency loss/(gain) 11 (177) (1) – 10 (177)
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 149,185 137,045 429 2,097 149,718 139,142
Losses/(gain) on disposal of non-current assets 228 84 (365) – (137) 84
6. Auditor’s remuneration
The Group paid the following amounts to its auditor in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the Group:
52 weeks
ended
25 December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended
27 December
2015
£000
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor for the audit of the Group and Company annual accounts* 261 167
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services: 
Audit of the accounts of subsidiaries 169 109
Total audit fees 430 276
Audit-related assurance services 30 30
Other assurance services – 60
Other services 186 210
Total audit and non-audit fees 646 576
* Of which £6,600 (2015: £2,000) relates to the Company.
7. Items excluded from non-GAAP measure: underlying profit before tax
Non-underlying items included in operating profit
52 weeks
ended
25 December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended
27 December
2015
£000
Within share of post-tax losses of associates and joint ventures:
Acquisition and store network conversion costs incurred by Daytona JV Limited 3,144 –
Acquisition and store network conversion costs
Acquisition and store network conversion costs relate to the rebranding and associated costs in order to execute the conversion of the Joey’s Pizza 
stores to comply with Domino’s international brand standards. Costs include £436,000 for writing off the Joey’s Pizza brand name, £2,074,000 in 
relation to support for franchisee store fit-outs and £634,000 in relation to other costs.
These costs are considered non-underlying as they are one-off charges that would not give an accurate reflection of the Groups profit were they to 
be included in underlying profit.
These costs are net of tax and have no cash flow impact. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 89
8. Employee benefits and Directors’ remuneration
(a) Employee benefits expense
52 weeks
ended
25 December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended
27 December
2015
£000
Wages and salaries 35,337 34,456
Social security costs 3,192 2,945
Other pension costs 689 559
Share-based payment charge 2,186 1,328
41,404 39,288
Of the above employee costs £40,971,000 (2015: £36,081,000) relates to continuing operations.
The average monthly number of employees during the year was made up as follows:
52 weeks
ended
25 December
2016
52 weeks
ended
27 December
2015
Administration 308 270
Production and distribution 334 277
Corporate stores 353 536
995 1,083
Continuing operations 911 773
Discontinued operations 84 310
995 1,083
(b) Directors’ remuneration
52 weeks
ended
25 December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended
27 December
2015
£000
Directors’ remuneration 1,737 2,163
Aggregate contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 62 79
Number of Directors accruing benefits under:
– defined contribution schemes 3 3
Additional information regarding Directors’ remuneration is included in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 41 to 61.
9. Finance income
Continuing operations
52 weeks
ended
25 December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended
27 December
2015
£000
Bank interest receivable 139 40
Interest on loans to franchisees 44 11
Interest on loans to associates and joint ventures 312 41
Foreign exchange 187 94
Other interest 30 48
Unwinding of discount 14 128
Total finance income 726 362 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 90
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
10. Finance expense
Continuing operations
52 weeks
ended
25 December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended
27 December
2015
£000
Bank revolving credit facility interest payable 1,002 182
Other interest payable 229 74
Unwinding of discount 19 124
Total finance expense 1,250 380
The finance expense relates to financial liabilities at amortised cost. Total interest on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss, 
including loan costs related to finance for franchisee capital development reported within cost of sales, is £1,320,000 (2015: £511,000).
11. Taxation
(a) Tax on profit on ordinary activities
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
52 weeks
ended 25
December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended 27
December
2015
£000
52 weeks
ended 25
December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended 27
December
2015
£000
52 weeks
ended 25
December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended 27
December
2015
£000
Tax charged in the income statement
Current income tax:
UK corporation tax:
– current period 15,544 13,026 1,756 (986) 17,300 12,040
– adjustment in respect of prior periods 304 (546) (354) (1,015) (50) (1,561)
15,848 12,480 1,402 (2,001) 17,250 10,479
Income tax on overseas operations 618 430 864 919 1,482 1,349
Total current income tax charge/(credit) 16,466 12,910 2,266 (1,082) 18,732 11,828
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 598 994 390 23 988 1,017
Effect of change in tax rate 296 375 130 62 426 437
Adjustment in respect of prior periods 9 (405) (39) 624 (30) 219
Total deferred tax 903 964 481 709 1,384 1,673
Tax charge/(credit) in the income statement 17,369 13,874 2,747 (373) 20,116 13,501
The tax charge/(credit) in the income statement is disclosed as follows:
Income tax expense/(credit) 17,369 13,874 2,747 (373) 20,116 13,501
Tax relating to items credited/(charged) to equity
Reduction in current tax liability as a result of the exercise of share options 617 584 – – 617 584
Origination and reversal of temporary differences in relation 
to unexercised share options (539) 996 – – (539) 996
Tax credit in the Group statement of changes in equity 78 1,580 – – 78 1,580
There is no tax impact in relation to the foreign exchange differences in the statement of comprehensive income. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 91
11. Taxation continued
(b) Reconciliation of the total tax charge
The tax expense in the income statement for the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 is higher (2015: lower) than the statutory corporation tax rate 
of 20.00% (2015: 20.25%). The differences are reconciled below:
52 weeks
ended
25 December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended
27 December
2015
£000
Profit before taxation on continuing operations 82,523 73,163
Profit before taxation on discontinued operations 9,409 (10,917)
Profit before taxation 91,932 62,246
Accounting profit multiplied by the UK statutory rate of corporation tax of 20.00% (2015: 20.25%) 18,386 12,605
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 561 1,871
Accounting depreciation not eligible for tax purposes 136 170
Adjustments relating to prior years 1,240 (423)
Impact of change in UK tax rate (30) 437
Impact of other tax reliefs (99) (832)
Overseas losses carried forward 285 9
Other 52 (6)
Tax rate differences (415) (330)
Total tax expense reported in the income statement 20,116 13,501
Income tax attributable to continuing operations 17,369 13,874
Income tax attributable to a discontinued operation 2,747 (373)
20,116 13,501
Effective tax rate – continuing and discontinued operations (%) 21.9 21.7
Underlying effective tax rate – continuing operations (%) 20.3 19.0
In the Summer Budget on 8 July 2015, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced further changes to the corporation tax rates, which will have an 
effect on the Group’s current and future tax position. The changes announced were further reductions to the standard rate of corporation tax, with the 
rate set to be reduced to 19%, effective 1 April 2017. A further reduction to 17% effective 1 April 2020 was also announced. As a result, the relevant 
deferred tax balances have been remeasured as appropriate.
(c) Temporary differences associated with Group investments
At 25 December 2016, there was no recognised deferred tax liability (2015: £nil) for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of the 
Group’s subsidiaries, or its associates, as there are no corporation tax consequences of the Group’s UK, Irish or overseas subsidiaries or associates 
paying dividends to their parent companies.
There are also no income tax consequences for the Group attaching to the payment of dividends by the Group to its shareholders.
(d) Deferred tax
The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows:
At 25 December
2016
£000
At 27 December
2015
£000
Deferred tax arising in the UK on non-capital items 5,427 7,404
Deferred tax arising in the UK and ROI on capital gains (92) (83)
Deferred tax arising on other overseas subsidiaries 438 415
Deferred tax on continuing and discontinued operations 5,773 7,736
Less deferred tax arising in the UK on non-capital items – discontinued operations – (481)
Deferred tax on continuing operations 5,773 7,255
Represented as:
Deferred tax asset 6,133 7,851
Deferred tax liabilities (360) (115)
5,773 7,736 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 92
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
11. Taxation continued
(d) Deferred tax continued
At 25 December
2016
£000
At 27 December
2015
£000
Gross movement in the deferred income tax account
Opening balance 7,736 8,412
Tax (debit)/credit to equity (539) 997
Income statement charge (1,424) (1,673)
Closing balance 5,773 7,736
Deferred tax arising in the UK on non-capital items
Share-based
payments
£000
Accelerated
capital
allowances
£000
Lease
inducements
£000
Goodwill and
amortisation
£000
Provisions
£000
Total
£000
At 28 December 2014 609 6,603 151 (13) 853 8,203
Credit to equity 996 – – – – 996
Credit/(charge) to income 298 (1,453) 26 – (666) (1,795)
At 27 December 2015 1,903 5,150 177 (13) 187 7,404
Debit to equity (539) – – – – (539)
Credit/(charge) to income 455 (2,069) (14) – 190 (1,438)
At 25 December 2016 1,819 3,081 163 (13) 377 5,427
A deferred tax asset of £5,427,000 (2015: £7,404,000) has been recognised on continuing operations to the extent that future taxable profits are 
expected to be in excess of the profits arising from the reversal of existing taxable temporary differences.
The Group has tax losses of £9,300,000 (2015: £5,600,000) which arose in relation to the Swiss business and are available to offset against future 
taxable profits in Switzerland. A deferred tax asset of £706,000 (2015: £446,000) has been recognised in relation to these taxable losses in Switzerland 
on the basis they are expected to be recovered in the foreseeable future.
Taxable losses that have arisen in the period in the German branch of Domino’s Pizza Germany Limited are available to surrender as Group relief 
to the UK Group and have been fully utilised. 
12. Discontinued operations
In December 2015, the Group agreed terms to dispose of the German operations and to enter a strategic associate arrangement with Domino’s 
Pizza Enterprises (‘DPE’), by setting up a new entity, Daytona JV Limited (‘Daytona’), to be owned one-third by Domino’s and two-thirds by DPE. 
The deal completed on 1 February 2016. As part of the agreement Domino’s sold 11 of its 20 German stores to Daytona with the remainder being 
closed. As a result of the transaction, the Supply Chain Centre in Berlin and the head office in Germany also closed. Daytona owns the master 
franchise rights for the Domino’s brand in Germany and also acquired an existing German pizza chain, Joey’s Pizza. 
Consideration for the disposal was a combination of €1,273,000 (£935,000) received on completion, for the disposal of the stores and related 
assets by group subsidiaries plus a Market Access Fee (‘MAF’) of up to €25,000,000 (£21,159,000). The Market Access Fee (the “MAF”) payable 
by Domino’s Pizza Enterprises to Domino’s Pizza Group plc is deferred consideration for the company divesting its interest in operating Domino’s 
Pizza Stores in Germany and its exclusive access to the German market, held through its shareholding in DP Cyco Limited and its subsidiaries. 
The MAF is payable in instalments, which become due annually up to six years from the date of the transaction. The payment of each instalment 
is determined by reference to Daytona achieving defined performance levels each calendar year. The amount included as consideration for the 
Market Access Fee is its fair value, based on management’s evaluation of future underlying profitability.
The results of the discontinued operations, which have been included in the consolidated income statement, were as follows:
52 weeks
ended
25 December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended
27 December
2015
£000
Revenue 1,387 5,881
Expenses – underlying (2,162) (9,192)
Underlying loss before tax (775) (3,311)
Income/(expenses) – non-underlying 2,134 (6,688)
Gain on disposal 8,050 –
Profit/(loss) before tax 9,409 (9,999)
Attributable tax (charge)/credit (2,747) 373
Net gain/(loss) attributable to discontinued operations (attributable to owners of the Company) 6,662 (9,626) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 93
12. Discontinued operations continued
Non-underlying income in 2016 relates to the release of provision. In 2015 non-underlying expenses comprised redundancy costs of £701,000 
and other closure costs of £5,987,000. The gain on disposal in 2016 relates to the recognition of the fair value of the MAF.
During the year, the discontinued operation increased the Group’s net cash flows by £8,223,000 (2015: £3,540,000) receiving £1,300,000 
(2015: paying £792,000) in respect of investing activities and receiving £11,607,000 (2015: £nil) in respect of financing activities.
Within the tax charge of £2,747,000 (2015: credit of £373,000) is a tax charge of £1,610,000 (2015: £nil) relating to the gain on disposal of £8,050,000 
(2015: £nil). The financing activities all relate to funding within the Group, which eliminate for the purposes of the Group cash flow statement.
The major classes of assets and liabilities comprising the operations classified as held for sale were as follows:
52 weeks
ended
25 December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended
27 December
2015
£000
Property, plant and equipment – 935
Total classified as held for sale – 935
Total liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale (trade and other payables) – –
Net assets of disposal group – 935
13. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted 
average number of Ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number 
of Ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Ordinary shares that would have been issued on the conversion 
of all dilutive potential Ordinary shares into Ordinary shares.
Earnings
Continuing operations Notes
52 weeks
ended
25 December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended
27 December
2015
£000
Profit attributable to owners of the parent 65,154 59,289
Non-underlying items included in operating profit
– Amounts included within share of post-tax result of associates and joint ventures 7 3,144 –
Underlying profit attributable to owners of the parent 68,298 59,289
Continuing and discontinued operations 
Continuing operations profit attributable to owners of the parent 65,154 59,289
Discontinued operations profit/(loss) attributable to owners of the parent 6,662 (9,626)
Total profit attributable to owners of the parent 71,816 49,663
Weighted average number of shares
At
25 December
2016
Number
At
27 December
2015
Number
(restated)
Basic weighted average number of shares (excluding treasury shares) 496,496,866 498,204,716
Dilutive effect of share options and awards 7,453,287 6,399,881
Diluted weighted average number of shares 503,950,153 504,604,597
The performance conditions relating to share options granted over 2,380,181 shares (2015: 1,894,686) have not been met in the current financial 
period and therefore the dilutive effect of the number of shares which would have been issued at the period end have not been included in the 
diluted earnings per share calculation.
There are no share options excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation because they would be antidilutive (2015: nil). See note 31 
for further information on reversionary interests and share options.
Refer to note 30 for information regarding the sub-division of shares during the year. Comparatives have been adjusted to show an accurate position.
Refer to note 11 of the Company section regarding distributions made otherwise than in accordance with the Companies Act. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 94
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
13. Earnings per share continued
Earnings per share
Continuing operations
52 weeks
ended
25 December
2016
52 weeks
ended
27 December
2015
(restated)
Basic earnings per share 13.1p 11.9p
Diluted earnings per share 12.9p 11.7p
Underlying earnings per share:
Basic earnings per share 13.8p 11.9p
Diluted earnings per share 13.6p 11.7p
Discontinued operations
Basic profits/(losses) per share 1.3p (1.9p)
Diluted profits/(losses) per share 1.3p (1.9p)
Continuing and discontinued operations 
Basic earnings per share 14.5p 10.0p
Diluted earnings per share 14.3p 9.8p
14. Dividends paid and proposed
52 weeks
ended
25 December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended
27 December
2015
£000
Declared and paid during the year:
Equity dividends on Ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2015: 3.92p (2014: 3.23p) 19,533 16,039
Interim dividend for 2016: 3.50p (2015: 3.00p) 17,430 14,967
Dividends paid 36,963 31,006
Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM (not recognised as a liability at 25 December 2016 
or 27 December 2015)
Final dividend for 2016: 4.50p (2015: 3.92p) 22,249 19,513
Dividends per share have been restated to reflect the sub-division of shares in the year. Refer to note 30 for more information. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 95
15. Intangible assets
Goodwill
£000
Franchise
fees
£000
Software
£000
Other
£000
Total
£000
Cost or valuation
At 28 December 2014 4,505 13,997 13,451 503 32,456
Additions 54 6 5,048 – 5,108
Disposals – (67) (43) (3) (113)
Foreign exchange on translation 67 (193) (18) – (144)
Reclassified as assets held for sale (2,983) (50) (510) – (3,543)
At 27 December 2015 1,643 13,693 17,928 500 33,764
Additions – – 8,389 – 8,389
Disposals – (9,830) (1,880) – (11,710)
Foreign exchange on translation 269 435 77 – 781
At 25 December 2016 1,912 4,298 24,514 500 31,224
Depreciation and impairment
At 28 December 2014 2,928 11,114 7,721 130 21,893
Provided during the year – 252 2,854 50 3,156
Disposals – (67) – – (67)
Impairment 55 5 220 – 280
Foreign exchange on translation – 71 (26) – 45
Reclassified as assets held for sale (2,983) (50) (510) – (3,543)
At 27 December 2015 – 11,325 10,259 180 21,764
Provided during the year – – 2,458 35 2,493
Disposals – (9,830) (1,562) – (11,392)
Foreign exchange on translation – 85 65 – 150
At 25 December 2016 – 1,580 11,220 215 13,015
Net book value at 25 December 2016 1,912 2,718 13,294 285 18,209
Net book value at 27 December 2015 1,643 2,368 7,669 320 12,000
The carrying amount of goodwill and indefinite life intangibles has been allocated as follows:
Switzerland
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Goodwill 1,912 1,643
Indefinite life intangibles 2,685 2,337
4,597 3,980
Switzerland
The Group is obliged to test goodwill and indefinite life intangibles annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill 
and indefinite life intangibles might be impaired, due to the goodwill deemed to have an indefinite useful life.
In order to perform this test, management is required to compare the carrying value of the relevant cash generating unit (‘CGU’) including the goodwill 
with its recoverable amount. The recoverable amounts of the CGU are determined from a value in use calculation. The key assumptions for the valuation 
are those regarding discount rates and expected changes to the level of sales in stores. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that 
reflect current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGU. Growth rates are based on market growth forecasts. 
Changes in levels of AWUS (average weekly unit sales) are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the next five years and extrapolates 
cash flows for the remaining term of the MFA based on the average long-term growth rate of 1.5% (2015: 1.5%) for Switzerland, which does not exceed 
the average long-term growth rate for the relevant market. The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows from the Swiss CGU is 10.0% (2015: 10.6%).
The Group has also conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of the CGU carrying value including reducing sales level and changing 
discount rates. In respect of the Swiss CGU, no reasonably expected change would give rise to an impairment charge. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 96
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
15. Intangible assets continued
Master franchise fees
Master franchise fees consist of costs relating to the MFA for the UK, the ROI and Switzerland. The UK and ROI MFA runs into perpetuity, with 
a development clause that is renewable on a ten-year basis. These have an indefinite deemed life. They are tested annually for impairment in 
accordance with IAS 36. The Swiss MFA has been tested as described in the goodwill section. The UK and ROI assumptions are not disclosed 
on the grounds of materiality.
Included above are intangible assets with a carrying value of £285,000 (2015: £320,000) in relation to interest-free loans given to franchisees 
to assist in the opening of new stores. The difference between the present value of loan recognised and the cash advanced has been capitalised 
as an intangible asset in recognition of the future value that will be generated.
The amortisation of intangible assets is included within administration expenses in the income statement.
16. Property, plant and equipment
Freehold
land and
buildings
£000
Assets
under
construction
£000
Leasehold
improvements
£000
Fixtures
and
fittings
£000
Supply Chain
Centre
equipment
£000
Total
£000
Cost or valuation
At 28 December 2014 33,407 1,042 474 12,308 35,772 83,003
Additions 89 3,110 571 1,997 996 6,763
Reclassification of assets – (2,395) 4,573 (1,865) (1,201) (888)
Reclassification to assets held for sale – – (128) (5,921) (1,621) (7,670)
Disposals – – (25) (206) (862) (1,093)
Foreign exchange on translation (90) 45 21 (283) (211) (518)
At 27 December 2015 33,406 1,802 5,486 6,030 32,873 79,597
Additions 761 7,759 2,590 664 2,634 14,408
Reclassification – (890) – (19) 909 –
Disposals – (111) (790) (1,707) (289) (2,897)
Foreign exchange on translation 204 68 991 196 239 1,698
At 25 December 2016 34,371 8,628 8,277 5,164 36,366 92,806
Depreciation and impairment
At 28 December 2014 5,088 118 127 8,364 11,932 25,629
Reclassification of assets – (118) 67 172 118 239
Provided during the year 562 – 465 930 1,470 3,427
Impairment – 20 128 (151) 32 29
Reclassification to assets held for sale – – (128) (4,986) (1,621) (6,735)
Disposals – – – (203) (860) (1,063)
Foreign exchange on translation (15) – 5 (329) (156) (495)
At 27 December 2015 5,635 20 664 3,797 10,915 21,031
Reclassification – – – (11) 11 –
Provided during the year 569 – 1,217 702 2,458 4,946
Disposals – (20) (103) (1,010) (281) (1,414)
Foreign exchange on translation 42 – 139 103 132 416
At 25 December 2016 6,246 – 1,917 3,581 13,235 24,979
Net book value at 25 December 2016 28,125 8,628 6,360 1,583 23,131 67,827
Net book value at 27 December 2015 27,771 1,782 4,822 2,233 21,958 58,566 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 97
16. Property, plant and equipment continued
Freehold land and buildings
Included within freehold land and buildings is an amount of £6,695,000 (2015: £4,689,000) in respect of land which is not depreciated.
Capitalised financing costs
Included within freehold land and buildings is an amount of £951,000 (2015: £972,000) of capitalised financing costs relating to the revolving credit 
facility used to finance the building of the new Supply Chain Centre and head office. Tax relief on capitalised interest is claimed in full in the period in 
which the interest is paid.
For details of property, plant and equipment pledged as security for liabilities see note 24.
17. Prepaid operating lease charges
Note
At 
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Balance at the beginning of the period 1,204 1,270
Additions – 159
Refunded (48) (6)
Foreign exchange on translation (40) (23)
Amortisation (177) (196)
Balance at the end of the period 939 1,204
Analysed as follows:
Non-current assets 821 1,010
Current assets 118 194
939 1,204
18. Trade and other receivables
Included in non-current assets:
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures* 11,456 355
Loans to franchisees* 170 717
Other receivables* 9,336 6,035
20,962 7,107
* Financial assets at amortised cost.
Included in current assets:
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Trade receivables* 12,524 7,956
Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures* 3,212 1,878
Loans to franchisees* 1,185 1,836
Other receivables* 9,256 4,966
Prepayments and accrued income 16,215 12,111
42,392 28,747
* Financial assets at amortised cost.
Included in current other receivables are balances due from franchisees for development of new stores of £5,642,000 (2015: £1,634,000).
Included in non-current other receivables are rent free balances provided to franchises of £8,181,000 (2015: £5,763,000). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 98
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
18. Trade and other receivables continued
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
At 25 December
2016
£000
At 27 December
2015
£000
Sterling 10,452 7,439
Euro 1,856 502
Swiss franc 216 15
12,524 7,956
The euro-denominated receivables relate to franchisee receivables within the Group’s Irish operations, the functional currency of which is the euro.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on seven to 28-day terms. As at 25 December 2016, trade receivables at nominal value 
of £175,410 (2015: £169,584) were provided for. 
The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows:
Total
£000
Neither
past
due nor
impaired
£000
Past due but not impaired
<30 days
£000
>30 days
£000
As at 25 December 2016 12,524 9,934 2,061 529
As at 27 December 2015 7,956 7,191 329 436
Loans to franchisees
Loans to franchisees are repayable within one to five years. The loans are either interest free or bear interest on a quarterly basis at an average 
of 3.0% above LIBOR and are repaid in monthly or quarterly instalments.
Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures
At 25 December
2016
£000
At 27 December
2015
£000
Amounts owed by associates 13,581 1,238
Amounts owed by joint ventures 1,087 995
14,668 2,233
Included within the balance due from associates are loan balances totalling £284,000 (2015: £642,000) due from Full House Restaurants Holdings 
Limited and £11,455,000 (2015: nil) due from Daytona JV Limited. Included within the balance due from joint ventures are loan balances of £417,000 
due from DP Shayban Limited (2015: £446,000) and £211,000 due from Domino’s Pizza West Country Limited (2015: £300,000).
The terms of the loans to Full House and the joint ventures are consistent with the loan terms provided to franchisees (see above).
The remainder of the balance due from associates and joint ventures represents trading balances.
An analysis is provided below of the movement in trading and loan balances with associates and joint ventures:
Trading
balance
£000
Loan
balance
£000
Total
£000
At 28 December 2014 1,445 1,937 3,382
Movement in trading balance (601) – (601)
Repayment of loan balance – (548) (548)
At 27 December 2015 844 1,389 2,233
Movement in trading balance 1,456 – 1,456
Movement in loan balance – 10,979 10,979
At 25 December 2016 2,300 12,368 14,668
The movement in the trading balance is included within the “increase in receivables” in “cash generated from operations” in the cash flow statement. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 99
19. Finance leases
The balance shown in franchisee leasing consists of leases over store equipment granted to franchisees on terms of between one and five years 
bearing interest at fixed rates of an average of 5.8% (2015: 6.2%).
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Net investment in finance leases 777 1,983
Analysis of net investment in finance leases
Current 577 774
Non-current 200 1,209
777 1,983
Future minimum payments receivable:
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Not later than one year 603 866
After one year but not more than five years 212 1,291
815 2,157
Less: finance income allocated to future periods (38) (174)
777 1,983
20. Investments in associates and joint ventures
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Investment in associates
Balance as at 27 December 2015 1,919 1,381
Share of post-tax retained (losses)/profits (1,537) 538
Investments in associates 43,881 –
Foreign exchange movements 8,215 –
Investment in associates at 25 December 2016 52,478 1,919
Investment in joint ventures
Balance as at 27 December 2015 6,066 5,789
Share of post-tax retained profits 207 277
Investment in joint ventures at 25 December 2016 6,273 6,066
Total investment in associates and joint ventures 58,751 7,985
(a) Investment in associates
On 5 August 2016 the Group increased its stake to a 49% interest in Full House Restaurants Holdings Limited (2015: 41%), a private company that 
manages pizza delivery stores in the UK, with a cost of investment of £3,099,000.
On 1 February 2016 the Group made a 33.3% investment in Daytona JV Limited, a UK incorporated company which owns the Master Franchise 
Agreement for Domino’s Germany, with a cost of investment of £13,831,000. The Group has a put option over its interest in Daytona which can be 
exercised at any time after the financial year ending 31 December 2020 and Domino’s Pizza Enterprises, the majority shareholder in Daytona JV 
Limited, has a call option over the Group’s interest which can be exercised at any time after the financial year ending 31 December 2021. The 
consideration payable upon exercise of either the put option or the call option will be based on an enterprise value determined from the capitalisation 
of future adjusted underlying EBITDA at an agreed multiple of between 10 and 12 times.
On 8 June 2016 the Group made a 49% investment in Pizza Pizza EHF, an Icelandic incorporated entity which owns the Master Franchise rights 
for Iceland, Norway and Sweden with a cost of investment of £23,097,000, of which £1,077,000 is contingent consideration.
On 8 June 2016 the Group made a 20% investment in PPS Foods AB, a Swedish incorporated entity which operates the Domino’s brand in Sweden, 
and a 20% investment in Pizza Pizza Norway AS, a Norway incorporated entity which operates the Domino’s brand in Norway, with a cost of investment 
of £3,855,000.
As part of the Share Purchase agreement for the Nordic Investments there is a put option contingent on underlying EBITDA, and a call option 
granted to Domino’s which can be exercised from 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020.
The interests are accounted for as associates, using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements, as the Group has significant influence 
over each of its investments, but does not control the entity or have joint control. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 100
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
20. Investments in associates and joint ventures continued
(a) Investment in associates continued
Summarised financial information for the associates is set out below:
Full House Restaurant Holdings Limited
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Summary of associate’s balance sheet
Current assets 3,479 2,998
Non-current assets 16,884 11,365
Current liabilities (7,011) (3,931)
Non-current liabilities (6,436) (6,032)
Net assets 6,916 4,400
Group’s share of interest in associated undertaking’s net assets 3,389 1,812
Goodwill and transaction costs 2,272 107
Group’s carrying amount of the investment 5,661 1,919
The associate had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments at 25 December 2016 or at 27 December 2015. The associate requires the 
parent’s consent to distribute its profits.
52 weeks
ended
25 December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended
27 December
2015
£000
Summary of associate’s revenue and profit
Revenue 40,122 33,787
Profit after tax for the year 2,904 1,938
Total comprehensive income for the year 2,904 1,938
Group’s share of profit for the year 1,255 794
Dividends received from the associate during the year 613 205
Daytona JV Limited
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Summary of associate’s balance sheet
Current assets 7,468 –
Non-current assets 89,759 –
Current liabilities (8,351) –
Non-current liabilities (56,311) –
Net assets 32,565 –
Group’s share of interest in associated undertaking’s net assets 10,855 –
Transaction costs 2,035 –
Group’s carrying amount of the investment 12,890 –
The associate had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments at 25 December 2016. The associate requires the parent’s consent to distribute 
its profits.
52 weeks
ended
25 December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended
27 December
2015
£000
Summary of associate’s revenue and profit
Revenue 30,523 –
Underlying profit after tax for the year 2,371 –
Non-underlying loss after tax for the year (9,431) –
Total loss after tax for the year (7,060) –
Total comprehensive expense for the year (7,060) –
Group’s share of loss for the year (2,353) –
Dividends received from the associate during the year – – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 101
20. Investments in associates and joint ventures continued
(a) Investment in associates continued
Nordic associates
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
Pizza Pizza EHF
(Iceland)
£000
PPS Foods AS
(Sweden)
£000
Pizza Pizza
Norway AS
£000
Total
£000
Summary of associate’s balance sheet 
Current assets 4,802 466 4,233 9,501
Non-current assets 6,449 1,135 3,372 10,956
Current liabilities (4,306) (2,078) (4,158) (10,452)
Non-current liabilities (1,459) – (5,956) (7,415)
Net assets 5,486 (477) (2,509) 2,500
Group’s share of interest in associated undertaking’s net assets 2,688 (215) (1,129) 1,344
Goodwill and transaction costs 27,629 2,477 2,477 32,583
Group’s carrying amount of the investment 30,317 2,262 1,348 33,927
The associates have no contingent liabilities at 25 December 2016. PPS Foods AS (Sweden) has a capital commitment of 3,600,000 SEK (£349,000) for 
new stores Pizza Pizza EHF (Iceland) has a capital commitment of 12,000,000 ISK (£85,000) for a new store. The associates require the parent’s consent 
to distribute its profits.
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
Pizza Pizza EHF
(Iceland)
£000
PPS Foods AS
(Sweden)
£000
Pizza Pizza
Norway AS
£000
Total
£000
Summary of associate’s revenue and profit
Revenue 19,353 155 5,548 25,056
Profit/(loss) after tax for the year 1,778 (426) (1,125) 227
Total comprehensive income for the year 1,778 (426) (1,125) 227
Group’s share of profit for the year 871 (192) (506) 173
Dividends received from the associate during the year – – – –
(b) Investment in joint ventures
The Group has two 50% UK joint ventures, with Domino’s Pizza West Country Limited (‘West Country’) and DP Shayban Limited (‘DP Shayban’). 
Both West Country and DP Shayban are accounted for as joint ventures using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements as the 
Group has joint control through voting rights and share ownership as well as being party to a joint venture agreement, which ensures that strategic, 
financial and operational decisions relating to the joint venture activities require the unanimous consent of the two joint venture partners.
Summary financial information of the joint ventures based on their IFRS financial statements is set out below:
At 25 December 2016 At 27 December 2015
DP Shayban
£000
West Country
£000
Total
£000
DP Shayban
£000
West Country
£000
Total
£000
Summary of joint ventures’ balance sheets
Current assets 1,969 3,359 5,328 1,282 2,391 3,673
Non-current assets 7,385 4,785 12,170 7,315 5,388 12,703
Current liabilities (2,412) (1,588) (4,000) (1,122) (1,506) (2,628)
Non-current liabilities (1,933) – (1,933) (2,597) – (2,597)
Net assets 5,009 6,556 11,565 4,878 6,273 11,151
Group’s share of interest in associated 
undertaking’s net assets 2,504 3,278 5,782 2,439 3,136 5,575
Goodwill and transaction costs 52 439 491 51 440 491
Group’s carrying amount of the investment 2,556 3,717 6,273 2,490 3,576 6,066
Within gross balance sheets: 
Current assets includes cash 
and cash equivalents 1,161 2,696 3,857 1,161 2,178 3,339
Current financial liabilities (502) (355) (857) (502) – (502)
Non-current financial liabilities (1,933) – (1,933) (2,597) – (2,597) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 102
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
20. Investments in associates and joint ventures continued
(b) Investment in joint ventures continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 52 weeks ended 27 December 2015
DP Shayban
£000
West Country
£000
Total
£000
DP Shayban
£000
West Country
£000
Total
£000
Summary of joint ventures’ statement 
of profit or loss
Revenue 16,190 11,442 27,632 14,915 10,951 25,866
Profit after tax for the year 134 1,549 1,683 507 1,352 1,859
Total comprehensive income for the year 134 1,549 1,683 507 1,352 1,859
Group’s share of profit for the year 67 774 841 254 676 930
Dividends received – 200 200 – 285 285
Profit after tax for the year includes: 
Depreciation and amortisation 670 370 1,040 690 389 1,079
Interest income 2 – 2 – – –
Interest expense 69 10 79 88 12 100
Income tax expense 116 220 336 255 250 505
The joint ventures had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments as at 25 December 2016 and 27 December 2015. Both joint ventures cannot 
distribute their profits without the consent from the two venture partners.
21. Inventories
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Raw materials 258 330
Finished goods and goods for sale 8,982 5,878
Total inventories at lower of cost or estimated net realisable value 9,240 6,208
22. Cash and cash equivalents
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Cash at bank and in hand 23,091 52,860
Cash is denominated in the following currencies:
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Sterling 9,659 49,355
Euro 12,364 2,882
Swiss franc 1,063 609
Thai baht 5 14
23,091 52,860
23. Trade and other payables
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Included in current liabilities:
Trade payables* 22,769 9,500
Other taxes and social security costs 1,565 4,056
Other payables* 1,883 1,013
Accruals 33,208 38,343
59,425 52,912
Included in non-current liabilities:
Other payables* 2,798 316
* Financial liabilities at amortised cost. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 103
23. Trade and other payables continued
Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities:
 o trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on seven to 30-day terms; and
 o other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of six months.
Included in the current element of other payables is the national advertising fund (‘NAF’) balance of £2,228,000 (2015: £316,000) due to 
the difference in timing between cash flows of the marketing activities committed to by the fund and contributions received from franchisees. 
Total contributions made to the fund during the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 were £41,470,000 (2015: £41,819,000).
24. Financial liabilities
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Current
Current instalments due on other loans 596 943
Current instalments due on finance leases 72 45
668 988
Share buyback obligations 10,000 –
10,668 988
Non-current
Bank revolving facility 56,719 10,485
Non-current instalments due on other loans 261 965
56,980 11,450
Banking facilities
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily deposit rates. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is £23,091,000 
(2015: £52,860,000). At 25 December 2016 the Group had a total of £180,000,000 (2015: £35,000,000) of banking facilities, of which 
£118,280,000 (2015: £22,562,000) was undrawn.
Bank revolving facility
On 8 July 2016, the Group entered into a new £175.0m multicurrency revolving credit facility with Barclays Bank plc, HSBC Holdings plc 
and The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The previous £30.0m facility with Barclays Bank plc was repaid in full and cancelled.
Interest charged on the revolving credit facility ranges from 0.75% per annum above LIBOR when the Group’s leverage is less than 1:1 up to 1.50% 
per annum for leverage above 2:1. In addition a utilisation fee is charged on the facility if over one-third of the facility is utilised at 15% of the margin 
rate, and 30% if over two-thirds of the facility is utilised. The facility expires on 18 July 2021. 
Arrangement fees of £1,432,532 (27 December 2015: £111,659) directly incurred in relation to the facility are included in the carrying value of the 
facility and are being amortised over the term of the facility.
The facility is secured by an unlimited cross-guarantee between the Company, Domino’s Pizza UK & Ireland Limited, DPG Holdings Limited, 
DP Realty Limited, DP Pizza Limited, DP Group Developments Limited, DP Cyco Switzerland Limited and Domino’s Pizza GmbH.
On the previous revolving credit facility interest was charged at 1.35% per annum above LIBOR in addition to a 0.5% utilisation fee.
Other loans
Other loans include loans entered into to acquire assets which are then leased on to franchisees under finance lease agreements. The Group 
has an asset finance facility of £5,000,000 (2015: £5,000,000) with a term of five years. The balance drawn down on this facility and held within 
“other loans” as at 25 December 2016 is £857,000 (2015: £1,908,000). The loans are repayable in equal instalments over a period of up to five 
years. The loans are secured by a limited guarantee and indemnity by the Company and Domino’s Pizza UK & Ireland Limited (limited to an annual sum 
of £300,000) and a mortgage charge over the assets financed. The interest rate on these loans is fixed at an average of 5.9% (2015: 5.7%).
Share buyback obligation
On 21 December 2016 the Group entered into an irrevocable non-discretionary programme with Numis Securities Limited to purchase up to a 
maximum of £10,000,000 of shares from 11 January 2017 to 21 February 2017. This agreement entered into regarding share buybacks during 
the close period has been recognised as a financial liability of £10,000,000. The full obligation had been utilised by 21 February 2017. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 104
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
25. Deferred and contingent consideration
Deferred
£000
Contingent
£000
Total
£000
At 28 December 2014 6,324 – 6,324
Paid during the period (3,517) – (3,517)
Unwinding of discount 58 – 58
At 27 December 2015 2,865 – 2,865
Acquisition of associate – 1,077 1,077
Paid during the period (2,884) – (2,884)
Unwinding of discount 19 – 19
At 25 December 2016 – 1,077 1,077
On 1 July 2009, the Group acquired 100% of the Ordinary shares of Dresdner Kleinwort Leasing March (2) Limited (‘Domino’s Leasing’), a private 
company based in England which provided funding in the form of finance leases to a number of corporate clients. As a company with an established 
leasing trade, Domino’s Leasing owns the leased equipment and is entitled to an ongoing rental income from each lease for the remaining term of that 
lease and it is entitled to certain tax reliefs from its ownership of that equipment. On acquisition, the tax reliefs available had a total value of £29,240,000 
and a deferred consideration of £15,364,000 was payable, the amount and timing of which depends on the amount and timing of the benefits to the 
Group arising from this tax relief. The deferred consideration was payable until April 2016 at which point the final payment was made.
During the period the Group has utilised £5,738,000 (2015: £7,032,000) of the capital allowances which were acquired with Domino’s Leasing 
Limited. The utilisation of these capital allowances reduces the value of the deferred tax asset which was recognised on acquisition; however, it 
results in no overall impact on the tax charge for the period as there is an equal and opposite reduction in the Group’s corporation tax liability.
On 8 June 2016 the Group acquired a 49% shareholding in Pizza Pizza EHF on which contingent consideration was payable. The fair value of the 
contingent consideration as at 25 December 2016 was estimated to be £1,077,000. The contingent consideration is a financial liability at fair value 
through profit or loss.
26. Obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts
For the stores in the franchisee system, the Group has entered into commercial leases, taking the head lease and then subletting the properties 
to the franchisees. These head leases have an average duration of between ten and 25 years. Under the terms of the franchise agreement the 
franchisee is granted an initial period of ten years to operate a Domino’s Pizza delivery store under the Domino’s system. Under the agreement, 
the franchisee also has the option to renew for a further ten years at the end of the initial period provided at the time of the renewal the franchisee 
is not in default of any material provision of the franchise agreement. The property lease agreements contain an option for renewal, with such options 
being exercisable three months before the expiry of the lease term at rentals based on market prices at the time of exercise. In addition the Group 
has entered into commercial leases on motor vehicles and items of plant, machinery and equipment. These leases have an average duration of 
between three and five years.
Operating lease commitments where the Group is lessee
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Not later than one year 23,335 20,386
After one year but not more than five years 85,825 71,954
After five years 176,574 128,865
285,734 221,205
Operating lease rentals where the Group is lessor
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Not later than one year 19,342 17,291
After one year but not more than five years 63,923 55,443
After five years 85,667 50,413
168,932 123,147 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 105
27. Provisions
Onerous lease
provisions
£000
Restructuring
provisions
£000
Total
£000
At 27 December 2015 4,264 3,064 7,328
Arising during the period 262 187 449
Utilised during the period (2,342) (1,820) (4,162)
Released during the period (469) (1,220) (1,689)
Impact of discounting 80 – 80
Foreign exchange on translation 456 212 668
At 25 December 2016 2,251 423 2,674
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Current 1,457 6,113
Non-current 1,217 1,215
2,674 7,328
Onerous lease provision
The onerous lease provision relates to the outstanding rent obligation for properties in the UK, the ROI and Germany. These properties include 
sublets to commercial tenants, properties for which a lease has been signed but no franchisee has been identified to operate the store such that the 
lease obligation has become onerous, along with stores for which the tenant is paying reduced rent and the Group expects to make a loss in relation 
to the lease. The provision will be utilised over the remaining lease term on the properties identified which range between one and 24 years. Of the 
amount arising in the year £84,000 (2015: £2,486,000) relates to amounts provided in Germany due to discontinuation of operations.
Restructuring provisions
£187,000 (2015: £2,918,000) of the provision relates remaining obligations with regard to the discontinued German operation (2015: £2,918,000). 
The remaining restructuring provision arose upon acquisition of Domino’s Switzerland and relates to outstanding rent obligations for three stores 
which were being closed and relocated as well as other commitments arising from the restructuring plan such as relocation costs. The total 
restructuring provision is expected to be utilised within three years.
28. Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group’s financial risk management objectives consist of identifying and monitoring those risks which might have an adverse impact on the value 
of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities or on reported profitability and on the cash flows of the Group. The Group’s principal financial liabilities 
comprise share buyback obligations, bank revolving facilities, other loans and finance leases. The Group has various financial assets such as trade 
receivables and cash, which arise directly from its operations. The Group has not entered into any derivative transactions such as interest rate swaps 
or financial foreign currency contracts. It is, and has been throughout 2016 and 2015, the Group’s policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken.
The Group’s main treasury risks relate to the availability of funds to meet its future requirements and fluctuations in interest rates. The treasury 
policy of the Group is determined and monitored by the Board. The Group monitors its cash resources through short, medium and long-term cash 
forecasting, against available facilities. Surplus cash is pooled into an interest bearing account with the Group’s bankers. The Group monitors its 
overall level of financial gearing monthly, with short and medium-term forecasts showing levels of gearing within targets. It is the Group’s policy not 
to have high financial leverage, comparing net debt to earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA’).
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are foreign currency risk, credit risk, price risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk. 
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.
Foreign currency risk
The Group has invested in operations in the ROI and Switzerland and also buys and sells goods and services in currencies other than sterling. 
The Group has also invested in associates in Germany, Iceland, Sweden and Norway. As a result, the value of the Group’s non-sterling revenues, 
purchases, financial assets and liabilities and cash flows can be affected by movements in exchange rates, the euro in particular. The Group seeks 
to mitigate the effect of its currency exposures by agreeing fixed euro rates with franchisees and suppliers wherever possible. The Board does not 
consider there to be any significant unmitigated foreign currency risk in relation to the Group’s profit before tax. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 106
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
28. Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Foreign currency risk continued
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in sterling against the euro, Icelandic Krona, Swedish Krona, 
Norwegian Krone exchange rates, with all other variables held constant. The impact on the Group’s profit before tax is due to changes in the carrying 
value of euro-denominated assets in subsidiaries with a sterling functional currency and sterling-denominated assets in subsidiaries with a euro 
functional currency. The impact on the Group’s pre-tax equity is due to changes in carrying value of investments in joint ventures and associates. 
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is immaterial.
Change in
EUR rate
Effect on profit
before tax
£000
Effect on
pre-tax equity
£000
2016 +25% (3,960) (2,578)
-25% 4,950 3,223
2015 +25% 37 –
-25% (54) –
Change in
ISK rate
Effect on profit 
before tax 
£000
Effect on 
pre-tax equity 
£000
2016 +25% – (6,063)
-25% – 7,579
2015 +25% – –
-25% – –
Change in 
SEK rate
Effect on profit 
before tax 
£000
Effect on 
pre-tax equity
 £000
2016 +25% – (452)
-25% – 566
2015 +25% – –
-25% – –
Change in 
NOK rate
Effect on profit 
before tax 
£000
Effect on 
pre-tax equity 
£000
2016 +25% – (270)
-25% – 337
2015 +25% – –
-25% – –
Credit risk
Customers who trade on credit terms and obtain finance leasing and loans from the Group are predominantly franchisees and it is considered that 
the franchisee selection process is sufficiently robust to ensure an appropriate credit verification procedure.
In addition, trade receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. 
Since the Group trades only with franchisees that have been subject to the franchisee selection process and provide guarantees as required under 
the franchisee agreements, there is no requirement for collateral.
It is Group policy that cash deposits are only made with banks that have been approved by the Board and have a high credit rating (in accordance 
with the Group’s treasury policy) to ensure that the Group is not exposed to unnecessary risk. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 107
28. Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Liquidity risk
The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by managing cash generation of its operations with cash collection targets set throughout the Group. 
All major investment decisions are considered by the Board as part of the project appraisal and approval process. 
The Group aims to maintain a good credit rating to facilitate fundraising. 
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 25 December 2016 and 27 December 2015 based on 
contractual undiscounted payments.
On demand
£000
Less than
3 months
£000
3 to
12 months
£000
1 to
5 years
£000
Total
£000
Period ended 25 December 2016
Floating rate borrowings
Bank revolving facility – – – 56,719 56,719
Fixed rate borrowings
Other loans – fixed rate – 149 447 261 857
Finance leases – 18 54 – 72
Non-interest bearing
Trade and other payables – 58,843 582 2,798 62,223
Contingent consideration – – 1,077 – 1,077
Share buyback obligation – 10,000 – – 10,000
– 69,010 2,160 59,778 130,948
On demand
£000
Less than
3 months
£000
3 to
12 months
£000
1 to
5 years
£000
Total
£000
Period ended 27 December 2015
Floating rate borrowings
Bank revolving facility – 16 49 10,534 10,599
Fixed rate borrowings
Other loans – fixed rate – 284 725 1,051 2,060
Finance leases – 4 11 30 45
Non-interest bearing
Trade and other payables – 48,855 – 316 49,171
Deferred consideration – 1,442 1,423 – 2,865
– 50,601 2,208 11,931 64,740
Interest rate risk
The Board has a policy of ensuring a mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings based on the best available rates. Whilst fixed rate interest bearing 
debt is not exposed to cash flow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the Group to benefit from a reduction in borrowing costs when market 
rates are declining. Conversely, whilst floating rate borrowings are not exposed to changes in fair value, the Group is exposed to cash flow interest 
rate risk as costs are impacted by changes in market rates.
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates at the balance sheet date. For floating rate liabilities, 
the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
If interest rates had been 0.5% higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s profit for the 52-week period ended 
25 December 2016 would decrease/increase by £168,000 (2015: increase/decrease by £214,000). This is mainly attributable to the Group’s 
exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings. There would be no impact on other comprehensive income. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 108
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
28. Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Capital management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it retains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support 
its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital 
structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. No changes were made in 
the objectives, policies or processes during the periods ended 25 December 2016 and 27 December 2015. At the AGM in 2014, a special resolution 
was passed to authorise the Company to make purchases on the London Stock Exchange of up to 10% of its Ordinary shares. During 2016 (up to 
and including 25 December 2016) the Company purchased 2,932,500 Ordinary shares with a nominal value of 25/48p under this authority at a total 
cost of £10,072,000 with those Ordinary shares currently held in treasury. This represents 0.59% of the Company’s called up share capital as at 25 
December 2016. During 2016 the Group also engaged in share buybacks in which the shares were subsequently cancelled. During 2016 (up to and 
including 25 December 2016) the company purchased 6,144,714 Ordinary shares with a nominal value of 25/48p at a total cost of £22,346,000. 
The Company engages in share buybacks to create value for shareholders when cash flows permit and there is no immediate alternative investment 
use for the funds. No share buybacks occurred in 2015.
The Group monitors the ratio of adjusted net debt to adjusted earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA’). The Group 
includes within adjusted net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings and bank revolving facilities, less cash and cash equivalents.
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Other loans 857 1,908
Finance leases 72 45
Bank revolving facilities 56,719 10,485
Less: cash and cash equivalents (23,091) (52,860)
Net debt/(cash) 34,557 (40,422)
Underlying EBITDA from continuing operations 93,807 79,890
Adjusted gearing ratio 0.4 (0.5)
For further commentary on cash flow, net debt and gearing see the strategic report.
29. Financial instruments
Fair values
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in the 
financial statements:
Carrying
value
2016
£000
Carrying 
value
2015
£000
Fair
value
2016
£000
Fair 
value 
2015
£000
Financial assets
Net investment in finance leases 777 1,983 815 1,907
Available-for-sale financial assets 8,050 – 8,050 –
Financial liabilities
Bank revolving facilities 56,719 10,485 56,719 10,485
Fixed rate borrowings 857 1,908 895 2,011
Contingent consideration 1,077 – 1,077 –
Share buyback obligations 10,000 – 10,000 –
Finance lease liabilities 72 45 72 45
The fair value of the net investment in finance leases has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at the market interest rate. 
The fair value of fixed rate borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at a market rate of interest.
Management has determined that the fair value of cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and share 
buyback obligations approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturity of these instruments.
The fair value of bank revolving facilities, fixed rate borrowings and finance lease liabilities are determined using a rate that reflects the entity’s 
borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period. The inputs used in these discounted cash flow calculations are at level 2 in the hierarchy.
Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 –  Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. 
Level 3 –  Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
IFRS 13 requires the classification of financial instruments measured at fair value to be determined by reference to the source of inputs used to 
derive fair value. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 109
29. Financial instruments continued
Fair values continued
The deferred consideration of €25,000,000 (£21,159,000) payable by Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Limited (referred to as the “Market Access Fee”) 
in respect of Domino’s Pizza Group plc divesting its interests in operating Domino’s Pizza Stores in Germany and its exclusive access to the German 
market, held through its shareholding in DP Cyco Limited and which becomes payable from 2017, is carried at a fair value of €9,512,000 (£8,050,000) 
within available-for-sale financial assets. The deferred consideration is payable by instalments from 2017, the payment of each instalment being 
determined by reference to the German business achieving defined levels of EBITDA.
The inputs used to calculate the fair value of the Market Access Fee fall within Level 3 of the IFRS 13 hierarchy. Level 3 fair value measurements 
use unobservable inputs for the asset (or liability).
The fair value of the financial asset recognised is calculated by discounting all future cash flows by the appropriate discount rate for the German 
associated company. The payments are calculated applying an income approach valuation methodology, considering different scenarios of projected 
EBITDA, weighted by the probability of each scenario. The fair value is based on a mid-point in the range of probable fair value outcomes of €8,200,000 
to €10,200,000 based on a range of EBITDA forecasts.
Description of significant unobservable inputs to valuation:
Significant unobservable inputs Range Sensitivity of the input to the fair value
WACC 8.5% to 9.5%
0.5% increase (or decrease) in the WACC would result in a decrease 
(or increase) in fair value of €200,000.
The inputs used to the calculate the fair value of the contingent consideration fall within Level 3 of the IFRS 13 hierarchy.
The fair value of the contingent consideration recognised is calculated based upon expected EBITDA performance with a maximum cap. The fair value 
is determined to be the maximum of £1,077,000.
30. Share capital and reserves
Authorised share capital
At
25 December
2016
At
27 December
2015
(restated)
Ordinary shares of 25/48p each:
– number 768,000,000 768,000,000
– value (£) 4,000,000 4,000,000
Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital
At 25 December 2016 At 27 December 2015
Number £
Number
(restated) £
At 27 December 2015 and 28 December 2014 500,408,064 2,606,286 497,728,596 2,592,335
Issued on exercise of share options 4,410,144 22,970 2,679,468 13,951
Share buybacks (6,144,714) (32,004) – –
At 25 December 2016 and 27 December 2015 498,673,494 2,597,252 500,408,064 2,606,286
At the Annual General Meeting held on 20 April 2016, a resolution was tabled and passed to subdivide the 256,000,000 Ordinary shares of 1.5625p 
each, both issued and unissued, into 768,000,000 Ordinary shares of 25/48ths of a penny each.
During the period 4,410,144 (2015: 2,679,468) Ordinary shares of 25/48p each with a nominal value of £22,970 (2015: £13,951) were issued between 
306.50p (2015: 35.77p) and 383.13p (2015: 178.2p) for a total cash consideration received of £7,497,000 (2015: £3,572,000) to satisfy the share 
options that were exercised.
During the year the Company bought back a total of 9,077,304 Ordinary shares of 25/48p each (after adjusting for the 3 for 1 share split on 
27 June 2016) for a total value of £32,418,000 (including costs of £176,000). Of these shares, 6,144,714 were cancelled and 2,932,590 were 
bought back and held as treasury shares. The average price for which these shares were purchased was 467.30p.
Nature and purpose of reserves
Share capital
Share capital comprises the nominal value of the Company’s Ordinary shares of 25/48p each.
Share premium
The share premium reserve is the premium paid on the Company’s 25/48p Ordinary shares.
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve includes the nominal value of shares bought back by the Company. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 110
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
30. Share capital and reserves continued
Nature and purpose of reserves continued
Capital reserve – own shares
This reserve relates to shares held by an independently managed EBT and shares held by the Company as “treasury shares”. The shares held 
by the EBT were purchased in order to satisfy potential awards under the Reversionary LTIP. At 25 December 2016, the trust held 168,756 
(2015: 168,756) shares, which had a historic cost of £879 (2015: £879). These shares had a market value at 25 December 2016 of £602,121 
(2015: £573,770).
During the period the Company acquired 2,932,590 of its own shares (2015: nil). At 25 December 2016 the company held 4,072,590 (2015: 1,140,000) 
of its own shares. The shares are held as treasury shares. The Company has the right to reissue these shares at later date.
The EBT has waived its entitlement to dividends. The Group will meet the expenses of the EBT as and when they fall due.
Currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of the Group’s 
foreign subsidiaries.
31. Share-based payments
The expense recognised for share-based payments in respect of employee services received during the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 was 
£2,186,000 (2015: £1,328,000). This all arises on equity-settled share-based payment transactions. The comparative figures in this note have been 
restated to reflect the share split in the period, as outlined in note 30.
2012 Long Term Incentive Plan (‘2012 LTIP’)
At the 2012 AGM shareholders approved the adoption of new LTIP rules which allow for either the grant of market value options or performance shares. 
Awards are approved and granted at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee to Senior Executives and other employees. Awards are capable 
of vesting within a three-year period should certain performance targets be achieved by the Group and all awards will be equity settled. During the 
period 1,085,796 awards were granted (2015: 1,016,640). At 25 December 2016, there were 2012 LTIP awards over 3,740,492 (2015: 4,476,039) 
shares in Domino’s Pizza Group plc.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options outstanding at 25 December 2016 was 4.3 years (2015: 6.3 years). The weighted 
average share price for options exercised during 2016 was 341.29p (2015: 398.92p).
2016 Long Term Incentive Plan (‘2016 LTIP’)
At the 2016 AGM shareholders approved the adoption of new LTIP rules which allow for either the grant of market value options or performance 
shares. Awards are approved and granted at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee to Senior Executives and other employees. Awards are 
capable of vesting within a three to five-year period should certain performance targets be achieved by the Group and all awards will be equity settled. 
During the period 1,602,000 awards were granted (2015: nil). At 25 December 2016, there were 2012 LTIP awards over 1,602,000 (2015: nil) shares 
in Domino’s Pizza Group plc.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options outstanding at 25 December 2016 was 2.8 years (2015: n/a).
There were no options exercised during 2016 (2015: nil).
The fair value of options granted is estimated at the date of granting using Stochastic and Black-Scholes models, taking into account the terms and 
conditions upon which they were granted. Total shareholder return (‘TSR’) is generated for the Company and the comparator group at the end of the 
three-year performance period. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility over a period similar to the life of the options 
is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome. The following table lists the inputs to the model used for the period 
ended 25 December 2016:
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
Weighted average fair value 215.18p
Weighted average share price 349.11p
Weighted average exercise price 0.00p
Expected dividend yield 2.01%–2.17%
Risk-free rates 0.13%–0.62%
Expected volatility 25.91%–31.29%
Further information on the Company’s 2012 and 2016 LTIP awards are given in the Executive Director policy table on pages 44 to 47 of the 
Directors’ remuneration report.
Employee share options
On 23 March 2004, the Company established the Domino’s Pizza Group plc Enterprise Management Incentive Scheme (‘EMI Scheme’).
All employees are eligible for grants of options under this scheme, which is approved by the Board. Prior to 2011, the options vested over a three-year 
period and are exercisable subject to the condition that the growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share during each of the three years following the 
date of grant exceeds growth in the Retail Prices Index by at least 3%. For 2011 and 2012 the options vest over a three-year period and are exercisable 
subject to the condition that real growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share, during each of the three years following the date of grant, exceeds 3%. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 111
31. Share-based payments continued
Employee share options continued
The options lapse after ten years or in certain other circumstances connected with leaving the Company. There are no cash settlement alternatives 
and all awards are equity settled. 
No options were granted during the period ended 25 December 2016 (2015: nil).
Sharesave scheme
During 2009 the Group introduced a Sharesave scheme giving employees the option to acquire shares in the Company at a 20% discount. 
Employees have the option to save an amount per month up to a maximum of £500 and at the end of three years they have the option to purchase 
shares in the Company or to take their savings in cash. The contractual life of the scheme is three years. The weighted average fair value of each 
option granted in 2016 was 190.74p (2015: 186.47p).
Share schemes
As at 25 December 2016, the following share options and awards were outstanding:
Scheme
Exercise
price
Outstanding at
27 December
2015
Number
Granted
during
the period
Number
Exercised
during
the period
Number
Forfeited
during
the period
Number
Outstanding at
25 December 
2016
Number
Exercisable at
25 December
2016
Number
2012 Long Term Incentive Plan 0.00p to 
43.16p
4,476,039 1,085,796 (1,244,556) (576,787) 3,740,492 236,925
2016 Long Term Incentive Plan – – 1,602,000 – – 1,602,000 –
Domino’s Pizza 
(Unapproved) Scheme
69.67 to
70.0p
205,992 – (125,439) (27,777) 52,776 52,776
Domino’s Pizza CSOP 
(Unapproved) Scheme
113.67p to
160.80p
238,869 – (156,846) – 82,023 82,023
Domino’s Pizza CSOP 
(Approved) Scheme
68.50p to
160.80p
482,895 – (248,223) (23,409) 211,263 211,263
Sharesave Scheme 143.33p to
 275.33p
1,249,899 360,951 (150,843) (358,536) 1,101,471 –
6,653,694 3,048,747 (1,925,907) (986,509) 6,790,025 582,987
Weighted average 
exercise price 85.21p 32.60p 187.33p 57.55p 45.70p 136.89p
As at 27 December 2015, the following share options and awards were outstanding:
Scheme
Exercise
price
Outstanding at
28 December
2014
Number
Granted
during
the period
Number
Exercised
during
the period
Number
Forfeited 
during
the period
Number
Outstanding at
27 December
2015
Number
Exercisable at
27 December
2015
Number
2012 Long Term Incentive Plan 0.00p to
43.16p
6,028,575 1,016,640 (859,260) (1,709,916) 4,476,039 260,136
Domino’s Pizza 
(Unapproved) Scheme
35.68p to
70.00p
506,289 – (217,296) (83,001) 205,992 205,992
Domino’s Pizza CSOP 
(Unapproved) Scheme
68.50p to
160.80p
879,654 – (371,232) (269,553) 238,869 238,869
Domino’s Pizza CSOP 
(Approved) Scheme
68.50p to
160.80p
1,447,824 – (943,347) (21,582) 482,895 482,895
Sharesave scheme 143.33p to
213.00p
1,169,937 487,635 (287,448) (120,225) 1,249,899 –
10,032,279 1,504,275 (2,678,583) (2,204,277) 6,653,694 1,187,892
Weighted average 
exercise price 111.02p 69.05p 132.97p 133.62p 85.21p 115.09p
32. Additional cash flow information
Analysis of Group net debt
At
27 December
2015
£000
Cash
flow
£000
Exchange
differences
£000
Non-cash
movements
£000
At
25 December
2016
£000
Cash and cash equivalents 52,860 (29,364) (405) – 23,091
Bank revolving facility (10,485) (44,200) (1,840) (194) (56,719)
Finance leases (45) (36) 9 – (72)
Other loans (1,908) 1,051 – – (857)
Net cash/(debt) 40,422 (72,549) (2,236) (194) (34,557) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 112
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
32. Additional cash flow information continued
Analysis of Group net debt continued
At 28 December
2014
£000
Cash
flow
£000
Exchange
differences
£000
Non-cash
movements
£000
At 27 December
2015
£000
Cash and cash equivalents 33,743 19,628 (511) – 52,860
Bank revolving facility (5,447) (4,698) (287) (53) (10,485)
Bank loans (15,000) 15,000 – – –
Finance leases (60) 13 2 – (45)
Other loans (2,278) 370 – – (1,908)
Net cash/(debt) 10,958 30,313 (769) (53) 40,422
33. Capital commitments
At 25 December 2016, amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 
amounted to £5,935,000 (2015: £861,000) for the Group.
34. Contingent liabilities
Pursuant to the relevant regulation of the European Communities (Companies: Group Accounts) Regulations, 1992 the Company has guaranteed 
the liabilities of the Irish subsidiary, DP Pizza Limited, and as a result the Irish company has been exempted from the filing provisions in section 7, 
Companies (Amendment) Act 1986 of the ROI.
35. Related party transactions
The financial statements include the financial statements of Domino’s Pizza Group plc and the subsidiary and associated undertakings listed below.
Name of company
Country of
incorporation
Proportion of voting
rights and share capital Registered office
Directly held subsidiary undertakings
DP Capital Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes, MK6 4BB, United Kingdom
DP Cyco Limited Cyprus 100% Ordinary Rigas, 4, Omega Court, Floor 1, 3095, Limassol, Cyprus
DP Cyco Switzerland Limited Cyprus 100% Ordinary Rigas, 4, Omega Court, Floor 1, 3095, Limassol, Cyprus
DP Group Developments Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom
DP Realty Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom
DPG Holdings Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom
Indirectly held subsidiary undertakings
Deutsche Dominoid GmbH Germany 100% Ordinary Erkrather Straße 162, 40233 Dusseldorf, Berlin, Germany
Domino’s Leasing Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom
Domino’s Pizza (Isle of Man) Limited Isle of Man 100% Ordinary First Floor, Jubilee Buildings, Victoria Street, Douglas IM1 2SH, Isle of Man
Domino’s Pizza Germany (Holdings) Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom
Domino’s Pizza Germany GmbH Germany 100% Ordinary Erkrather Straße 162, 40233 Dusseldorf, Berlin, Germany
Domino’s Pizza Germany Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom
Domino’s Pizza GmbH Switzerland 100% Ordinary Europastrasse 19, 8152 Glattbrugg, Switzerland
Domino’s Pizza UK & Ireland Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom
DP Newcastle Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom
DP Pizza Limited ROI 100% Ordinary Unit 1B Toughers Business Park, Newhall, Naas Co. Kildare, Ireland
DP Realty Deutschland GmbH Germany 100% Ordinary Erkrather Straße 162, 40233 Dusseldorf, Berlin, Germany
HJS Pizza Deutschland GmbH Germany 100% Ordinary Ludgeriplatz 9, 48151 Münster, Hamburg, Germany
Associate undertakings
Daytona JV Limited England 33.3% Ordinary 3rd Floor 1 Ashley Road, Altrincham, Cheshire, WA14 2DT, United Kingdom
Full House Restaurants Holdings Limited
1
England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom
Pizza Pizza EHF
3
Iceland 49% Ordinary Louholar 2-6, 11 Reykjavik, Iceland
Pizza Pizza Norway AS
3
Norway 44.99% Ordinary Nesveien 13, 1344 Haslum, Norway CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 113
Name of company
Country of
incorporation
Proportion of voting
rights and share capital Registered office
Indirectly held subsidiaries of associate undertakings
Agentur fur Wertbung und 
Etatverwaltung GmbH
Germany 33.3% Ordinary Holzdamm 57, 20099 Hamburg, Germany
B N Sandy (Newcastle) Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom
B N Sandy (Cannock) Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom
Bristol Curry Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom
Classic Crust Limited England England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom
Dancing Tiger Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom
Daytona Germany GmbH Germany 33.3% Ordinary Holzdamm 57, 20099 Hamburg, Germany
Domino’s Pizza Deutschland GmbH
4
Germany 33.3% Ordinary Holzdamm 57, 20099 Hamburg, Germany
Freshname 845 Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom
Full House Restaurants Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom
House Special Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom
J M R Foster (Winsford) Limited
2
England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom
J M R Foster Limited
2
England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom
Pizza Pizza Sweden AB
3
Sweden 44.99% Ordinary Emil Lonnroths vag 19, 168 46 Bromma, Sweden
Sherston Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom
Surrey Pizzas Limited England 49% Ordinary c/o Richard & Company, 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, 
United Kingdom
The Woodpecker Inn Ltd England 49% Ordinary c/o Richard & Company, 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, 
United Kingdom
Joint venture undertakings
Domino’s Pizza West Country Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom
DP Shayban Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom
Indirectly held subsidiaries of joint venture undertakings
AKS Partners Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom
DA Hall Trading Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom
DAHT Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom
Dijla Newport Limited England 50% Ordinary 23 Neptune Court, Vanguard Way, Cardiff, CF24 5PJ, United Kingdom
DP Beach A Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom
DP Beach B Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom
Mesan Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom
MLS Limited England 50% Ordinary Aldreth, Pearcroft Road, Stonehouse, GL10 2JY, United Kingdom
Zens Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom
1 The Group acquired an additional 8% of the shareholding of Full House Restaurants Holdings Limited during 2016.
2  Full House Restaurants Holdings Limited acquired 100% of the shareholding of J M R Foster Limited and J M R Foster (Winsford) Limited during 2016. The Group 
indirectly owns 49% of both companies as a result of this acquisition.
3  The Group acquired Pizza Pizza Sweden AB, Pizza Pizza EHF and Pizza Pizza Norway AS during 2016. Pizza Pizza Sweden AB is owned 20% indirectly through 
Pizza Pizza Norway AS and 24.99% indirectly through Pizza Pizza EHF. Pizza Pizza Norway AS is owned 20% directly through Pizza Pizza Sweden AB and 24.99% 
directly through Pizza Pizza EHF.
4  Joey’s Pizza International GmbH, Joey’s Pizza Service (Germany) GmbH and Joey’s Filial und Pacht GmbH merged to form Domino’s Pizza Deutschland GmbH 
during 2016.
35. Related party transactions continued FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 114
35. Related party transactions continued
During the period the Group entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties. For details of loan balances due from 
associates please refer to note 18. Transactions entered into, and trading balances outstanding with related parties, are as follows:
Sales to
related
party
£000
Amounts
owed by
related
party
£000
Related party
Associates and joint ventures
25 December 2016 28,178 2,300
27 December 2015 24,390 844
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
Sales and purchases between related parties are made at normal market prices. Outstanding balances with entities are unsecured and interest free 
and cash settlement is expected within seven days of invoice. The Group has not provided for or benefited from any guarantees for any related party 
receivables or payables. During the financial period ended 25 December 2016, the Group has made a provision of £nil for doubtful debts relating to 
amounts owed by related parties (2015: £nil).
Compensation of key management personnel (including Directors)
52 weeks
ended 
25 December
2016
£000
52 weeks
ended 
27 December
2015
£000
Short-term employee benefits 4,219 3,632
Post-employment benefits 242 147
Share-based payment 1,776 866
6,237 4,645
The table above includes the remuneration costs of the Directors of the Company and the Directors of Domino’s Pizza UK & Ireland Limited, 
Domino’s Pizza Germany Limited and Domino’s Pizza GmbH. Included in short-term employee benefits above are termination payments totalling 
£258,000 (2015: £179,000).
Historic distributions to directors
As disclosed in note 10 to the Company Financial statements, during the year the Directors became aware that payment of certain of its dividends 
and purchases of certain of its own Ordinary Shares in certain Relevant Financial Periods from 2000 to 2016 were made otherwise than in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006. In addition, the Director’s became aware that it gave assistance to its Employee Benefit Trust on a number of occasions 
which did not comply with the requirements of the Act.
At a General Meeting of the Company’s shareholders held on 10 January 2017, a resolution was passed which authorised the appropriation 
of distributable profits to the payment of the relevant distributions and removed any right for the Company to pursue shareholders or directors 
for repayment. This constituted a related party transaction under IAS 24.
The Directors’ who held shares in the Company would have received dividends in relation to their shareholdings which would have included certain 
of the unlawful distributions made. In addition, the financial assistance provided to the EBT to purchase shares to satisfy awards of LTIPs were issued 
to previous Directors’ of the Company.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 115
Company balance sheet
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
Notes
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Fixed assets
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 5 15,155 15,416
Investment in associates and joint ventures 5 45,464 4,886
60,619 20,302
Current assets
Available-for-sale financial asset 4 8,050 –
Other receivables: falling due within one year 6 60,621 97,053
Other receivables: falling due after one year 6 11,456 –
Cash and cash equivalents 384 39,480
80,511 136,533
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Other payables 7 (17,871) (79,892)
Current tax liabilities (1,610) –
Financial liabilities 8 (11,077) –
(30,558) (79,892)
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year
Financial liabilities 8 (11,817) –
Total liabilities (42,375) (79,892)
Net assets 98,755 76,943
Shareholders’ equity
Called up share capital 9 2,597 2,606
Share premium account 11 36,629 29,155
Capital redemption reserve 11 457 425
Capital reserve – own shares 11 (12,310) (2,238)
Retained earnings 11 71,382 46,995
Total equity shareholders’ funds 11 98,755 76,943
David Wild
Director
8 March 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 116
Company statement of changes in equity
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
Share
capital
£000
Share
premium
account
£000
Capital
redemption
reserve
£000
Capital
reserve –
own shares
£000
Profit
and loss
account
£000
Equity
shareholders’
funds
£000
At 28 December 2014 2,592 25,597 425 (2,238) 22,039 48,415
Proceeds from share issue 14 3,558 – – – 3,572
Share transaction charges – – – – (9) (9)
Profit for the period – – – – 54,643 54,643
Share option and LTIP charge – – – – 335 335
Share options granted to subsidiary employees – – – – 993 993
Equity dividends paid – – – – (31,006) (31,006)
At 27 December 2015 2,606 29,155 425 (2,238) 46,995 76,943
Proceeds from share issue 23 7,474 – – – 7,497
Share buybacks (32) – 32 (10,072) (22,346) (32,418)
Share buybacks obligation – – – – (10,000) (10,000)
Profit for the period – – – – 91,464 91,464
Share option and LTIP charge – – – – 1,359 1,359
Share options granted to subsidiary employees – – – – 873 873
Equity dividends paid – – – – (36,963) (36,963)
At 25 December 2016 2,597 36,629 457 (12,310) 71,382 98,755 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 117
1. Accounting policies
General information
Domino’s Pizza Group plc (‘the Company’) is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The address of its registered 
office and principal place of business is disclosed in the Directors’ report.
The Company’s financial statements are presented in pounds sterling (£), which is also the Company’s functional currency, and all values are rounded to 
the nearest thousand pounds (£000) except when otherwise indicated. The Company’s financial statements are individual entity financial statements.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the income statement and the statement of comprehensive income of the parent company 
have not been separately presented in these financial statements.
Basis of preparation
The Company transitioned to FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework for all periods presented. Figures for comparative periods have been restated 
with details of adjustments set out in note 2.
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and the Companies Act 2006. The financial 
statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention except for certain financial assets and liabilities measured 
at fair value.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 25 December 2016 
and have been applied consistently to all years presented.
The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS 101 in respect of:
(a) the requirements of IFRS 2 Share Based Payments;
(b) the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures;
(c) the requirements of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement;
(d)  the requirement IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ to present certain comparative information and objectives, policies and processes 
for managing capital;
(e) the requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows; 
(f) the requirements of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, to disclose IFRS’s issued but not effective; 
(g)  the requirements of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, to present key management personnel compensation and intragroup transactions 
including wholly owned subsidiaries; 
(h)  the requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group, 
provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member; and 
(i)  the requirements of IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards to present an opening statement of financial 
position at transition.
The basis for all of the above exemptions is because equivalent disclosures are included in the consolidated financial statements of the group in 
which the entity is consolidated.
Investments
Investments held in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
As at 29 December 2014, in accordance with paragraph D15 of IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS 1’) 
Appendix D, the Company has measured all investments at a deemed cost, being the previous GAAP carrying amount as at this date.
The Company assesses these investments for impairment wherever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an 
investment may not be recoverable. If any such indication of impairment exists, the Company makes an estimate of the recoverable amount. 
If the recoverable amount is less than the value of the investment, the investment is considered to be impaired and is written down to its 
recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Interests in associates and joint ventures
Investments in associates and joint ventures are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Capital reserve – own shares
Treasury shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust are classified in capital and reserves as “Capital reserve – own shares” and recognised at cost. 
No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase or sale of such shares. 
Share-based payment transactions
Directors of the Company receive an element of remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services 
as consideration for equity instruments.
 o The awards vest when certain performance and/or service conditions are met; see the Directors’ remuneration report for the individual vesting 
conditions for the various schemes.
Notes to the Company financial statements
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 118
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
1. Accounting policies continued
Share-based payment transactions continued
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised 
as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award. Fair value is determined 
by an external value using an appropriate pricing model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than 
conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company (market conditions).
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are 
treated as vesting irrespective of whether the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired, 
management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and the number of equity instruments that will ultimately 
vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above. The movement in the cumulative 
expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry into equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on 
the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period. In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the 
new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair 
value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification. No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income 
statement for the award is expensed immediately. Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is 
deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the profit and loss account.
The Company recharges the cost of equity-settled transactions to the respective employing entity, with a corresponding increase in equity and investment 
in subsidiary undertakings booked with Domino’s Pizza Group plc.
Available-for-sale financial assets 
The Market Access Fee is classified as a non-current asset available for sale and is measured at fair value. Changes in fair value are recognised 
in other comprehensive income except for foreign exchange gains and losses, and impairment, which are recognised in profit or loss.
Provisions for liabilities
A provision is recognised where the Company has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow 
of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when the Company becomes party to the related contracts and are measured initially at fair 
value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance revenue and 
finance cost.
2. Transition to FRS 101
For all periods up to and including the year ended 27 December 2015, the Company prepared its financial statements in accordance with previously 
extant United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice (‘UK GAAP’). These financial statements, for the year ended 25 December 2016, are 
the first the Company has prepared in accordance with FRS 101.
Accordingly, the Company has prepared individual financial statements which comply with FRS 101 applicable for periods beginning on or after 
29 December 2014 and the significant accounting policies meeting those requirements are described in the relevant notes.
In preparing these financial statements, the Company has started from an opening balance sheet as at 29 December 2014, the Company’s date 
of transition to FRS 101, and made those changes in accounting policies and other restatements required for the first-time adoption of FRS 101. 
As such, this note explains the principal adjustments made by the Company in restating its balance sheet as at 29 December 2014 prepared under 
previously extant UK GAAP and its previously published UK GAAP financial statements for the year ended 27 December 2015.
On transition to FRS 101, the Company has applied the requirements of paragraphs 6-33 of IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of International Financial 
Reporting Standards.
Exemptions applied
IFRS 1 allows first-time adopters certain exemptions from the general requirements to apply IFRSs as effective for 25 December 2016 year ends 
retrospectively. The Company has taken advantage of the following exemptions:
 o The Company has applied the transitional provision in IFRS 1 to recognise investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures at 29 December 2014 at 
deemed cost, being the carrying value under UK GAAP; and
 o IFRS 3 Business Combinations has not been applied to acquisitions that occurred before 29 December 2014. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 119
2. Transition to FRS 101 continued
Exemptions applied continued
Reconciliation of equity:
Notes
As at 27 December 2015 As at 29 December 2014
UK GAAP
£000
FRS 101
reclassifications/
remeasurements
FRS 101
£000
UK GAAP
£000
FRS 101
 reclassifications/
remeasurements
FRS 101
£000
Non-current assets
Investment in subsidiary 
undertakings 5 15,416 – 15,416 14,423 – 14,423
Investment in associates 
and joint ventures 5 4,886 – 4,886 4,886 – 4,886
20,302 – 20,302 19,309 – 19,309
Current assets
Other receivables 6 97,053 – 97,053 107,094 – 107,094
Cash and cash equivalents 39,480 – 39,480 5,275 – 5,275
136,533 – 136,533 112,369 – 112,369
Total assets 156,835 – 156,835 131,678 – 131,678
Current liabilities
Other payables 7 (79,892) – (79,892) (68,426) – (68,426)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities 8 – – – (14,836) – (14,836)
Total liabilities (79,892) – (79,892) (83,262) – (83,262)
Net assets 76,943 – 76,943 48,416 – 48,416
Shareholders’ equity
Called up share capital 9 2,606 – 2,606 2,592 – 2,592
Share premium account 11 29,155 – 29,155 25,597 – 25,597
Capital redemption reserve 11 425 – 425 425 – 425
Capital reserve – own shares 11 (2,238) – (2,238) (2,238) – (2,238)
Retained earnings 11 46,995 – 46,995 22,039 – 22,039
Total equity shareholders’ funds 11 76,943 – 76,943 48,416 – 48,416
3. Profit attributable to members of the parent company
The profit within the financial statements of the parent company is £91,464,000 (2015: £54,643,000).
For details of audit fees see note 6 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
4. Available-for-sale financial assets
The deferred consideration of €25,000,000 (£21,159,000) payable by Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Limited (referred to as the “Market Access Fee”) 
in respect of Domino’s Pizza Group plc divesting its interests in operating Domino’s Pizza Stores in Germany and its exclusive access to the German 
market, held through its shareholding in DP Cyco Limited and which becomes payable from 2017, is carried at a fair value of €9,512,000 (£8,050,000) 
within available-for-sale financial assets. The deferred consideration is payable by instalments from 2017, the payment of each instalment being 
determined by reference to the German business achieving defined levels of EBITDA. For details of the fair value considerations see note 29. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 120
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
5. Investments
Subsidiary
undertakings
£000
Associates and
joint ventures
£000
Total
£000
Cost or valuation
At 28 December 2014 14,423 4,886 19,309
Share options granted to subsidiary employees 993 – 993
At 27 December 2015 15,416 4,886 20,302
Additions 11,623 40,783 52,406
Impairment (11,684) – (11,684)
Disposals (200) (205) (405)
At 25 December 2016 15,155 45,464 60,619
Details of the investments in which the Company holds 20% or more of the nominal value of any class of share capital are detailed in note 35 of the 
Group section and further details on the additions to investments in associates and joint ventures can be found in note 20 of the Group section. The 
disposals of £405,000 represent a transfer of the investment to another Group company.
During the period the Company contributed £11,623,000 to DP Cyco Limited. Following the cessation of trade the investment in DP Cyco Limited 
was impaired by £11,684,000.
6. Other receivables
Falling due after one year
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Amounts owed by associates 11,456 –
11,456 –
Falling due within one year
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 59,962 96,355
Amounts owed by associates 659 698
60,621 97,053
7. Other payables
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 16,649 78,471
Other creditors 85 88
Accruals and deferred income 1,137 1,333
17,871 79,892 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 121
8. Financial liabilities
At
25 December
2016
£000
At
27 December
2015
£000
Current
Share buyback obligation 10,000 –
Contingent consideration 1,077 –
11,077
Non-current
Bank revolving facility 11,817 –
22,894 –
Bank revolving facility
On 8 July 2016, the Group entered into a new £175.0m multicurrency revolving credit facility with Barclays Bank plc, HSBC Holdings plc 
and The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The previous £30.0m facility with Barclays Bank plc was repaid in full and cancelled.
Interest charged on the revolving credit facility ranges from 0.75% per annum above LIBOR when the Group’s leverage is less than 1:1 up to 1.50% 
per annum for leverage above 2:1. In addition a utilisation fee is charged on the facility if over one-third of the facility is utilised at 15% of the margin 
rate, and 30% if over two-thirds of the facility is utilised. The facility expires on 18 July 2021. 
Arrangement fees of £1,432,532 (27 December 2015: £111,659) directly incurred in relation to the facility are included in the carrying value of the 
facility and are being amortised over the term of the facility.
The facility is secured by an unlimited cross-guarantee between the Company, Domino’s Pizza UK & Ireland Limited, DPG Holdings Limited, 
DP Realty Limited, DP Pizza Limited, DP Group Developments Limited, DP Cyco Switzerland Limited and Domino’s Pizza GmbH.
On the previous revolving credit facility interest was charged at 1.35% per annum above LIBOR in addition to a 0.5% utilisation fee.
Share buyback obligation
On 21 December 2016 the Group entered into an irrevocable non-discretionary programme with Numis Securities Limited to purchase up to a 
maximum of £10,000,000 of shares from 11 January 2017 to 21 February 2017. This agreement entered into regarding share buybacks during 
the close period has been recognised as a financial liability of £10,000,000. The full obligation had been utilised by 21 February 2017.
On 8 June 2016 the Company acquired a 49% shareholding in Pizza Pizza EHF on which contingent consideration was payable. The fair value of the 
contingent consideration as at 25 December 2016 was estimated to be £1,077,000. The contingent consideration is a financial liability at fair value 
through profit or loss.
9. Authorised and issued share capital
Authorised share capital
At
25 December
2016
At
27 December
2015
(restated)
Ordinary shares of 25/48p each:
– number 768,000,000 768,000,000
– value (£) 4,000,000 4,000,000
Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital
At 25 December 2016 At 27 December 2015
Number £
Number
(restated) £
At 27 December 2015 and 28 December 2014 500,408,064 2,606,286 497,728,596 2,592,335
Issued on exercise of share options 4,410,144 22,970 2,679,468 13,951
Share buybacks (6,144,714) (32,004) – –
At 25 December 2016 and 27 December 2015 498,673,494 2,597,252 500,408,064 2,606,286
At the Annual General Meeting held on 20 April 2016, a resolution was tabled and passed to subdivide the 256,000,000 Ordinary shares of 1.5625p 
each, both issued and unissued, into 768,000,000 Ordinary shares of 25/48ths of a penny each.
During the period 4,410,144 (2015: 2,679,468) Ordinary shares of 25/48p each with a nominal value of £22,970 (2015: £13,951) were issued 
between 306.50p (2015: 35.77p) and 383.13p (2015: 178.2p) for a total cash consideration received of £7,497,000 (2015: £3,572,000) to satisfy 
the share options that were exercised.
During the year the Company bought back a total of 9,077,304 Ordinary shares of 25/48p each (after adjusting for the 3 for 1 share split on 27 June 
2016) for a total value of £32,418,000 (including costs of £176,000). Of these shares, 6,144,714 were cancelled and 2,932,590 were bought back 
and held as treasury shares. The average price for which these shares were purchased was 467.30p. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 122
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
10. Share-based payments
The total charge recognised for share-based payments in respect of employee services received during the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 
was £2,232,000 (2015: £1,328,000). This all arises on equity-settled share-based payment transactions. Of this total, a charge of £1,359,000 
(2015: £335,000) relates to employees of the Company and a charge of £873,000 (2015: £993,000) relates to share options granted to employees 
of subsidiaries. For full disclosures relating to the total charge for the period including grants to both employees of the Company and its subsidiaries 
please refer to note 31 of the Group financial statements.
11. Reconciliation of shareholders’ funds and movements on reserves
On 25 April 2016 the 2015 final dividend of £19,533,000 was paid, and on 2 September 2016 an interim 2016 dividend of £17,430,000 was paid to 
shareholders of which £17,430,000 was not covered by appropriately disclosed distributable reserves in publicly published relevant accounts.
In addition, in the first half of the year the Company continued share buybacks, buying £15,329,000, whilst in the second half of the year share 
buybacks totalling £17,089,000 were made of which £15,151,000 was not covered by appropriately disclosed distributable reserves in publicly 
published relevant accounts.
The reserves available for distribution at 25 December 2016 were estimated as being £43,016,000 (2015: £24,747,000).
Share
capital
1
£000
Share
premium
account
1
£000
Capital
redemption
reserve
1
£000
Capital
reserve –
own shares
2
£000
Profit
and loss
account
3
£000
Equity
shareholders’
funds
£000
At 28 December 2014 2,592 25,597 425 (2,238) 22,039 48,415
Proceeds from share issue 14 3,558 – – – 3,572
Share transaction charges – – – – (9) (9)
Profit for the period – – – – 54,643 54,643
Share option and LTIP charge – – – – 335 335
Share options granted to subsidiary employees – – – – 993 993
Equity dividends paid – – – – (31,006) (31,006)
At 27 December 2015 2,606 29,155 425 (2,238) 46,995 76,943
Proceeds from share issue 23 7,474 – – – 7,497
Share buybacks (32) – 32 (10,072) (22,346) (32,418)
Share buybacks obligation – – – – (10,000) (10,000)
Profit for the period – – – – 91,464 91,464
Share option and LTIP charge – – – – 1,359 1,359
Share options granted to subsidiary employees – – – – 873 873
Equity dividends paid – – – – (36,963) (36,963)
At 25 December 2016 2,597 36,629 457 (12,310) 71,382 98,755
1 These reserves are not distributable.
2 Own shares relate to treasury shares which are purchased out of distributable profits and therefore reduce reserves available for distribution.
3  The Company has determined what is realised and unrealised in accordance with the guidance provided by ICAEW TECH 2/10 and the requirements of UK law. 
In accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 section 831(2), a public company may make a distribution only if, after giving effect to such distribution, the 
amount of its net assets is not less than the aggregate of its called up share capital and non-distributable reserves as shown in the relevant accounts.
  £8,050,000 of profits recognised in respect of the Market Access Fee (the fair value of the deferred consideration payable by Domino’s Pizza Enterprises for the 
divestment of the German business) have been carried forward in the profit and loss account and is estimated to be non-distributable until converted into cash.
  Within the profit and loss account carried forward are £8,070,000 of capitalised share-based payments in respect of subsidiary employees, which are 
deemed non-distributable. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 123
11. Reconciliation of shareholders’ funds and movements on reserves continued
During the year, the Directors became aware that payment of certain of its dividends and purchases of certain of its own Ordinary Shares in certain 
Relevant Financial Periods from 2000 to 2016 were made otherwise than in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Companies Act 2006 
(the “Acts”). In addition, the Director’s became aware that it gave assistance to its Employee Benefit Trust on a number of occasions which did not 
comply with the requirements of the Act. The Act provides that, where a public limited company gives assistance to its employee benefit trust, it is 
only permitted to give such assistance to the extent that the net assets of the company are not reduced by such assistance or, to the extent that the 
net assets are so reduced, the assistance is provided out of distributable profit. The total impact of these transactions was £84,711,000.
At a General Meeting of the Company’s shareholders held on 10 January 2017, a resolution was passed which authorised the appropriation of distributable 
profits to the payment of the relevant distributions and removed any right for the Company to pursue shareholders or directors for repayment. The overall 
effect of the passing of this resolution was to put all potentially affected parties so far as possible in the position in which they were intended to be had 
the relevant distributions been made in full compliance with the Acts 2006.
The amounts included within the financial statements have not been restated for the effect of the unlawful distributions and financial assistance as 
the financial resources had left the Company and the intention of the resolution was to remove any right for the Company to pursue shareholders or 
directors for repayments. The transactions as undertaken, were correctly accounted for in the relevant period in which the distributions of resources 
were made and therefore no restatements have been recorded.
Capital reserve – own shares
This reserve relates to shares held by an independently managed EBT and shares held by the Company as “treasury shares”. The shares held by the 
EBT were purchased in order to satisfy outstanding employee share options and potential awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) and other 
incentive schemes. At 25 December 2016, the trust held 168,756 (2015: 168,756) shares, which had a historic cost of £879 (2015: £879). These 
shares had a market value at 25 December 2016 of £602,121 (2015: £573,770). The EBT has waived its entitlement to dividends.
During the period the Company acquired 2,932,590 of its own shares (2015: nil). At 25 December 2016 the company held 4,072,590 (2015: 1,140,000) 
of its own shares. The shares are held as treasury shares. The Company has the right to reissue these shares at later date. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 124
Five-year financial summary
52 weeks ended 25 December 2016
25 December
2016
27 December
2015
28 December
2014
(restated)
29 December
2013
30 December
2012
Trading weeks 52 52 52 52 53
System sales (£m)
[1]
1,004.2 877.2 757.8 668.8 598.6
Group revenue (£m) 360.6 316.8 288.7 268.9 240.5
Underlying profit before tax (£000) 85,668 73,163 62,146 47,601 46,701
Statutory profit before tax (£000) 82,523 73,163 62,102 21,590 42,369
Basic earnings per share (pence)
– Statutory
[4]
13.1 11.9 9.9 8.0 7.4
– Underlying
[4]
13.8 11.9 10.0 3.6 6.3
Diluted earnings per share (pence)
– Statutory
[4]
12.9 11.8 9.9 7.8 7.3
– Underlying
[4]
13.6 11.8 9.9 3.5 6.3
Dividends per share (pence)
[4]
8.0 6.92 5.83 5.30 4.83
Underlying earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation 
and amortisation (£000) 93,807 79,890 68,624 53,714 47,894
Adjusted net (debt)/cash (£000)
[2]
(34,557) 40,422 10,958 (13,564) (22,964)
Adjusted gearing ratio 0.4 (0.5) (0.2) 0.3 0.5
Stores at start of year 931 872 835 805 726
Stores opened 82 65 41 57 69
Stores acquired – – – – 12
Stores closed – (6) (4) (4) (2)
Stores at year end 1,013 931 872 858 805
Corporate stores at year end 16 15 11 20 23
UK like-for-like sales growth (%) 7.5% 11.7% 11.3% 7.0%
[3]
5.0%
[3]
1 Sales from all stores in the UK, the ROI and Switzerland to the public. 2012–2013 include the discontinued German operations (not restated).
2 Excludes non-recourse loans, Germany non-controlling interest loan and share buyback obligation.
3 Compared to the comparable 52-week period in the prior year.
4 Historical years have been adjusted to reflect the share split of 3 shares for 1 made on 27 June 2016.  
Design Portolio is committed to planting 
trees or every corporate communications 
project, in association with Trees or Cities.
Shareholder information
Advisers and principal service providers
Registered office
1 Thornbury
West Ashland
Milton Keynes
MK6 4BB
01908 580000
Investor website: corporate.dominos.co.uk
Broker and corporate finance advisers
Numis Securities Limited
The London Stock Exchange
10 Paternoster Square
London
EC4M 7LT
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP
No.1 Colmore Square
Birmingham
B4 6HQ
Bankers
Barclays Bank plc
Ashton House
497 Silbury Boulevard
Milton Keynes
MK9 2LD
Solicitors
Norton Rose Fulbright LLP
More London Riverside
London
SE1 2AQ
Registrars
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
If you hold your shares direct and not through a Savings Scheme 
or ISA and have queries relating to your shareholding, please contact 
the registrars:
 o Callers in the UK: 0371 384 2895
 o Callers from outside the UK: +44 121 415 0926
Lines are open from 8.00a.m. to 5.30p.m. Monday to Friday 
(excluding UK bank holidays).
Shareholders can also access details of their holding and other 
information on the registrars’ website, www.shareview.co.uk.
The registrars provide an online share dealing service for those who are 
not seeking advice on buying or selling, available at www.selftrade.co.uk.
The registrars also offer a range of other dealing and investment 
services, which are explained on their website, www.shareview.co.uk.
Handle with care…
Shareholders tell us that they sometimes receive unsolicited 
approaches, normally by telephone, inviting them to undertake 
a transaction in shares they own. 
If you do not know the source of the call, check the details against 
the FCA website below and, if you have any specific information, 
report it to the FCA using the Consumer Helpline or the Online 
Reporting Form. 
If you have any concerns whatsoever, do not take any action 
and do not part with any money without being certain that: 
 o you fully understand the transaction;
 o you know who you are dealing with and that they are registered 
with and authorised by the FCA; and
 o you have consulted a financial adviser if you have any doubts. 
Remember, if it sounds too good to be true, it almost certainly is. 
You run the risk of losing any money you part with. 
If you are worried that you may already have been a victim of fraud, 
report the facts immediately using the Action Fraud Helpline. 
Should you want any more information about “boiler room” and other 
investment-based fraud, this can be found on two websites:
Action Fraud Helpline 
0300 123 2040
Action Fraud Website
www.actionfraud.police.uk
FCA Consumer Helpline
0845 606 1234
FCA Scams & Swindles Website
www.fca.org.uk/scams 
The Group’s commitment to environmental issues is reflected in this Annual Report 
which has been printed on Symbol freelife satin which is made from a FSC
®
 certified 
and PCF (Process Chlorine Free) material. Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using 
their environmental printing technology, and vegetable inks were used throughout. 
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral
®
 company. Both manufacturing mill and the 
printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are 
Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC) chain-of-custody certified.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
Domino’s Pizza Group plc
1 Thornbury, West Ashland, 
Milton Keynes MK6 4BB
