 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
2
As a business we continue to focus on solutions 
that provide for large-scale, secure capture and 
processing of high-stakes data.
A key objective 
for the business is 
the delivery of new 
products, features and 
related professional 
services
“
“
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
At a Glance 3
STRATEGIC REPORT
Our Business Model 5
Chairman’s Statement 6
Chief Executive’s Statement 8
 • Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 13
 • Principal Risks and Uncertainties 16
Report on Corporate Responsibility 20
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Board of Directors 24
Directors’ Report 26
 • Corporate Governance Statement 31
Directors’ Remuneration Report 2015 38
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 54
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members   
of DRS Data and Research Services plc 56
Consolidated Income Statement 60
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 61
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 62
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 63
Notes to the Financial Statements 64
Parent Company Statement of Financial Position 94
Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity 95
Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows 96
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 97
Directors and Advisers 103 3
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
AT A GLANCE
DRS is a specialist provider of automated data capture 
technology and solutions in the UK and overseas to 
three market sectors: Education, Elections and Census.
DRS specialises in providing sophisticated scanning and software data capture technologies, and solutions for 
education, elections and censuses all over the world. Our many years of experience in the field of data capture 
and our unique combination of skills enables us to deliver complete solutions designed to meet market and 
customer demands. 
As a business we continue to focus on solutions that provide for large-scale secure capture and processing of high-stakes data, 
primarily from manually completed, paper-based forms and the output of the results to a fixed schedule. These results might 
be election counts, census results or examination marks. Two of the markets, Census and Elections, offer opportunities that, 
while they are high value are, by their nature, non-recurring and tend to be project based requiring specific customisation. 
By contrast, events in the Education market such as examinations are regular and repeatable and offer the opportunity for 
recurring revenue streams. We have a particular objective to maintain a stable UK revenue stream and increase revenue from 
the international Education market. 
 2015 2014
 £000 £000
Revenue 12,477 13,684
Profit before tax and exceptional items 59 (1,138)
Loss before tax (2,711) (1,951)
Cash reserves 1,923 3,612
Earnings per share  (6.05p) (4.90p)
Research and Development spend 2,587 2,966
Education revenue 12,287 13,027
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
KEY MARKETS
EDUCATION
For over four decades DRS has 
supported awarding bodies, assessment 
authorities, schools, colleges and 
universities in the UK and in selected 
overseas markets, providing secure data 
capture and examination processing 
products and specialist services.
ELECTIONS
DRS provides an end-to-end solution 
for electronically counted elections 
including form design and printing, 
hardware, software, project support and 
training. We cover statutory and non-
statutory elections including national 
parliamentary elections, legislative 
and local council elections as well as 
employee and trade union ballots.
CENSUS
DRS provides data capture solutions 
for large-scale censuses including 
paper-based national or regional 
population censuses and specialised 
industrial, commercial and 
agricultural censuses. 
FINANCIAL SUMMARY DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
4
STRATEGIC
REPORT In the Education market DRS has supported awarding bodies, 
assessment authorities, universities, colleges and schools 
internationally with its secure examination processing data 
capture and marking solutions for over four decades. In the 
UK the Company has provided electronic marking solutions 
for high-stakes, high-volume general qualifications such as 
GCSE and GCE A-level examinations since 2002. 
The Company also provides end-to-end hardware and 
software solutions for the electronic capture and counting 
of election ballots and the electronic capture of census data, 
as well as a specialised capability for the secure printing of 
examination scripts, election ballots and census forms. 
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
DRS is a specialist 
provider of automated 
time-critical data capture 
technology solutions 
to governments, 
education authorities 
and commercial 
organisations. 
5
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Principal Activities 
During 2015 the operational performance of the 
business was in line with expectations. Group 
revenue for the year was £12,477 ,000 (2014: 
£13,684,000). The Group reported a loss before 
tax of £2,711,000 for the year after incurring a 
charge of £2,770,000 related to the write-off of 
certain capitalised software developments (2014: 
£1,951,000 loss before tax after providing for 
£813,000 of impairment charges on the Linford 
Wood property). Excluding the charge, operating 
profit before tax was £59,000 (2014: loss before 
tax £1,138,000).
The basic loss per share was 6.05p (2014: basic loss per 
share 4.90p). Excluding the charge, basic profit per share was 
1.55p (2014: basic loss per share 2.34p). Cash holdings at the 
end of 2015 were £1,923,000 (2014: £3,612,000). The Board 
recommends that no final dividend be paid (2014: nil).
As expected, the UK examination marking market broadly 
stabilised in 2015, as there have been no further structural 
changes in UK qualifications of the type seen in 2014. 
Economic conditions in overseas markets, notably in 
Africa, have continued to be challenging, driving further 
reductions in the Group’s traditional markets for scanners 
and print. Cost saving measures introduced as a response 
to the reduced activity levels were sufficient to stabilise the 
business and underpin the Group’s operational performance.
In the Education market, revenue amounted to £12,287,000 
(2014: £13,027 ,000), a decline of 5.7%. Within that total 
amount, the revenue attributable to e-Marker® in the UK 
and overseas was stable at £9,344,000 (2014: £9,301,000).
In non-Education markets no revenue for large-scale 
Elections and Census projects was recognised during 2015: 
non-Education revenue for the year totalled £190,000 
(2014: £657,000).
In January 2016, the Group reported a change in the 
treatment of capitalised development expenditure relating 
to the new e-Marker® examination software product. 
Historically, development expenditure relating to the 
new e-Marker® examination software product has been 
capitalised on the balance sheet in accordance with the 
requirements of IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’. A year-end 
review led the Group to conclude that under IAS 38 
and IAS 36, the previously capitalised expenditure of 
£2,770,000 built up since May 2012 should be expensed 
to the Income Statement as the criteria for capitalisation 
was no longer met. The need to develop a broader set of 
features to meet market needs, combined with increasingly 
challenging international market conditions, resulted in the 
deferral of projected annual revenue expectations which 
are used to support the carrying value of the asset, hence 
this resultant change in accounting treatment. This change 
will result in future expenditure on development of the new 
e-Marker® product being charged to the Income Statement 
as it is incurred. 
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
6
 STRATEGIC REPORT
Keith Bogg
Chairman The Group remains committed to its strategy of being a 
leading provider of examination processing data capture 
and marking software and services and to the ongoing 
maintenance and development of its e-Marker® examination 
software products.
The Board
Sir David Brown and John Linwood retired from the Board 
on completion of their full terms of office at the conclusion 
of the AGM on 18 May 2015. Alison Reed acted as Chairman 
on an interim basis from 18 May 2015 and resumed her 
role as Senior Independent Director on 1 July 2015 on my 
appointment as Chairman.
I am delighted to have joined DRS at a key stage in its 
development. The focus on project management and 
developing stronger relationships with major clients are 
key to the delivery of our strategy. The ongoing attention 
to cost management supports our ability to invest in 
developing software, hardware and services to support both 
our existing customers and to open new opportunities in the 
Education market.
Outlook
Going forward the Group remains committed to its strategy 
of being a leading provider of examination processing 
data capture and marking software and services and the 
PhotoScribe® PS1000 scanners. 
In the coming year the UK examination marking market is 
expected to remain stable, while conditions in the overseas 
markets are expected to continue to be challenging for the 
foreseeable future. With cost saving measures continuing to 
be a focus, the outlook for the financial year is expected to be 
broadly in line with the prior year.
Keith Bogg
Chairman
25 April 2016
7
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
STRATEGY & BUSINESS MODEL 
The Group’s primary business is the delivery of 
large-scale solutions for high-stakes examination 
processing, with a particular focus on electronic 
marking. The business provides a combination of 
electronic marking software solutions (e-Marker®) 
and, in the UK, a bureau service for the secure 
scanning of examination papers. The integration 
of the software and services elements are an 
important aspect of our operations in the UK.
The business also offers solutions for selected election and 
population census markets. Such solutions depend, in different 
combinations, on the Group’s expertise in document design, 
printing, scanning of forms, software development, logistics, 
project management and consultancy. 
The Group’s core strategy in recent years has been to 
enhance and develop its software-based services business 
in the Education sector. The Group’s product development 
programmes have reflected that strategy and for several 
years the Group has been directing its development effort 
primarily into the research and development of a new 
e-Marker® electronic marking software solution. In recent 
years the Group has also been investing in the design and 
development of a new PhotoScribe® scanner, the PS1000.
Steve Gowers 
CEO
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
8
 STRATEGIC REPORT
Education
Our core education business focuses on the delivery 
of solutions for student registration and examination 
processing and the electronic marking of high-stakes, high-
volume examinations. The Education market is a particular 
focus because it offers regular and repeatable business 
opportunities arising from the annual cycle of examinations. 
We offer these services and solutions, including the 
e-Marker® electronic marking solution, either directly or 
in conjunction with selected partners in certain markets. 
The licence model that DRS uses for e-Marker® is to charge 
a recurring fee, with a per-transaction (per-examination 
script) charge applied for the use of the licence. Other 
DRS solutions, such as for Multiple Choice Questionnaire 
processing (MCQ) may be licenced to clients for an up-front 
initial licence fee. 
The business model in the UK is based on direct sales 
and the delivery model is to offer a full bureau service, 
including script handling, scanning and image preparation 
for electronic marking and the delivery of online marking 
services to exam markers through the e-Marker® software 
as a service, supported by DRS staff. 
The opportunities for growth are targeted at carefully 
selected overseas territories that the Group feels 
represent the best opportunities for DRS, with the current 
focus being on Africa and India. In these geographies 
the coverage includes both secondary and higher 
education examination processing. In overseas markets 
the services which support the use of e-Marker® may 
be offered directly or delivered through selected service 
provider partners to provide script handling, scanning and 
electronic marking services. We are currently working 
with a number of partners in Africa and India to develop 
these services.
The existing e-Marker® solution provides awarding bodies 
with the functionality for Item Level Marking (ILM), 
allowing a script to be split into individual questions which 
may be marked by different examiners. Such a solution 
offers the potential for improvements in efficiency and 
accuracy in marking and the reduction of the influence of a 
single examiner over a whole script. 
The new platform, e-Marker®2, is initially focused on the 
provision of Whole Script Marking (WSM), which is aimed 
principally at the overseas market as this form of marking 
more closely replicates the existing manual processes in 
use and therefore provides a simpler transition to electronic 
marking. This functionality is complementary to the 
existing ILM functionality in e-Marker®1. 
The Group is in the process of completing the Whole Script 
Marking solution and delivering this release to market. The 
priority is to achieve live implementations of e-Marker®2 
with selected overseas customers to demonstrate the value 
of the platform and the functionality developed to date. In the UK customer requirements are driven in part by the 
requirements of the regulating body, Ofqual. At present 
Ofqual research is particularly focused on post-marking 
processing of enquiries about results (‘EAR’), therefore it 
is anticipated that certain enhancements will be required 
to existing and new software to maintain compliance, and 
this work will be scheduled when the regulator has finalised 
the requirements. 
Elections & Census
In addition to the recurring opportunities offered by the 
Education market, the Group is also continuing to pursue 
one-off opportunities in the Elections and Census markets, 
based on DRS software applications and the Group’s 
PhotoScribe® scanners. The focus is primarily on paper-based 
national population censuses in selected countries, and voter 
registration and ballot counting for large statutory and non-
statutory elections.
Our customers may require a combination of data capture, 
processing and reporting solutions as well as the delivery 
of related services which include technology infrastructure 
design, operational training, document printing, scanning 
and data handling. The provision of services and project 
management may be offered directly or may be provided 
through a selected third-party partner. Any such projects 
are expected to be profitable on an individual project-by-
project basis.
In the Elections market going forward the business will 
continue to seek profitable one-off projects for which the 
Group’s election solutions are deemed to be suitable. To 
balance the ratio of risk to reward it expects to operate 
principally as a provider of software and hardware to third-
parties who will themselves be the prime contractor for 
such projects. 
In the Census market the Group will continue to seek 
profitable one-off projects that are of a suitable size for the 
business to offer a complete end-to-end solution.
Objectives
As a business we continue to focus on solutions 
that provide for large-scale, secure capture and 
processing of high-stakes data, primarily from 
manually completed, paper-based forms and the 
output of the results to a fixed timetable. These 
results might be examination marks or they might 
be election counts or census results. Elections and 
Census projects offer opportunities that, while 
they are high value are, by their nature, non-
recurring and tend to be project based requiring 
specific customisation. By contrast, events in 
the Education market such as examinations are 
STRATEGIC REPORT
9
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
regular and repeatable and offer the opportunity 
for recurring revenue streams. Because of this we 
have a particular objective to increase revenue 
from the Education market. 
In line with this, a key objective for the business continues 
to be the delivery of new products and related professional 
services and the Group is continuing to invest in research 
and development as part of a multi-year development and 
implementation programme for the release and roll-out 
of the new Whole Script Marking (WSM) functionality on 
the e-Marker®2 platform, with a particular focus for that 
product being new revenue opportunities. 
The UK business operates on an annual cycle of 
examination series in January, March, summer and 
November. Recent structural changes led to all of these, 
other than the summer series, reducing in importance and 
volumes, and the volume in the summer series increasing. 
This has resulted in the need to address greater peaks 
and troughs in the processing cycle as a key element of 
operating an efficient business. The business is also keen to 
seek opportunities for revenue that lie outside this cycle to 
balance the effects across the year.
In the Elections market the primary objective is to continue 
to successfully meet all the milestones for the multi-year 
project with the Greater London Authority (GLA) for the 
delivery of the Mayor of London and London Assembly 
elections in May 2016. 
Markets
DRS is a specialist provider of automated data capture 
technology and solutions in the UK and overseas to its 
three main market sectors: Education, Elections and Census. 
The provision of services, data acquisition and scanning 
technology and printed forms provides the common link 
between the three distinct market sectors in which the 
Group operates. Specialised software has been created for 
each market which is combined with the above elements to 
produce the solutions which the Group sells.
 Education
For over four decades DRS has supported awarding bodies, 
assessment authorities, schools, colleges and universities in 
the UK and in selected overseas markets, providing secure 
data capture and examination processing products and 
specialist services.
DRS is the provider of the longest established online 
examination marking service in the UK. Awarding bodies and 
professional bodies have been using electronic marking to 
mark high-stakes, high-volume general qualifications such  CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
continued
as GCSE and GCE A-level examinations since 2002. AQA 
Education, a leading UK provider of academic qualifications, 
remains the Group’s largest customer overall, among a range 
of awarding bodies and other examining entities in the UK 
and overseas.
The products and services provided by the Group include:
Software: DRS marking and examination software including 
e-Marker® software for online electronic examination marking 
and Multiple Choice Questionnaire (MCQ) marking software;
Services: full service bureau operations in the UK, providing 
secure receipt and storage of scripts, scanning and imaging 
of completed exam answer booklets and electronic delivery 
of online marking, as well as on-site professional services for 
client’s in-house operations or to support partners delivering 
such services overseas;
Scanning equipment: DRS PhotoScribe® scanners: robust, 
high speed, network-ready form scanners able to capture 
complex data in real-time; and
Printed forms: production of bespoke examination scripts 
including fully optimised examiner answer and mark sheets 
for electronic capture, exam entry and registration forms 
incorporating photo capture and MCQ answer forms and 
exam marking forms.
Key market drivers include the size and growth of the student 
populations in these markets, the investment being made in 
education by governments and individuals and the potential 
benefits that electronic marking offers as a replacement for 
what are predominantly manual processes in the majority 
of overseas markets. These benefits include enhancements 
to the data collection process by reducing transportation of 
answer booklets, improvements in marking quality and better 
use of markers through targeted allocation and re-allocation 
of scripts and real-time monitoring of marking, the removal 
of bias and improved administration and reporting of the 
marking process.
 Elections
DRS provides a solution for electronically counted elections 
encompassing ballot design and printing, scanning hardware, 
ballot counting software, support and training. We are able to 
cover statutory and non-statutory elections including national 
parliamentary elections, legislative and local council elections 
as well as employee and trade union ballots. DRS’s principal 
aim is to provide these solutions to selected local partners or 
systems integrators as part of their programme of election 
service delivery.
We have developed knowledge and expertise from national and 
local elections in a number of markets including Europe, Africa 
and the Middle-East. In 2012, DRS, working in conjunction 
with ERS (Electoral Reform Services Limited) under the 
name IntElect®, provided the technology and expertise for 
the electronic counting of ballots in London for the Mayor 
of London and London Assembly elections, the third time 
since 2000 that the Group has delivered this election. In 2014 
IntElect® was awarded the contract to deliver the forthcoming 
elections in 2016.
DRS Election software, scanning equipment and services 
include the following:
Software: electronic counting (e-Counting) solutions for 
statutory and non-statutory elections including national 
elections, local and regional council elections and by-elections;
Services: provision of support and technical services for 
complex election projects;
Scanning equipment: DRS PhotoScribe® scanners for ballot 
scanning and for voter registration; and
Printed forms: ballot paper design and forms production. 
 Census
DRS Census services provide data capture solutions for large-
scale censuses including paper-based national or regional 
population censuses and specialised industrial, commercial 
and agricultural censuses. The Group has delivered national 
population censuses around the world, with several in Africa. 
We recognise that every census project is different and that 
market requirements are constantly changing. DRS has 
therefore developed a flexible, adaptable approach combined 
with proven and innovative data capture methods and 
technology. 
The Group is able to provide bespoke solutions encompassing:
Software: customised census software to handle Optical Mark 
Recognition (OMR), Intelligent Character Recognition (ICR), 
barcode recognition and image recognition;
Services: provision of professional and technical services and 
project management to cover all stages of a project from 
planning through to project implementation, document 
scanning of enumeration/census forms using DRS PhotoScribe® 
PS900 series scanners, data processing and export of the data 
to a chosen analysis package for complex census projects;
Scanning equipment: DRS PhotoScribe® scanners; and
Printed forms: enumeration/census forms design and printing. 
A key factor in the Census market is that it is subject to a 
decennial cycle, with the majority of censuses being clustered 
on or around the decade end. Outside of those peaks there 
are markedly fewer projects, limited to those countries which 
have not held a census for some time or decide to carry out an 
intercensal population survey. 
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
10
 STRATEGIC REPORT Overview of the year
Operationally the Group performed in line with expectations 
in 2015, with Group revenue totalling £12,477 ,000 (2014: 
£13,684,000).
Although the multi-year reform of GCSE and A-level 
examinations in the UK continues, as expected the volume 
of examination marking broadly stabilised in 2015 and there 
were no further structural changes in UK examinations of the 
kind experienced in 2014. 
At the same time local economic conditions in overseas 
markets, in particular in Africa, have remained challenging 
and the Group has continued to see reduced demand for 
its traditional scanner and print business. As a result of the 
combination of these conditions, Education revenue overall 
amounted to £12,287 ,000 (2014: £13,027 ,000), a decline of 
5.7%. Overall revenue from e-Marker® in the UK and overseas 
was stable at £9,344,000 (2014: £9,301,000).
In non-Education markets no revenue for large-scale Elections 
and Census projects was recognisable during 2015. Non-
Education revenue for the year totalled £190,000 (2014: 
£657 ,000).
STRATEGIC REPORT
11
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
EDUCATION COMMERCIAL ELECTIONS AND 
CENSUS
TOTAL
£000 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
UK Sales 9,740 9,872 15 19 20 1 9,775 9,892
International Sales 2,547 3,155 47 53 108 584 2,702 3,792
Total 12,287 13,027 62 72 128 585 12,477 13,684
UK Sales
Overall UK sales in 2015 were in line with expectations, with 
revenue of £9,775,000, a reduction of 1.2% (2014: £9,892,000). 
In the UK Education market we continue to provide electronic 
marking services for a number of awarding bodies, including 
AQA Education. These encompass the provision of service 
bureau operations for the scanning and imaging of scripts and 
for the delivery of DRS’s online marking software as a service. 
In addition to these solutions the business also has a small 
legacy of print and engineering services business. 
An important milestone was achieved in the summer of 2015 
as it represented the largest volume of scripts ever processed 
by DRS in a summer series, with five million scripts processed. 
It was the second year that we processed the summer series in 
a cloud infrastructure environment, which provides a scaleable, 
efficient and more robust environment for such services. 
Full year UK Education revenue in 2015 from the combination 
of these software and services offerings amounted to 
£9,740,000 (2014: £9,872,000), a small decline arising from a 
reduction in the legacy print and engineering services business.
International Sales
As expected during 2015, DRS saw lower revenue from 
overseas markets as a result of a combination of the absence 
of any large-scale elections and census projects and weak 
demand in the Group’s traditional scanner and print business 
in Africa which arose from the local economic conditions. 
As a result international sales overall were further reduced, 
with total revenue of £2,702,000 (2014: £3,792,000). 
During 2015 we demonstrated e-Marker®2 to a number of 
customers and carried out a non-live pilot with an existing 
client in Africa. The feedback we are receiving demonstrates 
that there is increasing acceptance of electronic marking in 
overseas markets and therefore a likelihood of a growing 
market opportunity. It is also clear that this progress has 
gone hand-in-hand with a growing sophistication in the 
user community, which is leading to increased demands 
for a broader set of features to meet these international 
market needs.
While progress in signing new business in India has been 
slower than expected, towards the end of the year we 
achieved an important milestone when we received an order 
for a pilot project from a new client in the Indian Higher 
Education sector.
Dividend Policy
The Board follows a dividend policy which provides a return 
to Shareholders whilst retaining sufficient cash to continue 
to fund the development of the Group’s products. 
As a consequence of trading conditions in 2015, the 
Directors do not propose the payment of a final dividend 
(2014: nil). CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
continued
Research and Development
Research and Development continues to be a fundamental 
part of DRS’s strategy. A structured programme of work to 
generate new products for our Education business and the 
PhotoScribe® scanners has continued at a similar level of 
expenditure. A breakdown of the investment over 2014 and 
2015 is set out in the tables below:
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
12
 STRATEGIC REPORT
2014
Income 
Statement 
Expense
£000
Balance Sheet 
Expenditure
Capitalised
£000
Customer 
Projects 
in Progress
£000
Total 
£000
Software Research and Development 1,192 981 - 2,173
Hardware Research and Development 491 - 302* 793
Total cash spend 1,683 981 302* 2,966
Amortisation 135 - - 135
Total Research and Development cost 
(including amortisation)
1,818 981 302* 3,101
e-Marker®
DRS’s largest development programme continues to be 
investment in its examination marking software solution, 
e-Marker®2. 2014 saw the release of Whole Script 
Marking that will provide benefits to customers in the 
UK and internationally over the next few years. This is 
the foundation of a continuing development programme 
for DRS’s examination products suite, which will be sold 
alongside the current e-Marker®2 product that already 
provides Item Level Marking.
In 2016 further functional enhancements to the new 
e-Marker®2 platform will be developed based on the new 
platform.
PhotoScribe®
Development work to produce a new platform for the next 
generation of PhotoScribe® scanning machines to support 
a range of machines that can handle larger documents 
than the current PS900 range has been completed by the 
end of 2015. The new model, the PS1000, demonstrates 
2015
Income 
Statement 
Expense
£000
Balance Sheet 
Expenditure
Capitalised
£000
Customer 
Projects 
in Progress
£000
Total 
£000
Software Research and Development 703 695 - 1,398
Hardware Research and Development 570 - 619* 1,189
Total cash spend 1,273 695 619* 2,587
Amortisation 264 - - 264
Total Research and Development cost 
(including amortisation)
1,537 695 619* 2,851
* These amounts are included within Trade and other receivables.
The balance sheet expenditure capitalised shown in the tables above relates to the internally generated software development 
expenditure that has been impaired in accordance with IAS 36 (see Note 10 Exceptional Items). faster scanning throughput with greater paper handling 
tolerances and produces higher definition images. 
Assembly of the first new PhotoScribe® PS1000 scanner 
commenced in the last quarter of 2015 and continued 
into 2016 to produce a number of machines for use at the 
Mayor of London and London Assembly elections in May. 
Work is currently in progress to prepare the PS1000 scanners 
for the general market in the second half of the year.
Liquidity and Treasury Management
The Group held £1,923,000 in cash at the end of 2015 
(2014: £3,612,000). The £1,689,000 fall in cash holding was 
primarily used to fund the increase in inventory. Assembly 
of the new PS1000 PhotoScribe® scanning machines to 
be used in the Mayor of London and London Assembly 
elections in May 2016 commenced in the last quarter of 
the year. The increase in inventory is due to the cost of 
materials required to build these new machines which will 
be enhanced for the general market and sold after the 
election and the cash outflow is expected to be recovered. 
The Group continues to maintain its cash holding at such 
levels in order to have the funds available to support its 
working capital requirements and to be able to fund product 
development and deliver large election and census contracts. 
The Group’s policy continues to be to take a cautious 
approach to Treasury Management with a view to 
minimising its exposure to risk. Only short-term 
investments that do not put the capital at risk are 
considered and the Group’s cash holding policy is to split 
between three banks to minimise exposure to potential risk 
associated with a bank failure. 
The Group’s principal bank through which normal business 
activity is transacted continues to be Barclays Bank plc. DRS 
Data Services Limited has a £250,000 overdraft facility and 
a £180,000 credit line to cover operational performance 
bonds required in the general line of business. However, 
the overdraft was temporarily increased to £850,000 from 
April 2016 to 31 May 2016, to fund the working capital 
requirements for the delivery of the Mayor of London and 
London Assembly elections in May 2016. In January 2013 
the Group extended its mortgage facility with Barclays Bank 
plc to 2018. The balance on this mortgage at the end of 
2015 was £1,280,000 (2014: £1,506,000).
In view of these arrangements the Directors believe the 
access to cash resources is adequate to meet liabilities as 
they fall due over the next 12 months.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Internal financial controls are based upon a budgetary 
process which begins with the Board agreeing a three year 
strategic plan detailing corporate objectives. The Board is 
then asked to approve an annual budget that is prepared 
by senior managers working with the Executive Directors 
which is in line with the corporate objectives agreed in 
the three year plan. A comprehensive strategic planning, 
budgeting and forecasting system is in place. Monthly 
financial information, including trading results and cash flow 
statements, are reported to the Board and Management. 
Senior managers’ performance is then monitored against the 
agreed financial performance targets on a monthly basis. 
The overall approach is supported by detailed internal 
financial controls operated on a day-to-day basis on all 
aspects of the business. Proper accounting records are 
maintained and the reliability of management information, 
compliance with appropriate legislation and regulation 
and the identification and control of business risks are 
continually assessed. 
The Board considers that there is an effective ongoing process 
in place within the Company for identifying, understanding, 
evaluating and managing significant risks facing the Group. 
The Board meets monthly to review performance against 
budget and forecast. The Finance Director regularly reviews 
the consolidation and analysis of material variances. The Audit 
Committee reviews the application of International Financial 
Reporting Standards and any significant accounting judgements 
made by Management. The process remains in place at the 
date of approval of this report. It manages the risk of failure to 
achieve strategic objectives, and provides reasonable (though 
not absolute) assurances against material misstatement or loss.
Furthermore, the Board is satisfied that appropriate action 
is taken promptly to remedy significant weaknesses should 
they be identified.
Details of the financial risk management objectives and 
policies of the Group, and exposures to financial risks are 
given in Note 4.1 to the financial statements.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIs) 
The Company uses a number of performance indicators 
throughout the business to monitor the Group’s 
performance. The seven KPIs presented on pages 13 to 15 
are considered to be the main measures which monitor 
the performance that is in line with the Group’s strategy 
covering 2011 to 2015.
1. Total Revenue
Revenue performance tracks the level of activity of the 
business. Monitoring revenue provides a means of measuring 
growth in the business. Elections and Census projects tend 
to be large-scale, infrequent and non-recurring and this 
leads to significant fluctuations in the Group’s revenue. The 
focus on Examinations and Assessments within Education 
provides the opportunity to build a stable base of consistent 
recurring revenue. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
13
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 In 2015 there was a year-on-year decline of 8.8% in total 
revenue. UK revenue declined by 1.2% and international 
revenue declined by 28.7%. The UK Education market was 
more settled in 2015 with marking volumes remaining 
relatively constant year-on-year. International markets once 
again proved more challenging with DRS experiencing reduced 
activity in all its international markets primarily due to the 
lack of a census contract and local economic conditions in 
Africa. A more detailed year-on-year analysis of revenue is 
provided in Note 5 Segment Information on page 72.
2. International Education Revenue
International Education revenue was seen as a principal area 
for the Group to generate sustainable sales growth. However, 
challenging trading conditions in all its international markets 
led to a 19.3% decline in international education revenue. In 
Africa, where economies are dependent on oil and minerals, 
access to foreign currency slowed trading activity leading 
to reduced levels of legacy and print business. The lack of a 
census contract explains the lower level of revenue in the rest 
of the world.
3. Research and Development Expenditure  
(cash expenditure excluding amortisation)
The Group bases its business approach on delivering a 
high level of technical excellence and by forging long-term 
relationships with its customers. Investment in software and 
hardware products to maintain a competitive advantage is very 
important. Research and Development expenditure is recorded 
on a monthly basis to monitor the level of expenditure and 
ensure investment in comparison to the level of recognised 
revenue provides a balance between spend and profitability.
Continuing on from 2014, there are two main product 
development activities. Firstly, there is a new version of the 
e-Marker® examination marking product under development, 
enabling DRS to offer a broader range of examination marking 
solutions. Secondly, a new version of DRS’s PhotoScribe® 
scanner, the PS1000, has been developed and is now in 
production. The level of investment is being reduced following 
completion of the design of the PS1000 PhotoScribe® scanner.
4. Operating Return on Sales
Operating Return on Sales %
Percentage Operating Return on Revenue (ORR)
versus Operating Proﬁt 2011 to 2015
Operating Proﬁt
1,090 
1,303 
1,269 
(1,138) 
 59  
-12 
-10 
-8 
-6 
-4 
-2 
0 
2 
4 
6 
8 
10 
12 
-1,800 
-1,500 
-1,200 
-900 
-600 
-300 
0 
300 
600 
900 
1,200 
1,500 
1,800 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 
 % Operating Return on Revenue 
Operating Proﬁt £000 
%
6.82 6.49 
7 .01 
(8.32) 
 0.47  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
continued
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
14
2.778 
4.039 
4.880 
3. 155 
2.547 
0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 
Total Revenue in £ millions 
International Education Revenue 2011 to 2015 
% R&D as a % of Turnover
Total Research and Development Expenditure 2011 to 2015
R&D Cost
1,286 
1,738 
2,484 
2,966 
2,587 
0 
5 
10 
15 
20 
25 
30 
0 
500 
1,000 
1,500 
2,000 
2,500 
3,000 
3,500 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 
R&D expenditure  as a % of Total Revenue 
R&D Expenditure in £000 
8.0 
8.7 
13.7 
21.7 
20.7 
 STRATEGIC REPORT
Total Revenue 2011 to 2015
15.98 
20.07 
18.10 
13.68 
12.48 
0 
5 
10 
15 
20 
25 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 
Total Revenue in £ millions  The loss before income tax figure for 2014 is adjusted by 
£813,000 relating to the impairment charge against the 
carrying value of the Linford Wood property.
The loss before income tax figures for 2015 is adjusted by 
£2,770,000 relating to the impairment charge against the 
carrying value of the capitalised software development 
expenditure.
The operating return on sales is based on loss/profit before 
income tax, adjusted for exceptional items, expressed as 
a percentage of total revenue. The strategy and business 
model of the Group covers different market sectors and 
the solutions delivered into these markets often involve an 
element of tailoring to meet customers’ needs. Monitoring 
the direct cost of project delivery and ensuring adequate 
controls are in place to ensure they are delivered within 
budgeted project costs is an important part of the internal 
controls within the business. 
2015 saw the full annualised benefits from the cost saving 
measures implemented during 2014. A further 8.8% year-
on-year reduction in revenue in 2015 led to additional cost 
saving measures being required to generate a small pre-
exceptional operating profit.
5. Earnings per Share
Earnings per Share is a principal measure used by the Board to 
measure the overall profitability of the Group and it provides a 
standard by which Shareholder returns are assessed.
The IAS 38 capitalised software development expenditure 
impairment produced a 7 .60p fall in earnings per share. The 
profit per share before impairment is 1.55p (2014: loss per 
share 2.34p).
6. Employees’ Average Length of Service
Retaining staff and ensuring the right mix of skills is 
maintained is particularly important to DRS as the work 
undertaken requires highly trained staff to deliver large 
complex solutions to plan. The purpose of monitoring the 
average length of service of our employees is to check that 
we are retaining the experience required to maintain our 
competitive edge. The average length of service calculation is 
based on the permanent monthly paid workforce.
In 2015 the Group employed an average of 218 full time 
equivalent employees (2014: 238) of which 158 (2014: 
185) were permanent monthly paid and 60 (2014: 53) were 
weekly paid temporary workers that cover the peaks of 
operational activity. 
The number of permanent monthly paid full time equivalent 
employees declined slightly throughout the year with 164 in 
January 2015 falling to 149 in December 2015.
7 . Total Energy Consumed
The Board is conscious of its social responsibility to use energy 
more efficiently and is continually seeking ways to reduce 
unnecessary consumption. The overall energy usage in 2015 
decreased by 4% compared to 2014. Print activity, a major 
driver of energy usage in the business, fell by 6%. Further 
details on energy usage are provided in the Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Report on page 29.
Earnings per Share (EPS) 2011 to 2015
2.66 
3.50 
4.38 
(4.90) 
(6.05) 
-8.00 
-6.00 
-4.00 
-2.00 
0.00 
2.00 
4.00 
6.00 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 
Earnings per share Pence 
STRATEGIC REPORT
15
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Average Length of Service  2011 to 2015
6.25 
7 .48 
7. 19 
8. 11 
8.65 
0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 
Years 
Total energy consumed in GWh  2011 to 2015
1.55 
1.79 
1.81 
1.50 
1.44 
1.0 
1. 1 
1.2 
1.3 
1.4 
1.5 
1.6 
1.7 
1.8 
1.9 
2.0 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 
Energy consumed in GWh units  RISK IMPACT MITIGATION
PRODUCT
Products 
meet market 
requirements
There is a risk that the Group fails to develop 
its products on a timely basis to meet 
customer and market expectation. 
In respect of software, this could materially 
impact the objective of rolling out the 
new examination marking software which 
could subsequently reduce future revenue 
opportunities.
In respect of hardware, this could result 
in the new PhotoScribe® scanners not 
meeting the performance requirements 
expected of them in the commercial market 
place and failing to provide a commercial 
return on their investment.
The approach to product development is to prepare 
details of the functional requirements of the product 
being developed prior to preparing an analysis of the 
work for the current release which is broken down 
into milestones that are measurable. These details 
are monitored by dedicated project managers and 
reviewed regularly by the executives as part of a critical 
delivery process. 
In respect of software products, the business looks to 
undertake pilots with prospective customers to evaluate 
its performance. 
In respect of hardware, rigorous testing of prototypes 
and pre-production machines is undertaken prior to 
full production. 
The Group’s Board regularly challenges the 
executives on the delivery process and status of these 
critical projects.
MARKET
Political and 
geographical 
uncertainties
Changes to national and political policies 
or uncertainties over environmental and 
economic stability could lead to changes 
in the size of the market or delays in 
implementation of solutions or settlement 
of outstanding debts.
DRS seeks to work closely with its customers and 
regulatory authorities to which they are accountable 
to understand the environments in which they 
operate and the changes they encounter in order for 
DRS to anticipate the impact on the business when 
preparing commercial bids and being aware of the 
necessary action required when changes affect existing 
business arrangements. 
MARKET
Procurement 
delays by key 
customers in 
Africa due to 
reduced access 
to foreign 
currency
A number of countries in Africa are 
encountering a downturn in their economic 
position reducing their access to foreign 
currency which they use to procure imports. 
These circumstances delay the procurement 
by key customers in Africa of products and 
services from DRS which may lead to the 
loss of repeat business. This could also result 
in delayed payment for those products and 
services from key customers. 
To reflect the increased risk to revenue and cash flow, 
DRS has amended its business plan to reflect reduced 
activity from these markets and identified possible cost 
savings that could be implemented if required. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
continued
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
16
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
This section sets out the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, but is not exhaustive. These risks have the potential 
to impact our business, revenue, profits, assets, liquidity or capital resources.
The Board has overall responsibility for managing risks affecting the Group. A risk management framework has been developed 
and adopted across the organisation. The Board regularly reviews either directly, or through the Audit Committee, the 
effectiveness of our risk management framework and internal controls. The risk management framework provides reasonable 
assurance that significant risks are identified and addressed but there may be risks that are unknown or presently judged to not 
be significant, that later prove to be significant.
The principal risks currently facing the Group are set out below but are not arranged in order of relative impact or probability.
 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT
17
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
RISK IMPACT MITIGATION
STRATEGIC
Appropriate 
resource and 
resilience to 
meet market 
and customer 
requirements
DRS may not have sufficient resources and 
resilience to be able to realign the business 
to address changing market and customer 
requirements, or to respond to the failure 
to deliver a major software or hardware 
development project in light of the 
economic contraction in its African markets.
DRS has adjusted its cost base and organisational 
structure in line with the current outlook. Product 
development, scope and investment is focused on 
delivering customer requirements and where necessary 
will be required to be realigned with these requirements. 
DRS continues to focus on key opportunities that will 
enable it to support its strategic objectives. 
STRATEGIC
Over reliance on 
key customers
There is a risk that the Group’s business 
model of focussing on large-scale, 
technically complex projects places 
over-reliance on a small number of key 
customers’ tying up the Group’s working 
capital. This could result in revenue and 
profit volatility. In the case of AQA, they 
represented 64% of the Group’s revenue 
in 2015. Renewal of this contract, which 
expires in March 2018, will be a significant 
event requiring careful management to 
avoid sudden adverse changes in both 
the operational and financial stability of 
the Group.
DRS places a very high priority on maintaining long-
term working relationships with its principal customers, 
especially AQA. It is the Group’s practice to commence 
contract renewal negotiations as soon as practicable.
However, in the event of AQA’s long-term relationship 
not being renewed, the Group would be required to 
restructure its operations and cost base to reflect a 
reduced level of operational activity and income. 
STRATEGIC
Completion 
of the Mayor 
of London 
and London 
Assembly 
election
In 2016, the project for the provision of 
hardware, software and services to the 
GLA for the Mayor of London and the 
London Assembly elections will reach a 
critical milestone on the day of the count 
on Friday, 6 May 2016 that requires DRS 
to produce election results within a short 
finite deadline in a public environment that 
affords little room for any delays or errors.
A dedicated and fully trained project team supported 
by appropriate specialist hardware and software 
support teams have been put in place throughout the 
preparation and delivery of the election project to 
control the delivery process and ensure all stakeholders 
are fully trained in the execution of the count process.
The election delivery plan involves extensive testing 
of hardware and software applications, and using the 
equipment in User Acceptance Tests with GLA to ensure 
the count processes to be used on the day of the election 
meet the requirements.
STRATEGIC
Effect of 
complexity 
of customer 
environments 
on working 
capital and other 
resources
The risks associated with providing one 
off large-scale time-critical, technically 
complex solutions place abnormal demands 
on the Group’s operational personnel and 
its working capital requirements which can 
require resources to be diverted from other 
key activities. In 2016, the Group is a party 
to a significant contract to provide the 
technology and expertise for the electronic 
counting of ballots in London for the Mayor 
of London and London Assembly elections 
which has required significant working 
capital investment to produce a large 
number of PS1000 PhotoScribe® scanners 
to support the count. This has meant that 
working capital is tied up in stock at a higher 
level than usual.
The Group’s strategic approach takes into account the 
need to plan ahead to ensure adequate capacity and 
access to finance are available along with investing in 
the development of its people, products and services, 
and where appropriate recognising the need to identify 
and work with specific third-parties that provide 
expertise and complementary skills to enable delivery of 
the contractual requirements.
Where project costs exceed original expectations 
and result in the Group having to provide additional 
resources, it may be necessary to extend financial 
facilities temporarily. 
Further development work is planned on the PS1000 
scanners following the London elections to prepare 
these machines for commercial use to enable the 
inventory to be converted back to cash as soon 
as possible. DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
18
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
continued
 STRATEGIC REPORT
RISK IMPACT MITIGATION
OPERATIONAL
Data security
Handling large volumes of sensitive data is a 
fundamental part of the business and there 
is a possibility that this information could 
be accessed by unauthorised people and its 
integrity compromised, resulting in loss of 
revenue and a potential negative impact on 
reputation.
The business has engaged in an ongoing improvement 
programme to ensure the use of up-to-date business 
practice and appropriate hardware, infrastructure 
and software allow security measures to be applied, 
maintained and controlled at a suitable level to meet the 
needs of both customer and corporate obligations. The 
Company continues to mitigate information security 
risk through certification to BS ISO/IEC 27001.
OPERATIONAL
Infrastructure 
and process 
resilience
Any substantial business disruption, 
whatever the cause, could significantly 
impede our ability to operate as usual. This 
could be as a consequence of the lack of 
availability or denied access to premises, 
equipment or data used in our normal 
operations. Significant outages of this 
nature could result in missed service level 
arrangements, reputational damage and 
loss of revenue and profit. 
Certification of compliance to Business Continuity 
Management has been in place since February 2012 
(Standard ISO 22301). The Standard the Company 
adheres to requires ongoing review of the risks, 
processes and controls supporting business continuity 
and incident management. The system provides a 
series of mitigating and contingency measures that 
provide assurance of process and data resilience should 
the unexpected happen. Due diligence processes are 
also in place to ensure similar assurance of our key 
supply chain.
OPERATIONAL
Employee 
recruitment 
and retention of 
appropriately 
skilled staff
The business model requires the design, 
development and implementation of 
technically complex solutions that makes 
the business very dependent on the skill of a 
small number of key personnel.
Recruitment, retention and development of key staff is 
important for DRS and a priority is placed on identifying 
and supporting key personnel throughout the business 
whilst the necessary skills are developed to meet future 
requirements.  Employees
We respect and value the individuality and diversity that 
each of our employees brings to the business. We are 
committed to equal opportunities and the development of 
our people to realise their potential, in line with best practice 
and in accordance with our Investors in People accreditation. 
As at 31 December 2015, 90 of our employees out of a total 
of 156 were male and 66 were female. Of these 13 were 
senior managers, 9 of whom were male and 4 were female. 
In terms of the Company’s Board of Directors there were 
5 Directors, 3 male and 2 female.
Cautionary Statement
The Strategic Report has been prepared solely to provide 
additional information to Shareholders to assess the Group’s 
strategies and the potential for those strategies to succeed. 
It should not be relied upon by any other party for any 
other purpose.
Certain forward-looking statements are contained in 
the Strategic Report. These statements are made by the 
Directors in good faith based on the information available 
to them up to the time of their preparation of this report 
and such statements should be treated with caution due 
to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic 
and business risk factors, underlying any such forward-
looking information.
Unless otherwise required by applicable laws, regulations 
or accounting standards, DRS Data and Research Services 
plc does not undertake any obligation to update or revise 
any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new 
information, future developments or otherwise.
Current Trading
In the first half of 2016 the Group will be focussing on two 
principal operational areas. 
Preparation for the Mayor of London and London Assembly 
elections will be a major priority leading up to the day of the 
count on 6 May 2016. Manufacturing of the required number 
of new DRS PhotoScribe® PS1000 scanners, which will be 
used in combination with the stock of existing PS900 series 
machines to deliver the project, has now been completed 
and all other preparations are on track. 
In parallel, the business will be focused on the preparation 
for, and delivery of, the peak examination series in the UK 
in the summer. Live examination marking will commence 
immediately after the completion of the London 
election count. 
Going forward the Group remains committed to examination 
processing, developing its electronic marking software and 
services and hardware. DRS has adjusted its cost base and 
organisational structure in line with the current outlook and 
with limited resources the roadmap for e-Marker®2 software 
development currently prioritises features to support new 
business opportunities. Work is currently in progress to 
prepare the PS1000 scanners for the Education market in the 
second half of the year. DRS’s primary focus is the general 
market and currently there are no new census or election 
opportunities in the pipeline.
Steve Gowers
Chief Executive Officer
25 April 2016
19
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT REPORT ON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
INTRODUCTION
The Board believes that sound management of 
environmental, governance and social issues 
has a key part to play in the successful delivery 
of the Group’s business strategy and objectives. 
It is a priority to integrate business values and 
operations at DRS to meet the expectations 
of our investors and other stakeholders in 
relation to customers, employees, suppliers, 
the environment and the community.
Corporate responsibility at DRS is focussed on the following 
areas which are of particular relevance to what we do. The 
most significant areas continue to be:
• relationships with our staff;
• relationships with our customers, suppliers and partners; 
• relationships with our Shareholders; and
•  how the Group’s activities impact on society and our 
environment and contribute to our community.
These responsibilities continue to be supported by the 
KPIs referred to on pages 13 to 15 and are considered in 
the management of its risks using a framework which 
deals with the risks and opportunities directly connected 
to delivering the Company strategy and objectives. These 
risk management practices are informed by corporate 
governance principles and ISO 31000, the international 
standard for risk management. The Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties on page 16 and the Corporate Governance 
Statement on page 31 provide further information on the 
Group’s management of risk.
The Group’s policies relating to corporate responsibility and 
the environment are reviewed annually by the Board. They 
are implemented throughout the business and are followed 
by our staff.
Our Business Standards
The Company retains its certification to the following 
standards which contribute to the way in which business 
is conducted with all our suppliers, customers and 
other partners:
•  ISO 27001 – for the resilience of its information security 
management systems upholding the confidentiality, 
integrity and availability of information based upon 
risk assessment and application of relevant information 
security controls; 
•  BS EN ISO 14001 – in respect of its environmental 
management through risk assessment to mitigate potential 
environmental impacts of business processes and meet our 
legal requirements; 
•  BS EN ISO 9001 – for quality management by reducing 
quality risks and providing customer focus to assist in our 
customers’ stated requirements; and
•  BS ISO 22301 – Business Continuity Management System. 
A proactive risk based set of business driven processes 
adapted to meet the evolving needs of both customers and 
the business and ensure increased resilience and a positive 
and timely response to disruptive incidents to ensure our 
continued ability to achieve our key objectives. 
Human Rights in DRS
Respect for the rights of others guides DRS in much of its 
work in the UK and overseas.
When working with customers, suppliers and partners, the 
importance of complying with applicable laws, is emphasised 
in our relationships and is supported by the contractual 
documentation we use. Workers operating on behalf of the 
Group anywhere in the world must be afforded satisfactory 
labour conditions that meet our requirements of cleanliness, 
safety and services. Inspections are undertaken by DRS 
personnel who make themselves available to answer workers’ 
concerns. All workers are required to be aged at least 16 
years. Ethical and human rights issues will be considered as 
part of its due diligence processes.
In the UK our staff are supported by policies intended to 
deliver a workplace that promotes dignity and respect. A 
proactive approach is taken to any circumstance which could 
potentially damage health or a colleague’s ability to carry 
out their role safely. Examples include a stress management 
policy operating alongside the Employee Assistance 
Programme and the Anti-Harassment and Bullying Policy, 
which is strictly enforced.
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
20
 STRATEGIC REPORT Customers, Suppliers and Partners
Our working relationships remain a high priority throughout 
DRS.
We operate within standard procurement process guidelines 
and any concerns are discussed openly with our suppliers with 
the aim of speedy resolution. Written terms and conditions of 
trading are negotiated ahead of work being undertaken and it 
is the policy that payment terms are strictly adhered to.
The Group’s in-house legal and contract management teams 
assist with finalising business terms and help to ensure all 
concerns are dealt with in a timely manner and obligations 
are met by the contracting parties.
In our partner relationships we aim to operate standards 
to safeguard against unfair business practices and to 
encourage our partners to adopt responsible business policies 
and practices.
Business Ethics and the Bribery Act 2010  
(The Act)
The Group operates a Code of Business Ethics with all its 
stakeholders and works only with organisations which 
recognise responsibility for upholding this Code. The Board 
monitors matters of an ethical nature by receiving and 
reviewing reports on a quarterly basis and undertakes a 
process to review the Code of Business Ethics at least annually 
to ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate in light of 
evolving developments. The Group’s terms and conditions of 
trading and relevant trading policies are regularly reviewed to 
emphasise the Group’s continuing intolerance to all forms of 
bribery, corruption and facilitation payments.
All employees and contractors who work for the Group are 
subject to the terms of the Group’s Anti-Bribery policy and are 
required to complete and pass online training and assessment in 
the requirements of the Act and to implement anti-corruption 
measures in their work here and abroad. These training modules 
are reviewed and updated annually. Our employees are also 
advised of ongoing developments in the field of corruption 
control which may have an impact on the business. 
Our Employees
We employed 156 people as at 31 December 2015 compared 
with 168 in 2014. The annual employee turnover rate for 
the year is estimated to be 22.21%, including roles which 
were made redundant during the year, which compares with 
31.69% in 2014.
The Board is committed to clear and effective communication 
with all DRS colleagues and staff are kept informed of the 
development of the Group’s operations. Meetings are held 
throughout the year and all staff are encouraged to attend 
and raise questions and concerns with the CEO and Directors. 
Senior managers’ meetings, which are attended by the Chief 
Executive, are held on a regular basis. News items and various 
information bulletins are published throughout the year on 
the Group’s intranet site. 
Employee engagement continues to be a key priority and a 
staff forum meets regularly throughout the year to raise and 
discuss topics submitted by employees to their respective 
representatives. Minutes of staff forum meetings are 
published on the Group’s intranet site. 
Training and development of all new and existing employees 
remains a commitment. The Group ensures that the skills and 
abilities of all staff are developed to meet current business 
objectives and each individual’s personal development. 
Partners are also trained to comply with many of the 
procedures and policies operated by the Group. 
Regular training reviews are undertaken and the effectiveness 
of all training received is evaluated to ensure that it is 
appropriate and meets the professional and personal goals 
agreed between the individual and their manager as well as 
the business’ objectives and cost-effectiveness priorities. 
Staff are encouraged to develop their careers and pay and 
benefits are reviewed annually to retain competitiveness and 
to reward good performance.
A Group Personal Pension Plan is open to all employees 
which complies with the contributory requirements of auto-
enrolment introduced under the Pensions Act 2008.
Investors in People (IiP) provides a nationally recognised 
standard which sets out a level of good practice for training 
and development of people to achieve business goals. DRS 
has held this accreditation continually since 1999. 
The Board is committed to ensuring that the highest possible 
health and safety and welfare standards are delivered 
consistently throughout the business to its employees, its 
partners and the general public. The Group will take all 
steps necessary and work within its power to meet this 
responsibility by regularly reviewing, amending and improving 
all relevant policies and procedures, meeting its obligations 
and exceeding best practice standards wherever possible.
Staff are introduced to the Group’s Health and Safety at 
Work policy when employment commences and undertake 
refresher training when appropriate, paying particular 
attention to the priority and maintenance of safe plant and 
equipment and the safe handling, transportation and storage 
of substances and equipment.
The Group’s health and safety policies are reviewed by the 
Board annually and the Board regularly receives reports 
regarding health and safety issues that have arisen in the 
year. Attention is given to cause and effect. Follow-up actions 
and progress on all reported issues continue to be carefully 
monitored. To assist with management of health and safety 
related issues the Company has during the year used the 
services of an external specialist consultant. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
21
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 REPORT ON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
continued
During 2015 there were no reportable and 11 minor accidents 
compared with one reportable and 12 minor accidents in 
2014. 
The Health and Safety Committee includes representatives 
from throughout the business and has meetings scheduled 
twice a year. All safety issues relevant to DRS are discussed 
and minutes of meetings are made available to all staff via the 
Company’s intranet site. An ongoing training programme of 
fire safety and evacuation and first aid is provided.
Employees can participate in the Group’s various sports and 
social clubs including golf and badminton. A golf tournament 
is held annually and is open to all staff. 
Environmental Policy
The Company strives to improve its environmental 
performance through the implementation of 
sustainable development and the pursuit of appropriate 
environmental activities.
Environmental impact is reviewed regularly in order to:
• meet all statutory obligations;
•  pursue working practices which reduce the business’ 
environmental load; and
•  recycle waste products and safely dispose of non-
recyclable materials.
We work with environmentally responsible organisations 
that support our approach. Several different waste types 
are recycled including paper reel ends, compactor waste 
polythene, shredded materials and cardboard. In 2015 we 
recycled 100 metric tonnes (2014: 111); the decrease being 
due to reduced levels of print production in the business. Staff 
are encouraged to submit their ideas on how consumption 
of energy and other resources used by the Company may 
be reduced. 
The energy awareness initiative first implemented in 2010 
continues to be reviewed. Details on the Group’s Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions are set out on page 29 of the Directors’ Report. 
For details on energy usage see KPI information on page 15 in 
this Report.
At the end of life of products supplied, customers are 
expected to return them to DRS for disposal or recycling 
in accordance with the Waste Electrical and Electronic 
Equipment Directive and the Batteries Directive.
DRS also operates in accordance with the requirements of 
the European Directive 2011/65/EU (RoHS Directive) ensuring 
its products comply, where required, with the restrictions 
on the use of certain hazardous substances. This revised 
directive includes additional categories of Electrical and 
Electronic Equipment (EEE) and European Conformity (CE) 
marking obligations.
Our Stakeholders
We provide regular communication opportunities to all our 
stakeholders. Our AGM is held each year to which all our 
investors are welcome. The Annual Report and Accounts, 
trading updates and items of significant news affecting the 
Company or its trading are disseminated as announcements 
using the regulatory news service and are accessible from the 
Company’s website. Meetings are arranged with investors 
upon receipt of a request and institutional investors are also 
invited to attend a presentation on the annual results.
Our Community
The Group is committed to supporting and sponsoring 
employees who wish to undertake charitable or community 
related activities. During the year the Company supported 
the initiative of an employee to raise funds for a local charity 
supporting people with Crohn’s disease and Colitis. Following 
a proposal from the staff forum it was agreed during the year 
that the Company would actively support its employees 
who wished to volunteer for activities that benefit the local 
community. This support includes the provision of one day paid 
leave to employees to assist with their volunteering activities. 
The Strategic Report as set out on pages 4 to 22 has been 
approved by the Board.
ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD
Steve Gowers
Chief Executive Officer
25 April 2016
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
22
 STRATEGIC REPORT 23
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Keith Bogg
Non-Executive Chairman | Chair of Nomination Committee
Keith was previously Group Head, Strategic Program Delivery for Catlin Holdings 
Limited. His earlier positions include Program Director for Gartner Europe Limited, 
Procurement Director BBC Technology, UK Retail Board Director Homeware and 
Direct Marketing and Divisional Director, Information Technology & Logistics for 
Marks and Spencer plc. Prior to this Keith had also held Director, senior operational, 
commercial and technical executive roles for ICL/Fujitsu.
Alison Reed
Non-Executive Director 
Senior Independent Director | Chair of Audit Committee
Alison Reed was appointed to the Board as a non-Executive Director in January 
2011 and as Senior Independent Director on 25 May 2011. Alison worked for Marks 
and Spencer plc for 21 years gaining experience in a broad range of financial and 
commercial roles, ultimately as Chief Financial Officer. Alison then joined Standard 
Life as Chief Financial Officer, where she was responsible for the flotation. She is a 
non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman of British Airways plc and Executive 
Director and Audit Committee Chair of Darty plc and Newday Ltd. Alison qualified as 
a Chartered Accountant after graduating from Exeter University. 
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
24
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Dame Sandra Dawson DBE
Non-Executive Director | Chair of Remuneration Committee
Dame Sandra was appointed to the Board as a non-Executive Director in February 2012. 
She is KPMG Professor Emeritus at Judge Business School, Cambridge, a non-Executive 
Director of TSB Banking Group, Winton Capital Group, the Institute for Government, 
the SSRC (USA) and the American University of Sharjah. Previous appointments include 
non-Executive roles at Oxfam, Barclays Bank plc, JP Morgan Fleming Claverhouse 
Investment Trust plc and the Financial Services Authority and membership of the 
Prime Minister’s Council for Science and Technology. She was also formerly one of the 
Deputy Vice Chancellors of the University of Cambridge (2008-2012), Director of Judge 
Business School (1995-2006) and Master of Sidney Sussex College (1999-2009). In 
2004 she was made a Dame Commander of the British Empire, and in 2006 she was 
inducted into the International Women’s Forum (IWF) Hall of Fame. Mark Tebbutt
FCMA
Finance Director
Mark Tebbutt qualified as a Chartered Management Accountant in 1984. Mark gained 
a broad operational knowledge of financial management with Bass and Grand Met 
before joining Misys as the Financial Director for two of its subsidiaries. Thereafter, 
he held an operational role for six years in Stanley Works and joined DRS in 2001 as 
Head of Finance. Mark was appointed Finance Director in March 2002. He is a Fellow 
of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
25
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Steve Gowers
FCCA
Chief Executive Officer
Steve Gowers was appointed Chief Executive Officer in November 2012. His previous 
positions have included Corporate and Business Development Director for Misys plc as 
well as roles as Chief Technology Officer and Director of Development at Misys and at 
Oracle Corporation, including a period of time in the USA. Steve has also held senior 
positions in professional services roles. He is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered 
Certified Accountants. DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Report and Accounts of the Company and present this report 
together with the audited Group and Company financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2015. 
The registered office of both DRS Data and Research Services 
plc and its subsidiary company DRS Data Services Limited is 
1 Danbury Court, Linford Wood, Milton Keynes, MK14 6LR.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Corporate Governance Statement starting on page 31 
forms part of this Directors’ Report and provides information 
concerning the meetings of the Board and its Committees 
which took place in 2015. The Corporate Governance 
Statement is also available on the Company’s website at:  
www.drs.co.uk/investors
The Appointment of Directors
Subject to the terms of its Articles of Association, the Company 
may by ordinary resolution appoint any person, who is willing 
to act as a Director. The Board may also appoint a Director 
either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board, 
which appointment shall continue until the next AGM when it 
will be subject to re-appointment by ordinary resolution of the 
members. The Articles require a minimum of two Directors and 
there is no maximum number that may be appointed to the 
Board. The Company may, also by ordinary resolution, remove 
a Director before the expiry of his/her term of office and may, 
subject to the Articles, appoint another person, who is willing to 
act as a Director in his or her place.
Board nominations are recommended to the Board by the 
Nomination Committee under its terms of reference.
The current members of the Board, together with biographical 
details of each Director appear on pages 24 to 25. Alison Reed, 
Dame Sandra Dawson, Steve Gowers and Mark Tebbutt served 
on the Board throughout the year. Keith Bogg was appointed 
as Chairman with effect from 1 July 2015. Sir David Brown and 
John Linwood retired from the Board at the completion of the 
2015 AGM on 18 May 2015. At the AGM in 2015, Dame Sandra 
Dawson was re-elected to the Board. 
Under the Articles of Association, each Director is required to 
retire from office at the AGM unless he or she was appointed 
or re-appointed as a Director at either of the last two AGMs 
before that meeting. In accordance with this rule, Mark 
Tebbutt is retiring by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and, 
being eligible, will offer himself for re-election. Keith Bogg, 
having been appointed to the Board since the 2015 AGM is 
being proposed for election to the Board at the 2016 AGM. 
Keith Bogg: Keith was appointed as Chairman with effect 
from 1 July 2015. His letter of engagement will expire on 
30 June 2018 and may be terminated by either party giving 
not less than three months notice to the other or by the 
Company with immediate effect in certain circumstances. 
No compensation is payable on termination of Keith Bogg’s 
appointment. The Board confirms that Keith continues to 
make an effective and valuable contribution to the Board 
demonstrating commitment to the role and unanimously 
supports his election.
Mark T ebbutt: Mark was appointed to the Board as Finance 
Director with effect from 25 March 2002. His appointment 
will continue unless terminated by himself or the Company 
on not less than six months written notice. The Company may 
require some or all of the notice period to be served in absence 
from his place of work. The Company may terminate the 
appointment on immediate notice in certain circumstances. 
He is not entitled to receive a compensation payment on the 
termination of his appointment. The Board confirms that Mark 
continues to make an effective and valuable contribution 
to the Board demonstrating commitment to the role and 
unanimously supports his re-election.
Directors’ Interests
Details of Directors’ service contracts and a statement of the 
interests of the Directors and their connected persons in the 
Ordinary shares of the Company are given in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on page 38 in respect of their service 
contracts and page 49 regarding their shareholdings in 
the Company.
No Director had any material interest in any contractual 
agreement subsisting during or at the end of the year which 
is or may be significant to the Group.
Indemnity Provisions
There were no qualifying third-party indemnity provisions 
or qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions put 
in place or in force in the financial year for the benefit of 
Directors of the Company or for the benefit of Directors of 
associated companies.
Directors’ Responsibilities
The statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in preparing the 
Financial Statements and the Annual Report can be found on 
page 54.
Directors’ Disclosure of Information to the Auditor
The following statement applies to the individuals who were 
Directors of the Company on the date this report was approved:
a)  so far as the Directors are aware there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is not aware; 
and
b)  the Directors have taken all reasonable steps that he/
she ought to have taken as Directors to make himself 
or herself aware of any relevant audit information and 
to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of 
such information.
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
26
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  27
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Shareholders
At the date of this report the Company’s share register of 
substantial shareholdings showed the following interests 
of 3% or more of the Company’s issued ordinary capital 
excluding Treasury shares:
Rank Shareholder Shares % of Issued  
   Share Capital
1 Mr Malcolm Brighton 7 ,079,697 21.66
2 Mr J S Rockliff 2,375,000 7 .26
3  Discr etionary Unit  
Fund Managers 
2,350,000 7.19
4 Mr Gary Brighton 2,000,000 6. 12
5 Mrs Jennifer A Brighton 2,000,000 6. 12
6 Mr Mark Brighton 2,000,000 6. 12
7 Mr Charles Stanley 1,200,837 3.67
8 CriSeren Investments 1,010,000 3.09
Relationship Agreement
The Company is required to comply with the Listing Rules 
introduced in 2014 relating to controlling Shareholders. For 
the purposes of the Listing Rules Malcolm Brighton, Gary 
Brighton, Mark Brighton and Jennifer Brighton (the ‘Family’) 
are deemed to be a controlling Shareholder of the Company 
as a result of the Family exercising or controlling more than 
30% of the voting right of the Company. Under the terms of 
a Relationship Agreement with the Family it has been agreed 
that the Company will at all times be capable of carrying 
on its business independently and that all transactions and 
arrangements between the Company and the Family will 
be conducted at arm’s length and on normal commercial 
terms. The Company has complied with the terms of the 
Relationship Agreement and, so far as the Company is aware, 
the Family and the Family’s associates have also complied 
with the terms of the Relationship Agreement.
Structure of Capital   
Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7 .2
The Company’s share capital is as follows:
Ordinary shares of 5p each at at 31 December 2015 and 
31 December 2014
 Number £000
Allotted, issued, called up  
and fully paid 34,621,600 1,731
Further details are provided on the Company’s share capital in 
Note 18 on page 83.
All shares have equal rights and there are no restrictions 
on the transfer of securities in the Company or on the 
voting rights.
There are no securities that carry special rights with regard to 
control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreement that may result 
in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on any voting rights.
The Directors were granted specific authority to issue the 
Company’s shares in certain circumstances, at the Annual 
General Meeting in 2015. That authority will expire at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting at which the Directors 
will be seeking a similar authority. Further details are provided 
in the Notice of Meeting which accompanies this report.
The Directors will seek a renewal of their authority to issue 
and to allot the Company’s shares at the Annual General 
Meeting. Further details are set out in the Notice of Annual 
General Meeting which accompanies this report.
The Corporate Governance Statement sets out the steps taken 
by individual Directors and by the Board as a whole to develop 
and maintain contact with the Company’s Shareholders.
Renewal of Authority to Allot
The Directors’ current authority to allot relevant shares 
pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 will expire 
on 18 August 2016 or at the 2016 Annual General Meeting, 
if earlier. A Resolution, as set out in the Notice of Annual 
General Meeting, will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution 
to authorise the Directors to allot Ordinary shares in the 
capital of the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£1,089,720. The authority (unless previously varied, revoked or 
renewed) will expire 15 months after the date of passing of the 
resolution or, if earlier, at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights
The current authority for Directors to allot equity securities 
for cash without first being required to offer such securities to 
existing Shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings 
expires on the 18 August 2016 or at the 2016 Annual General 
Meeting, if earlier. A Resolution, as set out in the Notice 
of Annual General Meeting, will be proposed as a Special 
Resolution to renew the authority of the Directors under 
Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot shares for cash 
otherwise than on a pre-emptive basis. The number of shares 
which may be allotted will be limited to an aggregate nominal 
value of £86,554 (representing 5% of the issued share capital of 
the Company). The authority (unless previously varied, revoked 
or renewed) will expire 15 months after the date of passing of 
the resolution or, if earlier, at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Although there is no present intention of issuing any shares 
(other than pursuant to the Company’s share option schemes), 
the Directors consider it is desirable to maintain the flexibility 
afforded by these provisions. DIRECTORS’ REPORT
continued
Purchase of Own Shares
Currently Shareholder approval is needed for the Company to 
purchase its own shares. A Resolution, as set out in the Notice of 
Annual General Meeting, will propose as a Special Resolution to 
authorise the Company to make purchases of its Ordinary shares 
up to a maximum of 10% of the current issued share capital of 
the Company. The authority (unless previously varied, revoked or 
renewed) will expire 15 months after the date of passing of the 
resolution or, if earlier, at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Treasury Shares
The Company continues to hold 1,930,000 Ordinary shares 
of 5p purchased between 3 June and 15 July 2004 for a total 
consideration of £1, 166,000 as Treasury shares. This represents 
5.57% of the Company’s issued share capital.
Key contractual arrangements
AQA Education
In March 2015 a three year contract with AQA Education was 
agreed for the provision of e-Marker® services. The document 
is an overarching agreement providing a framework within 
which specified defined service requirements and service levels 
are agreed and delivered for each examination series. AQA 
may terminate the agreement if there is a transfer of overall 
control of DRS Data Services Limited or if DRS Data Services 
Limited no longer has exclusive ownership of the e-Marker® 
software. Details of e-Marker® development are provided in the 
Strategic Report.
Greater London Authority (GLA)
DRS Data Services Limited, operating as IntElect® its joint 
arrangement with Electoral Reform Services Limited, has been 
retained to provide electronic counting and related supplies and 
services to the GLA in connection with the ordinary elections in 
2016. In the event of a change of control of IntElect®, it is required 
to give reasonable notice to the GLA which retains the right to 
terminate the contract if such a change of control should occur.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors 
or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or 
employment that occur because of a takeover bid.
Auditor
The auditor, Grant Thornton UK LLP, has indicated its 
willingness to continue in office. A Resolution proposing the 
re-appointment of Grant Thornton UK LLP is contained in 
the Notice of Annual General Meeting and will be put to the 
Shareholders at the meeting.
Viability Statement
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, 
the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over 
a longer period than the 12 months required by the Going 
Concern requirements of the Code.
The Group’s annual corporate planning processes include 
completion of a strategic review, preparation of a three year 
business plan and a rolling forecast of current year business 
performance and prospects. These processes also consider 
the Group’s cash flows, committed funding and liquidity 
positions, forecast future funding requirements, banking 
covenants and other key ratios. The Directors have concluded 
that, recognising the current and predicted changes to the 
UK Education examination sector in 2018 and the expiry in 
2018 of the Group’s principal contract with AQA, the most 
appropriate time period for this review should be the three 
year period covered by the Group’s annual planning process.
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal 
risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten the 
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity (see 
section on Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 16  to 18).
Where appropriate, sensitivity analysis is undertaken to 
stress test the resilience of the Group and its business 
model to the impact of the Group’s potential risks which has 
included considering the scenario in which the current AQA 
examination marking contract, accounting for 64% of the 
Group’s revenue in 2015, is not renewed in March 2018. 
On the basis of this assessment of the principal risks and 
other matters considered and reviewed by the Board during 
the year, and recognising that such future measurements are 
subject to a level of uncertainty that increases with time and, 
therefore, future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted 
with certainty, the Board has a reasonable expectation that 
the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due over the period to December 2018.
Going Concern
In considering Going Concern, the Directors have reviewed the 
financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position 
and borrowing facilities. The Group meets its day-to-day working 
capital and other funding requirements through a combination of 
long-term funding and short-term cash holdings. 
Revenue in 2015 was 8.8% lower than in 2014 leading to the 
Directors implementing more cost saving measures to ensure 
the Group’s cost base was in line with the reduced revenue. 
Prior to taking into account the IAS 38 and IAS 36 impairment 
adjustment, the Group delivered a profit before tax of £59,000 
in 2015. The £1,689,000 reduction in cash holding during 
the year was offset by a £1,735,000 increase in inventory 
holding relating to the cost of materials for the new PS1000 
PhotoScribe® scanning machines to be used in the 2016 Mayor 
of London and London Assembly elections. A detailed analysis 
of resource and cash flow requirements is maintained paying 
particular attention to the work in progress requirements for the 
examination marking series and election contract during their 
delivery throughout the 2016 summer months. Recognising 
these working capital requirements, the overdraft with Barclays 
Bank was temporarily increased to £850,000 from April 2016 
to 31 May 2016 to fund the working capital on the Mayor of 
London and London Assembly elections project. 
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
28
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  The Directors believe that the Group forecasts and 
projections have been prepared on a prudent basis and have 
also considered the impact of a range of potential changes 
to trading performance. The Directors have concluded 
that the Group should be able to operate within its current 
facilities and comply with its banking covenants on the 
Barclays mortgage that runs to January 2018 (see Note 20 
on Borrowings). This opinion is supported by the section 
Liquidity and Treasury Management within the Strategic 
Report on page 13.
A financial plan has been prepared incorporating realistic 
assumptions taking into account the Group’s reduced revenue 
expectation together with reduced resources as a result of 
recently implemented cost saving programmes. Based upon 
this financial plan, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future 
and, accordingly, the Directors believe it is appropriate to 
continue to adopt the Going Concern basis of accounting in 
preparing the annual financial statements. 
Amount of Interest Capitalised by the Group
No interest was capitalised by the Group in 2015. 
Environmental and Social Issues
Environmental and social issues are reviewed within the 
Report on Corporate Responsibility. This report also sets 
out information on the number of persons employed in the 
business during 2015.
Political donations
The Company does not make political donations. 
Greenhouse Gas emissions report
Organisational Boundary
This report covers the DRS Group comprising DRS Data and 
Research Services plc and its subsidiary company DRS Data 
Services Limited which operates from premises comprising 
nine mixed units in Milton Keynes. This number has increased 
by one since the last report.
Period Base Year and Base Year + 1
The data provided is for the baseline year of 1 January to 
31 December 2013 and subsequent operating years 1 January 
to 31 December 2014 and 2015. The baseline is considered to 
remain appropriate. Should there be any significant changes 
to the business undertaken by the Group then the baseline 
may be recalculated using a more appropriate metric – 
“significant” being a change in premises or other major change 
in business operations.
Quantification and Reporting Methodology
We continue to follow the UK Government Environmental 
Reporting Guidelines.
The chosen intensity measure is CO
2
e against £000 revenue. 
The CO
2
e figures are based upon Scope 1 and Scope 2 activities 
as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol using the UK 
Government GHG Conversion Factors.
GHG Emissions from Current Reporting Year: 
Emissions from: 2015 2014 2013
 Tonnes Tonnes  Tonnes 
 of CO
2
e of CO
2
e of CO
2
e
Combustion of fuel and  14 20 34 
operation of facilities 
 
Electricity, heat, steam 636 673 705
and cooling purchased  
for own use
Emissions reported 0.0468 0.0506 0.0408
above normalised per  
£000 revenue
Variation between Current Reporting Year and 
Base Year
Emissions have decreased by 9% overall with the emissions 
reported above normalised per £000 revenue also decreasing 
by 7%.
Assurance and Verification
Utility data is provided from visual inspection, supplier 
reports, monthly meter readings and billing information 
received. The utility data is verified by the Finance Team.
Dividends
The Directors do not recommend a final dividend for 2015 
(2014: nil). Further details concerning the dividend policy can 
be found in the Strategic Report on page 11.
Articles of Association
The Articles of Association may be amended by special 
resolution of the Shareholders.
Research and Development
Please refer to page 12 of the Strategic Report where 
the Company’s activities in respect of Research and 
Development have been disclosed.
Future Developments
Please refer to the Strategic Report set out on pages 4 to 22 
where the Future Developments have been disclosed. The 
strategy for the delivery of future value and objectives of the 
Company is disclosed in the Strategic Report.
29
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
30
Equal Opportunities and Employment 
of Disabled Persons
Employment policies are designed to provide equal 
opportunity irrespective of age, gender, sexual orientation, 
disability, religion, race or marital status. Full consideration 
is given to applications for employment by and the 
continuing employment, training and career development of 
disabled people. 
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 1 Danbury 
Court, Linford Wood, Milton Keynes MK14 6LR on 20 June 
2016 at 3.00pm. The Notice of Annual General Meeting and 
explanation of the business to be put to the meeting has 
been sent to Shareholders with this Report.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
continued
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
31
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
This Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the 
Directors’ Report which begins on page 26. The Business Model 
of the Company is described in the Strategic Report which also 
contains a description of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties. 
A review of Going Concern has been provided on page 28 and 
the viability statement is found on page 28.
Compliance Statement
The Board is responsible for good governance. It reviews its 
procedures regularly to ensure high standards of corporate 
governance are maintained. The Company complies with 
the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 
published in September 2014. The Code can be reviewed on the 
website of the Financial Reporting Council at www.frc.org.uk. This 
statement and the Directors’ Remuneration Report describe how 
the Board has applied the main principles of good governance as 
set out in the Code during the financial year.
Having reviewed the main principles of the Code, the Board is 
satisfied that, apart from the period 18 May 2015 to 1 July 2015 
when Alison Reed served as Chairman on an interim basis and 
hence Sandra Dawson was the only Independent non-Executive 
during this period throughout the accounting period ended 
31 December 2015, the Company has complied with these. This 
statement further explains how the Code has been applied by 
the Company.
DTR 7 .2 also requires information relating to the share capital 
of the Company to be disclosed. This information can be found 
on page 27 .
Leadership
The Board is led by the Chairman, Keith Bogg, who was 
appointed to the Board with effect from 1 July 2015 and 
is seeking election at the 2016 AGM. Sir David Brown was 
Chairman from 1 January 2015 to 18 May 2015 when he retired 
from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM. Alison Reed 
served as Chairman on an interim basis between 18 May 2015 
and 1 July 2015. The Board is responsible to the Shareholders 
for the performance and long-term success of the Company. It 
provides effective leadership and prudent control of the Group 
comprising the Company and DRS Data Services Limited. 
The Chairman is responsible for leadership and for the workings 
of the Board. He sets the agenda for all Board meetings and 
ensures it operates effectively in all aspects of its role. He also 
oversees the composition of the Board and reviews the balance 
of skills, experience, independence and knowledge. Keith Bogg 
is required to work for the Company approximately 24 full 
days every year and has confirmed that since his appointment 
he met the expectations of his role. The Chairman’s current 
commitments are set out in his biography on page 24.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are 
separated and their responsibilities are clearly established, set 
out in writing and agreed by the Board. 
Steve Gowers, the Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for 
the running of the business and the implementation of Board 
strategy and policy.
The Board of Directors
At Board meetings, the discussion is open and supported by 
relevant written information. All Directors contribute to the 
debate and no individual or small group of Directors dominate 
the debate.
The Board has specific duties which it does not delegate. These 
are set out in the formal schedule of matters reserved to the 
Board. These include:
•  setting and monitoring strategic objectives and reviewing the 
performance of the Group against those objectives; 
• approving the annual budget and business plans; 
•  responsibility for the Company’s governance and the evaluation 
and management of continuing and emerging risks; and
• approving the Group’s capital expenditure.
The Board also regularly considers the Group’s financial 
and human resources needs to enable the Group’s strategic 
objectives to be met.
Board Composition and Diversity
The majority of the Board’s members are non-Executive 
Directors. 
At 31 December 2015 the Board comprised:
•  Keith Bogg, non-Executive Chairman
•  Alison Reed, Senior Independent non-Executive Director
•  Sandra Dawson, Independent non-Executive Director
•  Steve Gowers, Chief Executive Officer
•  Mark Tebbutt, Finance Director
The non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment will be 
available for inspection by Shareholders at the Company’s 
registered office on the day of the AGM.
Board members bring a variety of commercial experience to 
their work with DRS. The non-Executive Directors challenge 
the Board in its thinking and assist in the development of the 
Company strategy and the management of its risks. Principal 
Risks and Uncertainties are reported in the Strategic Report on 
pages 16 to 18.
Having carefully reviewed the relevant circumstances with 
each non-Executive Director and having considered the 
guidance provided in the Code, the Board is of the view that 
Alison Reed and Sandra Dawson remain independent while 
retaining sufficient knowledge of the Company to discharge 
their responsibilities effectively. Keith Bogg was independent 
when first appointed to the Board.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  Alison Reed is the Senior Independent non-Executive Director 
and is available for Shareholders to contact with matters of 
concern. She is the contact for whistle-blowing arrangements 
by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about 
possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or in other matters. 
She is also responsible for ensuring that arrangements are in 
place to allow proportionate and independent investigation of 
such matters to take place.
Diversity
The Board is committed to its established policy of drawing 
on the diversity of talents and skills in the communities within 
which it operates to build and maintain the strong teams 
needed throughout the Group to deliver business success. 
All appointments are made on merit, taking the benefits of 
diversity fully into account. It is considered inappropriate to set 
gender targets but gender distribution is monitored. The Board 
applies the same policy to its own composition. At the end of 
the year the gender balance of total Group employees was 42% 
female and the gender balance of the Board of Directors was 
40% female. The Chief Executive’s Statement provides further 
detail on the diversity of the Group’s employees.
Board Succession and Appointment
The process for Board appointments is led by the Nomination 
Committee and details of the formal transparent procedures it 
undertakes for new Board appointments are set out later in this 
report. During the year Keith Bogg was appointed as Chairman 
with effect from 1 July 2015. Sir David Brown and John Linwood 
retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM on 
18 May 2015. 
In accordance with Articles 102 and 98 (retirement by rotation) 
of the Articles of Association Keith Bogg and Mark Tebbutt 
will be seeking election and re-election respectively at the 
forthcoming AGM.
The biographical details of Keith Bogg and Mark Tebbutt can be 
found on pages 24 and 25.
After full and careful consideration the Board has determined 
that both Keith Bogg and Mark Tebbutt continue to display 
the necessary knowledge, skills, commitment and energy and 
recommends their election and re-election respectively as 
Directors of the Company. 
Board Effectiveness and Training 
Together with the Company Secretary, the Chairman ensures 
the Board is kept informed and consulted on all issues that 
are reserved to it. Directors undertake a thorough induction 
on joining the Company which includes meetings with the 
Company Secretary, the Senior Independent Director, the 
CEO and senior executives. A pack of information is also 
provided by the Company Secretary. Its purpose is to introduce 
the Directors to the responsibilities of the office and the 
procedures and practices the Company has implemented for 
good governance.
Comprehensive papers are prepared in advance of each Board 
and Committee meeting. These are circulated a week prior 
to the meeting to assist Directors in their knowledge of the 
subject matter to be discussed. The Company Secretary reports 
on recent developments of corporate governance matters, 
best practice and legislative and governance changes which 
may affect the Board’s considerations. Directors may also 
obtain further information from any manager or employee 
of the Company and there is a process to obtain independent 
advice from external advisers, consultants or any such further 
professional individual or entity at the Company’s expense. 
The Company maintains appropriate liability insurance for the 
benefit of its Directors.
Every Director refreshes and updates their individual 
knowledge, skills and expertise by receiving relevant and 
appropriate information.
Non-Executive Directors’ knowledge of the Company’s 
business is enhanced when Board and Committee meetings 
are attended by senior managers working in key operational 
and corporate areas including product strategy and systems 
compliance.
Board Meetings
Board meetings are scheduled monthly and the Board will 
meet as regularly as necessary in order to discharge its duties 
effectively. In 2015 twelve board meetings were held with the 
agenda and supporting papers being circulated one week in 
advance of each meeting. There was, in addition, one meeting 
convened and held as a conference call. The attendance record 
of each Director is set out on page 35 of this Report. 
The non-Executive Directors led by the Senior Independent 
Director review the Chairman’s performance. The Chairman 
held meetings during the year with the non-Executive Directors 
and without the Executives being present.
Board Committees
The Board has three Committees; the Nomination, 
Remuneration, and Audit Committees. The terms of reference 
of each Committee are reviewed annually by the Board and are 
available upon request from the Company Secretary and from 
the Group’s website. During the year the Ethics Committee 
was disbanded and its responsbilitites transferred to the Board; 
the Committee did not meet in 2015. Committee Chairmen 
will attend the Annual General Meeting and shall respond to 
Shareholders’ questions on their Committee’s activities. The 
Secretary of all Board Committees is the Company Secretary. 
Nomination Committee
The process for Board appointments is led by the Nomination 
Committee which meets as required to propose to the 
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
32
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Continued  33
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Board, the appointment of new Executive and non-Executive 
Directors. The Committee is delegated authority by the 
Board to thoroughly review the skills, knowledge and 
experience requirements and the job descriptions for specific 
appointments. The Committee has been chaired by Keith Bogg 
since his appointment as Chairman with effect from 1 July 
2015. During the year David Brown (1 January 2015 to 18 May 
2015) and Alison Reed (18 May 2015 to 1 July 2015) chaired 
the Committee. Throughout 2015, the other members of 
the Committee were Sandra Dawson, Alison Reed and Steve 
Gowers (to June 2015). John Linwood was a member of the 
Committee until his retirement from the Board on 18 May 2015.
A rigorous procedure is undertaken when considering new 
Board appointments which are made subject to election by 
Shareholders. The Committee considers the use of independent 
recruitment consultants in the search for candidates. Job 
descriptions are prepared by the Committee. Expected time 
commitments are communicated to all candidates and their 
other significant commitments are considered. Candidates are 
assessed and interviewed and a recommendation is made to 
the Board. The decision to appoint a candidate is made by the 
Board itself. Appointments are made on merit against objective 
criteria, with close consideration being given to the need for 
diversity on the Board.
The Nomination Committee met four times in 2015. The 
attendance record of each Committee member is set out 
on page 35 of this Report. During the year the Committee 
considered the Board’s structure and its succession plan. It 
further completed a recruitment process utilising the Board’s 
business contacts to identify and appoint Keith Bogg to succeed 
David Brown as Chairman. It has also agreed to nominate Keith 
Bogg’s election and Mark Tebbutt’s re-election as Directors at 
the 2016 AGM.
Remuneration Committee
During 2015 the Remuneration Committee was chaired by 
Sandra Dawson. John Linwood (to 18 May 2015), David Brown 
(to 18 May 2015) Alison Reed and Keith Bogg (with effect from 
1 July 2015) also served on the Remuneration Committee in 
2015. Executive Directors and senior managers, including the 
Head of HR were invited to attend its meetings as required by 
the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining 
the remuneration of the Chairman and the Executive Directors 
and for recommending and monitoring the level and structure 
of remuneration for senior management. No individual is 
present when his or her remuneration is being considered.
It also oversees major changes to employee benefit structures 
implemented within the Group. The Committee is responsible 
for the appointment of the remuneration consultants who 
advise it in Remuneration Policy and best practice. BDO LLP 
served as the Company’s remuneration consultants throughout 
2015. They have no other connections with the Company.
The Committee met seven times in 2015. The attendance 
record of each Committee member is set out on page 35 of this 
Report. The Committee submitted the Remuneration Policy 
and received approval from Shareholders at the 2014 AGM. 
The Committee has confirmed that it remains appropriate 
and, hence, will not be seeking further Shareholder approval to 
amend the Policy at this year’s AGM. It has also reviewed the 
salaries and benefits of executives and their performance in the 
Company’s short-term and long-term incentive schemes. No 
new long-term incentive awards were granted in 2015.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report set out on pages 38 to 53 
provides more information on the Remuneration Committee 
and the Company’s Remuneration Policy for Executive and non-
Executive Directors.
It also reviewed the benefits payable to all employees and the 
terms of the salary exchange scheme.
The Board determines the fees of the non-Executive Directors 
within the limits set out in the Articles of Association.
Audit Committee
During 2015 the Audit Committee was chaired by Alison Reed. 
John Linwood (to 18 May 2015), Sandra Dawson, David Brown 
(to 18 May 2015) and Keith Bogg (with effect from 1 July 2015) 
served as members of the Committee during the year. The 
Board is satisfied that Alison Reed continues to bring recent 
and relevant financial experience to the Company. Alison Reed 
is a chartered accountant who has served as Chief Financial 
Officer for both Marks and Spencer plc and Standard Life plc. 
The diverse backgrounds of the committee members and 
their combined skills and experience enable them to fulfil the 
Committee’s remit, as set out in the terms of reference. The 
terms of reference of the Audit Committee are published on the 
Company’s website and are reviewed annually.
The Committee met five times in 2015. The attendance 
record of each Committee member is set out on page 35 of 
this Report. The Committee has an annual work plan which 
includes standing items together with specific matters requiring 
the Committee’s attention. During the year the Committee 
reviewed the half yearly and annual financial statements and 
trading update statements and focussed on the accuracy of 
the financial reporting, the appropriateness of the Group’s 
accounting policies, relevant compliance issues and critical 
accounting estimates and areas of judgement.
The Executive Directors, the Company Secretary, the Systems 
Compliance Manager and the Financial Controller attend Audit 
Committee meetings as invited. The Partner and Audit Senior 
Manager from the external auditor were invited to and attended 
each meeting. The external auditors are not present when their 
performance and/or remuneration is discussed. 
The main areas of judgement that have been considered by the 
Committee, in relation to the financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2015, and that were closely considered 
with the external auditor were:
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • Revenue Recognition
The Group enters into contracts where multiple products 
and services, such as scanning machines, software, printed 
forms and professional services are provided. The recognition 
of revenue in accordance with IAS 18 is impacted by the 
terms and conditions of each contract and can be highly 
judgemental. The Committee reviewed information provided 
by Management setting out when revenue is recognised, 
received and reviewed the accounting policy and considered 
the treatment of work in progress at the year-end and the 
half year by enquiry of Management to ensure revenue 
is being recognised in line with the requirements of the 
accounting standard. The Committee in particular reviewed 
Management’s treatment of the GLA contract and are 
satisfied it is appropriate.
• Capitalisation of Development Expenditure
The Committee reviewed the capital expenditure policy and 
assessed the nature of the expenditure to consider that the 
requirements of IAS 38 in respect of capitalisation had been 
met. The Committee received and reviewed detailed reports 
from Management outlining the management process and 
methodology for capitalising development costs relating 
to the development of the new e-Marker® platform. The 
Committee discussed and challenged the Management’s 
forecast of revenues and margins expected to be derived 
from this development expenditure and it confirmed it is 
correct to impair the investment in the balance sheet, in 
accordance with the requirements of IAS 36, as part of the 
2015 year-end review.
• Valuation of Linford Wood Property
In August 2014, the commercial valuation of the property 
provided by Berry’s, an independent valuer, reviewed the 
return on business asset calculations provided by Management 
through enquiry of Management and review of the underlying 
assumptions and reviewed Management’s proposal to impair the 
property, ensuring it is in accordance with IAS 36. The Committee 
was satisfied with the treatment of the impairment.
• Tax Credits
The Committee reviewed the treatment of research and 
development tax credits being included within the tax 
charge/credit in the Income Statement. The judgement is 
whether to treat this credit as a reduction in corporation tax 
or as other income if it is considered to be a source of funding. 
The Committee confirmed that it continues to be appropriate 
to not consider the research and development tax credits to 
be a source of funding and to include the credit within the tax 
charge/credit within the Income Statement.
• Inventory Valuation
The Committee reviewed reports summarising the inventory 
valuation in which PS1000 PhotoScribe® scanners are valued 
at cost in inventory and PS900 PhotoScribe® scanners are 
held at nil net book value. The Committee considered the 
judgement that the PS1000 machines realisable value is in 
excess of their cost valuation in inventory and that the PS900 
machines have limited realisable value given their obsolescent 
components coupled with the uncertainties of marketability 
and support, and was satisfied with the basis of valuation.
• Going Concern
The Committee considered Management’s forecasts of 
group cash flows and net debt as well as the financing 
facilities available to the Group. In particular, the Committee 
discussed with Management the project plan for the new 
PhotoScribe® scanners required for the GLA contract and 
the investment associated with the development of the new 
e-Marker® platform. Following this review and a discussion 
of the sensitivities of the critical milestone deliverables, the 
Committee confirmed that it continues to be appropriate 
to follow the Going Concern basis of accounting in the 
financial statements.
• Viability Statement
The Committee has assessed the prospects of the Company 
over a longer period than the 12 months required by the 
‘Going Concern’ assumption in accordance with a new 
requirement under the UK Corporate Governance Code. The 
viability statement is found on page 28.
The Committee considered the effectiveness of both 
the external and the internal audit functions. It made 
recommendations to the Board on the External Auditor’s 
remuneration and terms of engagement. 
External audit: The Committee reviewed and approved 
the Auditor’s Audit Plan in November 2015. The key 
risks identified included the capitalisation of software 
development costs, revenue recognition on significant 
contracts, Going Concern, and Management override of 
controls. These issues were again reviewed with the Auditor 
at the time of consideration of the Financial Statements for 
the year.
Auditor effectiveness: The effectiveness of and services 
from Grant Thornton UK LLP were reviewed by the Audit 
Committee and Grant Thornton UK LLP were found to have 
the expertise of dealing with smaller listed companies to 
provide a thorough, accurate, robust audit in order to meet 
regulatory requirements. 
Auditor independence: The independence of the Auditor 
was reviewed and was found to meet a satisfactory standard 
for the Company in accordance with the Auditing Practice 
Board’s Ethical Standards. To safeguard independence, the 
Company requires the audit partner and audit manager 
to serve a maximum of five years on the Company’s audit 
account. The current partner has served three years and the 
audit senior manager has been in place for one year. 
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
34
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Continued  35
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Board and Committee Evaluations
The Board: A formal rigorous annual evaluation of the 
Board and its performance was undertaken in 2015 by the 
use of self-assessment questionnaires. The results of this 
evaluation have been considered by the whole Board and 
will be reviewed throughout the year to ensure required 
improvements are actioned in a timely manner. For a 
company of the size of DRS it is not considered an effective 
use of resources to externally facilitate this exercise.
The Board’ s Committees: A thorough annual evaluation of 
the work and performance of the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees using self-assessment questionannaires was 
also undertaken. Evaluation of the Nomination Committee is 
not undertaken.
The Chairman: An annual performance evaluation of the 
Chairman takes place every year under the leadership of the 
Senior Independent Director, Alison Reed, who considers the 
views of all of the Company’ s Directors.
 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
NUMBER OF MEETINGS 13 5 7 4
HELD IN 2015    
David Brown (retired 18 May 2015) 6 3 4 3
Alison Reed 13 5 7 4
Sandra Dawson 13 5 7 4
John Linwood (retired 18 May 2015) 6 3 4 3
Steve Gowers 13 - - -
Mark Tebbutt 13 - - -
Keith Bogg (appointed 1 July 2015) 6 2 2 -
Non-audit services: Services provided to the Group by Grant 
Thornton UK LLP cover advice on accounting standards and 
issues relating to the preparation of the Group’s half year 
unaudited accounts. Further information is provided in Note 6 
to the financial statements. The Auditor is not consulted 
on the Group’s tax issues or on other matters which could 
compromise its independence in undertaking the audits.
The Committee considered the re-appointment of Grant 
Thornton UK LLP as the Company’s external Auditor. Grant 
Thornton UK LLP has acted in this capacity since 1991. Their 
role has been periodically reviewed by the Audit Committee 
and fees have been challenged, although a formal tender 
process has not been carried out since their appointment. 
The Committee has taken note of the recently published 
requirement for FTSE350 companies to tender their 
statutory audit engagement at least every ten years and, 
whilst this is not applicable to the Group, it will form part 
of the Committee’s consideration when addressing the re-
appointment of auditor in future years.
Internal audit: During the year, the Committee considered 
the internal audit function which was led by the Systems 
Compliance Manager and which examined the procedures, 
documentation and processes of each major business 
department. The Committee reviewed the audit timetable 
and the results of the audits undertaken. The Committee was 
made aware of all major non-conformities and the necessary 
follow-up actions. 
Risk Management: DRS’s risk management processes, 
which have been in place throughout the period under 
review, identify and monitor the risks facing the Group. The 
risks are reported to the Board and the Audit Committee and 
risks which are considered material are regularly reviewed 
by the Board. These included the risks set out in Principal 
Risks and Uncertainties on pages 16 to 18. Further details 
of standards certification can be found in the Report on 
Corporate Responsibility on page 20. During the year, the 
Systems Compliance Manager advised the Committee 
regarding compliance with the Company’s risk management 
procedures and its certified standards. 
Whistleblowing: The Committee considers any 
whistleblowing reports regarding accounting, internal 
accounting controls or auditing matters.
Governance: Committee performance is reviewed annually 
by inviting members, key executives and the external auditors 
to complete questionnaires. The results show the Committee 
continues to work effectively.
Attendance at all Meetings
The following table details the number of Board and Committee Meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2015 and the 
attendance record of each Director and Committee member. Relations with Shareholders
The Board is committed to maintaining an active dialogue 
with Shareholders and works to ensure Shareholders are 
aware of the Company’s objectives. The Group’s website 
provides stakeholders and interest groups with regulatory 
news announcements, press releases and the Annual Report 
and Accounts which are available for download together with 
information of a more general nature regarding the Group’s 
business activities. 
The website address is www.drs.co.uk
The Board is responsible for maintaining dialogue with 
Shareholders. On its behalf, the Chairman, Chief Executive 
Officer and Finance Director meet regularly with the 
Company’s major Shareholders. Major Shareholders, fund 
managers and analysts are given an opportunity to meet with 
the Chairman or with the Senior Independent Director, if they 
so require.
Additionally, all non-Executive Directors make themselves 
available to meet with major Shareholders to discuss 
any concerns they may have. The Board regularly 
receives independent feedback from analysts and major 
Shareholders through face-to-face contact and analysts’ and 
brokers’ briefings.
All Directors attend the Annual General Meeting which 
takes place at the Company’s registered office. A separate 
circular has been provided with this Report which contains 
the Notice of Annual General Meeting and details of the 
business to be considered at the meeting. A copy of the 
Notice is also published on the Company’s website. The 
AGM is used to communicate with private investors and 
institutional Shareholders alike and all are encouraged to 
participate. Shareholders are invited to ask questions and are 
able to meet the Directors informally. Separate resolutions 
are proposed on each issue so that they can be given proper 
consideration and there is a resolution to receive the Annual 
Report and Accounts. Abstentions as well as votes for and 
against every resolution are counted. The Company reports 
on the number of proxy votes and indicates the level of 
proxies lodged on each resolution before it has been dealt 
with by a show of hands. This information is supplied to 
Shareholders attending the AGM and is published on the 
Company’s website following the meeting.
Internal Control and Risk Management
The Board has transparent and well documented 
arrangements which apply procedures for prudent internal 
controls for the management of risk and corporate reporting. 
The controls that have been implemented are designed for 
the requirements of the Company’s business model and the 
strategies the Board has approved for delivering the business 
objectives. The Board, by presentation of a formal report from 
the Systems Compliance Manager to the Audit Committee, 
conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal control and risk management systems on four 
occasions in 2015. Further details concerning the business 
model are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 22.
The Group maintains certification to BS ISO 22301 for 
Business Continuity, Quality Management (ISO 9001), 
Environmental Management (ISO 14001) and Information 
Security Management (ISO 27001). The Board continues 
to regard these certifications as important evidence of 
the effectiveness of the Group’s focus on compliance with 
best practice risk management standards and the Group’s 
internal control systems.
In designing and seeking to improve the internal controls 
system, the Directors have considered the principal risks 
and uncertainties further referred to in the report of 
Principal Risks on pages 16 to 18, which has been reviewed 
by the Audit Committee and which has also taken into 
account developments occurring since the end of the year.
Management is responsible for establishing and 
maintaining adequate internal controls over financial 
reporting, including over the Group’s consolidation process.
The main features of the internal control, financial 
reporting system and risk management system are:
•  a clear management system with defined levels of 
responsibility and delegation of authority;
• to provide a process for preparing consolidated accounts;
• authorisation limits set at appropriate levels;
• a comprehensive forecasting and budgeting system;
•  monthly financial management reports comparing actual 
results against monthly forecasts;
•  as part of the risk management framework, the Company 
maintains its risk registers including the strategic risk 
register which is escalated to the Board for review 
and input;
•  individual tender and project review procedures to 
support the bidding process prior to contract award;
•  implementation of an anti-fraud policy to provide a 
confidential method of reporting relevant suspected 
activities; and
•  regular review and reporting of health and safety and 
environmental matters.
The system manages the risk of failure to achieve strategic 
objectives but does not eliminate such risk. The Directors 
believe it provides reasonable but not absolute assurance 
of:
•  no material misstatement or losses;
•  no unauthorised use of the Company’s assets; and
•  the maintenance of proper accounting records.
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
36
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Continued  Financial Reporting
The Audit Committee scrutinised the half yearly and annual 
financial statements focussed on the accuracy of financial 
reporting, the appropriateness of the accounting policies, 
critical accounting estimates and key judgements. Particular 
areas of focus were revenue recognition, the accounting 
treatment of the capitalisation of software development 
costs, Going Concern and the viability statement.
Financial Risk Management
Details of the Group’s approach to financial risk 
management are given in the Strategic Report within the 
section Liquidity and Capital Management and in Note 4 to 
the financial statements on page 71.
Risk of Conflicts
The Directors have been made aware of the statutory duty 
to avoid any situation in which they have or may have a 
possible conflict with the interests of the Company. This 
duty is not infringed in cases where such a conflict situation 
has been authorised in advance by other Board members 
in accordance with the Company’s constitution. The 
Articles of Association contain appropriate provisions for 
the authorisation of conflict situations. All Directors have 
notified the Board of all situations which may give rise to 
potential conflict with the interests of the Company and 
refresh this information regularly.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
A M Tebutt 
Finance Director
25 April 2016
37
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 2015 
UNAUDITED INFORMATION 
Letter to the Shareholders from the Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee
Dear Shareholders
I write as Chair of the Remuneration Committee on behalf of 
the Board to present the Company’s Remuneration Report.
Below I have summarised the work of the Remuneration 
Committee (the ‘Committee’) in 2015 with particular 
regard to:
•  the major decisions on Directors’ remuneration which have 
been taken;
•  the changes to Directors’ remuneration that have been 
made by the Company; and
•  the context within which those changes occurred and 
those decisions were taken.
This report follows the structure we have used in the last 
two years after the implementation of the new regulations 
governing Directors’ remuneration. You will find the 
Remuneration Policy starting on page 40 of this Annual 
Report. The policy supports the Company’s strategy and 
was approved in a binding vote at the 2014 Annual General 
Meeting for a period of three years. Should the Company 
become aware of any market, regulatory or other change 
which suggests the policy should be updated within that 
period, the Company would seek appropriate approval from 
Shareholders to make the necessary revisions to the policy. 
You will find the Annual Report on Remuneration starting on 
page 47. This shows how the policy has been applied in the 
2015 financial year. This part of the Report will be subject 
to the approval of the Shareholders at the 2016 Annual 
General Meeting.
The Philosophy of the Remuneration Committee
When undertaking its work the Committee seeks to ensure 
that the Company offers remuneration packages that are 
fair and competitive and are designed to attract, motivate 
and retain the high calibre of Executive Directors required 
for the Company.The Committee is eager to ensure that the 
Company’s Remuneration Policy and practice reward and 
encourage sustained high levels of performance.
2015 has proved challenging with the Executive Directors 
aiming to deliver both an improved operational performance 
in the year and continuing to provide a platform for the 
Company’s long-term success. All elements of their 
remuneration have been reviewed by the Committee during 
the year. 
The major matters reviewed and decisions taken on 
Executive Directors’ remuneration are set out below:
Salary Review
In January 2015 there were no salary increases awarded 
to Executive Directors which was consistent with there 
not being an annual pay increase for any member of the 
workforce.
In January 2016 there were no salary increases awarded to 
Executive Directors or any member of the workforce.
Benefit Review
Following a review in 2015 the benefit packages of all staff 
and Directors remained unchanged throughout the year.
Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
In December 2015 the Committee reviewed and noted the 
number of active participants in the SIP, which is an HMRC 
approved scheme open to all the Company’s employees 
and which provides them with an opportunity to make a 
maximum contribution of £1,800 per annum.
Pension - The Salary Exchange Scheme
Following review in 2015, the Salary Exchange Scheme 
remains unchanged. It continues to operate and enables 
participants to make a contribution to their pension 
scheme directly from gross salary. Details of participation 
by the Executive Directors in the scheme during 2015 are 
found on page 47.
Annual Discretionary Bonus Plan
An important aspect of our Remuneration Policy is 
the challenging Company and individual performance 
conditions that underpin the annual discretionary bonus 
plan. In February 2015 the terms of the 2015 Annual 
Discretionary Bonus Plan were reviewed and set. The profit 
targets for 2015 were not met. Accordingly the Committee 
decided no bonus payments should be awarded to 
Executive Directors and members of the Senior Executive 
team for 2015. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (the 2012 Plan)
The 2012 DRS Long-Term Incentive Plan was approved by 
Shareholders at the AGM in 2012.
No new awards were made to the Executive Directors during 
2015 and all existing awards have lapsed. A summary of 
the rules of the 2012 Plan is set out on pages 46 and 47 
for information. 
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
38
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  39
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The following sections of this Remuneration Report 
comprise:
•  the Company’s Remuneration Policy on pages 40 to 47 
for information; and
•  the Annual Report on Remuneration which sets out, 
in respect of the Directors, the payments made and 
remuneration commitments entered into in 2015 on 
pages 47 to 53.
Independent Remuneration Adviser
In January 2016 the Committee appointed Deloitte LLP as its 
Independent Remuneration Adviser in place of BDO LLP. 
At the forthcoming AGM an advisory Ordinary Resolution 
will be put to Shareholders seeking approval for the Annual 
Report on Remuneration. As set out above the Company’s 
implementation of Remuneration Policy remains consistent 
with the authority from Shareholders in a binding vote at the 
2014 AGM and, hence, no further binding resolution will be 
put to Shareholders at the 2016 AGM. 
I look forward to meeting our Shareholders at the AGM.
DAME SANDRA DAWSON DBE
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
25 April 2016 Salary and Benefits Objective and link 
to the strategy
Operation Maximum potential 
value
Performance 
conditions and 
assessment
Base salary, taxable 
benefits, pension. 
To attract and retain 
Executive Directors 
with the appropriate 
skills and experience to 
lead the Company in 
achieving its strategic 
goals, by offering 
reasonable and 
competitive benefits.
Paid monthly 
throughout the year 
in equal instalments. 
Death in service and 
permanent health 
insurances are paid 
only when the terms 
of payment under the 
applicable insurance 
schemes apply.
Determined in 
January each year. 
The Committee 
considers whether to 
increase or retain these 
payments at current 
levels. A benchmarking 
exercise is undertaken 
with assistance from 
the Committee’s 
remuneration advisers, 
reviewing salary and 
benefits against those 
paid in companies 
of a similar size and 
complexity to DRS 
and against salary and 
benefits offered to 
other DRS employees. 
The maximum pension 
contribution is 20% of 
base salary.
An annual appraisal 
process is undertaken 
in January each year. 
The Executive Director’s 
performance during the 
whole of the previous 
year is assessed and 
has a direct impact 
upon the Committee’s 
decision whether to 
award an increase.
DIRECTOR’S REMUNERATION REPORT 2015 
REMUNERATION POLICY 
1. INTRODUCTION
The Remuneration Policy, which is set out below for information, was approved by the Company’s Shareholders at the 2014 
AGM. It is currently intended that all payments made and benefits provided to Directors shall be within its scope.
2. THE COMPANY’S POLICY REGARDING THE  MAKING OF REMUNERATION PAYMENTS
The Remuneration policy approved by Shareholders at the 
2014 AGM is intended;
(i)  to offer remuneration packages that are fair and 
competitive;
(ii)  to attract, motivate, incentivise and retain the highly 
skilled and high calibre Directors required to lead the 
Company to achieve its strategic goals;
(iii)  to implement and maintain an appropriate balance 
between fixed and performance-related elements;
(iv)  to pay a significant proportion of potential total 
remuneration conditional upon longer-term 
performance;
(v)  without mechanistically tracking benchmarks, to 
progress towards median base salary payments in 
comparable companies as strategic goals are delivered; 
and
(vi)  to align the interests of Executive Directors with 
Shareholders by delivering long-term value through the 
2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Share Incentive 
Plan. Please refer to pages 45 to 50 for further details of 
the Company’s Share Incentive Plan (SIP).
The Committee considers each year whether recovery 
or withholding is appropriate in respect of any incentive 
payment.
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2014
40
3. REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE
Executive Directors
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  Executive Directors- 
Discretionary  
Benefits
Objective and link 
to the strategy
Operation Maximum potential 
value
Performance 
conditions and 
assessment
Annual discretionary 
bonus plan (the Bonus 
Plan).
To reward Executive 
Directors for the 
achievement of the 
Company’s profitable 
growth.
The Bonus Plan starts 
on 1 January and ends 
on 31 December each 
year. Performance 
is measured by the 
achievement of 
targets preset by the 
Committee. Any bonus 
earned is paid through 
the Company’s normal 
payroll system. Target 
profit and bonus 
before tax must be 
achieved before any 
bonus is payable.
Up to 75% of base 
salary.
80% of the maximum 
bonus is linked to the 
financial performance 
of the business 
based on the annual 
budget figure. 20% 
of the maximum 
bonus is linked to the 
achievement of the 
Executive Directors’ 
personal performance 
objectives. Both 
performance 
conditions are 
approved in advance 
by the Committee.
2012 DRS Long-Term 
Incentive Plan (the 
2012 Plan).
To encourage the 
Executive Directors to 
focus on the long-
term performance 
of the Company and 
to link their rewards 
to Shareholder 
return providing a 
common interest with 
Shareholders.
EMI qualifying Options 
can only be granted 
under the 2012 Plan 
if the conditions of 
the EMI regime and 
Schedule 5 ITEPA 2003 
are met.
100% of base salary in 
respect of a financial 
year of the Company. 
Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR) relative 
to the FTSE Fledgling 
Index, over a 3 year 
period with 25% 
vesting at median, 
100% at upper quartile 
subject to underlying 
growth in earnings 
per share (EPS). TSR 
was chosen as a way 
of linking Directors’ 
reward to returns to 
Shareholders. External 
factors can impact on 
TSR so an underlying 
financial measure of 
growth in earnings 
per share was also 
implemented.
41
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
3. REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE
Executive Directors - Continued DIRECTOR’S REMUNERATION REPORT 2015 
continued
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
42
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Chairman 
Non-Executive Directors 
Objective and link 
to the strategy
Operation Maximum potential 
value
Performance 
conditions and 
assessment
Fees To attract a Chairman 
with the requisite skills 
and experience to 
perform the role.
Fees are set at 
the level paid for 
comparable roles at 
Premium Main Market 
companies of a similar 
size and complexity 
to DRS. 
The Chairman’s fee 
is determined by 
the Committee.
Fee levels are set 
by reference to 
the median of this 
peer group and are 
reviewed annually.
In the course of 
considering any 
increases the 
Committee will take 
into consideration 
increases within the 
external peer group, 
increases provided 
to DRS employees 
and inflation.
N/A
Objective and link 
to the strategy
Operation Maximum potential 
value
Performance 
conditions and 
assessment
Fees To attract non-
Executive Directors 
with the requisite skills 
and experience to 
perform the role.
Fees are set at 
the level paid for 
comparable roles at 
Premium Main Market 
companies of a similar 
size and complexity 
to DRS. The non-
Executive Directors’ 
fees are determined by 
the full Board. 
Fee levels are set 
by reference to the 
median of this peer 
group and are reviewed 
annually. In the 
course of considering 
any increases the 
Board will take 
into consideration 
increases within the 
external peer group, 
increases provided 
to DRS employees 
and inflation.
N/A 43
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
ILLUSTRATION OF THE APPLICATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2014
1. Minimum Receivable
If an annual bonus payment is not awarded the Executive Directors will receive 100% of their remuneration under this Policy 
in the form of salary, beneﬁts and pension payments as shown in column 1. 
2. LTIP Awards  
Awards were made to the Executive Directors under the 2012 DRS Long Term Incentive Plan in September and November 2012 
and the performance period runs from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014. A payment in the ﬁrst year of the Remuneration 
Policy would only be possible if vesting were accelerated in accordance with the rules of the Plan.
Salary Beneﬁts Pension Annual Bonus LTIP
Finance Director - Mark Tebbutt
£300,000
£250,000
£200,000
£150,000
£100,000
£50,000
£0
100%
0%
0%
78%
22%
0%
63%
37%
0%
£116,005
£12,133
£23,201
£116,005
£12,133
£23,201
£43,502
£87,004
£116,005
£12,133
£23,201
£151,339 £194,841 £238,343
Minimum In line with
expectations
Maximum
receivable
£400,000
£215,377 £278,490 £341,602
£350,000
£300,000
£250,000
£200,000
£150,000
£100,000
£50,000
£0
CEO Steve Gowers
100%
0%
0%
77%
23%
0%
63%
37%
0%
£33,660
£63,113
£126,225
£168,300
£13,417
£33,660
Minimum In line with
expectations
Maximum
receivable
£168,300
£13,417
£168,300
£13,417
£33,660
1.  Minimum R eceivable
  If an annual bonus payment is not awarded the Executive Directors will receive 100% of their remuneration under this 
Policy in the form of salary, benefits and pension payments as shown in column 1.
2.  LTIP Awards
  Awards were made to the Executive Directors under the 2012 DRS Long-Term Incentive Plan in September and November 
2012 and the performance period runs from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014. A payment in the first year of the 
Remuneration Policy would only be possible if vesting were accelerated in accordance with the rules of the Plan. 
3.  The table above was produced for the first year application of the policy approved in 2014. Accordingly, certain 
information in the above table is now of historical interest only, including the LTIP awards, which have lapsed and pension 
and benefits which have been amended and are disclosed in the Executive Directors’ Single Total Figure Table.
Payments from existing awards
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration 
payments and payments for loss of office (including 
exercising any discretions available to it in connection with 
such payments) notwithstanding that they are not in line 
with the policy set out on pages 40 to 42 where the terms of 
the payment were agreed. 
(i) before 19 May 2014 (the date the Company’s first 
Shareholder-approved directors’ remuneration policy came 
into effect); 
(ii) before the policy set out below came into effect, 
provided that the terms of the payment were consistent 
with the Shareholder-approved directors’ remuneration 
policy in force at the time they were agreed; or 
(iii) at a time when the relevant individual was not a director 
of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, 
the payment was not in consideration for the individual 
becoming a director of the Company. For these purposes 
“payments” includes the Committee satisfying awards of 
variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over 
shares, the terms of the payment are “agreed” at the time 
the award is granted. DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
44
Chairman and non-Executive Directors’ Fees
Fees are set by reference to a median level for comparable 
roles following close consideration of benchmarking research 
reviewed on an annual basis. It is expected that the Chairman 
will work approximately 24 full days annually for the Company 
and that non-Executive Directors will work approximately 15 full 
days annually for the Company. In the event that the Chairman 
or a non-Executive Director is requested in exceptional 
circumstances to undertake work on behalf of the Company 
which is outside the normal scope of their role of Chairman or 
non-Executive Director an additional payment may be made. 
Expenses which are incurred solely on the Company’s business 
are reimbursed when properly documented. Fees are reviewed 
annually; increases are not automatic, only where reasonable 
and supported by the Company’s performance. The Committee 
expects the flexibility set out above shall continue with respect 
to the payments made to the Company’s Chairman and non-
Executive Directors for the lifetime of the Remuneration Policy.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS - COMPONENTS OF THE 
REMUNERATION PACKAGE
Set out below is the Company’s policy and current practice 
regarding each component of the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration package. In each case, the Committee will 
retain future flexibility and discretion to deliver the Company’s 
policy regarding the making of remuneration payments and 
in order to meet the Committee’s remuneration philosophy. 
The Committee’s philosophy can be found in the Chairman’s 
annual statement on pages 38 to 39. We have set out the 
Company’s policy regarding the making of remuneration 
payments on pages 40 to 50 of this Report.
i. Base Pay
  Base Pay is set at a conservative level and, without 
mechanistically tracking benchmarks, progresses 
towards the median base salary payment in comparative 
companies as strategic objectives are met. Pay is 
reviewed once in every calendar year when the 
Committee has discretion to increase base salary or 
retain it at the existing level. The Company has discretion 
to deduct from base pay any pay in lieu of notice or 
other termination payment, any overpayment of salary, 
expenses, debts, loans or other sum required or permitted 
by the Employment Rights Act 1996 (as amended from 
time to time) or by other applicable legislation.
ii. Car Benefit
a)  It is current practice to provide a car allowance of up 
to £12,000 per annum paid to the Executive Director 
in 12 monthly instalments subject to relevant lawful 
deductions.
b)  The Committee may amend the car benefit in 
accordance with common practice of similar companies. 
The Company also has discretion to review the fixed 
pence per mile allowance for business use applied to the 
use of an Executive Director’s vehicle.
iii. Health Benefits – Sick Pay
a)  It is current practice that in any one calendar year an 
Executive Director’s sick pay entitlement less Statutory 
Sick Pay where applicable, is that number of weeks 
which is four per cent of the number of weeks for which 
he or she has been employed by the Company from 
the date of joining less the number of weeks of sick pay 
already taken, up to a maximum of 13 weeks.
b)  Any further payment not set out in (iii)(a) above is 
subject to Board approval.
iv. Health Benefits – Death in Service
a)  When the policy was adopted, it was the Company’s 
practice to provide that the death in service benefit 
equals four times annual salary (subject to the terms of 
the insurance policy provider from time to time). With 
effect from 1 January 2015 this was reduced to three 
times salary.
b)  The Company may negotiate alternative cover with 
a suitable provider retaining substantially the same 
benefit to the Executive Director while ensuring cost-
effectiveness for the Company.
v.  Health Benefits – Permanent Health Insurance
a)  The Executive Directors have the benefit of a permanent 
health insurance policy, in the event an Executive 
Director is incapacitated by sickness or accident.
b)  The policy is subject to the terms of the insurance policy 
provider from time to time. The Company may negotiate 
alternative cover with a suitable provider retaining 
substantially the same benefit to the Executive Director 
while ensuring cost-effectiveness for the Company.
vi. Health Benefits – Private Medical Insurance
a)  Private medical insurance is offered, in which the 
Executive Director may choose to participate. Cover is 
made available to the Executive Director and his or her 
dependent family. 
b)  The policy is subject to the terms of the insurance 
policy provider from time to time. The Company may 
negotiate an alternative policy with a suitable provider 
retaining substantially the same benefit to the Director 
while ensuring cost-effectiveness for the Company.
4. THE COMPANY’S POLICY REGARDING EACH OF THE COMPONENTS OF THE REMUNERATION 
PACKAGES WHICH THE COMPANY MAKES TO EACH OF ITS DIRECTORS
DIRECTOR’S REMUNERATION REPORT 2015 
continued
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  45
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
vii. Pension
a)  When the policy was adopted, it was the Company’s 
practice to offer a contribution of 20% of base salary 
towards the Executive Director’s personal pension 
scheme operating as part of the Company’s Group 
Personal Pension Scheme. Currently there is no 
requirement for the Executive Director to make any 
contribution but he or she may do so. With effect from 
1 January 2015, the Company’s contribution was reduced 
to 10%.
b)  An Executive Director may join the pension scheme 
after three months’ continuous service. The Committee 
may alter this requirement. A salary exchange scheme 
is available allowing an Executive Director to make 
contributions to his or her pension from gross salary.
viii. Short-Term Incentive - Annual Bonus
a)  Currently the Executive Director may, at the discretion 
of the Board, as recommended by the Committee, be 
eligible to receive an annual bonus of up to 75% of 
base pay (subject to income tax and other statutory 
deductions) which is subject both to the Company’s 
performance and the achievement of personal 
objectives as determined by the Remuneration 
Committee in advance. 
b)  The Committee’s discretion is exercised both as to 
payment and amount. 
ix. Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
a)  The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in an 
HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan on the same terms 
as other employees. 
  At the Committee’s discretion, the Director must be 
employed for a period of time before being entitled 
to participate in the SIP which is currently set at nine 
months but may be altered by the Committee. 
x. Long-Term Incentive Plan (the 2012 Plan)
a)  The Company’s policy is to grant awards under the 2012 
Plan at nil-cost. The Committee will consider making 
annual awards of options for all executives when grants 
made previously vest or expire and will consider the 
exercise cost, if any, attaching to any such grants. 
b)  An Executive Director is invited to participate in the 
2012 Plan and if accepted will be granted an option over 
a number of the Company’s Ordinary shares.
A summary of the 2012 Plan can be found on pages 46 to 47 
of this Report.
Other Remuneration Policies in DRS
The Company’s Policy on Recruitment Payments
a)  The recruitment package is designed to be fair and 
competitive with an appropriate balance between fixed 
and performance-related elements and is designed to 
attract, motivate, incentivise and retain high calibre 
executives. The maximum level of variable remuneration 
which can be awarded, under the Company’s annual 
and long-term incentive arrangements, in respect 
of a Director’s recruitment is 175% of salary, subject 
to potential pro-rating dependent on date of joining 
(excluding buy-out awards referred to in (d) below).
b)  The Committee regularly reviews the salary and benefits 
offered on recruitment to ensure they are reasonable 
with regard to (i) equitable provisions with other DRS 
workers, (ii) the wider financial/economic climate, and 
(iii) comparisons with Directors undertaking similar jobs 
in similar companies.
c)  Payments made to a new Director would normally be of 
the types described in the policy table on page 43. Any 
other payments made to an Executive Director upon 
joining the Company, e.g. by way of a one-off bonus 
payment or share award, may be made on a case-by-
case basis. Such payment or award may be subject to 
performance conditions.
d)  Any previous outstanding share awards forfeited as a 
result of joining the Company may be compensated at 
fair value, using a recognised valuation methodology 
by an independent third-party. The fair value may be 
awarded as a combination of cash and shares. Any 
new award may be granted subject to performance 
conditions no less onerous than applied to the forfeited 
awards. The terms of any such compensation will be 
determined by the Committee on a case-by-case basis 
taking into account all relevant factors.
e)  A relocation package may be paid on a case-by-case 
basis.
The Company’s Policy on Notice Periods
a)  On the termination of employment it is the Company’s 
policy to give to an Executive Director six months’ 
written notice and to require the Executive Director 
to provide the Company with the same notice. 
Alternatively the Company may choose to make 
payment of base salary in lieu of such notice or an 
unexpired portion thereof.
b)  The Company may terminate the employment of 
an Executive Director by giving six months’ notice 
(not necessarily in writing) if the individual has been 
incapacitated by reasons of ill health, accident or 
otherwise from performing his/her duties for a total of 
180 days or more in the preceding 12 month period.  DIRECTOR’S REMUNERATION REPORT 2015 
continued
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
46
c)  At any time during the notice period, the Company 
may require the Executive Director to take a period of 
absence (known as Garden Leave) of up to six months 
during which all duties of the Executive Director’s 
employment (whether express or implied) including 
duties of fidelity and good faith shall continue except 
as expressly varied in the Executive Director’s service 
contract.
The Company’s Policy on Termination Payments
a)  Payments will be made to the departing Executive 
Director in order to settle outstanding contractual 
notice and/or holiday entitlement.
b)  All payments are made subject to income and other 
statutory taxation which the Company as an employer 
is required to deduct.
c)  No tax obligations of a Director will be met by the 
Company.
d)  Compensation for loss of office is paid in full and final 
settlement of claims the Executive Director has asserted 
against the Company in writing through independent 
legal advisers and when this course of action is 
recommended by the Company’s own duly appointed 
external legal advisers.
e)  An Executive Director who leaves the business due 
to ill health or upon retirement or in such other 
circumstances as the Committee may determine will be 
entitled to receive a pro-rata payment under the Annual 
Discretionary Bonus Plan based on their service during 
the relevant year. Otherwise there is no automatic 
entitlement to a bonus during the year in which an 
Executive Director leaves office.
Policy on Equitable Provisions with other 
DRS Workers
When considering the fairness of the remuneration package 
for Executive Directors it is the Committee’s policy to review 
the pay and conditions of employment elsewhere in the 
Group. 
The Company did not consult with the Company’s 
employees when preparing this report.
Policy on Consideration of the Wider Financial/
Economic Climate
When considering the fairness of remuneration packages 
for Executive Directors it is the Committee’s policy to 
consider the financial and economic climate then prevailing 
by reference to current information sourced from its 
remuneration advisers and other sources of generally 
accessible market data.
Policy on Benchmarking Against Similar Companies
The Company’s executive remuneration packages are 
compared with those of a peer group of similar companies in 
the FTSE Fledgling Index as benchmarked by the Company’s 
remuneration advisers from time to time. 
Policy on Consultation with Major Shareholders 
on Remuneration Issues
The Company operates an Investor Relations Policy. It 
complies with Section E (Relations with Shareholders) of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code. Additionally the Chair 
of the Committee is authorised by the Board to arrange to 
meet with Shareholders regarding remuneration matters. 
The Chair meets Shareholders at the AGM and from time to 
time will offer and be available for additional meetings to 
major Shareholders. Any views expressed by Shareholders 
at these meetings are reported to the Committee and taken 
into consideration when setting levels of remuneration.
Please refer to the Chair of the Committee’s annual 
statement on pages 38 and 39 for details of the work 
undertaken by the Committee in 2015 and 2016.
SUMMARY OF THE RULES OF THE DRS LONG-
TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 2012 (THE 2012 PLAN)
1. Form of Options
Options granted under the 2012 Plan may be granted either 
with an exercise price equal to the market value at the date 
of grant, or with a nil (or nominal) exercise price. 
It was the Committee’s intention that the initial Options 
would be granted with a nil exercise price. The view of the 
Committee was that this is common practice for listed 
companies on the basis that it creates a more effective 
incentive and reduces the dilution of existing Shareholders. 
To date all Options that have been granted under the 2012 
Plan have been granted with a nil exercise price.
2. Size of Option Grants/Plan Limits
The size of any Option grants are determined by the 
Committee in line with its remuneration policy as disclosed 
in the Annual Report and approved by Shareholders. When 
the 2012 Plan was introduced it was the intention that the 
initial Options would be up to one times salary and those 
that have been granted since have been subject to this limit.
3. Vesting of Options
Except as referred to below, and subject to achieving the 
performance targets, Options will normally vest so that 
the participant may acquire the Shares subject to Options 
(unencumbered by any restrictions) three years after an 
Option is granted. On exercise, the Company must deliver or 
procure that there is delivered the relevant number of Shares.
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  47
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
If a participant dies or leaves employment within the Group 
during the period prior to vesting by reason of ill-health, 
disability, redundancy, retirement, the participant’s employer 
being sold outside the Group, or other circumstances at 
the discretion of the Committee, the participant (or his/her 
personal representatives, as the case may be), may, depending 
on the extent to which the performance target has been 
met, exercise his/her Options within a period of 40 days 
(or such longer period as the Committee determines) after 
the cessation of employment, after which it shall lapse. This 
period shall be 12 months in the case of death.
If a participant ceases to be employed for any other reason 
than those referred to above, his Option will normally lapse. 
On a change of control of the Company or a resolution for its 
voluntary winding up, performance periods will immediately 
cease. Subject to the Committee’s determination of the 
Company’s performance at that time, Options may vest in 
proportion to the amount of the performance period that 
had elapsed before the change of control or the passing of 
the resolution, as the case may be, unless the Committee 
determines otherwise. Alternatively, Options may be 
exchanged for equivalent awards in the acquiring company. 
On a demerger or a takeover of the Company (except for an 
internal reorganisation) the Committee may determine that 
a proportion of the Options may vest or vary the terms of 
the Options and/or the performance targets. Where Options 
vest, this will be on the same basis as a change of control.
4. Performance Targets
Options shall be subject in each case to the achievement of 
performance targets. Performance targets will normally be 
measured over a fixed period of three financial years, beginning 
with the financial year in which the Options are granted, and 
are determined by the Committee from time to time. To the 
extent that the performance targets are not met, the Options 
shall lapse, without opportunity for retesting. The Committee 
may change the performance targets for existing Options from 
time to time if it considers it appropriate, but not so as to make 
the performance targets, in the opinion of the Committee, 
materially easier or more difficult to satisfy than they were 
when the Options were first granted. Before offering the 2012 
Plan in future years the Committee will review the continuing 
appropriateness of these performance targets.
5. Adjustment
If there is any alteration of the issued share capital of the 
Company, or a merger or demerger affecting the Company or 
one of its businesses, the number of Shares subject to an Option 
will be subject to adjustments. The Committee may adjust 
Options in such manner as it determines to be appropriate. 
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
The figures included in the Executive Directors’ Single Figure Table below have been audited.
2015 Executive Directors’ Single Total Figure Table 
Director’s 
Name
A. Base Salary
1
  
£000
B. Taxable 
benefits
2
  
£000
C. Short-term 
incentives
3
 
£000
D. Long-term 
incentives
4
 
£000
E. Pensions
5
  
£000
Total  
£000
Steve Gowers 
2015
168 15 - - 17 200
Steve Gowers 
2014
168 13 - - 34 215
Mark Tebbutt 
2015
116 13 - - 12 141
Mark Tebbutt 
2014
116 12 - - 23 151
1
  Base Salary: The Executive Directors may choose to participate in the salary exchange scheme. This voluntary scheme allows the Executive Directors 
to make a contribution to their personal pension schemes directly from gross salary. Steve Gowers participated in the salary exchange scheme 
throughout 2015 and 2014 and in 2015 his contribution amounted to £21,038 (2014: £6,126). Mark Tebbutt participated in the salary exchange 
scheme throughout 2015 and 2014. In 2015 he contributed £27,001 (2014: £17,500). These contributions under the salary exchange scheme are 
included in column A above. The Executive Directors are not entitled to receive into their pension any payment representing a saving of National 
Insurance received by the Company resulting from their participation in the salary exchange scheme.
2
  T axable Benefits:  These benefits comprise a car allowance and private healthcare.
3
  Short - T erm Incentiv es: The profit targets for the 2015 annual discretionary bonus plan were not met. Accordingly no bonus payments were awarded 
to the Executive Directors.  DIRECTOR’S REMUNERATION REPORT 2015 
continued
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
48
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
4
  Long-Term Incentives: Awards made under the terms of the 2012 DRS Long-Term Incentive Plan were due to vest as a result of the achievement 
of performance measures relating to the three year performance period ended 31 December 2014. The performance targets were not met and no 
awards vested. No new awards were made in 2015.
5
  P ensions: In accordance with its current practice the Company contributed, in 2015, 10% of base salary towards the Executive Directors’ personal 
pension schemes operating as part of the Company’s Group Personal Pension Scheme. These contributions are shown in column E on page 47. Column 
E does not include the voluntary contributions made by the Executive Directors to their pensions under the salary exchange scheme. Following the 
benefits review in 2014 the Company’s contribution was reduced from 20% to 10% with effect from 1 January 2015.
Share Incentive Plan
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Share Incentive Plan (SIP), which qualifies for tax relief under Schedule 2 of 
the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, on the same basis as all other employees and in any other share plan which 
is operated in the future and is open to all employees. Throughout 2015 and 2014 Mark Tebbutt chose to participate in the 
Share Incentive Plan (SIP) and contributed £125 every month towards the purchase of partnership shares through the SIP. No 
matching shares were awarded to Mark Tebbutt under the rules of the SIP during 2015 or 2014. Mark Tebbutt’s share interests 
in the Company are further explained in the Statement of Directors’ Shareholding and Share Interests later in this report.
Both Executive Directors listed on page 47 have confirmed that no other items in the nature of remuneration have been 
received other than those already stated in the Single Total Figure Table on page 47.
It is the Committee’s practice to consider each year whether a recovery or withholding in respect of annual and/or long-term 
incentives would be appropriate. The Committee considered whether a recovery or withholding would be appropriate in 
respect of any incentive payment and agreed that no recovery or withholding was to be made in the reported year.
Non-Executive Directors’ Single Total Figure Table 2014 and 2015 
The figures included in the non-Executive Directors’ Single Total Figure Table below have been audited.
Director’s 
Name
2015  
 
Fee  
£000
2015  
Taxable 
benefits*  
£000
2015  
 
Total  
£000
2014  
 
Fee  
£000
2014  
Taxable 
Benefits*  
£000
2014  
 
Total  
£000
Keith Bogg 
(appointed 
1 July 2015)
30 - 30 - - -
David Brown 
(retired 18 May 
2015)
23 1 24 60 2 62
Alison Reed 35 - 35 35 - 35
Sandra Dawson 30 - 30 30 - 30
John Linwood 
(retired 18 May 
2015)
11 - 11 30 - 30
*  The taxable benefits shown relate to reimbursement of travel costs which are deemed to be taxable under section 338 of the Income Tax (Earnings 
and Pensions) Act 2003.
All non-Executive Directors listed above have confirmed that no other items in the nature of remuneration have been received 
other than those already stated in the Single Total Figure Table above. 
During the reported year none of the non-Executive Directors received any short-term incentive, long-term incentive, 
pension payment or any share or other benefit from a Share Incentive Plan. During the year it was agreed that fees paid to 
non-Executive Directors would not be increased. 
There were no payments made during the reported year to past Directors for loss of office.  49
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Statement of Directors’ Shareholding and Share Interests 
The information included in the Directors’ Shareholding and Share Interests table below has been audited.
The Articles of Association of the Company do not contain any obligation on Directors to hold shares in the Company.
The Committee has not set a target on any Director in respect of share ownership.
Executive 
Directors
Shares held on 
1 January 2015
Partnership 
Shares acquired 
in 2015
Dividend Shares 
acquired in 2015
Other shares 
acquired during 
the year
Shares held on 
31 December 
2015
Steve Gowers - - - - -
Mark Tebbutt 563,748 11,294 - - 575,042
No Director holds any shares in the Company other than as disclosed in the table above. Partnership and Dividend Shares are 
those acquired under the Company’s SIP. The only change to a Director’s share interest from 31 December 2015 to the date of 
this Report is in respect of Mark Tebbutt who at the date of this Report held 579,683 shares.
Directors’ Interests in Share Schemes
There were no awards granted under the 2012 DRS Long-Term Incentive Plan during the year and all awards granted under the 
Plan have lapsed. Hence, there are no interests held by any Director in the 2012 DRS Long-Term Incentive Plan at 31 December 
2015. This information has been audited.
DRS Data and Research Services plc and FTSE Fledgling Index – total return on investment from 
31 December 2008 to 31 December 2015 shown as daily share price index
The index chosen for comparison is the FTSE Fledgling Index. The Company is a constituent of the FTSE Fledgling Index. 
Index Share Price
DRS Data & Research Services plc  Share Price Index* FTSE Fledgling Index* *rebased to 100
0 
100 
200 
300 
400 
500 
600 
Dec 08 
Jun 09 
Dec 09 
Jun 10 
Dec 10 
Jun 11 
Dec 11 
Jun 12 
Dec 12 
Jun 13 
Dec 13 
Jun 14 
Dec 14 
Jun 15 
Dec 15  DIRECTOR’S REMUNERATION REPORT 2015 
continued
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
50
Payment for Performance Table
The information included in the Payment for Performance Table below has been audited.
* Tony Lee left the business on 26 October 2012. 
** Steve Gowers joined the business on 5 November 2012. He received a prorated bonus for 2012. 
Long-term incentive vesting: In accordance with the rules of the 2012 Plan, no awards were due to vest in 2012 or 2013. 
Performance for the awards granted in 2012 has been tested and the targets found not to have been met. Hence they lapsed 
in accordance with the rules of the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The value creation plan operated from 2009. A single set of 
awards was made under the value creation plan in 2009. Performance in respect of those awards was tested in 2012 and it was 
found that the performance targets had not been met so no awards vested.
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Year CEO
CEO single figure of 
total remuneration 
£000
Annual Discretionary 
Bonus pay out 
against maximum 
opportunity %
Long-term incentive 
vesting rates 
against maximum 
opportunity %
2015 Steve Gowers 200 - -
2014 Steve Gowers 215 - -
2013 Steve Gowers 211 - -
2012** Steve Gowers 39 19 -
2012* Tony Lee 182 15 -
2011 Tony Lee 158 8 -
2010 Tony Lee 224 72 -
2009
Tony Lee 134 - -
  51
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CEO Percentage Change in Remuneration Table
Director
Salary  
% change Explanation
Benefits  
% change Explanation
Short-term 
incentives 
% change Explanation 
Steve Gowers 
2014 to 2015
0.0 The Committee 
agreed a zero 
increase in 
Steve Gowers’ 
basic salary 
with effect 
from 1 January 
2015. 
(33.4) In 2014, the 
Committee 
agreed a 
reduction to his 
benefits with 
effect from 
1 January 2015. 
The benefit 
change shown 
is principally 
due to the 
reduction in 
annual pension 
contributions.
0.0 In respect of 
2014 Steve 
Gowers 
received 
no bonus 
payment. In 
respect of 2015 
Steve Gowers 
received 
no bonus 
payment.
DRS employees 
as a whole 
(excluding 
Executive 
Directors) 2014 
to 2015
 0.0 Taking 
account of the 
Company’s 
performance 
there was no 
annual pay 
increase for 
any member of 
the workforce. 
(4.9) Benefits have 
been reduced 
over the 
period. This 
principally 
relates to a 
reduction 
in pension 
contributions 
and changes 
to private 
medical and 
life assurance 
cover.
0.0 In respect of 
2014 DRS 
employees 
received 
no bonus 
payment. In 
respect of 2015 
DRS employees 
received 
no bonus 
payment. DIRECTOR’S REMUNERATION REPORT 2015 
continued
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
52
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Relative Importance of Spend On Pay by Reflecting Returns to Stakeholders
* Relates to 2013 final dividend paid May 2014.
HOW THE COMPANY INTENDS TO IMPLEMENT 
THE APPROVED REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE 
CURRENT FINANCIAL YEAR
The Company intends to implement the policy as follows 
in 2016:
Base Salary, Taxable Benefits, Pension
•  These features will be considered for review by the 
Committee once during the current financial year. 
Annual Discretionary Bonus Plan
•  All payments will depend upon the Company achieving 
performance targets pre-set by the Committee.
•  Thereafter, 80% of maximum payment will be dependent 
on the financial performance of the Company and 20% on 
the performance of the Executive Directors against their 
personal performance objectives.
•  A maximum opportunity of 75% of basic salary will be 
applied and will be payable in cash.
Long-Term Incentive Plan
•  It is the Company’s intention to give careful consideration to 
the grant of awards under the Long- Term Incentive Plan in the 
current financial year and for vesting of these awards to be 
subject to appropriate performance conditions, but which shall 
not be, in the Committee’s opinion, any less challenging than 
conditions used for previous grants of awards.
•  A maximum opportunity of 100% of base salary will be 
applied in determining the number of shares over which 
options may be granted.
The Remuneration Policy is intended to provide for 
remuneration of Executive Directors to progress towards 
median base salary payments as the Company’s strategic 
goals are delivered while maintaining an appropriate 
balance between fixed and performance-related elements. 
Short-term benefits are achievable through the annual 
discretionary bonus plan only if the necessary corporate and 
personal performance is delivered. The Executive Directors’ 
personal performance objectives are regarded as containing 
commercially sensitive information and so have not 
been disclosed.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating 
to Directors’ Remuneration
During the reported year remuneration issues were 
considered by the Remuneration Committee. The key 
areas of its activity were:
•  setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors, 
the Company Secretary and senior managers;
•  reviewing and determining the Company’s pension 
policy;
•  setting targets for incentive payments;
•  reviewing the scope and terms of the employment 
contracts of senior executives; and
•  reviewing the Company’s long-term incentive 
arrangements and share incentive plan.
The Committee is also responsible for determining the 
Chairman’s fee.
The following non-Executive Directors served on the 
Remuneration Committee in 2015:
•  Dame Sandra Dawson (Chair);
•  Sir David Brown (to 18 May 2015);
•  Alison R eed; 
2015  
Actual  
£000
Percentage  
of revenue  
%
2014  
 
£000
Percentage  
of revenue  
%
Profit distributed by 
way of dividend
nil nil 127* 0.9
Overall spending on 
pay including Directors
8,243 66 9,436 69
Corporation tax credit 
for year*
(790) (6.3) (395) (2.9)
Loss retained by 
the Group
(1,921) (15.4) (1,704) (12.5) Statement of Voting at the Annual General Meeting in 2015
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
DAME SANDRA DAWSON DBE
Chairman of Remuneration Committee
25 April 2016
53
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
•  John Linwood (to 18 May 2015); and
•  Keith Bogg (with effect from 1 July 2015).
The Committee seeks to ensure that the remuneration 
advice it receives is both objective and independent. It 
regularly reviews the appointment and performance of 
its advisers who are not retained to advise on any other 
aspect of the Company’s business.
Advice from within the Company on remuneration issues 
was obtained from the Finance Director, the Chief Executive 
Officer, the Head of HR and the Company Secretary.
The Chief Executive Officer, Steve Gowers, the Finance 
Director, Mark Tebbutt and the Head of HR, Suzanne 
Matheson were invited to attend some parts of 
Committee meetings. No one is present when their 
own remuneration was under discussion. For the whole 
of the reported year, the Committee retained the 
services of BDO LLP as its independent Remuneration 
Adviser and during 2015 the total fee paid to BDO LLP 
on remuneration matters amounted to £7,500 (+VAT). 
Following due consideration the Committee appointed 
Deloitte LLP in place of BDO LLP as its independent 
Remuneration Adviser in January 2016.
Text of 
Resolution
Votes  
for
%  
for
Votes  
against
%  
against
Total  
votes cast
Votes  
withheld 
To approve 
the Directors’ 
Remuneration 
Report for the 
year ended 
31 December 
2014
11,737,899 99.82 20,700 0.18 11,758,599 8,510 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
54
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic 
Report, the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and 
the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the 
Directors have to prepare the financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. Under company 
law the Directors must not approve the financial statements 
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs and profit or loss of the Company 
and Group for that period. In preparing these financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
•  make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; 
•  state whether applicable IFRSs have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the financial statements; and
•  prepare the financial statements on a Going Concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to assume that the Company will 
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
and the Remuneration Report comply with the Companies 
Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors confirm that: 
•  in so far as each Director is aware there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
•  the Directors have taken all steps that they ought to have 
taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is 
aware of that information.
The Directors are responsible for preparing this Annual Report 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. Having taken 
advice from the Audit Committee, the Directors consider the 
Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole is 
fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for Shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
To the best of our knowledge:
•  the Group Financial Statements, prepared in 
accordance with the IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
•  this Annual Report, including the Strategic Report and 
the Financial Statements includes a fair view of the 
development and performance of the business and 
the position of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the prinicipal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
S J Gowers A M Tebbutt
Chief Executive Officer Finance Director
25 April 2016 25 April 2016  FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
55
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
56
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF    
DRS DATA AND RESEARCH SERVICES PLC
OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED
In our opinion:
•  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 
2015 and of the group’s loss for the year then ended;
•  the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union; 
•  the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
•  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Who we are reporting to
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
What we have audited
DRS Data and Research Services plc’s financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 comprise the Consolidated Income 
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Parent Company Statement of Financial Position, the 
Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006.
Overview of our audit approach
•  Overall group materiality: £62,000 which represents 0.5% of the group’s total revenues;
•  We performed full scope audit procedures for both the company, DRS Data and Research Services plc 
and its subsidiary undertaking, DRS Data Services Limited; and
•  Key audit risks were identified as Revenue Recognition, Going Concern and Valuation of Intangible 
Assets. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
57
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
AUDIT RISK HOW WE RESPONDED TO THE RISK
Revenue recognition
The revenue from the group’s contracts undertaken in DRS 
Data Services Limited represents 100% of the group’s total 
revenue. The measurement of revenue to be recognised in 
the financial statements in accordance with International 
Accounting Standard (IAS) 18 ‘Revenue’, including the 
determination of the appropriate timing of recognition, 
is impacted by the terms and conditions of each contract 
and can be highly judgemental. We therefore identified 
revenue recognition relating to contracts as a significant risk 
requiring special audit consideration.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: 
•  reviewing significant contracts to ensure that 
performance conditions had been satisfied;
•  assessing whether the methodology applied by 
Management was consistent with the requirements of 
IAS 18;
•  obtaining a listing of the revenue transactions which 
had occurred during the year and tracing a sample of 
items back to a contract or sales documentation. Where 
no third party agreement was in place revenue was 
agreed to remittance statements and that revenue was 
recognised in line with IAS 18 and the group’s accounting 
policy; and
•   performing a revenue analytical review, obtaining 
comments from Management and corroborating this 
to contracts.
The group’s accounting policy on revenue recognition 
is shown in note 2.3. The Audit Committee identified 
revenue recognition as a main area of judgement in its 
report on page 34, where the Committee also described 
the action that it has taken to address this issue.  
Going concern
Although the group forecasts profitability for the next 
financial year, challenges on product development indicate 
there could be a risk that the group does not remain a 
going concern. We therefore identified going concern as a 
significant risk requiring special audit consideration.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: 
•  reviewing cash flow forecasts prepared by Management, 
and related assumptions for the period to 30 April 2017; 
•  undertaking an analysis of the sensitivity of the 
assumptions used in the cash flow forecasts;
•  assessing the impact of challenges of the e-Marker® 
development program; and
•  assessing additional areas such as the group’s cash 
position, debt facilities, forecast covenant compliance 
and contract pipeline.
The group’s accounting policy on the basis of preparation 
of the financial statements, including going concern, is 
shown in note 2.1. The Audit Committee identified Going 
Concern as a main area of judgement in its report on page 
34, where the Committee also described the action that it 
has taken to address this issue.
Our assessment of risk
In arriving at our opinions set out in this report, we highlight the following risks that, in our judgement, had the greatest effect on our 
audit:  DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
58
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Our application of materiality and an overview of the 
scope of our audit
Materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the 
financial statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be 
changed or influenced. We use materiality in determining the 
nature, timing and extent of our audit work and in evaluating the 
results of that work. 
We determined materiality for the audit of the group financial 
statements as a whole to be £62,000 which is 0.5% of total 
revenues. This benchmark is considered the most appropriate 
because total revenues is the metric against which the financial 
performance of the group is measured both internally and 
externally. 
Materiality for the current year is lower than the level that we 
determined for the year ended 31 December 2014 to reflect the 
lower total revenue achieved by the group during the financial 
year to 31 December 2015.
We use a different level of materiality, performance materiality, 
to drive the extent of our testing and this was set at 60% of 
financial statement materiality for the audit of the group 
financial statements. We also determine a lower level of specific 
materiality for certain areas such as Directors’ remuneration and 
related party transactions.
We determined the threshold at which we will communicate 
misstatements to the audit committee to be £3, 100. In addition, 
we will communicate misstatements below that threshold that, 
in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
Overview of the scope of our audit
A description of the generic scope of an audit of financial 
statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (ISAs) (UK and Ireland). Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the ‘Responsibilities 
for the financial statements and the audit’ section of our report. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
We are independent of the group in accordance with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors, and we have 
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
those Ethical Standards.
The group financial statements are a consolidation of the 
company, DRS Data and Research Services plc and its wholly 
owned subsidiary, DRS Data Service Limited. Our audit approach 
was based on a thorough understanding of the group’s business 
and is risk based, and in particular included: 
•  undertaking an interim visit in November 2015 to obtain an 
understanding of and evaluate internal controls over key 
financial systems identified as part of our risk assessment; 
•  reviewing the accounts production process and assessing 
critical accounting matters;
•  attending the stocktake in November 2015, as well as on 
4 January 2016; and 
•  undertaking substantive procedures to address the risks 
identified.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF    
DRS DATA AND RESEARCH SERVICES PLC
continued
AUDIT RISK HOW WE RESPONDED TO THE RISK
Valuation of Intangible Assets
In our Audit Plan, we identified the valuation of intangible 
assets as a significant risk requiring special audit consideration.
After the audit plan had been communicated to those charged 
with governance, Management have undertaken an impairment 
review in accordance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ and 
reassessed the cost against the criteria of IAS 38 ‘Intangible 
Assets’. It was determined that the carrying value of the 
intangible asset of £2,770,000 was fully impaired and the 
recognition criteria of IAS 38 are no longer met so the costs 
were written off to the Consolidated Income Statement.
During the financial year to 31 December 2015 the group 
continued to capitalise e-Marker® development costs 
of £695,000, as intangible assets in accordance with IAS 
38 ‘Intangible assets’. In order to satisfy the standard the 
development costs can only be recognised as an intangible 
asset if future revenues will be derived from its future use. The 
process involves significant Management assumptions and 
forecasts which require special audit consideration.
We therefore identified the valuation of intangible assets, 
particularly the capitalisation and impairment, as a significant 
risk requiring special audit consideration.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: 
•  understanding the tests and controls management put 
in place over its process of identifying costs that meet 
capitalisation criteria;
• r eviewing the group’s accounting policy to ensure the policy 
has been followed
•  reviewing the costs capitalised and then expensed to ensure 
the appropriate treatment in accordance with IAS 38; 
•  obtaining and reviewing Management’s impairment 
review is in accordance with IAS 36, challenging the key 
assumptions and judgements underlying the impairment 
review; and 
•  undertaking an analysis of the sensitivity of the assumptions 
used in the review. 
The group’s accounting policy on intangible assets is 
shown in note 2.11 and related disclosures are included in 
note 14. The Audit Committee identified capitalisation of 
development expenditure as a main area of judgement in 
its report on page 34, where the Committee also described 
the action that it has taken to address this issue. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
59
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
OTHER REPORTING REQUIRED BY REGULATIONS
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion:
•  the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
•  the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial 
statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report 
by exception
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to 
report to you if, in our opinion:
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•  the parent company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•  certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
•  we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review:
•  the directors’ statements in relation to going concern and 
longer-term viability, set out on pages 28 and 29 respectively; 
and 
•  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating 
to the company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to 
report to you if, in our opinion, information in the 
annual report is:
•  materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or
•  apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the 
course of performing our audit; or
•  otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if:
•  we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge 
acquired during the audit and the directors’ statement 
that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and 
understandable; or 
•  the annual report does not appropriately disclose those 
matters that were communicated to the audit committee 
which we consider should have been disclosed.
We have nothing to report in respect of any of the 
above matters.
We also confirm that we do not have anything material 
to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
•  the directors’ confirmation in the annual report that they have 
carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the 
group including those that would threaten its business model, 
future performance, solvency or liquidity;
•  the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks 
and explain how they are being managed or mitigated;
•  the directors’ statement in the financial statements about 
whether they have considered it appropriate to adopt the 
going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their 
identification of any material uncertainties to the group’s ability 
to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months 
from the date of approval of the financial statements; and
•  the directors’ explanation in the annual report as to how 
they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what 
period they have done so and why they consider that period 
to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they 
have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over the period of their assessment, including any related 
disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications 
or assumptions. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and 
the audit
What the directors are responsible for:
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 54, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
What we are responsible for:
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
John Corbishley 
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP
Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants
Central Milton Keynes
25 April 2016 DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
60
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
for the years ended 31 December
  Total  Total
  2015 2014
 Notes £000  £000
  
 Revenue 6 12,477 13,684
 Cost of sales  (8,075) (9,810)
 Gross profit  4,402 3,874
    
 Other operating income 8 8 13
 Selling and marketing costs  (617) (1,097)
 Administrative expenses  (6,436) (4,660)
 Finance costs  11 (68) (81)
 Loss before income tax  (2,711) (1,951)
 Analysed as:
  Profit/(loss) before income tax and exceptional items  59  (1,138)
  Exceptional items – impairment adjustments 10 (2,770) (813)
  Loss before income tax  (2,711)  (1,951)
 Tax credit 12 790 395
 Loss for the period attributable to owners of the parent  (1,921) (1,556)
    
 EARNINGS PER SHARE   
 Basic loss per share 25 (6.05p) (4.90p)
    
 Diluted loss per share 25 (6.05p) (4.90p)
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the year ended 31 December 
  Total  Total
  2015 2014
  £000  £000
  
 Loss for the period  (1,921) (1,556)
 Other comprehensive income  - -
 Total comprehensive loss for the period attributable to owners of the parent  (1,921) (1,556)
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
61
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
  31 December  31 December
  2015 2014
 Notes £000  £000
  
 ASSETS   
 Non-current assets   
 Property, plant and equipment 13 2,157 2,152
 Intangible assets 14 33 2,423
   2,190 4,575
 Current assets   
 Inventories 15 2,364 629
 Trade and other receivables 16 2,593 1,452
 Current tax assets 12 438 522
 Cash and cash equivalents 17 1,923 3,612
   7,318 6,215
 Total assets  9,508 10,790
 EQUITY   
 Capital and reserves attributable to the Company’s equity holders   
 Share capital 18 1,731 1,731
 Share premium account 19 5,377 5,377
 Capital redemption reserve 19 115 115
 Treasury shares 18 (1,166) (1,166)
 Own shares reserve 19 (298) (298)
 Retained earnings  (629) 1,292
 Total equity  5,130 7,051
 LIABILITIES   
 Non-current liabilities   
 Borrowings 20 1,054 1,280
 Deferred income tax liabilities 21 52 409
 Provisions 22 132 104
   1,238 1,793
 Current liabilities   
 Borrowings 20 226 226
 Trade and other payables 23 2,914 1,720
   3,140 1,946
 Total liabilities  4,378 3,739
 Total equity and liabilities  9,508 10,790
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 25 April 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
S J Gowers  A M Tebbutt
Chief Executive Officer  Finance Director
DRS Data and Research Services plc
Registered Company Number: 0959401 DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
62
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
  Share Capital    
 Share premium redemption Treasury Own shares Retained 
 capital account reserve shares reserve earnings  Total
 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000 
      
 At 1 January 2014 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (306) 2,996 8,747
       
 Dividend paid to Shareholders - - - - - (127) (127)
 Employee share-based  
 compensation - - - - - (13) (13)
 Own shares vesting - - - - 8 (8) -
 Transactions with owners - - - - 8 (148) (140)
       
  Loss for the period and  
total comprehensive  
loss for the period  - - - - - (1,556) (1,556)
 At 31 December 2014 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (298) 1,292 7,051
  Share Capital    
 Share premium redemption Treasury Own shares Retained 
 capital account reserve shares reserve earnings  Total
 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000 
    
 At 1 January 2015 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (298) 1,292 7,051
       
  Loss for the period and  
total comprehensive  
income for the period - - - - - (1,921) (1,921)
 At 31 December 2015 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (298) (629) 5,130 
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
63
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
for the years ended 31 December
  Total  Total
  2015 2014
 Notes £000  £000
 Cash flow from operating activities   
 Loss after taxation  (1,921) (1,556)
  Adjustments for:   
  Tax credit  (790) (395)
  Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  286 315
  Impairment of property, plant and equipment  - 813
  Amortisation of intangible assets  327 268
  Impairment of intangible assets  2,770 -
  IFRS 2 credit in respect of LTIP shares  - (13)
  (Profit)/loss on sale of property, plant & equipment and intangibles  (6) 25
  Exchange losses recognised in the Income Statement  7 3
  Operating income  (5) (13)
  Interest expense  61 72
  (Increase)/decrease in inventories  (1,735) 345
  (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables  (1,141) 2,604
  Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables   1,194 (1,277)
  Increase in long-term provisions  28 15
 Cash (used in)/generated from operations  (925) 1,206
 Interest paid  (61) (72)
 Research and Development tax credit  517 434
 Net cash generated from operating activities  456 362
 Cash flows from investing activities   
 Purchase of property, plant and equipment (PPE)  (291) (372)
 Proceeds from sale of PPE  6 66
 Payment for intangible assets  (707) (987)
 Interest received  5 13
 Net cash used in investing activities  (987) (1,280)
 Cash flows from financing activities   
 Dividends paid to Shareholders  - (127)
 Repayment of loan  (226) (226)
 Net cash used in financing activities  (226) (353)
 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents  (1,682) (65)
 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period  3,612 3,680
 Exchange decrease on cash  (7) (3)
 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 27 1,923 3,612
 
   DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
64
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
1 GENERAL INFORMATION
1. 1 Nature of Operations
The Company is a public limited company with a premium 
listing on the London Stock Exchange incorporated and 
domiciled in England. The address of its registered office is 
1 Danbury Court, Linford Wood, Milton Keynes, MK14 6LR.
1.2 Accounting Convention
The financial statements of the Group have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and with those parts 
of the Companies Act 2006 that are relevant to companies that 
report in accordance with IFRS.
1.3 New and revised standards that are effective for 
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015
There are no amendments to IFRSs that became mandatory 
effective in 2015 that had a material impact on the Group’s 
financial results or position. 
1.4 Standards and interpretations  
not yet effective
New standards and interpretations currently in issue but 
not effective based on EU mandatory effective dates, for 
accounting periods commencing on 1 January 2015 and 
considered relevant to the Group’s financial statements are:
•  Disclosure Initiative: Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of 
Cash Flows (effective 1 January 2017)
•  IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (ASB effective date 1 January 
2018)
•  IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (IASB 
effective 1 January 2018)
•  IFRS 16 Leases (ASB effective date from 1 January 2019)
•  Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of 
Interests in Joint Operations (IASB effective date 1 January 
2016)
•  Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Declaration and 
Amortisation – Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 (IASB 
effective date 1 January 2016)
•  Annual improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle (EU 
effective date 1 February 2015)
•  Annual improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle (IASB 
effective date 1 January 2016)
•  Disclosure Initiative: Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of 
Financial Statements (effective 1 January 2016)
•  IAS 12 Income Taxes Amendment Recognition of Deferred 
Tax Assets for unrealised losses (effective 1 January 2017)
IFRS 9 introduces extensive changes to IAS 39’s guidance 
on the classification and measurement of financial assets 
and introduces a new ‘expected credit loss’ model for the 
impairment of financial assets. IFRS 9 also provides new 
guidance on the application of hedge accounting. The Group’s 
Management have yet to assess the impact of IFRS 9 on 
the consolidated financial statements. The new standard is 
required to be applied for annual reporting periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2018, but is not yet adopted by the EU.
IFRS 15 presents new requirements for the recognition of 
revenue, replacing IAS 18 ‘Revenue’. IAS 11 ‘Construction 
Contracts’ and several revenue-related interpretations. The 
new standard establishes a control-based revenue recognition 
model and provides additional guidance in many areas not 
covered in detail under existing IFRSs, including how to account 
for arrangements with multiple performance obligations, 
variable pricing, customer refund rights, supplier repurchase 
options and other common complexities. IFRS 15 is effective 
for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 , but 
is not yet endorsed by the EU. The Group’s Management have 
not yet assessed the impact of IFRS 15 on these consolidated 
financial statements.
The Group’s Management have not yet assessed the impact of 
IFRS 16 on these consolidated financial statements.
The remaining new standards, interpretations and 
amendments are not expected to have a material impact on 
the Group’s financial statements.
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES
2. 1 Basis of Preparation
These financial statements are for the year ended 31 December 
2015 and are presented in Pounds Sterling rounded to the 
nearest thousand. They are prepared on a Going Concern basis. 
In considering Going Concern, the Directors have reviewed the 
Group’s future cash requirements and earnings projections 
for a period of 12 months from the anticipated signing date. 
The Directors believe these forecasts have been prepared on a 
prudent basis and have also considered the impact of a range of 
potential changes to trading performance. The Directors have 
concluded that the Group should be able to operate within its 
current facilities and comply with its banking covenants for 
the foreseeable future and therefore believe it is appropriate 
to prepare the financial statements of the Group on a Going 
Concern basis. This is supported by the Group’s liquidity 
position at the year-end.
The principal accounting policies of the Group are set out 
on page 64 and have been consistently applied to all years 
presented in these financial statements. 
The principal accounting policies have remained unchanged 
from the previous year.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
65
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
2.2 Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 
statements of the Company and its subsidiary made up to 
31 December each year. The parent controls a subsidiary if it is 
exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement 
with the subsidiary and has the ability to affect those returns 
through its power over the subsidiary. All entities within the 
Group have a reporting date of 31 December. 
The 2015 consolidated financial statements incorporate the 
financial statements of the Company, and its subsidiary, DRS 
Data Services Limited (together referred to as the ‘Group’). 
DRS Data and Research Services plc is the holding company 
and ultimate controlling entity.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent 
liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the 
date of acquisition. Any excess of the consideration transferred 
over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is 
recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition 
below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired 
(i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited to profit and loss in the 
period of acquisition.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial 
statements of the subsidiary to bring the accounting policies 
used into line with those used by the Group.
All transactions and balances between Group companies are 
eliminated on consolidation including unrealised gains and 
losses on transactions between Group companies. Where 
unrealised losses on intra-group asset sales are reversed 
on consolidation, the underlying asset is also tested for 
impairment from a group perspective. Amounts reported in the 
financial statements of subsidiaries have been adjusted where 
necessary to ensure consistency with the accounting policies 
adopted by the Group. 
Name of subsidiary Country of 
incorporation and 
principal place of 
business
Principal activity Proportion of interest held by the Group
31 December  
2015
31 December  
2014
DRS Data Services 
Limited
UK Specialist provider of automated 
data capture technology and 
solutions in the UK and overseas
100% 100%
Seckloe 279 Limited UK None - Dormant 100% 100%
Composition of the Group 
2.3 Revenue Recognition
Revenue is the fair value of consideration received or 
receivable by the Group for goods supplied and services 
provided net of VAT and trade discounts.
The Group often enters into sales transactions involving 
a range of the Group’s products and services relating to 
software products, professional services, scanning machines 
and printed forms. The Group provides tailored solutions 
to meet specific customer requirements. It is necessary 
to consider the nature of the contract with the end user, 
the combination of deliverables and how transfer of 
responsibility of supply is deemed to take place. Each element 
of supply follows the revenue recognition criteria set for each 
separately identifiable component of the sales transaction.
For election contracts in which DRS is a principal contractor, 
revenue is recognised when the election has been 
successfully completed. 
For examination marking contracts, where DRS is 
undertaking part of the marking process, revenue is normally 
recognised when the marks of the examination series have 
been agreed with the Awarding Body. However, for large 
contracts (such as AQA), delivery of the series is split into two 
parts. One element relates to providing and maintaining the 
marking environment and support services for which a fixed 
monthly sum is recognised. The second element relates to 
the actual marking activity which is based on a price per script 
determined by the volume of examinations processed and is 
recognised when the marks of the examination series have 
been agreed with the Awarding Body.
Examination marking software is supplied to customers and 
a license fee is charged retrospectively for use based on the 
number of examination scripts marked using the software 
product, often supplied in conjunction with the sale of services 
as explained in the paragraph on examination marking 
contracts above. The license fee for Multiple Choice Questions 
(MCQ) software is a fixed fee which is charged up-front for use  DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
66
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
of the software and recognised in the Income Statement when 
the customer confirms acceptance of the software.
For census contracts, DRS usually provides the data 
capture solution to the in-country census authority who 
are responsible for conducting the actual census. DRS 
normally agrees to a number of specific deliverables relating 
to discrete delivery times and locations in respect of the 
products and services outlined below. The revenue for these 
discrete items is recognised when the goods and services 
have been delivered and accepted by the end user.
The consideration is allocated to each component according 
to its fair value, being the amount for which each component 
could be sold separately.
Specialist software products have been created for 
each market sector. For elections there is e-Counting, 
for education there is e-Marker® and Multiple Choice 
Questions (MCQ), and census has its own customised 
software. Revenue in respect of software for elections and 
census is recognised as a single charge based on the size and 
complexity of the count. 
Sales of services are recognised in the accounting period 
in which the work on the services is performed and the 
obligations have been satisfied in accordance with the 
customers’ agreed requirements. 
Sales of scanning machines and associated equipment 
are recognised when the products have been delivered to 
the customer and it is probable that economic benefits 
associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
Large print contracts are recognised on a stage of completion 
basis. Print revenue is recognised in accordance with hours 
and costs incurred on the contract as a proportion to the 
total time and cost estimated for the contract. 
Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the 
period of the lease. 
In the case of long-term maintenance service contracts, 
revenue is recognised on a time apportionment basis in 
accordance with the contract, and all costs are released to 
the Income Statement based on percentage of completion. 
Revenue is recognised on a straight-line time apportionment 
basis over the length of the underlying contract. The 
calculated profit on a contract is recognised in proportion to 
the recognised revenue.
Deferred income arises in two circumstances:
•  where stage payments are provided to fund the working 
capital impact of the work in progress and are not made in 
accordance with the delivery schedule resulting in timing 
differences; and
•  up-front payments on service contracts.
2.4 Exceptional Items
Exceptional items are non-recurring material items which are 
outside the normal scope of the Group’s ordinary activities. 
Such items are separately disclosed by virtue of their nature 
or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Group’s 
financial performance. Details of these items are provided in 
the relevant notes. 
2.5 Operating Leases
(a) The Group is the Lessee
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks 
and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases. 
Payments made under operating leases are charged to profit 
or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
(b) The Group is the Lessor
Scanning equipment leased to third-parties under operating 
leases is included in property, plant and equipment in the 
balance sheet. It is depreciated over its expected useful life. 
Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term.
2.6 Dividends
Under IFRSs proposed dividends do not meet the definition 
of a liability until such time as they have been approved by 
Shareholders at the AGM. Therefore, the Group does not 
recognise a liability in any period for dividends that have 
been proposed but will not be approved until after the 
balance sheet date.
2.7 Segment Reporting
Segmental information is provided for each operating 
segment whose results are regularly reviewed by the 
Chief Executive Officer to make decisions concerning the 
assessment of performance or allocation of resources and 
where there is discrete financial information available.
2.8 Joint Arrangements
Where a Group company enters into a contractual 
agreement to share control of an arrangement, under 
which each party has rights to assets and obligations for 
liabilities relating to the joint arrangement, it is treated as 
a joint operation. Such arrangements are accounted for 
by recognising the company’s share of assets, liabilities, 
revenues and expenses according to that company’s share 
under the contractual arrangement.
The Group’s only joint arrangement is DRS Data Services 
Limited’s work with Electoral Reform Services Limited 
(ERS) as IntElect® to deliver the 2016 London Mayor and 
Assembly elections. Its principal place of business is in the 
UK. DRS Data Services Limited is entitled to a share of assets, 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
liabilities, revenues and expenses in accordance with which of 
the two entities has agreed to supply the various deliverables 
of the contract. The agreement itemises revenue across the 
deliverables and it is this basis which is used to apportion 
revenue and each company will be responsible for the related 
costs of delivery against their specific responsibilities. No 
revenue or expenses have been recognised in the current or 
preceding year. 
2.9 Foreign Currency Translation
Functional and presentational currency
The consolidated financial statements are presented in 
Sterling which is also the Group’s functional currency.
Transactions and services
Foreign currency transactions and balances are translated 
into Pounds Sterling, using the exchange rates prevailing at 
the dates of the transactions (spot exchange rate). Foreign 
exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of 
such transactions and from the re-measurement of monetary 
items at year-end exchange rates are recognised in profit or 
loss within Other Operating Income and Finance Costs.
2.10 Property, Plant and Equipment
Land and buildings relate to the Group’s head office at Linford 
Wood, Milton Keynes. All property, plant and equipment 
is shown at cost less depreciation, except for land which is 
shown at cost. Cost includes expenditure that is directly 
attributable to the acquisition of the item.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to allocate 
the cost of each asset less its estimated residual value over its 
estimated useful life, as follows:
Freehold buildings 25 years
Computer equipment 3 years
Fixtures and fittings 3 - 5 years
Plant and machinery 3 - 10 years
Rental machines 3 years
Motor vehicles 5 years
Items of property, plant and equipment are subject to review 
for impairment where indications of impairment exist. Any 
impairment is charged to the Income Statement as it arises. 
2.11 Intangible Assets
(a) Computer Software
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the 
basis of the costs incurred to acquire and to bring into use 
the specific software. These costs are amortised over three 
years, being the estimated useful life of the software.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software 
programs are recognised as an expense as incurred. 
Costs that are directly associated with the production 
of identifiable and unique software products controlled 
by the Group, and that will probably generate economic 
benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as 
intangible assets. 
Computer software that has been capitalised is amortised 
on a straight-line basis over three years from the date it is 
put to operational use. 
(b) Research and Development
Research expenditure is recognised as an expense as 
incurred. Costs incurred on development projects (relating 
to the design and testing of new or improved products) are 
recognised as intangible assets when it is probable that the 
project will be a success, considering its commercial and 
technological feasibility, costs can be measured reliably 
and the Group has the resources available to complete the 
development. Development costs that have been capitalised 
are amortised from the commencement of their use on a 
straight-line basis over the period of their expected benefit, 
not exceeding five years. 
2.12 Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out 
method. The cost of finished goods and work-in-progress 
comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs 
and, where appropriate, a proportion of attributable 
production overheads. Net realisable value is the estimated 
selling price in the ordinary course of business reduced by 
the costs to complete and applicable selling expenses.
2.13 Trade and Other Receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair 
value plus transaction costs and subsequently carried 
at amortised cost. A provision for impairment of trade 
receivables is established when there is objective evidence 
that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts 
due according to the original terms of the receivables. 
The amount of the provision is the difference between 
the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of 
estimated future cash flows. Movements in the provision are 
recognised in profit or loss.
2.14 Cash and Cash Equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits 
held at call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid 
investments that are readily convertible to known amounts 
of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of 
changes in value with maturities of three months or less 
from inception.
67
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2015
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
68
2.15 Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present 
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, 
it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that 
obligation and a reliable estimate can be made as to the 
amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate 
of the consideration required to settle the present 
obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the 
risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where 
a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to 
settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the 
present value of those cash flows.
2. 16 Share Capital and Equity
Share capital comprises Ordinary shares with a nominal 
value of 5p each.
Where the Company purchases Treasury shares or where shares 
are held in a restricted share scheme trust, the consideration 
paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs 
(net of income taxes) is deducted from equity attributable to 
the Company’s equity holders until the shares are cancelled, 
re-issued or disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently 
sold or re-issued any consideration received, net of any directly 
attributable incremental transaction costs and the related 
income tax effects is included in equity attributable to the 
Company’s equity holders.
2. 17 Accounting for Income Taxes
The tax expense recognised in profit or loss comprises the 
sum of deferred tax and current tax not recognised in other 
comprehensive income or equity. 
The tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year. 
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the 
Income Statement because it excludes items of income 
or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years 
and it further excludes items that are never taxable or 
deductible. The Group’s and subsidiaries’ liability for current 
tax is calculated by using tax rates and laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable 
on differences between the carrying amount of assets and 
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding 
tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and 
is accounted for using the liability method. Deferred tax 
is not provided on the initial recognition of goodwill, nor 
on the initial recognition of an asset or liability unless the 
related transaction is a business combination or affects tax 
or accounting profit. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised 
for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets 
are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable 
profits will be available against which deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at 
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it 
is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be 
available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates and laws that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted and that are 
expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised 
or the liability is settled. Changes in deferred tax assets or 
liabilities are recognised as a component of tax income or 
expense in profit or loss, except where they relate to items 
that are recognised in other comprehensive income or 
directly in equity, in which case the related deferred tax is 
also recognised in other comprehensive income or equity, 
respectively.
R&D tax credit claims are recognised following formal 
confirmation of acceptance by HMRC or where previous 
precedence is established and are reflected in the tax credit 
line of the Income Statement. See Note 3.1.
2. 18 Employee Benefits
(a) Pension Obligations
The Parent Company operates defined contribution pension 
schemes in which employees of the UK based subsidiaries 
may participate. The Group has no legal or constructive 
obligations to pay further contributions after payment of 
the fixed contribution. The contributions to the pension 
schemes are charged to profit or loss as they accrue, thereby 
matching the cost of the Group’s pension obligations to the 
period of employment to which they relate.
(b) Bonus Plans and Profit Sharing
The Group recognises a liability and expense for bonuses and 
profit sharing. Managers may be entitled to a bonus based 
on a formula that takes into consideration revenue, EPS, 
residual income in relation to the employee’s responsibilities 
and an assessment of the individual’s performance which 
includes non-financial criteria. Employees who do not 
participate in the bonus scheme are entitled to participate 
in a profit sharing scheme based on the profitability of the 
subsidiary. The cost of providing these schemes is accrued 
against profits in the period in which the bonus is earned.
(c) Share-based Employee Remuneration
All employee services received in exchange for the grant of 
any share-based remuneration are measured at their fair 
values. These are indirectly determined by reference to the 
fair value of the share options or shares awarded. Their value 
is appraised at the grant date and excludes the impact of any  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
69
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability 
and sales growth targets).
All share-based remuneration is ultimately recognised as 
an expense in the Income Statement with a corresponding 
credit to Shareholders’ funds. If vesting periods or other 
vesting conditions apply, the expense is allocated over the 
vesting period, based on the best available estimate of 
the number of share options or shares expected to vest. 
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions 
about the number of options that are expected to become 
exercisable. Estimates are subsequently revised if there is 
any indication that the number of share options expected to 
vest differs from previous estimates. 
Upon exercise of share options fulfilled by the issue of 
new shares, the proceeds received, net of any directly 
attributable transaction costs up to the nominal value of the 
shares issued are allocated to share capital with any excess 
being recorded as share premium. Options or share grants 
fulfilled from shares held by employee share trusts are 
credited to the own share reserve.
2. 19 Financial Assets
Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes 
a party to the contractual provisions of the financial 
instruments and are initially measured at fair value adjusted 
by transactions cost, except for those carried at fair value 
through profit and loss (FVTPL) which are measured initially 
at fair value with transaction costs expensed in the Income 
Statement. The fair values of financial assets held at fair 
value through profit or loss are determined by reference to 
active market transactions or using a valuation technique 
where no active market exists.
For the purpose of subsequent measurement, financial 
assets are classified into the following categories upon 
initial recognition:
 L oans and R ec eivables
All financial assets are subject to review for impairment 
at least at each reporting date to identify whether there is 
any objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of 
financial assets is impaired. All income and expenses relating 
to financial assets are recognised in profit or loss.
Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual 
rights to the cash flows from the financial assets expire, 
or when the financial assets and all substantial risks and 
rewards are transferred. 
The Group’s financial assets fall within the loans and 
receivables category. Loans and receivables are non-
derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable 
payments that are not quoted in an active market. After 
initial recognition, these are measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method, less provision for 
impairment. Discounting is omitted where the effect of 
discounting is immaterial. The Group’s cash and cash 
equivalents, trade and most other receivables fall into this 
category of financial instrument.
Individually significant receivables are considered for 
impairment when they are past due or when other objective 
evidence is received that a specific counterparty will default.
2.20 Financial Liabilities and Equity
Financial liabilities include borrowings and trade and 
other payables.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified 
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements 
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that 
evidences a residual interest in the assets of the entity after 
deducting all of its financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities are obligations to pay cash or other 
financial assets and are recognised when the Group becomes 
a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. All 
financial liabilities are recorded at fair value, net of direct 
issue costs.
A financial liability is derecognised only when the obligation 
is extinguished, that is, when the obligation is discharged or 
cancelled or expires.
Where the contractual terms of share capital do not have 
any terms meeting the definition of a financial liability 
then this is classed as an equity instrument. Dividends and 
distributions relating to equity instruments are debited 
direct to equity.
2.21 Impairment Testing of Intangible Assets  
and Property, Plant and Equipment
For impairment assessment purposes, assets are grouped 
at the lowest levels for which there are largely independent 
cash inflows (cash-generating units). As a result, some 
assets are tested individually for impairment and some are 
tested at cash-generating unit level. Individual assets or 
cash-generating units are tested for impairment whenever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which 
the asset’s or cash-generating unit’s carrying amount 
exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair 
value less costs of disposal and value-in-use. To determine 
the value-in-use, Management estimates expected future 
cash flows from each cash-generating unit and determines a 
suitable interest rate in order to calculate the present value 
of those cash flows. The data used for impairment testing 
procedures are directly linked to the Group’s latest approved 
budget, adjusted as necessary to exclude the effects of 
future reorganisations and asset enhancements. Discount  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2015
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
70
factors are determined individually for each cash-generating 
unit and reflect Management’s assessment of respective risk 
profiles, such as market and asset-specific risks factors.
Impairment losses for cash-generating units are charged 
pro-rata to the assets in the cash-generating unit. All assets are 
subsequently reassessed for indications that an impairment 
loss previously recognised may no longer exist. An impairment 
loss is reversed if the asset’s or cash-generating unit’s 
recoverable amount exceeds its carrying amount.
3 Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources 
of Estimation Uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are 
described in Note 2, the Directors of the Company considered 
judgements and estimates impacting the carrying value of 
assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other 
sources. The estimates are based on Management’s best 
knowledge of current events and actions. Actual results may 
differ from those estimates.
3. 1 Critical Judgements that the Directors 
have made
Research and development expenditure
•  An impairment adjustment was made for £2,770,000 for the 
full value of the internally generated software development 
expenditure that has been capitalised at the 31 December 
2015 year-end. The judgement is whether the IAS 38 criteria 
is not being met. See Note 10(a). 
Revenue recognition
•  Determining when to recognise revenues from services 
requires an understanding of both the nature and timing 
of the services provided and the customers’ pattern 
of consumption of those services, based on historical 
experience and knowledge of the market. Recognition 
of services revenue requires significant judgement in 
determining actual work performed. On contracts which 
incorporate multiple products and services such as scanning 
machines, software, printed forms and professional services 
it is necessary to consider the nature of the contract with 
the end user, the combination of deliverables and how 
transfer of responsibility of supply is deemed to take place. 
The judgement is when performance conditions are satisfied 
for the respective elements of the solution to become 
recognised as revenue. 
Tax credits
•  Research and development tax credits are included within 
the tax charge/credit in the Income Statement. The 
judgement is whether to treat this credit as a reduction 
in corporation tax or as other income if it is considered to 
be a source of funding. Management do not consider the 
research and development tax credits to be a source of 
funding and have therefore made a judgement to include this 
within the tax charge/credit within the Income Statement. 
Inventory valuation
•  PS1000 PhotoScribe® scanners are valued at cost in 
inventory and PS900 PhotoScribe® scanners are held 
at nil net book value. The judgement is that the PS1000 
machines’ realisable value is in excess of their cost valuation 
in inventory and that the PS900 machines have minimal 
realisable value given their obsolescent components together 
with the uncertainties of marketability and support.
3.2 Areas considered to involve significant 
estimates
Inventory provisions
•  Inventory provisions reflect future sales over the useful 
life of the product. In the case of the high value PS900 
PhotoScribe® scanning machines it is necessary to estimate 
the expected useful life of the product and to estimate the 
volume of expected machine sales over the remaining useful 
life. Where there are insufficient machines held in stock to 
meet expected demand, machines are released from the 
inventory provision based on this estimate. The carrying 
value of the total inventory provision at the year-end is 
£993,000 (2014: £993,000). See Note 15. 
Dilapidations provision
•  There are six property leases relating to eight business units 
occupied by operations. All the leases require the tenant to 
address the cost of leasehold dilapidations at the end of the 
lease. In order to apportion the dilapidation cost over the 
life of the lease, a provision is created to reflect an estimate 
of the projected dilapidation cost accruing over the life of 
the leases. At the year-end £132,000 (2014: £104,000) is 
provided. See Note 22.
Useful economic lives of depreciable assets 
•  Management reviews its estimate of the useful economic 
lives at each reporting date, based on the expected utility 
of the assets. Uncertainties in these estimates relate to 
the conditions of the property assets and technological 
obsolescence that may change the utility of certain software 
and IT equipment. See Notes 13 and 14. 
Carrying value of the Linford Wood property
•  The carrying value of the Linford Wood property is based 
on fair value less costs to sell. As a result of this the Group 
recognised an impairment loss on the property of £813,000 
during 2014 in accordance with IAS 36. Details of the 
estimates used are in Note 10(b). The carrying value as at 
31 December 2015 was £1,528,000 (2014: £1,576,000). 
See Note 13. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
71
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
4 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
4.1 Financial Risk Factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial 
risks. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing 
each of these risks and they are summarised below.
(a) Market Risk
(i) Currency Risk
The Group operates internationally and is subject to 
foreign exchange risk arising from various currency 
exposures, primarily with respect to the US Dollar and 
the Euro. The Group does not hedge any transactions, and 
foreign exchange differences on retranslation of foreign 
assets and liabilities are recognised in profit or loss.
Wherever possible the Group looks to negotiate its sales 
and supply contracts in Sterling. Sometimes DRS Data 
Services Limited is required to accept payment in either 
US Dollars or Euros. During 2015 the Group purchased 
164,000 US Dollars. 
(ii) Interest Rate Risk
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of 
Shareholders’ funds and bank loans. The Group reviews its 
exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its mortgage on 
a regular basis. During 2014 and 2015 the Board decided 
not to purchase any form of interest rate cap to limit 
the impact of potential increases in interest payable as 
the cost of mitigation was perceived to be greater than 
the risk. 
An increase or decrease of 1% in the rate of interest 
charged on the mortgage will increase or decrease, 
respectively, the amount of annualised interest payable 
by £13,000. On the Group’s year-end cash holding, a 
1% increase in interest rates would increase interest 
receivable by £18,000.
(iii) Investment Risk
The Board considers security of the principal investment 
to be a greater priority than the rate of return on 
investment as interest rates are so low compared to the 
general economic uncertainty of the financial sector. With 
this in mind, the policy is to use three banks to deposit 
the Group’s cash holding, thereby spreading the risk of 
loss as a consequence of a bank failure. Further details are 
provided in the Strategic Report.
(b) Credit Risk
The Group has a small number of customers that account 
for a significant proportion of the revenue. Close working 
relationships with these customers established over a 
long-term manage the risk exposure. Where appropriate, 
sales to overseas customers are usually underwritten 
using letters of credit unless the customer makes a 
significant up-front payment. A summary of all customers 
with indebtedness greater than £100,000 is prepared on 
a monthly basis for the Directors and senior managers 
to review.
(c) Liquidity Risk
The Group takes a prudent approach to managing 
liquidity risk to ensure sufficient cash is available to meet 
foreseeable needs and to finance safely the successful 
completion of large-scale contracts, thereby minimising 
liquidity risk issues.
All £3,140,000 (2014: £1,946,000) of the current 
liabilities are payable within one year. 
In January 2013 the Group’s mortgage facility was 
extended and increased to £1,900,000 and at 
31 December 2015 the balance outstanding is £1,280,000. 
In December 2014, the mortgage covenants were re-
negotiated with Barclays Bank to support the three-year 
financial plan. The rate of interest is 4.0% over the base 
rate. Repayment of the principal shall be in 19 instalments 
of £56,400 payable quarterly commencing 31 March 
2013, followed by a final bullet payment of £828,400 on 
7 January 2018. Interest payments are made quarterly 
in arrears. 
4.2 Capital Management
The Group’s capital management objectives are:
•  to ensure the Group’s ability to continue as a Going 
Concern; and
•  to maintain adequate liquidity to finance working capital 
requirements.
The Group retains a high level of cash and cash 
equivalents (See Note 2.14) to be able to have sufficient 
funds to finance the working capital requirements of 
large contracts. The dividend policy provides a return to 
Shareholders whilst retaining sufficient cash to continue 
to fund working capital and the development of the 
Group’s products. The Group takes a cautious approach 
to investing this capital to minimise the Group’s exposure 
to capital loss. The policy is consistent with the approach 
of previous years and explains the relatively large value 
of cash and cash equivalents held at the year-end 
(see Note 17). NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2015
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
72
Capital for the reporting period under review is summarised as follows:
  
 31 December  31 December
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
 Total equity 5,130 7,051
 Capital 5,130 7,051
 Total equity 5,130 7,051
 Borrowings 1,280 1,506
 Overall financing 6,410 8,557
 Capital to overall financing ratio 0.80 0.82
5 SEGMENT INFORMATION
The principal activities of the Group are the provision of software, data capture services, the manufacture, sale and support of 
optical and image scanning equipment, design and printing of documentation used for data capture and bureau services. The 
Group is organised functionally, with each function of the business specialising in its own area of expertise. Project managers 
look to the functional areas to provide the appropriate tailored mix of products and services to fulfil each specific contract. 
In turn the functional areas are supported by indirect cost centre departments such as Research and Development and 
Information Systems.
Management consider that there is only one operating segment, as this is the lowest level at which discrete financial 
information is available and is reflected by a single set of management accounts that are used throughout the Group. However, 
it reviews revenue according to various segments and regions and the revenue split is disclosed on page 73.
The delivery of market focussed solutions results in a ‘many-to-many’ relationship between department costs and revenue 
streams. The individual standard costs of each type of supply are carefully controlled, but due to the effect sales mix has on 
recovery rates, reporting the relative profitability of the revenue streams would not be consistent with management processes 
within the Group.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
73
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
The revenue analysis generated from external customers for the year ended 31 December 2015 is as follows:
  Education revenue non-Education revenue
  Examination &   Elections & 
  Assessment Other Commercial Census  Total
  £000  £000 £000 £000 £000
Region     
UK 9,416 324 15 20 9,775
Africa 2,485 1 1 - 2,487
Rest of world 52 9 46 108 215
Total 11,953 334 62 128 12,477
  Revenue arising from specific products and related services thereon:
  e-Marker® 9,344    
  e-Counting    128 
All of the Group’s revenue from continuing operations of £12,477 ,000 was generated from UK operations.
Elections and Census revenue is aggregated on the basis that the operating segments share similar economic characteristics.
DRS’s largest customer generated revenue of £8,021,000 in 2015 (2014: £8,112,000) and is shown under UK examinations and 
assessment. There were no other customers that accounted for more than 10% of revenue in 2015.
The contract to count the 2016 London Mayor and Assembly elections electronically was won by IntElect®, a joint 
arrangement between DRS Data Services Limited and ERS (Electoral Reform Services Limited). The Group did not recognise any 
revenue in the year in respect of this contract.
The revenue analysis generated from external customers for the year ended 31 December 2014 is as follows:
  Education revenue non-Education revenue
  Examination &   Elections & 
  Assessment Other Commercial Census  Total
  £000  £000 £000 £000 £000
 Region     
UK 9,408 464 19 1 9,892
Africa 2,906 30 2 - 2,938
Rest of world 200 19 51 584 854
Total 12,514 513 72 585 13,684
  Revenue arising from specific products and related services thereon:  
  e-Marker® 9,301    
  e-Counting    14  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2015
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
74
6 Revenue and loss before tax
The significant categories of revenue recognised during the period are:
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
 
 Sale of goods  2,491 2,885
 Rendering of services 9,950 10,826
 Operating lease income (Note 7) 36 153
 12,477 13,864
Loss on ordinary activities before taxation is stated after:  
 
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
   Auditor’s remuneration:  
   Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit  
of the Company’s annual accounts 15 7
  Fees payable to the Company’s Auditor for other services 69 40
 Depreciation 286 315
 Amortisation  327 268
 Hire of plant and machinery  61 61
 R&D expense 1,273 1,683
 Impairments 2,770 813
 Share-based payment credit - (13)
Fees payable to the Company’s Auditor for other services comprises:   
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
 
   
  - audit of subsidiary of the Company 42 26
  - audit related assurance services 24 14
  - other non-audit services 3 -
 69 40
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
75
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
7 OPERATING LEASE INCOME
Operating lease income relates to the leasing of CD230 and CD360 scanners into UK schools. All of the machines are on a 
standard agreement which can be terminated on its anniversary date by the customer provided they give three months’ notice 
prior to the anniversary date of their intention to terminate the contract. Total future minimum lease payments receivable at 
31 December 2015 amounted to £4,000 (2014: £5,000), all of which is recoverable within one year. Of this amount, £1,000 
(2014: £1,000) is invoiced and included in the trade receivables balance as at 31 December 2015.
8 OTHER OPERATING INCOME
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
   Interest income  
  - bank interest 5 13
  - Peladon deferred consideration 3 -
 8 13
The Peladon deferred consideration arises from the sale of Peladon Software Inc. to The Software Construction Company Inc., 
Texas during September 2010. The initial consideration was $1 followed by additional consideration to DRS over the course 
of the five year period following completion, based on the future gross revenues of Peladon Software Inc. and its subsidiaries 
that are generated by the sales of licences for all DocXP™ software. The percentage of such gross revenues that the Group was 
entitled to ranged from 5% to 10% in each of the five years following completion. Such additional consideration is capped at a 
maximum amount of US $500,000. The last payment under the arrangement was for the year ended 30 September 2015 and 
was received in November 2015. 
9 DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSE
Staff costs during the year were:
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
   Wages and salaries 6,808 7,794
 Social security costs 724 838
 Share options granted to Directors and employees - (13)
 Pension costs – defined contribution plans 711 817
 8,243 9,436
The average number of full time equivalents of the Group during the year was:
 2015 2014
    Print and bureau services 96 98
 Hardware and software services 84 94
 Sales and marketing 10 14
 Administration 28 32
 218 238 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2015
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
76
Remuneration in respect of Directors was as follows:
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
   Emoluments 441 465
 Pension contributions to money purchase pension schemes 28 57
 469 522
 Key Management remuneration:
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
   Short-term employee benefits 487 518
 Post-employment benefits 28 57
 Share-based payments - (13)
 515 562
All of the Board Directors of the Company are considered to be the key management personnel of the Group. Further details on 
Directors’ remuneration and share options are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
10 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
 
 Profit/(loss) before exceptional items and tax 59 (1,138)
  Exceptional item – impairment charge on capitalised software  
development expenditure  (2,770) -
 Exceptional item – impairment charge carrying value of Linford Wood property - (813)
 Loss before tax (2,711) (1,951)
 Tax credit before exceptional item 433 395
 Tax credit on exceptional item 357 -
 Tax credit 790 395
 Loss for the period (1,921) (1,556) 
10(a) IAS 36 Impairment – capitalised software development expenditure
For internally generated software development expenditure to be capitalised, expected future economic benefits attributable 
to the asset need to be greater than the carrying value of the asset on the balance sheet.
During 2015 identifiable future economic benefits reduced as a consequence of:
•   Increased regulatory requirements leading to greater functional requirements in examination marking software generally 
increasing the work requirement on the original e-Marker® product and increasing the specification of the new product similarly. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
77
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
•  Development delays were encountered as a result of a higher than expected level of staff turnover impacting the continuity 
of coding work.
•  Markets becoming more sophisticated in light of higher expectations and are more sensitive to taking on new products to 
process larger volumes of scripts without the qualitative marking functionality being available within the software.
The lower revenue expectation over the next six years, being the period over which the expected return on investment is 
calculated, resulted in an impairment adjustment under IAS 36 for £2,770,000, the full value of the balance sheet carrying 
value. See Note 14 Intangible Assets for further details. The recoverable amount of the asset is its value in use which has been 
calculated using a discount rate of 10%.
The expected rate of return is based on a period of six years being the period over which it is expected that the product is 
substantially re-written to keep the product up to date with market requriements.
The asset belongs to the one operating segment of the business.
10(b) IAS 36 Impairment – carrying value of the Linford Wood property
Relates to an impairment charge against the carrying value of the Linford Wood property. The acquisition of the Linford Wood 
property was justified on the savings gained against the rental cost of leasing. The use and justification remain the same.
DRS Data Services Limited holds a mortgage on the property, through Barclays Bank plc, who arranged for Berrys, an 
independent valuer, to conduct a commercial valuation of the property based on tenanted occupancy. The commercial 
valuation is based on a calculation derived from tenancy yields in the immediate vicinity of the Linford Wood property in 
August 2014. This valuation calculated the current market value at £1,600,000 which is the same value as the previous 
valuation undertaken in November 2012 by the same agent and on the same basis. The decline in the commercial valuation 
reflects the general fall in the value of commercial property within the locality. The market value at August 2014 is considered 
to be representative of the value as at 31 December 2015.
The fall in the Group’s profitability led to a review being undertaken at the half year to consider whether the property should 
be impaired in accordance with IAS 36. The recoverable amount (i.e. higher of value in use and fair value less costs of disposal) 
of the business unit is determined on the basis of the fair value less costs to sell. The fair value of the property has been 
estimated using the market approach by reference to comparable sales price per square foot and condition of the building and 
are categorised within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The costs to sell are not considered to be material.
The fair value is therefore deemed to be the current market value. Accordingly, this did not justify continuing to hold the 
Linford Wood property at a carrying value above the current market value of £1,600,000. Consequently, an impairment 
adjustment of £813,000 was made reducing the carrying value to £1,600,000 at 30 June 2014. The impairment charge is 
recognised in administration expenses in the Income Statement. As at 31 December 2015 the carrying value of the property is 
£1,528,000 (2014: £1,576,000) after charging depreciation. See Note 13 Property, Plant and Equipment for further details.
The assets belong to the one operating segment of the business.
11 FINANCE COSTS
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
 
 Interest expense:  
  - bank borrowings (61) (72)
  - Peladon deferred consideration - (6)
  - loss on foreign exchange (realised and unrealised) (7) (3)
 (68) (81)
The loss on foreign exchange relates to exchange rate differences on US Dollar and Euro transactions and the restatement of 
monetary assets at the year-end.
For details of the Peladon deferred consideration see Note 8. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2015
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
78
12 INCOME TAX
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
 
 Current tax – domestic (438) (522)
 Foreign taxation 15 26
 Adjustment in respect of previous period (10) (196)
 Total current tax (433) (692)
 Deferred tax current year (Note 21) (357) 132
 Deferred tax prior year (Note 21) - 165
 (790) (395)
Domestic income tax is calculated at the domestic effective tax rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) of the estimated assessable loss 
for the year. 
Development expenditure has been identified in the current year as qualifying expenditure for research and development 
repayable tax credits thereby creating the £438,000 credit in the current income tax credit. Details of this expenditure are 
provided within the section on Research and Development in the Strategic Report. 
The credit for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the Income Statement as follows:
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
    Loss before tax (2,711) (1,951)
 Tax at domestic income tax rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) (549) (420)
 Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 16 147
 Income not taxable for tax purposes - (2)
 Other permanent differences (3) -
 Additional deduction for R&D expenditure (557) (458)
 Surrender of tax losses for R&D tax credit 174 302
 Chargeable gains - 3
 Foreign tax credits 15 26
 Effect of change in tax rates 17 -
 Deferred tax not recognised 107 37
 Adjustment in respect of previous periods (10) (30)
 Tax credit (790) (395) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
79
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
  Freehold
   land & Computer  Fixtures Plant &  Rental Motor
 Total  buildings equipment  & fittings machinery  machines vehicles
 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000
 At 1 January 2014       
 Cost  10,237 2,900 1,185 2,473 3,226 447 6
 Accumulated depreciation (7 ,329) (454) (1,071) (2,325) (3,026) (447) (6)
 Net book amount 2,908 2,446 114 148 200 - -
 For the year ended  
  31 December 2014       
 Opening net amount  
  at 1 January 2014 2,908 2,446 114 148 200 - -
 Additions 372 - 81 205 86 - -
 Disposals - - - - - - -
 Depreciation charge (315) (57) (97) (78) (83) - -
 Impairment Charge  
  (see Note 10 (b)) (813) (813) - - - - -
 Closing net book amount  
  at 31 December 2014 2,152 1,576 98 275 203 - -
 At 31 December 2014       
 Cost  10,530 2,900 1,257 2,671 3,255 441 6
 Accumulated depreciation (8,378) (1,324) (1,159) (2,396) (3,052) (441) (6)
 Net book amount 2,152 1,576 98 275 203 - -
 For the year ended 
  31 December 2015   
Opening net amount  
  at 1 January 2015 2,152 1,576 98 275 203 - -
 Additions 291 - 13 20 255 - 3
 Disposals - - - - - - -
 Depreciation charge (286) (48) (56) (93) (88) - (1)
 Closing net book amount  
  at 31 December 2015 2,157 1,528 55 202 370 - 2
 At 31 December 2015       
 Cost  9,868 2,087 1,238 2,686 3,415 433 9
 Accumulated depreciation 
  and impairment (7,711) (559) (1,183) (2,484) (3,045) (433) (7)
 Net book amount 2,157 1,528 55 202 370 - 2 An impairment review was undertaken in June 2014 that resulted in an impairment of the Linford Wood property in the amount of 
£813,000, see Note 10(b) for details. At 30 June 2014, the useful economic life of the building was estimated to be 25 instead of 
30 years based on the condition of the building and the planned expenditure in light of the Group’s cost saving programme. As a 
consequence of these two actions taken in 2014, depreciation has reduced from £67 ,000 per annum to £47 ,500 per annum. 
Bank borrowings at 31 December 2015 are secured on the Linford Wood land and buildings to the value of £1,280,000 (2014: 
£1,506,000). See Note 20.
The fall in year-on-year cost of assets is the result of disposals made during the year with nil net book value.
14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
  Computer  Development
 Total software expenditure
 £000 £000 £000
 At 1 January 2014   
 Cost  6,481 1,381 5,100
 Accumulated amortisation  (4,687) (1,171) (3,516)
 Net book amount 1,794 210 1,584
   
 For the year ended 31 December 2014   
 Opening net amount at 1 January 2014 1,794 210 1,584
 Additions 987 6 981
 Disposals (90) - (90)
 Amortisation charge  (268) (133) (135)
 Closing net book amount at 31 December 2014 2,423 83 2,340
  At 31 December 2014   
 Cost  7,378 1,387 5,991
 Accumulated amortisation and impairment (4,955) (1,304) (3,651)
 Net book amount 2,423 83 2,340
 For the year ended 31 December 2015  
 Opening net amount at 1 January 2015 2,423 83 2,340
 Additions 707 12 695
 Disposals  - - -
 Amortisation  (327) (62) (265)
 Impairment charge (see Note 10(a) )  (2,770) - (2,770)
 Closing net book amount at 31 December 2015 33 33 -
 At 31 December 2015   
 Cost  5,315 1,399 3,916
 Accumulated amortisation and impairment (5,282) (1,366) (3,916)
 Net book amount 33 33 -
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2015
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
80 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
81
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Computer software relates to the third-party software licences purchased by the Group to be used in the normal course of its 
business and is amortised over three years from the time of purchase. A check is carried out at the end of each year to ensure 
that all the software is still in use within the business.
The capitalised development expenditure covers the cost of developing the first release of a completely new version 
of e-Marker® software plus additional new features which enhance the original core e-Marker® software used to mark 
examination scripts electronically within the education marketplace. 
An impairment review was undertaken at the 2015 year-end that resulted in an impairment of the internally generated 
software development expenditure for the amount of £2,770,000 (see Note 10(a) for details). 
The assets making up the closing net book value will be amortised as follows based on Management’s assessment of when the 
asset will be brought into use:
  Computer Development
 Total software expenditure
 £000 £000 £000
 
 Future amortisation of assets by year   
 2016 25 25 -
 2017 5 5 -
 2018 3 3 -
 Net book amount at 31 December 2015 33 33 -
All intangible amortisation is charged to cost of sales within the Income Statement.
15 INVENTORIES
 31 December 31 December
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
   Raw materials 1,668 585
 Work in progress 670 11
 Finished goods 26 33
 2,364 629
  31 December Movement 31 December Movement 31 December
  2015 during year 2014 during year 2013
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
 
 
Inventory  
 provision
      
 PS900 scanners 962 68 894 200 694
 Other scanners 25 (61) 86 (12) 98
 Print 6 (7) 13 2 11
 Total  993 - 993 190 803    31 December 31 December 31 December
   2015 2014 2013
   £000 £000 £000
 
 Related carrying value     
 PS900/PS1000 scanners  2,132 420 780
 Other scanners  - 4 12
 Manufacturing inventory  2,132 424 792
 Print inventory  232 205 182
 Total  2,364 629 974
Inventory provisions are created to reflect future sales estimates over the useful life of the product. Reductions in the level of 
provision arise from inventory being written off and disposed of. In 2015 the value of fully provided inventory that was written 
off amounted to £38,000 (2014: £12,000).
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to £1,187,000 (2014: £1,480,000), 
comprising of £1,119,000 of materials (2014: £1,278,000) and £68,000 of inventory provision increases (2014: £202,000) as a 
result of the estimated sales of the PS900 scanners.
16 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
 31 December  31 December
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
 
 Loans and receivables  
  - Trade receivables  1,003 517
  - Less provision for impairment of receivables (167) (6)
  - Trade receivables – net 836 511
 Amounts recoverable on contracts  254 151
 Prepayments and accrued income 1,503 790
 2,593 1,452
There is no material difference between the fair value and the carrying value of these assets.
The maximum credit risk exposure at the balance sheet date equates to the fair value of trade receivables. Further details of 
how the Group manages credit risk is set out in Note 4.1.
Standard payment terms on credit sales are 30 days net. 
The trade receivables ageing analysis is as follows:
   Past due Past due Past due Past due Past due
 Total trade  0 – 30 31 – 60 61 – 90 91 – 120 120+
 receivables Current days days days days  days
 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000
 
 31 December 2015 836 293 450 47 2 14 30
 31 December 2014 511 348 45 86 10 9 13
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2015
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
82 The Group recognised an increase in its impairment of its trade receivables during the year of £161,000 (2014: decrease 
£16,000). The trade receivables provision movement, representing those items past due and impaired, is included in 
‘administrative expenses’ in the Income Statement and a breakdown is as follows:
 31 December  31 December
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
 
 Opening amount at 1 January  6 22
 Increase/(decrease) in provision to Income Statement 161 (16)
 Closing amount at 31 December  167 6
17 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 31 December  31 December
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
   Cash at bank and in hand 42 85
 Short-term bank deposits 1,881 3,527
 1,923 3,612
The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits was 0.23% (2014: 0.23%). These deposits have a maturity of one day 
(2014: one day).
The Group’s approach to managing liquidity and currency risks is set out in Note 4.1.
The tables below show the extent to which the Group has monetary assets in currencies other than Sterling.
 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
  2015  2015 2014  2014
  US Dollars  Euro US Dollars  Euro
  £000 £000 £000 £000
   Sterling equivalent 26 3 21 47
18 SHARE CAPITAL
  Number of shares  Ordinary shares Treasury shares Total
 At 1 January 2014 34,621,600 34,621,600 (1,930,000) 32,691,600
 Balance at 31 December 2014 34,621,600 34,621,600 (1,930,000) 32,691,600
 Balance at 31 December 2015 34,621,600 34,621,600 (1,930,000) 32,691,600
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
83
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Ordinary shares of 5p each
 at 31 December 2015 and 2014
 Number £000
 
 Allotted, issued, called up and fully paid 34,621,600 1,731
The Company acquired 1,930,000 of its own shares through purchase between 3 June and 15 July 2004. The price of these 
shares ranged between 59p and 60p. The total amount paid to acquire these shares, net of income tax, was £1,166,000 and has 
been deducted from Shareholders’ equity. The shares are held as Treasury shares. The Company has the right to re-issue these 
shares at a later date. All issued shares are fully paid.
19 OTHER RESERVES
  Share premium Capital redemption Own share Total
  reserve reserve reserve Group
  £000  £000 £000 £000
 
 As at 1 January 2014 5,377 115 (306) 5,186
 Own shares vesting - - 8 8
 Balance at 31 December 2014 5,377 115 (298) 5,194
 Balance at 31 December 2015 5,377 115 (298) 5,194
The Share Premium represents proceeds received in addition to the nominal value of shares issued less registration and other 
regulatory fees and net of related tax benefits. 
The Capital Redemption Reserve represents shares which are redeemed or purchased wholly out of the Company’s profits and 
is the amount by which the Company’s share capital is diminished on cancellation of these shares.
The Own Share Reserve represents the cost of shares purchased under the Restricted Share Scheme, less those unconditionally 
vested in employees. At 31 December 2015, 920,529 (2014: 920,529) shares with a market value of £110,463 (2014: £124,271) 
were held. The Scheme authorises the Trustees to purchase up to 5% of the issued share capital, funded by loans from the 
Company. Shares so acquired are conditionally gifted to employees and used to fulfil performance related options to Directors 
and senior managers at the discretion of the Board.
20 BORROWINGS
 31 December  31 December
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
 
 Current  
 Bank borrowings – secured loan 226 226
 Non-current  
 Bank borrowings – secured loan 1,054 1,280
 Total borrowings 1,280 1,506
In January 2013 the mortgage facility was extended to 7 January 2018 and increased to £1,900,000. The balance outstanding 
at 31 December 2015 was £1,280,000 (2014: £1,506,000). The facility from Barclays Bank plc is secured by a fixed charge 
against the freehold land and buildings to 7 January 2018. The interest rate on the five year extension is 4.0% over base rate. 
Repayment of the principal shall be in 19 instalments of £56,400 payable quarterly commencing 31 March 2013, followed by 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2015
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
84 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
85
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
a final bullet payment of £828,400 on 7 January 2018. The extension included a reallocation of the mortgage to the subsidiary 
Company, DRS Data Services Limited, as tenant of the property.
The normal overdraft facility for DRS Data Services Limited is £250,000 although it was temporarily increased to £850,000 
from April 2016 to 31 May 2016 to fund the working capital on the Mayor of London and London Assembly elections project, 
following which it will reduce back to £250,000. It remains secured against work in progress and debtors. Interest is charged at 
a variable rate of 4% over base rate. 
21 DEFERRED INCOME TAX
 
 31 December  31 December
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
 
 Analysis for financial reporting purposes  
 Deferred tax liabilities 52 409
 Deferred tax assets - -
 52 409
The movement in the year in the Group’s net deferred tax position was as follows:
 31 December  31 December
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
    At 1 January 409 112
 (Credit)/charge to income for the current year (357) 132
 Charge to income for the prior year - 165
 At 31 December 52 409
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and the movements thereon during the 
period:
  Capital 
   Allowances
   £000
   At 1 January 2015  409
 Credit to income for the year  (357)
 At 31 December 2015  52
A deferred tax asset in respect of unrelieved tax losses and fixed asset timing has not been recognised due to the uncertainty of 
the Group generating sufficient profit against which these losses can be utilised. The amount unprovided at 31 December 2015 
was £142,000 (2014: £34,000), using the rate of corporation tax applicable for future years (18%).
Both the 18% and 19% reduced tax rates have been substantively inacted in October 2015 for deferred tax purposes. At 
the balance sheet date, the Group believed that the main corporation tax rate for deferred tax purposes should be 18% and 
therefore this rate is reflected in the calculation of the Group’s deferred tax assets and liabilities. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2015
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
86
22 PROVISIONS
 31 December  31 December
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
 
 Leasehold dilapidations provision  
 As at 1 January 104 89
 Additonal provision 28 28
 Amounts utilised - -
 Reversals - (13)
 Carrying amount at 31 December 132 104
The provision is based on previous negotiations to terminate these lease arrangements and reflects the Group’s liability 
for dilapidation charges payable on the expiry of all six property leases relating to the eight business units occupied by 
operations in Milton Keynes. See Note 28 for further details about the property leases. The whole amount is included within 
non-current liabilities.
23 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
 31 December  31 December
 2015 2014
 £000  £000
    Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost  
  - Trade payables 468 386
 Deferred income 1,435 359
 Social security and other taxes 169 343
 Accrued expenses 842 632
 2,914 1,720
 Borrowings (see Note 20) 226 226
 3,140 1,946
Trade payables are contractually due within 30 days and are financial liabilities at amortised cost.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
87
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
24 FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Categories of financial assets and liabilities
The carrying amounts presented in the statement of financial position relating to the following categories of assets and 
liabilities are:
   31 December  31 December 
   2015 2014
  Notes £000  £000
 Financial assets   
 Loans and other receivables   
  - Trade and other receivables 16 2,593 1,452
  - Cash and cash equivalents 17 1,923 3,612
  4,516 5,064
   
 Financial liabilities   
 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:   
 Non-current borrowings 20 (1,054) (1,280)
 Current   
  - Trade and other payables 23 (1,310) (1,018)
  - Repayment of secured loan 20 (226) (226)
  (1,536) (1,244)
Fair value of the Financial Instruments approximates to their carrying value.  Diluted loss per share        
       2015 2014
       £000 £000
 Earnings attributable to Ordinary Shareholders being loss for the period   (1,921) (1,556)
      Number Number
 Weighted average number of shares     31,767,482 31,767,482
 Basic
 Dilutive effect of:
  - options under the Enterprise Management Incentive Scheme    - -
  - options under LTIP option scheme     - -
 Diluted      31,767,482 31,767,482
 Diluted loss per Ordinary share      (6.05p) (4.90p)
Basic loss per share          
       2015 2014
       £000 £000
 Earnings attributable to Ordinary Shareholders being loss for the period   (1,921) (1,556)
      Number Number
 Weighted average number of shares     31,767,482 31,767,482
 Basic loss per Ordinary share      (6.05p) (4.90p)
     
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2015
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
88
25 LOSS PER SHARE
The calculation of basic loss per share is based on the earnings attributable to Ordinary Shareholders divided by the weighted 
average number of shares in issue during the year. Shares held in the Restricted Share Scheme (see Note 19) are treated as 
cancelled for the purposes of this calculation.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on the basic earnings per share, adjusted to allow for the issue of shares 
and the post-tax effect of dividends and/or interest, on the assumed conversion of all dilutive options and other dilutive 
potential Ordinary shares. 
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
89
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
26 DIVIDENDS PER SHARE
The Company did not pay any dividends during 2014 and 2015.
The Directors do not recommend a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015.
27 RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
  1 January Cash  31 December
  2015 flow 2015
  £000  £000  £000
 Cash at bank and in hand 85 (43) 42
 Term deposits 3,527 (1,646) 1,881
 3,612 (1,689) 1,923
28 COMMITMENTS
Operating lease commitments
The Company has the following future minimum lease commitments:
 Lease of land & buildings Other leases
  
  31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
  2015 2014 2015 2014
  £000 £000 £000 £000
     Within one year 184 210 60 68
 Within two to five years 169 651 55 105
  353 861 115 173
The Group held six property leases relating to eight business units occupied by operations in Milton Keynes at 31 December 
2015. All of these leases run concurrently to 30 November 2021 with options for a break in the lease at 30 November 2017 and 
30 November 2019. Rent is payable quarterly in advance. 
The classification of other leases relates to Company vehicles that are held under three or four year contracts, plus the 
Company telephones and two photocopiers which are held under five year contracts. The Company vehicle leases have an up-
front payment of three months in advance followed by a monthly payment, the telephone contract payments are monthly in 
advance and the office equipment leases are payable quarterly in advance.
Operating lease expense for the year ended 31 December 2015 amounted to £282,000 (2014: £282,000).  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2015
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
90
29 PENSION COMMITMENTS
During 2014 and 2015 the Group operated various separate defined contribution schemes for the benefit of employees and 
Executive Directors. In all cases the assets of the schemes are administered by trustees in funds independent of the Group. 
Pension contributions are shown in Note 9.
30 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
Details of options granted:
   Original 
   number    
   of shares Vesting  Exercise Method of
Date of Grant  Type granted period Term price settlement
 Year-end 31 December 2004       
 7 April 2004 RSS* Employees 170,000 3 years 10 years Nil Equity
 Year-end 31 December 2012       
 24 September 2012 LTIP Directors  470,000 3 years 10 years Nil Equity 
  and employees 
 16 November 2012 LTIP Directors 916,666 3 years 10 years Nil Equity
 Year-end 31 December 2013       
 18 November 2013 LTIP Directors 66,000 3 years 10 years Nil Equity
* 1996 DRS Restricted Share Scheme
Movements in the year:
Year-end 31 December 2014
 1 January 2014   31 December 2014
    
 Outstanding  Exercisable     Outstanding  Exercisable
Date of Grant options options Granted Lapsed Exercised options options 
 Year-end 31 December 2004       
 7 April 2004 - 40,000 - - 40,000 - -
 Year-end 31 December 2012       
 24 September 2012 370,000 - - 150,000 - 220,000 -
 16 November 2012 916,666 - - - - 916,666 -
 Year-end 31 December 2013       
 18 November 2013 66,000 - - 33,000 - 33,000 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
91
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Movements in the year:
Year-end 31 December 2015
 1 January 2015   31 December 2015
    
 Outstanding  Exercisable     Outstanding  Exercisable
 Date of Grant options options Granted Lapsed Exercised options options 
 Year-end 31 December 2012       
 24 September 2012 220,000 - - 220,000 - - -
 16 November 2012 916,666 - - 916,666 - - -
 Year-end 31 December 2013       
 18 November 2013 33,000 - - - - 33,000 -
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the exercisable options is 323 days.
Calculation of the fair value:
  Share     Risk-free Fair
 Valuation price Exercise Expected Expected Expected interest value
Options model at grant price volatility life dividends rate of 1 unit 
      Year-end 31 December 2012        
 24 September 2012 Monte Carlo 17 .25p 0p 30.00% 3 years 2.50% 0.315% 9.40p
 16 November 2012 Monte Carlo 18.00p 0p 30.00% 3 years 2.50% 0.283% 9.80p
 Year-end 31 December 2013        
 18 November 2014 Monte Carlo 23.25p 0p 30.00% 3 years 2.00% 0.7031% 12.48p
Performance Criteria
Under the Rules of the 2012 LTIP, the number of awards that can be exercised and will convert into nil-cost options at the end 
of the three year performance, which runs from 1 January of the year in which they are granted, are dependent on the following 
two performance conditions:
1.  A comparison of the Company’s total shareholder return over a three year period commencing on the first day of the 
financial year in which the date of grant falls against a comparator group of companies, comprising the constituents of the 
FTSE Fledgling Index; and
2.  The average growth of the Company’s basic earnings per share in the three year period following grant compared to the 
earnings per share in the year prior to the date of grant (i.e. the year ended 31 December 2012 for the options granted 
in 2013).
The number of vesting nil-cost options in the 2012 LTIP will be calculated for all participants by reference to the value created 
for Shareholders over the performance period. 
The value created for Shareholders will be based on the increase in the Net Return Index (which reflects movements in share 
price plus dividends reinvested on a net basis (without any associated tax credit) in shares on the ex-dividend date) for a 
company over the performance period and will be calculated based on the value created during the period between the three 
months ending on the last day of the performance period and the three months ending on the date of grant of an option. 
Further details on Directors’ Share Options are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
92
Valuation Methodologies
In order to calculate fair values of the options the Company has taken into account those factors knowledgeable, willing 
market participants would consider in valuing the options.
The fair values of the EMI options to employees with no additional market conditions were estimated using a Binomial option 
pricing model. 
The awards granted under the 2012 LTIP, where the potential number of nil-cost options vesting will be dependent upon the 
absolute return to Shareholders over the performance period was calculated using a Monte Carlo Simulation model. The total 
fair value of all units granted to participants in the LTIP was £142,250. 
Volatility Assumptions
Annualised expected volatility of all the options and units granted under the LTIP were determined by calculating the average 
of standard deviations of daily continuously compounded returns of the share price for the Company and the constituents of 
the comparator group calculated over three years back from the date of grant of each instrument.
The dividend yield used in the Monte Carlo model is based on an average yield over the Company’s last five financial years.
Options Outstanding
The weighted average exercise price of the options outstanding at 31 December 2015 was nil. (2014: nil). 
31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
31. 1 Inter-Company Transactions
Balances and transactions between the Company, DRS Data and Research Services plc, and its subsidiary, DRS Data Services 
Limited, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. Transactions 
between the Company and its subsidiary are disclosed in Note 43.
31.2 Transactions with Joint Arrangements
Electoral Reform Services Limited (ERS) is working with DRS Data Services Limited in a joint arrangement as IntElect® to 
deliver the 2016 London Mayor and Assembly elections making ERS a related party. At 31 December 2015 DRS owed £17,000 
to ERS and DRS was owed £14,000 by ERS. No amounts were outstanding between the two parties as at 31 December 2014. 
Further details about IntElect® are included in Note 5.
31.3 Transactions with Key Management Personnel
There were no key transactions during the year with key management personnel.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2015
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT 
COMPANY 
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
93
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
94
PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 25 April 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
S J Gowers  A M Tebbutt
Chief Executive Officer  Finance Director
DRS Data and Research Services plc
Registered Company Number: 0959401
 31 December  31 December
  2015 2014
 Notes £000  £000
 ASSETS
 Non-current assets   
 Property, plant and equipment 34 1,539 1,594
 Investment in subsidiaries 35 3,814 3,814
  5,353 5,408
 Current assets   
 Trade and other receivables 36 534 93
 Cash and cash equivalents 37 1,518 3,205
  2,052 3,298
 Total assets  7,405 8,706
 Equity   
 Capital and reserves attributable to the Company’s equity holders   
 Share capital 38 1,731 1,731
 Share premium account 39 5,377 5,377
 Capital redemption reserve 39 115 115
 Treasury shares 38 (1,166) (1,166)
 Own shares reserve 39 (298) (298)
 Retained earnings  1,516 1,365
 Total Equity  7,275 7,124
 LIABILITIES   
 Non-current liabilities   
 Deferred income tax liabilities 40 52 64
  52 64
 Current liabilities   
 Trade and other payables 41 78 1,518
  78 1,518
 Total liabilities  130 1,582
 Total equity and liabilities  7,405 8,706    Share  Capital  Own   
 Share premium redemption Treasury shares Retained 
 capital account reserve shares reserve  earnings Total
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
 At 1 January 2014 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (306) 2,080 7,831
 Dividends  - - - - - (127) (127)
 Employee share-based  - - - - - (13) (13) 
  compensation 
 Own shares vesting - - - - 8 (8) -
 Transactions with owners - - - - 8 (148) (140)
 Loss for the period - - - - - (567) (567)
 Total comprehensive loss  - - - - - (567) (567) 
  for the period
 At 31 December 2014 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (298) 1,365 7,124
 At 1 January 2015 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (298) 1,365 7,124
 Dividends  - - - - - - -
 Employee share-based  - - - - - - - 
  compensation 
 Own shares vesting - - - - - - -
 Transactions with owners - - - - - - -
 Profit for the period - - - - - 151 151
 Total comprehensive profit  - - - - - 151 151 
  for the period
 At 31 December 2015 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (298) 1,516 7,275
85
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
95
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
96
  31 December 31 December
  2015 2014
 Notes £000  £000
 Cash flows from operating activities
 Proft/(loss) for the period  151 (567)
 Adjustments for:   
  - income tax  (12) (48)
  - depreciation of property, plant and equipment  34 55 65
  - impairment of property, plant and equipment   - 813
  - exchange gain on cash holdings   (8) (10)
  - interest income   (8) (63)
  - (increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables   (441) 9
  - decrease in trade and other payables  (1,440) (229)
 Cash used in operations  (1,703) (30)
 Interest paid  - -
 Net cash used in operating activities  - -
 Cash flows from investing activities       
 Interest received  8 63
 Net cash generated from investing activities  8 63
 Cash flows from financing activities     
 Dividends paid to Shareholders  - (127)
 Net cash used in financing activities  - (127)
 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents  (1,695) (94)
 Exchange increase on cash  8 10
 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period  3,205 3,289
 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period  1,518 3,205
PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2015
97
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
32 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
These financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and with those 
parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are relevant to 
companies that report in accordance with IFRS.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company 
are the same as the Group’s accounting policies; see Note 2 
for details, subject to the following addition:
32. 1 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
Investments in subsidiaries are measured at cost less 
accumulated impairment.
32.2 FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS
The Company’s activities expose it to a variety of financial 
risks. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing 
each of these risks and they are summarised below.
a) Market Risk
i) Currency Risk
The Company manages the cash requirements for 
subsidiaries that operate internationally and are subject 
to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency 
exposures, primarily with respect to the US Dollar and the 
Euro. The Company does not hedge any transactions, and 
foreign exchange differences on retranslation of foreign 
assets and liabilities are recognised in the Income Statement.
Wherever possible the Company looks to transact its affairs 
in Sterling. 
ii) Interest Rate Risk
The Company finances its operations through a mixture 
of Shareholders’ funds and bank loans. At the year-end 
the Company does not hold any bank loans and is not 
considered to have any interest rate risk. 
iii) Investment Risk
The Board considers security of the principal investment to 
be a greater priority than the rate of return on investment as 
interest rates are so low compared to the general economic 
uncertainty of the financial sector. With this in mind, it is 
the policy to use three banks to deposit the Company’s cash 
holding, thereby spreading the risk of loss as a consequence 
of a bank failure.
b) Credit Risk
The Company does not have any trade receivables and 
therefore has minimum credit risk. 
c) Liquidity Risk
The Company takes a prudent approach to managing 
liquidity risk to ensure sufficient cash is available to meet 
foreseeable needs and to finance safely the successful 
completion of large-scale contracts within the Group, 
thereby minimising liquidity risk issues. 
32.3 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT 
DRS Data and Research Services plc manages all share-based 
arrangements for the Group. The basis of calculation for the 
cost of these share-based payments is set out in Note 30. 
Participants of the share-based payment arrangements are 
the holding Company Executive Directors and the subsidiary 
company, DRS Data Services Limited Executive Directors. 
The calculated cost is then charged out as a service to the 
relevant subsidiary.
32.4 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
It is the policy of the Group that subsidiary companies are 
expected to pass up distributable retained earnings to the 
holding company, DRS Data and Research Services plc as 
dividends as soon as practical. 
33 PROFIT/(LOSS) FOR THE YEAR
DRS Data and Research Services plc has not presented its 
own Income Statement and related notes as permitted by 
Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. The increase in 
retained earnings for the year was £151,000 (2014: £715,000 
decrease). The trading proft for the financial year in the 
Financial Statements of the Parent Company is £151,000 
(2014: £567,000 loss).
The costs of Directors’ remuneration and share payments 
are borne by DRS Data Services Limited, the details to which 
are disclosed in Note 9.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 34 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
  Freehold
  land & Fixtures
 Total buildings & fittings
 £000 £000 £000
 
 At 1 January 2014   
 Cost  3,168 2,900 268
 Accumulated depreciation (696) (454) (242)
 Net book amount 2,472 2,446 26
 For the year ended 31 December 2014   
 Opening net amount at 1 January 2014 2,472 2,446 26
 Depreciation charge (65) (57) (8)
 Impairment charge (813) (813) -
 Closing net book amount at 31 December 2014 1,594 1,576 18
 At 31 December 2014   
 Cost  2,355 2,087 268
 Accumulated depreciation (761) (511) (250)
 Net book amount 1,594 1,576 18
 For the year ended 31 December 2015   
 Opening net amount at 1 January 2015 1,594 1,576 18
 Depreciation charge (55) (48) (7)
 Closing net book amount at 31 December 2015 1,539 1,528 11
 At 31 December 2015   
 Cost  2,355 2,087 268
 Accumulated depreciation (816) (559) (257)
 Net book amount 1,539 1,528 11
An impairment review was undertaken in June 2014 that resulted in a decision to impair the Linford Wood property by 
£813,000. The impairment charge is recognised in administration expenses in the Group Income Statement, see Note 10(b) 
for details. Also at 30 June 2014, a decision was taken to reduce the outstanding expected life of the building by 5 years to 25 
years reflecting the reduction in planned expenditure on the building’s upkeep as part of reducing the Group’s cost base. As a 
consequence of these actions in 2014, depreciation is reduced from £67,000 per annum to £47,500 per annum. 
Bank borrowings held by DRS Data Services Limited are secured on the Linford Wood land and buildings for the value of 
£1,280,000 (2014: £1,506,000). See Note 20.
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2015
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
98
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 35 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
At 31 December 2015 the principal subsidiary undertaking of the Company was as follows:
 Country of incorporation
Name of Company and operation Shareholding Main activity
 DRS Data Services Limited UK 100% Provision of data capture services,  
   manufacture and sale of optical 
   and image scanning equipment 
 Seckloe 279 Limited UK 100%  Dormant 
The net book amount of the investment in DRS Data Services Limited at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 was 
£3,814,000.
36 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
  31 December 31 December 
  2015 2014
  £000 £000
 Current loans and receivables
 Prepayments and accrued income  82 93
 Amounts owed by Group undertakings  452 -
  534 93
There is no material difference between the fair value and carrying value of these assets.
There are no trade receivables.
37 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
  31 December 31 December 
  2015 2014
  £000 £000
 Cash at bank and in hand  1,518 3,205
The Company’s approach to managing liquidity and currency risks is in accordance with the Group’s, details of which are set 
out in Note 4.1.
The table below shows the extent to which the Company has monetary assets in currencies other than Sterling.
99
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    
    2015 2014
    US Dollars  US Dollars
     £000  £000
 Sterling equivalent    1 1  DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
100
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2015
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
40 DEFERRED INCOME TAX
The movement in the year in the Company’s net deferred tax position was as follows:
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Company and the movements thereon during 
the period:
  31 December 31 December 
  2015 2014
  £000 £000
 Analysis for financial reporting purposes  
 Deferred tax liabilities  52 64
  52 64
          
     Accelerated tax  Revaluation 
     depreciation  of property Total
      £000 £000 £000
 At 1 January 2015     46 18 64
 Credit to income for the year     (1) (11) (12)
 At 31 December 2015     45 7 52
 
  31 December 31 December 
  2015 2014
  £000 £000
 At 1 January  64 112
 Credit to income for the year  (12) (48)
 At 31 December  52 64
38 SHARE CAPITAL
See Note 18 for details of the share capital of the Company.
39 OTHER RESERVES
See Note 19 for details of the other reserves of the Company. 41 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
  31 December 31 December 
  2015 2014
  £000 £000
 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost  
 Amounts owed to Group undertakings  - 1,430
 Accrued expenses  78 88
  78 1,518
101
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
42 FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Categories of financial assets and liabilities.
The carrying amounts presented in the statement of financial position relating to the following categories of assets and 
liabilities are:
   31 December  31 December
   2015 2014
 Notes £000 £000
 Financial assets 
 Loans and other receivables  
  - Trade and other receivables 36 534 93
  - Cash and cash equivalents 37 1,518 3,205
  2,052 3,298
 Financial liabilities 
 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
 Current  
  - Trade and other payables 41 (78) (1,518)
  (78) (1,518)
Fair value of the Financial Instruments equates to their carrying value.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
102
43 INTRA-GROUP TRANSACTIONS
DRS Data and Research Services plc provided £700,000 (2014: £700,000) of services to its subsidiaries during 2015. It did not 
make any purchases from them.
The Company has provided cross Company guarantees for the borrowing facilities of its subsidiary DRS Data Services 
Limited. On 31 December 2013 an inter-company loan agreement was signed providing for interest of 2.5% to be charged on 
outstanding balances. The amount of interest paid in the year was £4,000 (2014: £54,000).
   DRS Data
   Services Limited
   £000
 At 31 December 2014  
 Amounts owed to subsidiary   (1,430)
 At 31 December 2015  
 Amounts owed by subsidiary   452
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2015
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  DIRECTORS AND ADVISERS
DIRECTORS Keith Bogg, Chairman *
   Alison Reed *
#
   Dame Sandra Dawson *
   Steve Gowers 
   Mark Tebbutt
   * Non-Executive Director
   
# 
Senior Independent Director
COMPANY SECRETARY John Richardson
REGISTERED OFFICE 1 Danbury Court
   Linford Wood
   Milton Keynes
   Buckinghamshire
   MK14 6LR
STOCKBROKERS Arden Partners plc
   125 Old Broad Street
   London
   EC2N 1AR
AUDITOR Grant Thornton UK LLP
   Registered Auditors and Chartered Accountants
   Grant Thornton House
   202 Silbury Boulevard
   Central Milton Keynes
   Buckinghamshire
   MK9 1LW
PRINCIPAL BANKERS Barclays Bank plc
   Barclays Corporate
   Ashton House
   497 Silbury Boulevard
   Milton Keynes 
   Buckinghamshire
   MK9 2LD
REGISTRARS Equiniti Ltd
   Aspect House
   Spencer Road
   Lancing
   West Sussex
   BN99 6DA
103
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DRS Data and Research Services plc
1 Danbury Court
Linford Wood
Milton Keynes
Buckinghamshire 
MK14 6LR
United Kingdom 
Telephone: +44 (0)1908 666088 
Fax: +44 (0)1908 607668  
Email: enquiries@drs.co.uk
 
www.drs.co.uk
