 Annual report and accounts 2016
INVESTING  
IN OUR STRENGTHS 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 2016 has been a year of 
uncertainty. The aviation industry in 
particular has faced many challenges: 
low oil prices and interest rates; 
the continuing impact of terrorism; 
the decision for the UK to exit the 
European Union; and increased 
market capacity sustained by a 
low fuel price, have all contributed 
significantly to the position of our 
business today. However, in these 
unpredictable times easyJet has 
continued to pursue its strategy for 
disciplined growth and long-term 
shareholder value. 
This year we have made considerable 
investments in our business. We have 
further strengthened the network, 
continued to invest in projects to 
deliver customer benefits and cost 
savings and reinforced the balance 
sheet. This will enable us to target 
long-term earnings growth and drive 
long-term value to our shareholders.
STRATEGIC REPORT
easyJet at a glance 2
Our business model 4
Chairman’s letter 6
Chief Executive’s review 7
Overview 7
Our market context 8
Our strategy 9
Outlook 15
Key performance indicators 16
Financial review 18
Going concern 22
Viability statement 22
Key statistics 23
Risk 24
Corporate responsibility 32
GOVERNANCE
Chairman’s statement 
on corporate governance
43
Board of Directors 44
Executive Management T eam 46
Corporate governance report 48
Directors’ remuneration report 60
Directors’ report 76
Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities
79
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of easyJet plc
80
ACCOUNTS
Consolidated accounts 86
Notes to the accounts 91
Company accounts 114
Notes to the Company accounts 117
OTHER INFORMATION
Five-year summary 119
Glossary 120
VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR OTHER 
INVESTOR INFORMATION
http://corporate.easyJet.com/investors OUR STRENGTHS
INVESTMENT CASE
Unparalleled 
network
We have an 
increasing presence 
in the right markets, 
and with frequencies 
and slots at slot-
constrained primary 
airports that deliver 
choice and flexibility 
to our customers.
Well-known 
brand
We are respected  
for delivering a safe, 
reliable and great 
value service to top 
destinations across 
Europe and beyond.
Low-cost  
model
We are driven by 
our strong focus  
on cost savings,  
with a commitment  
to maintaining 
easyJet’s structural 
cost advantage 
against the 
legacy and charter 
operators who are  
its major competitors  
in its markets.
COST PER SEA T DECREASE
4.6%
YEAR-ON-YEAR A T  
CONST ANT CURRENCY
97.6%
PERCENT AGE OF EASYJET 
CAPACITY THA T TOUCHES A 
NUMBER ONE OR NUMBER  
TWO AIRPORT
(3)
Number
1 or 2
BRAND IN THE UK, FRANCE  
AND SWITZERLAND
(2)
74%
OF OUR CUSTOMERS ARE 
RETURNING CUSTOMERS
(3)
(1) As at 30 September 2016.
(2) Based on data received for brand awareness for the 2016 financial year from the Millward Brown Brand tracker.
(3) In the year ending 30 September 2016.
(4) At constant currency, performance from 2015 financial year compared to 2019 financial year at normal levels of disruption.
167
AVERAGE NUMBER  
OF SEA TS PER PLANE
(1)
Flat
T ARGET FOR COST PER SEA T 
EXCLUDING FUEL
(4)
91.6%
LOAD FACTOR
(3)
803
ROUTES OPERA TED
(1)
132
AIRPORTS IN 31 COUNTRIES Low-cost  
model
We are driven by 
our strong focus  
on cost savings,  
with a commitment  
to maintaining 
easyJet’s structural 
cost advantage 
against the 
legacy and charter 
operators who are  
its major competitors  
in its markets.
Strong balance 
sheet
We maintain a 
strong balance sheet 
to facilitate our 
low funding costs, 
operational flexibility  
and to provide 
insulation from 
external shocks.
Disciplined use 
of capital
We have a clear 
capital structure 
framework and a 
strategy intended to 
maximise shareholder 
returns.
Driving revenue 
growth
We have a clear  
focus on building 
strong relationships 
with customers 
to create more 
sustainable, long-term 
revenues leveraging 
quality, innovation  
and digital.
18.3M
APP DOWNLOADS TO 30 
SEPTEMBER 2016
LIQUIDITY PER 100 SEA TS OF
(1)
£
3.2m
COST PER SEA T DECREASE
4.6%
YEAR-ON-YEAR A T  
CONST ANT CURRENCY
50%
DIVIDEND PAYOUT RA TIO
INTRODUCTION OF
NET CASH OF
(1)
£
213m 73.1M
PASSENGERS
(3)
237%
TOT AL SHAREHOLDER  
RETURN OVER FIVE YEARS  
TO 30 SEPTEMBER 2016
156
UNENCUMBERED AIRCRAFT
(1)
167
AVERAGE NUMBER  
OF SEA TS PER PLANE
(1)
Flat
T ARGET FOR COST PER SEA T 
EXCLUDING FUEL
(4) INVESTING IN
OUR STRENGTHS
LOW‑COST 
MODEL
WELL‑KNOWN 
BRAND
UNDERPINNED BY OUR PEOPLE
STRONG BALANCE 
SHEET
DRIVING 
REVENUE 
GROWTH
DISCIPLINED USE 
OF CAPIT AL
UNPARALLELED 
NETWORK
1 www.easyJet.com BELGIUM
GERMANY
FRANCE
SPAIN
POR
BASES
NETWORK AIRPORTS
DESTINATION COUNTRIES
COUNTRIES WITH BASES
TUGAL
CZECH REPUBLIC
POLAND
HUNGARY
SERBIA
AUSTRIA SWITZERLAND
PONTA DELGADA
SLOVENIA
CROATIA
BULGARIA
TURKEY
EGYPT
ISRAEL
GREECE
ITALY
SWEDEN
NETHERLANDS
KOSOVO
DENMARK
ESTONIA
UK
ICELAND
MOROCCO
MONTENEGRO
www.easyJet.com/EN/routemap
to see our entire network
easyJet at a glance
Strengthening our network
WHAT WE DO
Low-cost European point-to-point airline.
We use our cost advantage and number one 
and number two network positions in strong 
markets to deliver low fares and operational 
efficiency on point-to-point routes, with our 
people making the difference by offering  
friendly service for our customers.
WHERE WE DO IT
Intra-European short-haul network.
Our network is focused on primary airports 
serving high GDP catchment areas.
803
routes
AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2016
2 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 BELGIUM
GERMANY
FRANCE
SPAIN
POR
BASES
NETWORK AIRPORTS
DESTINATION COUNTRIES
COUNTRIES WITH BASES
TUGAL
CZECH REPUBLIC
POLAND
HUNGARY
SERBIA
AUSTRIA SWITZERLAND
PONTA DELGADA
SLOVENIA
CROATIA
BULGARIA
TURKEY
EGYPT
ISRAEL
GREECE
ITALY
SWEDEN
NETHERLANDS
KOSOVO
DENMARK
ESTONIA
UK
ICELAND
MOROCCO
MONTENEGRO
OVER
30
NEW ROUTES ON SALE FOR 
WINTER 2016 WITH MORE 
NEW ROUTES ANTICIPATED 
FOR SUMMER 2017
132
AIRPORTS IN 31  
DIFFERENT COUNTRIES
3 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Our business model
An efficient low‑cost model to drive 
above‑market returns
Our sustainable business model makes travel easy and affordable and drives growth 
and returns for shareholders.
KEY RESOURCES
The success of our business depends on a number of key resources:
OUR VALUES
Capital 
easyJet has a strong capital base, with market capitalisation of £4 billion
(1)
 and a net cash 
position of £213 million at 30 September 2016. easyJet’s credit ratings are amongst the 
strongest in the world for an airline.
Aircraft 
easyJet operates a modern Airbus fleet, using the A320 family of aircraft, and is up-gauging its 
fleet to 186 seat cabins and the new fuel efficient A320neo aircraft. This provides customer, 
operating and maintenance benefits to the Group.
Safety
We never compromise 
on safety
Simplicity
We cut out the things that 
don’t matter to keep us lean 
and make it easy
One team
T ogether we’ll always 
find a way
People 
easyJet has a dedicated workforce of over 10,000 people, including 2,865 pilots and 6,516 cabin 
crew members as at 30 September 2016.
Stakeholders 
easyJet interacts with a number of stakeholders in its operations, such as customers, suppliers, 
(including infrastructure owners and operators e.g. airports, air traffic control), regulators and 
national governments.
T echnology and insight
easyJet leverages its customer relationship management capabilities, driving revenue by 
increasing customer loyalty and implementing its wider digital strategy. Our increasingly 
sophisticated use of data will enable us to continue to make travel easy and affordable in the 
longer term.
Market 
cap of
£4b
SAFETY UNDERPINS EVERYTHING WE DO
 
257
aircraft
Over 
10,000
people
18.3m
app  
downloads
over
73.1m
passengers
(1) Based on a share price of £10.07 at 30 September 2016.
4 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 OUTCOMES HOW WE DO IT
We build on our business through our strategic pillars:
Build strong number one and two network positions
We fly from the main airports in attractive catchment areas. We are increasing our 
presence in the right markets, with frequencies and slots at primary airports that 
deliver choice and flexibility.
A lean cost advantage
easyJet is committed to maintaining its structural cost advantage against the 
legacy and charter operators. We have low overhead costs, use our aircraft efficiently 
and have a lean approach to all areas of the business. 
Customer and operational excellence
People are attracted to the well-known easyJet brand and high-quality service 
offering. We make it easy to buy our low fares through our website and digital 
platforms, which have on average over one million visits every day. 
Grow revenue 
We have a clear focus on building strong relationships with customers to create more 
sustainable, long-term revenues leveraging quality, innovation and digital. easyJet is 
looking to develop new revenue streams, leveraging its network, cost focus and track 
record of innovation.
Data and digital
easyJet's award-winning digital platform continues to be a major enabler of revenue 
and customer satisfaction. easyJet’s app has been downloaded 18.3 million times at 
30 September 2016 and as it becomes more established it is driving increasing 
contribution to revenue.
The best people
It is our people who continue to deliver the strategy for the business and will drive 
future success. Internally, we continue to focus on recruiting the right people, helping 
them to understand our values and their role, and then giving them the tools to 
develop a high-performance culture. 
Integrity
We stand by our word and do 
what we say
Passion
We have a passion for our 
customers, our people and 
the work we do
Pioneering
We challenge to find new 
ways to make travel easy 
and affordable
SAFETY UNDERPINS EVERYTHING WE DO
T urn to page: 9  
for more details on Strategy
http://corporate.easyJet.com 
to read more about our values
T urn to page: 16  
for more details on KPIs
Customer  
satisfaction 
72%
Operational  
excellence 
77%
On‑time  
performance
Generating high 
returns for our 
shareholders
50%
dividend payout  
ratio
Employee  
engagement
76%
5 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Chairman’s letter
Financial performance
easyJet has delivered a resilient financial 
performance this year, despite a number 
of events that have disproportionately 
affected easyJet when compared with 
other airlines.
easyJet grew its passenger numbers 
to a new high of 73.1 million, showing 
continued strong demand for its 
services. This record level of flying 
generated slightly reduced revenues 
of £4,669 million in 2016, as passengers 
benefitted from low fares, with a 
reinforced programme of cost controls, 
that delivered savings ahead of target 
of £95 million. easyJet's profit before 
tax was £495 million.
Strategy
easyJet's strategy is founded on 
leadership positions at many of Europe's 
foremost airports, providing the 
frequency and wide range of convenient 
destinations demanded by customers 
combined with a relentless focus on cost 
control which allows us to offer excellent 
value fares, making travel easy and 
affordable. Despite challenging market 
conditions characterised by multiple 
terrorist actions, industrial strikes, 
geopolitical instability and currency 
movements as well as excess market 
capacity, easyJet’s lean business model 
and effective strategy continue to 
identify opportunities for highly targeted 
and profitable growth, which will deliver 
long-term value to shareholders.
EU referendum
easyJet remains committed to the UK 
and has taken steps to secure the future 
of the business following the outcome 
of the EU referendum. We are in the 
process of selecting a preferred country 
in which to obtain an EU-based Air 
Operator Certificate (AOC), securing 
flying rights in Europe. easyJet will 
continue to work closely with the UK 
Government and the EU to maintain 
a liberal aviation market in Europe.
People
easyJet’s focus on its culture and people, 
its "Orange spirit", is a key contributor to 
easyJet’s success. In a very difficult year 
it has been this spirit of commitment to 
passengers, particularly by front-line staff, 
that has ensured easyJet remains 
amongst the strongest airlines in Europe.
During the year Chris Browne joined 
as a Non-Executive Director and, with 
a strong background in aviation, has 
made a significant contribution to board 
discussions. I am pleased that she has 
easyJet has delivered 
a resilient financial 
performance this year, 
with record passenger 
numbers showing 
continued strong 
demand for its services. 
We are investing for the 
future in order to deliver 
sustainable long-term 
value for shareholders.
JOHN BARTON
Chairman
now accepted an executive role in the 
business as our Chief Operating Officer, 
in which I believe she will make a major 
contribution in developing that part of 
the business.
Shareholder returns
In May, the Board increased the dividend 
payout ratio to 50%. This is a further 
demonstration of its confidence in the 
future of the business. Since starting 
to pay a dividend in 2011, easyJet has 
steadily increased the ratio. In total 
easyJet has returned more than £1 billion 
in dividends to shareholders since 2011 
and the Board is pleased to recommend 
a dividend for the year of 53.8 pence 
per share.
Looking ahead
Looking ahead to 2017, easyJet expects 
the European short-haul aviation market 
to continue to grow. However, with 
continuing uncertainty in the economic 
and political outlook, we will remain 
vigilant with regards to changes in 
demand and market behaviour.
In the meantime, easyJet is investing in 
initiatives that will drive efficiency and 
innovation to support long-term revenue 
growth and mitigate the effect of factors 
that are outside of the airline’s control, 
such as disruption and the impact of 
foreign exchange rate changes on 
demand and on the cost base.
We firmly believe that our business 
model, cost position and strong balance 
sheet mean that our strategy is the right 
one to deliver sustainable long-term value 
for shareholders.
50%
DIVIDEND PAYOUT RATIO
73.1m
RECORD PASSENGER NUMBERS  
IN THE YEAR ENDING  
30 SEPTEMBER 2016
Driving stakeholder returns
JOHN BARTON
Non‑Executive Chairman
6 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Chief Executive’s review
OVERVIEW
easyJet has delivered a resilient 
performance in the 2016 financial 
year, in the midst of a challenging 
environment. Over four million more 
passengers flew with easyJet during 
the year reaching 73.1 million, and the 
Company achieved another year of 
record load factor at 91.6%. This reflects 
easyJet’s successful strategy of 
defending and maintaining market-
leading positions in high-traffic, slot-
constrained airports. 
Medium-term fundamentals across 
Europe remain robust with continued 
GDP growth supporting spending in all 
our major markets. Although low fuel 
prices continue to encourage increased 
capacity which impacts yields, easyJet 
has performed strongly in a highly 
competitive market by focusing on 
building number one positions in selected 
markets and strong cost control. The 
Company’s business model and strategy 
leave it well positioned to be a structural 
winner within its chosen markets in the 
overall European short-haul market.
Strong passenger growth and resilient 
revenue performance:
• Record number of passengers at 
73.1 million, increasing by 4.5 million 
(6.6%) during the year. Load factor 
also increased to a record level of 
91.6%, an increase of 0.1 ppts from 
last year, reflecting the attractiveness 
of easyJet’s network of destinations 
and frequencies at affordable prices.
• Capacity increased by 6.5%, with 
growth focused on strengthening 
easyJet’s leading network of number 
one positions at Europe’s 
primary airports.
• T otal revenue declined by 0.4% to 
£4,669 million (2015: £4,686 million). 
Revenue per seat decreased by 6.4% 
to £58.46 due to:
 – increased market capacity and 
aggressive pricing stimulated by 
a sustained low fuel price;
 – cooling of demand and reduced 
consumer confidence following 
multiple terrorism-related incidents;
We remain focused 
on our network 
advantage, digital 
leadership and offering 
our customers great 
low fares and high-
quality service.
 – higher holiday costs for UK 
travellers following the EU 
referendum and subsequent 
weakening of sterling; and
 – severe disruption during the year 
(due to strikes, severe weather, 
airport issues) which resulted in 
8,349 flights (2015: 6,789) being 
either cancelled, delayed over 
three hours or diverted.
• T otal impact of external events
(1)
 
during the year on profit before 
tax of an estimated £150 million.
• Non-seat revenue growth of 17% due 
primarily to tailoring our on-board 
product range, reflecting increasing 
knowledge about our customers.
T aking control on costs:
• T otal cost per seat improved by 2.0%, 
decreasing to £52.26. T otal cost per 
seat at constant currency
(2)
 improved 
by 4.6%, primarily driven by fuel price 
savings. T otal cost per seat excluding 
fuel increased by 2.6% due to the 
impact of foreign exchange and at 
constant currency improved by 
1.1%, slightly ahead of target.
• Our reinvigorated lean cost 
programme delivered savings 
of £95 million, in airport, ground 
handling and maintenance costs, 
as well as supplier management 
improvements, overhead reductions 
and benefits realised from 
lean basing.
• This partially offset increasing costs 
of disruption and underlying airport 
and ground handling cost inflation.
• Foreign exchange cost headwinds 
of £112 million.
• Pre-tax profit margin decreased 
by four percentage points to 10.6% 
(profit before tax of £495 million 
in the 2016 financial year versus 
£686 million in the 2015 financial 
year) mainly due to the decline 
in revenue and foreign 
exchange impact.
• easyJet continues to target flat cost 
per seat excluding fuel at constant 
currency for the 2019 financial year 
versus the 2015 financial year at 
normal levels of disruption.
CAROLYN MCCALL DBE
Chief Executive
£495m
PROFIT BEFORE TAX (2015: £686M)
2.0%
TOTAL COST PER SEAT IMPROVEMENT 
FROM THE 2015 FINANCIAL YEAR
Investing in our strengths
(1) Includes terrorist related events (Paris, Egypt, Brussels, Nice and T urkey) and the immediate impact 
of the EU referendum outcome.
(2) Constant currency is calculated by comparing the 2016 financial year performance translated at the 
2015 financial year effective exchange rate to the 2015 financial year reported performance, 
excluding foreign exchange gains and losses on balance sheet revaluations.
7 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Chief Executive’s review continued
Sector-leading balance sheet and dividend policy:
• Raised €500 million bond in February and secured a 
sector-leading credit rating (Standard and Poor's: BBB+, 
Moody's: Baa1). In October 2016 a further €500 million bond 
has been issued on improved, industry-leading terms.
• Cash and money market deposits at 30 September 2016 
of £969 million (2015: £939 million).
• Return on capital employed
(3)
 at 14.6%, significantly above 
easyJet's cost of capital.
• Dividend payout ratio increased to 50% of profit after tax 
delivering a proposed ordinary dividend per share of 
53.8 pence (2015: 55.2 pence).
MARKET ENVIRONMENT
easyJet operates in the European short-haul aviation market, 
with a focused business model that has enabled it consistently 
to generate higher levels of profitability compared to legacy 
carriers, its main competitors. The overall short-haul market has 
grown by 25% over the last 10 years and its fundamentals 
remain strong. During this period, low-cost carriers have taken 
significant market share, with legacy carriers cutting mainline 
capacity and transferring capacity from flag airlines to lower 
cost subsidiaries in order to improve their competitiveness. In 
this environment, easyJet has grown to hold an estimated 8% 
of the European short-haul market. As competitors continue 
to struggle to restructure their high cost bases or operate with 
inadequate financial resources, easyJet is well positioned to 
continue selectively to strengthen its market positions.
easyJet is focused primarily in Western and Northern Europe, 
where it flies to a network of primary airports and routes that 
tap into affluent markets with populations that have a high 
propensity to travel. Economic trends remain broadly 
favourable, with GDP growth expected in all our main markets.
Developments this year
The total European short-haul market
(4)
 grew by 6% 
year-on-year in the year ending 30 September 2016 and by 
8% in easyJet’s markets, driven primarily by a continued low 
fuel price. easyJet grew capacity by 7% during the period, with 
growth of 8% in the first half and of 6% in the second half. In 
the same period, easyJet’s competitors increased capacity 
by 8% in its markets, with particularly strong growth in Spain 
and Germany.
Our market context
easyJet operates in the European short-haul 
aviation market. The following trends are key 
drivers in that market
TREND
Macro
Economic trends are currently favourable, with GDP 
growth in all our main markets. GDP growth is generally 
accepted as having a positive multiplier effect on air 
passenger traffic.
+2.3%
UK GDP growth year-on-year in the three months 
to September 2016
Capacity
The total European short-haul market
(4)
 grew by 6% 
year-on-year and by 8% on easyJet’s markets, driven 
primarily by a continued low fuel price.
6%
market capacity growth in 2016
Fuel
Continued low fuel prices are sustaining market capacity 
growth and weaker airlines.
Average jet fuel price $ per MT
Foreign exchange
easyJet is exposed to foreign exchange rate movements, 
principally in the Euro and US dollar, which it hedges to 
mitigate volatility.
GBP:EUR  
EXCHANGE RA TE
1.28
FY2016
GBP:USD 
EXCHANGE RA TE
1.58
FY2016
2016
2015
2014
2013
$415
$606
$969
$996
(3) Return on capital employed shown adjusted for leases with leases capitalised at 7 times.
(4) Capacity and market share figures from OAG. Size of European market based on internal easyJet definition. Historical data based on 12 month period from 
October 2015 to September 2016.
8 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 easyJet is confident that through its strategy 
it will deliver sustainable growth and returns 
for shareholders
Our strategy
Driving growth 
and returns for our 
shareholders
SAFETY
SAFETY
SAFETY
SAFETY
SAFETY
SAFETY
OUR STRATEGY
easyJet focuses on developing strong positions in Europe’s 
leading airports – flying between airports people want to 
travel to with optimised frequency. Its principal competitors 
at these leading airports are the legacy airlines and charter 
carriers. easyJet’s structural cost advantage relative to these 
airlines allows it to offer customers more affordable fares. 
This cost advantage is created through a combination of 
factors including:
• aircraft configuration enabling a higher number of seats 
per aircraft;
• higher load factor and aircraft utilisation driven by its 
point-to-point model; and
• younger fleet and advantaged fleet deal reducing 
ownership and maintenance costs.
easyJet is confident that its strategy of building on its 
competitive advantages - an unparalleled network and market 
positions, efficient low-cost model, well-known brand and 
strong balance sheet - will position it to deliver sustainable 
and disciplined growth and returns for shareholders.
easyJet is delivering its strategy through its six strategic pillars:
1. Build strong number one and two network positions
2. A lean cost advantage
3. Customer and operational excellence
4. Data and digital
5. Grow revenue
6. The best people
1. Build strong number one and two network positions
easyJet’s strategy is focused on key airports, serving valuable 
catchment areas that represent Europe’s top markets by GDP, 
driving both leisure and business travel. easyJet has developed 
a more economically resilient network than its competitors, 
helping to support consumer demand throughout the cycle. 
These are strong, existing markets, built up over a period of 
time by legacy carriers.
easyJet's portfolio of peak time slots at airports, where either 
total slot availability or availability at customer-friendly times is 
constrained, further reinforces its competitive advantage. 
easyJet currently holds 16 number one market positions and 
has identified a number of potential targets for the next five 
years where GDP is high, there are high passenger volumes and 
where there is no clear winner today. We have the opportunity 
to both capture further market share and to grow the 
overall market.
Driven by strong underlying demand, an attractive customer 
proposition and a structural advantage, we will continue to 
invest up to 9% annual capacity increases in growing its 
network to drive the highest returns in the long-term. In 2016 
we have refined our network strategy to ensure a greater 
focus on:
• Achieving number one positions both at primary airports 
and on our routes:
 – On average, a number one airport and route position 
delivers over 50% greater contribution than a number 
two position on both.
 – 83% of easyJet's capacity touches an airport where it 
has the number one position by share.
• Investing in scale:
 – Leading positions, route frequencies and multiple 
destinations create flexibility for customers, as well as 
reinforcing the easyJet brand to ensure that it is ‘top 
of mind’.
• Investing with purpose:
 – easyJet has a track record of generating returns from 
purposeful investments. 54% of the top 25% of routes 
by contribution were not in the top 25% in 2012.
T o build on this, easyJet has a clear network strategy to:
• protect its number one positions in the UK and Switzerland;
• secure a significantly stronger position in France;
• invest in lean bases to drive more efficient capacity growth 
across the network; and
• target specific market opportunities, such as city-based 
strategies in Germany, Italy and the Netherlands.
easyJet regularly reviews its route network in order to maximise 
returns and exploit demand opportunities in the market. During 
the year easyJet added 106 routes to the network, slightly more 
than last year. These were focused on bases which supported 
the consolidation of its leading positions, including the UK, 
Switzerland and Italy; growing its share of the overall market in 
France (Paris Charles de Gaulle, Lyon, T oulouse); or allocated to 
new bases such as Amsterdam, Venice and Oporto. In February 
we opened a new base in Barcelona and in April announced a 
plan to open a seasonal base in Palma de Mallorca for summer 
2017. Along with Oporto and Lisbon these latter two form a 
3
CUSTOMER AND 
OPERATIONAL 
EXCELLENCE
4
DA T A AND  
DIGITAL
1
BUILD STRONG 
NUMBER ONE AND 
TWO NETWORK 
POSITIONS
2
A LEAN COST 
ADVANTAGE
5
GROW  
REVENUE
6
THE BEST  
PEOPLE
9 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Chief Executive’s review continued
core part of easyJet's lean basing strategy. Reflecting 
our discipline, it also discontinued 38 routes which either did not 
meet expected return criteria, or became secondary to a more 
attractive route elsewhere.
Over time, increased route maturity and frequencies have 
contributed to increasing profitability and returns. easyJet has 
continued to establish stronger leadership positions in all of its 
main markets, to achieve the aim of holding the number one 
position in each market or a number two position to a weak 
flag carrier.
Progress in easyJet's main markets is as follows:
United Kingdom
easyJet continues to reinforce its strong position in the UK 
market, both London-based and regional. We remain the 
number one carrier by market share at almost all of our UK 
bases, including its major bases of London Gatwick, London 
Luton, Bristol, Belfast and Edinburgh. Our positioning, market 
share and airport bases are driving both leisure and business 
passengers. easyJet increased capacity by 8% in the year 
ending 30 September 2016, maintaining market share on the 
key London to Scotland routes while investing in growth in 
Luton, Bristol and Manchester. easyJet's competitors 
increased their capacity on our markets by 9%.
Italy
easyJet's main focus in Italy is on the higher-value catchment 
areas, reflecting our regional and city-based strategy. easyJet 
is the biggest operator at Milan Malpensa with 21 based aircraft, 
has recently opened a new base at Venice (with 4 based 
aircraft) and added a fourth aircraft to the base in Naples 
(and is the number one airline at both). During the year 
we successfully closed Rome Fiumicino, which still remains 
an important part of the network with an expected two million 
passengers a year. easyJet increased net capacity in Italy by 1%, 
after taking into account the closure of the Rome base, against 
competitor growth on its markets of 8%.
France
easyJet sees opportunities to grow its market share in France, 
leveraging its competitive market position against the flag 
carrier, adding capacity at Charles de Gaulle airport through 
up-gauging and strengthening its domestic network. easyJet is 
the number one carrier in Nice and number two after Air France 
in most of the remaining airports where it operates. We 
increased capacity in France by 8% in the year, against 
competitor growth on our markets of 5%.
Switzerland
easyJet is the number one operator at both Geneva and Basel 
airports, with the latter also part of the Zurich catchment area. 
We increased capacity by 7% in the year ending 30 September 
2016, building and reinforcing our leading positions at both 
airports. As the leading airline brand in Geneva and Basel, 
easyJet’s strategy is to continue to build customer preference 
in the market. Competitor capacity declined by 1% in easyJet's 
markets, impacted by easyJet's strong action over the past 
two years.
Germany
Germany is a large and attractive market, although with 
a more regional, federal structure than other European 
countries. easyJet’s strategy is therefore city-based, not 
GERMANY
ITALY
SPAIN 
FRANCE
SWITZERLAND
UK
ICELAND
NETHERLANDS
PORTUGAL
20%  
140 
8%
4%  
13  
5%
10%  
7  
24%
24%  
22  
7%
12%  
29  
1%
(5)
14%  
28  
8%
7%  
3  
6%
13%  
7 
17%
Market share 
Based aircraft 
Capacity increase
(5) Net capacity after taking into account the closure of the Rome base.
10 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 • Continue to leverage our scale in maintenance. Our new 
component support arrangement, which started in October 
2015, combined with other parts and heavy maintenance 
contracts, delivered savings of around £40 million during 
the year. This was supported by better distribution of parts 
across the network to enable faster repairs to aircraft. We 
have also begun using predictive analysis with the target 
to reduce parts failures and improve aircraft reliability 
and utilisation.
• T ackling disruption. T o control costs of strikes, airport 
congestion and aircraft unavailability to the business, we are 
investing some of our cost savings to increase resilience in 
our operations, including more flexibility in the network. We 
are also implementing improvements to rosters and 
scheduling to improve fatigue management, better lifestyles 
for crew as well as increase our ability to recruit and retain 
future talent. This will deliver passenger benefits and 
longer-term cost improvements.
• Organisational review. Although easyJet is not encumbered 
with the significant historic costs of a legacy carrier (e.g. 
expensive pension arrangements) we are reviewing our 
structure and ways of working to enable easyJet to better 
deliver on our core strengths of our network, delivering for 
our customers, data and digital and maintaining our relative 
cost advantage. We expect this to result in a simpler, more 
efficient organisation and will deliver meaningful annualised 
savings once implemented. Further information on this will 
be provided throughout the 2017 financial year.
• Efficient fleet management. We operate an exclusively 
Airbus A320 family fleet. This delivers operational flexibility 
as well as efficiencies in engineering and maintenance, 
crew, ownership and fuel. As the second largest operator of 
Airbus A320 family aircraft in the world we also benefit from 
significant economies of scale on acquisition. Between 2016 
and 2021 we will derive a major benefit from up-gauging our 
fleet, from a majority 156-seat A319 composition to a fleet 
that is over 70% 186-seat A320s. The 186-seat A320neo 
aircraft are expected to have a 13% to 14% cost per seat 
benefit
(6)
 compared to the 156-seat A319s.
As indicated in the 6 October 2016 trading update, easyJet 
expects to incur a number of non-headline costs during the 
2017 financial year. These costs will be separately disclosed as 
non-headline profit before tax items:
• As a result of the UK’s referendum vote to leave the 
European Union, easyJet plans to establish an Air Operator 
Certificate (AOC) in another EU member state. This will 
secure the flying rights of the 30% of our network that 
remains wholly within and between EU states, excluding the 
UK. This one-off cost is expected to total around £10 million 
over two years with up to £5 million incurred in the 2017 
financial year. The primary driver of the cost is the 
re-registering of aircraft in an EU AOC jurisdiction.
• We are planning to enter into a sale and leaseback 
arrangement for 10 aircraft which is expected to take place 
in early December 2016. Due to the age of the selected 
aircraft at the time of this transaction and maintenance 
provision accounting, easyJet expects to incur a one-off, 
non-cash charge of approximately £20 million.
country-wide. easyJet is focused on its two bases at Berlin 
Schönefeld, where it is the number one airline, and Hamburg, 
which was opened in 2014. We are targeting continued growth 
in Germany, taking share from the incumbent operators. We 
have increased capacity by 5% during the year. Competitor 
growth on easyJet's markets was 11%, with high growth at Berlin 
Schönefeld in particular.
Netherlands
The Netherlands is a significant opportunity for easyJet, 
as Amsterdam is a major business and leisure market. 
Having opened a new base at Schiphol Airport, Amsterdam 
in March 2015 we are now the second-biggest operator and 
are continuing to invest in growth of our market share. easyJet 
increased capacity by 24% during the year against competitor 
growth on our markets of 8%.
Portugal and Spain
Portugal and Spain are easyJet's primary focus for lean basing, 
as well as inbound markets with strong demand on key flows to 
the region from the rest of Europe. We increased capacity by 
17% and 6% in Portugal and Spain respectively. easyJet opened 
its new base at Barcelona in February 2016. Competitor market 
growth on easyJet's markets was 14% in Portugal and 16% 
in Spain.
2.  A lean cost advantage
easyJet has a strong cost-focused culture, with structural 
advantages in key areas that enable it to combine a leading 
airport network with affordable fares. easyJet’s lean culture 
consistently delivers substantial cost savings against underlying 
cost inflation and we are committed to delivering our target of 
flat cost per seat excluding fuel at constant currency in the 
2019 financial year versus the 2015 financial year at normal 
levels of disruption.
In 2016, cost per seat improved by 2.0% primarily reflecting 
benefits from fuel, partially offset by the £112 million impact of 
foreign exchange. At constant currency, cost per seat excluding 
fuel improved by 1.1%.
Existing easyJet lean initiatives delivered savings of £95 million, 
an increase of 106% year-on-year. These savings were primarily 
the result of improvements in airports, maintenance and ground 
handling costs. 
easyJet has a number of initiatives in place that will help to 
deliver its future cost per seat target:
• Leveraging increasingly large positions in our airports. 
Through our size, we are able to drive economies of scale 
from long-term deals with airport owners and operators, as 
well as with ground handling agents at those airports. We 
are now in our third year of a seven-year contract with 
Gatwick airport, as the largest operator at the airport, and 
will be consolidating our position into one terminal in 2017 
to enhance our operational efficiency. Similarly, we are the 
largest airline at Luton airport, where we are in year three of 
a ten-year contract. As we grow our positions in new bases 
such as Amsterdam and Venice we will benefit from 
volume-related pricing agreements. In ground handling 
we annualised the benefit of our contract in Italy and 
saw savings from our growth in airports in the UK, 
Netherlands and Germany. We expect to agree a 
number of new airport and ground handling 
contracts in 2017 and 2018.
(6) Based on fuel price quoted in original plan.
11 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts • The expense associated with implementing the 
Organisational Review in the 2017 financial year. Further 
details will be provided throughout 2017, however any costs 
associated with that will be targeting a six to nine 
month payback.
easyJet will continue to relentlessly focus on lean cost control. 
Our cost saving programme will build on the strong momentum 
from 2016, leveraging our increasing scale and reviewing our 
cost management down to the most granular level.
3.  Customer and operational excellence
easyJet’s strong operational and cost performance is built 
around ensuring aircraft depart and arrive on time. This 
minimises disruption costs and improves customer satisfaction 
and repeat purchases, which in turn increases revenue.
Disruption due to air traffic and other strikes in Europe, as well 
as severe weather and runway closures at Gatwick airport, has 
severely impacted easyJet’s performance during the year. 
During the year, easyJet cancelled 3,268 flights (2015: 2,637) 
and on-time performance was 77% across the network, a 
decrease of three percentage points from 2015. Given the level 
of disruption this is a resilient performance and excluding the 
UK, which was disproportionately affected, on-time 
performance was 80%. 
T o secure better on-time performance easyJet has set up 
a taskforce to focus on the following main areas:
• Reduce the number of events due to technical issues, using 
predictive maintenance and enhanced parts management 
and distribution.
• Improve disruption management through better processes 
and communication with our customers as well as using 
technology to reduce cost and improve effectiveness.
• Influence structural improvements through discussions with 
airports, national Governments and the EU.
OTP % arrivals within  
15 minutes
(7)
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Full year
2015 Network 86% 86% 79% 74% 80%
2015 Network  
excluding UK 86% 87% 81% 77% 82%
2016 Network 82% 82% 74% 71% 77%
2016 Network  
excluding UK 83% 84% 78% 76% 80%
Our Gatwick North T erminal programme is already driving 
operational and customer benefits. The consolidation process 
will complete in January 2017 and total operational cost savings 
are anticipated of around £5 million. The auto-bag drop area, 
the biggest in the world, has now processed three million bags 
since it opened last October and we have added greater 
functionality to collect payment for additional or excess 
charges for luggage. 97% of our customers now wait less than 
five minutes to go through the bag drop experience which has 
improved customer satisfaction. We are now rolling out our 
“customer-host assist” that is expected to drive lower cost and 
greater customer satisfaction primarily through mobile-based 
functionality to self-serve.
4.  Data and digital
A core part of easyJet’s strategy is the implementation of 
its wider digital strategy. This includes leveraging data and 
easyJet’s digital platforms to support its network, customer 
focus and operational excellence by enhancing its customer 
relationship management capabilities. These tools help build 
customer loyalty and drive revenue growth. easyJet’s 
increasingly sophisticated use of data will enable it to 
make travel easy and affordable in the long-term.
Loyalty and data
In the last year 74% of our seats were booked by returning 
customers. We have seen a strong increase in customer loyalty 
in our core markets, with returning customers in the UK 
increasing by 9%, France by 11%, Switzerland by 11% and 
Amsterdam by 20%. easyJet’s marketable customers have 
now reached over 26 million, up 5%, providing further potential 
for growth.
Following its launch earlier this year, Flight Club has now been 
successfully rolled out to our most valuable flyers, as identified 
through our customer database. We have seen a 14% uplift in 
retention and 32% uplift in CSAT amongst our Flight Club 
members. At the same time, easyJet Plus membership has 
grown by 40% following successful campaigns across our 
digital channels and Customer Relationship Management 
(CRM) programme. Flight Club aims to recognise and retain our 
high-value and loyal customers with a scheme that makes travel 
with easyJet even easier. Very different to legacy frequent flyer 
programs, which are highly expensive and complex, Flight Club 
makes the simple things even easier for our customers. The 
programme offers a range of benefits such as free name 
changes, free booking changes and a low price promise, 
all reinforced by a dedicated customer support team.
Our CRM enables our customers to benefit from increasing 
levels of personalisation across multiple channels, with examples 
such as saved passport details, targeted marketing campaigns 
via email and text message, and bespoke offers from our 
affiliate partners. The user experience has been further 
developed over the year, with greater ease of interaction on 
the website and mobile and optimised layouts and design.
Innovation and digital leadership
Our digital platform is a key point of differentiation from our 
competitors. We believe that we have significant advantages 
in the capability of our web platform and our mobile offering. 
Our award winning App has now been downloaded 18.3 million 
times, an increase of 30% on last year. 20% of bookings are 
now on mobile, with ApplePay a significant step forward this 
year. Passengers are also increasingly using mobile boarding 
passes, which has increased 63% year-on-year. Enhancements 
like these add to the customer experience and drive customer 
loyalty, as well as driving our cost advantage.
Since the year end easyJet has also signed a five-year contract 
with Founders Factory, the corporate backed accelerator and 
incubator. The partnership will create value for easyJet and our 
passengers by putting disruptive thinking at the centre of 
our digital strategy, helping us to explore opportunities for 
advanced T ravelT ech services that will help us to keep 
making travel easy and affordable.
Chief Executive’s review continued
(7) On-time performance measured by internal easyJet system.
12 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 easyJet has a programme to develop new revenue streams 
as well as enhancing existing revenue streams, leveraging its 
attributes of a primary airport-focused network, cost focus and 
track record of innovation. We are exploring new distribution 
channels, partner agreements and structures such as 
connectivity with other suitable airlines. Recent examples 
have been:
• Earlier Flight – a mobile app-only proposition, targeting 
customers who may wish to switch flights at short notice 
on the day of travel. This flexibility is offered to customers 
for just £15 and capitalises on the scale of our mobile app 
use when customers are on the move.
• In-flight – our investment continues to pay off with revenue 
growth of over 30% in the last 12 months. This year saw the 
introduction of pre-purchased in-flight vouchers, scaled 
through our targeted CRM programme.
6.  The best people
easyJet is passionate about its people and we believe they set 
us apart. We believe that our customer-facing employees are 
the very best in the industry and contribute significantly to 
the positive experience that our passengers enjoy, leading 
to increased loyalty and repeat business.
It is our people who continue to deliver the business’ strategy 
and will drive our future success. We continue to focus on 
recruiting the right people, helping them to understand 
easyJet’s values and their role in the business and then giving 
them the tools to develop a high-performance culture.
easyJet’s new Academy at Gatwick demonstrates our 
commitment to the development of our staff, providing a 
world-class training facility comprising of classrooms, cabin 
simulator, evacuation slide and fire training rig. The centre is an 
investment in our people, fulfilling easyJet's expected training 
needs to 2020.
We recruited during the year to help support our growth, 
adding over 360 pilots and 1,400 cabin crew, as well as 280 
people within the management, administration, engineering 
and maintenance departments. In line with our target, 35% of 
positions were filled by internal candidates. Retention rates 
remain good with employee turnover at 9.0%, while 
engagement scores remain high at 76%.
Increasing diversity
easyJet’s launch of the Amy Johnson Flying Initiative, in 
partnership with the British Women Pilots Association, is part 
of our long-term strategy to increase the number of our female 
pilots. easyJet set an initial target to double the proportion of 
its new entrant pilots who are female, from under 6% in 2015 to 
12% over a two-year period. easyJet was able to meet its target 
within one year. Other activities to increase the number of 
female pilots include working with easyJet’s pilot training 
providers to attract more women to apply for its cadet 
programme and working in partnership with organisations 
which promote female take-up of STEM (Science, T echnology, 
Engineering and Maths) subjects and women in business.
We will continue investing substantially in our digital capability, 
building on our success in enhancing the digital customer 
interface. The rollout of our new commercial platform is under 
way with live new homepages featuring an innovative flight 
search and low-fare finder tool. Full rollout is expected during 
Q2 2017. The primary objective is to give us significantly better 
flexibility and capability, specifically improving our ability to offer 
customers bespoke, attractive options.
The combination of increasingly insightful customer knowledge 
and our digital programme offers increasing amounts of 
personalisation, tailoring booking journeys based on previous 
behaviour. This is expected to drive higher footfall and 
conversion rates, as well as higher attachment rates for a 
wider range of ancillary partners. It will also enable greater 
self-management capability through the entire journey chain, 
from booking to check-in, through the airport and in the event 
of disruption.
5.  Grow revenue
easyJet has driven its leading customer and digital proposition 
through constant innovation and by listening to its passengers, 
focusing on market demand and offering value.
Business passengers
Performance for the year has been encouraging with continued 
growth in business passenger numbers, and further investment 
in how we reach and interact with our corporate customers.
We have continued to target business passengers, growing the 
number of passengers by 6% to 12.5 million, with September 
2016 a record month for easyJet. We also signed 137 corporate 
agreements over the year, representing a 25% increase against 
last year, serving to demonstrate the significant growth 
potential for business passengers. There has also been a growth 
in business-specific fares throughout the year with a 14% 
increase in Flexi fares, which carry a greater yield premium.
Our combination of using primary airports in large economic 
markets, alongside high frequencies and attractive flight 
timings, makes easyJet a logical choice for business 
passengers. We are focused on providing a bespoke business 
offering through distribution platforms, T ravel Management 
Companies and direct to small and medium-sized enterprises. 
Growth in Global Distribution Systems (GDS) volume continued 
to drive revenue and channel movement from web bookings 
to GDS within the travel management company partners. 
The recent negotiations across our GDS partners extended 
our agreements with Amadeus, Sabre and T ravelport for an 
additional term. Developments across our Self-Booking T ool 
partners have seen a 16% increase in bookings due to the 
lower fees applicable and customised set-up for our 
corporate accounts.
easyJet has recently won Business T raveller Magazine's “Best 
Low-Cost Carrier” for the 14
th
 successive year. easyJet continues 
to see opportunities to sell its business product across Europe 
and we continue to strengthen our corporate sales capability 
through a new market, customer and industry structure.
New revenue streams
Non-seat revenue has performed strongly, increasing by 
17%, offsetting pressure on ticket yields from the 
external environment.
13 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Fleet
easyJet has a young fleet of Airbus A320-family aircraft, 
secured on very competitive terms which were most recently 
updated in our framework agreement with Airbus in 2013.
easyJet continues to maintain flexibility in its fleet planning 
arrangements to ensure that it can increase or decrease 
capacity deployed, subject to the opportunities available and 
prevailing economic conditions. easyJet uses the flexibility it 
has to move aircraft between routes and markets to improve 
returns. This flexibility is achieved through a number of ways 
that impact both the timing and scale of capacity deployment: 
new aircraft orders can be deferred, leases may be extended or 
not renewed, aircraft may be sold or utilisation can be reduced 
at times of low demand. easyJet continues to work with its 
suppliers to enhance its fleet flexibility.
easyJet’s total fleet as at 30 September 2016 comprised 257 
aircraft (2015: 241 aircraft), split between 156-seat Airbus A319s, 
180-seat A320s and, since May 2016, 186-seat A320s. Over the 
next five years we will reduce cost by changing the fleet mix 
and ownership structure. We took delivery of 20 A320 aircraft 
in the year ending 30 September 2016, which provide a per 
seat cost saving of 7% to 8% compared to the A319 through 
economies of scale, efficiencies in crew, ownership, fuel and 
maintenance. Four A319 aircraft were returned to lessors and 
the average age of the fleet increased to 6.7 years (2015: 6.2 
years). The larger A320 aircraft has been introduced over the 
last few years with increasing cost per seat benefits. The 
increase in the proportion of A320s and the increase in overall 
seat density delivered a 40 pence per seat cost saving in 2016.
Based on our current plan, our capital expenditure for the next 
three years is as follows:
Year 2017 2018 2019
Gross capital 
expenditure (£m) 650 1,100 1,050
Our objective is always to optimise our return on capital 
employed through the allocation of aircraft and capacity across 
the network, regularly moving them to airports and routes with 
better opportunities. In February we closed our base at Rome 
Fiumicino and redistributed the eight base aircraft to other 
bases in Italy, including the opening of a new base in Venice. 
Every year we also churn routes that have not reached their 
targeted objectives. These actions reiterate our focus on 
returns and will increase the return on capital employed of the 
Company as a whole, as we have done regularly in the past 
and will do so in the future.
We continue to add frequencies and commit to basing aircraft 
around the network in scale. In 2016 we broadly maintained our 
asset utilisation across the network, at an average of just under 
11 block hours per day (2015: 11 hours).
Delivering shareholder return
easyJet’s robust operational model and competitive position 
enable the Company to remain resilient in turbulent markets. 
With a strong balance sheet and cash flow generated from 
operations of over £700 million, easyJet comfortably has met 
its investment goals while maintaining its positive net cash 
position. easyJet ended the year with net cash of £213 million.
Return on capital employed declined to 14.6% from 22.2% last 
year, as the combined impact of severe disruption, external 
events and increased capacity impacted yields.
As we look forward, we expect that our ability to grow revenue 
and the renewed focus on cost will deliver strong earnings 
momentum and significant returns to shareholders.
easyJet‘s proposed ordinary dividend per share of 53.8 pence 
is expected to be paid on 17 March 2017, with a record date of 
24 February 2017, subject to shareholder approval at the 
Annual General Meeting.
Hedging positions
easyJet operates under a clear set of treasury policies agreed 
by the Board. The aim of easyJet’s hedging policy is to reduce 
short-term earnings volatility. Therefore, easyJet hedges 
forward, on a rolling basis, between 65% and 85% of the next 
12 months' anticipated fuel and currency exposures and 
between 45% and 65% of the following 12 months' anticipated 
requirements. Specific decisions may require consideration of 
a longer-term approach. T reasury strategies and actions will 
be driven by the need to meet treasury, financial and 
corporate objectives.
Chief Executive’s review continued
Fleet as at 30 September 2016:
Owned
Operating 
leases Finance leases T otal % of fleet
Changes in 
year
Future committed 
deliveries
Unexercised 
purchase rights
A319 99 45 – 144 56% (4) – –
A320 90 18 5 113 44% 20 36 –
A320neo – – – – – 130 100
189 63 5 257 16 166 100
14 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 (8) Unit fuel calculated as the difference between latest estimate of the 2017 financial year fuel costs less the 2016 financial year fuel cost per seat multiplied 
by the 2017 financial year seat capacity.
(9) US $ to £ Sterling 1.2601, Euro to £ Sterling 1.1604. Currency and fuel increases are shown net of hedging impact.
CAROLYN MCCALL DBE
Chief Executive
Details of current hedging arrangements are set out below:
Percentage of anticipated requirement hedged Fuel requirement
US Dollar 
requirement
Euro
surplus
CHF
surplus
Six months to 31 March 2017 83% 79% 78% 73%
Average rate $664 / metric tonne $1.53 €1.36 CHF 1.42
Full year ending 30 September 2017 81% 74% 82% 71%
Average rate $617 / metric tonne $1.52 €1.35 CHF 1.41
Full year ending 30 September 2018 47% 50% 47% 47%
Average rate $510 / metric tonne $1.43 €1.27 CHF1.35
Sensitivities
• A $10 movement in fuel price per metric tonne impacts the 2017 financial year fuel bill by $2.8 million.
• A one cent movement in £/$ impacts the 2017 financial year profit before tax by £2.0 million.
• A one cent movement in £/€ impacts the 2017 financial year profit before tax by £0.4 million.
• A one cent movement in £/CHF impacts the 2017 financial year profit before tax by £0.3 million.
OUTLOOK
We remain confident in our ability to deliver long-term growth 
and returns for shareholders as we continue to execute our 
strategy. For the six months to 31 March 2017 capacity is 
expected to increase by 9% as we invest in markets and routes 
that will build on our resilient network, enhance our customer 
proposition and underpin returns for the long-term. For the year 
to 30 September 2017 we currently plan to increase capacity by 
up to 9%.
Based on current market fuel prices we expect the unit 
fuel
(8)
 bill to decline by between £245 million and £275 million 
during the year to 30 September 2017. As you would expect, 
passengers will continue to benefit from the lower fuel cost and 
therefore we expect a mid to high single digit decline in revenue 
per seat at constant currency during the first half of the year.
We are targeting a decline in total cost per seat at constant 
currency including fuel for the full year of approximately 3%, 
based on jet fuel prices within a range of $400 metric tonne 
to $520 metric tonne. Cost per seat excluding fuel and at 
constant currency is targeted to increase by approximately 
1% for the full year, at normal levels of disruption, excluding 
non-headline items. These are as follows:
• A non-cash, one-off £20 million charge as a result of the 
planned sale and leaseback of 10 A319 aircraft in December. 
This charge reflects a maintenance provision catch up and 
an accounting loss due to the construct of the transaction. 
We expect the transaction to result in a cash inflow of circa 
US$140 million.
• One-off costs relating to the set-up of an EU AOC, which 
are expected to be up to £5 million in the 2017 financial 
year and around £10 million in total, mostly driven by the 
costs to re-register aircraft. 
• The one-off cost associated with our organisational review, 
which we expect to result in a simpler, more efficient 
organisation and which will deliver meaningful annualised 
savings when implemented. We will provide further details 
in due course, however any costs associated with this 
programme will be targeting a circa six to nine 
month payback.
While we remain committed to our target of flat cost per 
seat excluding fuel at constant currency in the 2019 financial 
year versus 2015 at normal levels of disruption, this year's 
expected increase reflects our investment in resilience, reducing 
disruption and improving customer experience, which will 
contribute to longer term cost efficiency. We may make further 
investments during the year if we believe the benefits of doing 
so are sure to deliver a stronger, more efficient operation.
Exchange rate movements
(9)
 are likely to have an adverse 
impact of approximately £70 million in the first half year 
compared to the six months to 31 March 2016 and £90 million 
for the 12 months to 30 September 2017 compared to the 
12 months to 30 September 2016.
We continue to see significant longer term opportunities 
to grow revenue, profit and shareholder returns. We expect 
market demand to remain strong and easyJet’s unique model 
and strategy are well positioned to capture significant value 
from favourable trends in both leisure and business markets.
15 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Measuring our performance
Key performance indicators
Definition:
Market share at airports where easyJet is 
the number one or number two carrier 
based on short-haul capacity.
Performance:
In line with our strategy we continued to 
increase our market share at airports 
where easyJet is the number one or 
number two carrier based on short-haul 
capacity, from 25.6% in 2015 to 26.5% in 
2016. The improvement is reinforced by 
our continued growth in the percentage 
of easyJet capacity that touches a 
number one or two airport from 95.7% 
in 2015 to 97.6% in 2016.
Definition: 
All reported safety-related incidents are 
assessed and categorised with risk values 
assigned and aggregated to form a final 
event risk classification score.
Performance: 
Safety remains our number one priority, 
supported by a strong safety reporting 
culture. Overall the final event risk 
classification score has decreased 
year-on-year.
Performance:
easyJet's award-winning digital platform 
has driven an increase in number of visits 
to all digital platforms from 494 million in 
the 2015 financial year to 507 million in 
the 2016 financial year.
See Chief Executive's review on pages 
7-15 for more information
See Risk on pages 24-31 for more information
See Chief Executive's review on pages 
7-15 for more information
See Financial review on pages 18-22 
for more information
See Corporate responsibility on pages 
32-42 for more information
Definition:
Revenue divided by seats flown.
Performance:
Revenue per seat decreased by 6.4% to 
£58.46 (2015: £62.48) with a decrease 
of 6.9% at constant currency due to the 
impact from terrorism-related events, 
the increasingly competitive capacity 
environment associated with low oil 
prices and a more expensive Euro for 
British travellers during the summer.
Definition: 
Employee engagement index, based on 
results of an employee survey.
Performance:
The survey result saw a decrease 
compared to last year, reflecting the 
challenging year operationally and its 
effect on our people. However, the score 
continues to outperform the Ipsos Mori 
airline norm.
(2)
FINAL EVENT RISK CLASSIFICATION (FERC)
TOT AL NUMBER OF VISITS TO ALL 
DIGITAL PLATFORMS (m)
REVENUE PER SEAT (£) EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 
– uSAY (%)
(1)
22.8%
23.7% 23.4%
25.6%
26.5%
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
2012
408
422
472
494
507
2013 2014 2015 2016 2012
58.51
62.58 63.31 62.48
58.46
2013 2014 2015 2016
83% 83%
76%
2014 2015 2016
MARKET SHARE A T AIRPORTS 
WHERE EASYJET IS NUMBER 
ONE OR TWO CARRIER (%)
DA T A AND DIGIT AL GROW REVENUE BEST PEOPLE
SAFETY FIRST
Sep
2013
Nov
2013
Jan
2014
Mar
2014
Jul
2014
Nov
2014
Mar
2014
Jul
2014
Nov
2014
May
2014
Sep
2014
Jan
2015
May
2015
Sep
2015
Jan
2016
Mar
2016
May
2016
Jul
2016
Aug
2016
Sum of Normalised Risk
 6 month rolling average FERC
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
(1) Surveys carried out prior to 2014 were conducted using different methodology and the results are therefore not comparable.
(2) IPSOS Mori is a market leading research company.
16 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Definition:
Revenue less profit before tax, plus fuel 
costs, divided by seats flown.
Performance:
Cost per seat excluding fuel increased by 
2.6% to £38.31, however decreased by 
1.1% at constant currency due to savings 
from fleet up-gauging and easyJet lean 
initiatives which were partially offset by 
increases in charges at regulated airports 
and increased disruption costs.
Performance:
As a result of easyJet's strong balance 
sheet and the Board's confidence in the 
future success of the business, the Board 
increased the payout ratio of the ordinary 
dividend from 40% to 50% of profit after 
tax. The Board has recommended a final 
dividend of 53.8 pence per share (2015: 
55.2 pence), which is in line with the 
revised dividend policy.
See Financial review on pages 18-22 
for more information
See Financial review on pages 18-22 
for more information
See Chief Executive's review on pages 
7-15 for more information
See Financial review on pages 18-22 
for more information
See Chief Executive's review on pages 
7-15 for more information
See Financial review on pages 18-22 
for more information
Definition:
Customer satisfaction index, based 
on results of a customer satisfaction 
survey which measures how satisfied 
the customer was with their most 
recent flight.
Performance:
Overall customer satisfaction was lower 
than the prior year primarily due to 
increased disruption.
Definition:
Liquidity (cash plus revolving credit 
facility) per 100 aircraft seats.
Performance:
This remains significantly above the 
liquidity buffer to cover peak unearned 
revenue with a minimum position of 
£2.6 million per 100 seats.
Definition:
Percentage of flights which arrive within 
15 minutes of the scheduled arrival time.
Performance:
Increased disruption due to the continued 
air traffic control strikes and on-going 
congestion at London Gatwick 
contributed to the decrease in on-time 
performance to 77% (2015: 80%).
Definition: 
Normalised operating profit after tax 
divided by average adjusted capital 
employed.
Performance:
ROCE decreased to 14.6% (2015: 22.2%) 
driven by a fall in operating profit.
COST PER SEAT EXCLUDING FUEL 
(£)
ORDINARY DIVIDEND  
(pence per share)
OVERALL CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 
(%)
LIQUIDITY PER 100 SEATS (£m)
ON-TIME PERFORMANCE (%)
ROCE (%)
37.70
38.17
36.25
37.35
38.31
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
45.4
33.5
21.5
55.2
53.8
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
78%
80% 80%
75%
72%
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
2.7
3.5
2.5
3.2 3.2
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
85%
87% 88%
80%
77%
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
20.5
17.4
11.3
22.2
14.6
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
LEAN COST ADVANT AGE
DISCIPLINED USE OF CAPITAL
CUSTOMER AND OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE
17 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Financial review
Our financial results
Seats flown grew by 6.5%. T otal revenue per seat fell by 6.4% 
to £58.46. At constant currency, revenue per seat fell by 6.9% 
to £58.16. The decrease is attributable to the terrorist events 
in Egypt, Paris, Brussels, T urkey and Nice resulting in lower 
demand and yield, the increasingly competitive capacity 
environment associated with lower oil prices and the impact 
of the UK’s vote to leave the European Union leading to a 
more expensive Euro for British travellers during the summer.
Excluding fuel, cost per seat increased by 2.6% to £38.31, but 
decreased by 1.1% at constant currency. This decrease is against 
a backdrop of continued inflationary pressure and significant 
disruption and was driven by volume deals on airport contracts, 
savings as a result of renegotiated airport and ground handling 
contracts and a new maintenance contract, together with unit 
cost savings arising from the up-gauging of the fleet. These 
were partially offset by higher airport costs at regulated airports 
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW
2016 2015
£ million £ per seat
pence per  
ASK £ million £ per seat
pence per 
ASK
T otal revenue 4,669 58.46 5.32 4,686 62.48 5.59
Costs excluding fuel (3,060) (38.31) (3.49) (2,801) (37.35) (3.34)
Fuel (1,114) (13.95) (1.27) (1,199) (15.98) (1.43)
Profit before tax 495 6.20 0.56 686 9.15 0.82
T ax charge (68) (0.85) (0.07) (138) (1.84) (0.17)
Profit after tax 427 5.35 0.49 548 7.31 0.65
Operating profit* 498 6.23 0.57 688 9.18 0.81
* Operating profit represents profit before interest and tax
In the 2016 financial year, easyJet flew 73.1 million 
passengers (2015: 68.6 million) and delivered a profit 
before tax for the year of £495 million (profit of 
£6.20 per seat) a decrease of £191 million from 
a profit of £686 million (profit of £9.15 per seat) 
last year. The 2016 result includes an £88 million 
unfavourable movement from foreign exchange 
(which includes £7 million of foreign exchange 
losses on balance sheet revaluations). At constant 
currency, easyJet delivered a profit of £576 million 
during the year. 
ANDREW FINDLAY
Chief Financial Officer
and higher disruption costs following the terrorist events in 
Egypt, Paris, Brussels, T urkey and Nice, combined with industrial 
strike action and adverse weather conditions, resulting in an 
increase in EU261 associated costs. Disruption increased the 
cost per seat by £0.31 at constant currency.
Fuel costs fell by £85 million, and from £15.98 to £13.95 per 
seat, primarily driven by the significant reduction in 
market price.
Profit before tax per seat decreased by 32.3% to £6.20 per seat 
(2015: £9.15).
The tax charge for the year was £68 million. The effective tax 
rate for the period was 13.7% (2015: 20.1%), lower than the 
standard UK rate of 20%, due to the impact of a change in 
future corporation tax rates on deferred tax.
18 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Earnings per share and dividends per share
2016
pence per  
share
2015
pence per 
 share Change
Basic earnings per share 108.4 139.1 (22.1%)
Proposed ordinary dividend 53.8 55.2 (2.5%)
Basic earnings per share decreased by 22.1% as a consequence of the £121 million decrease in the profit after tax.
In line with the stated dividend policy of a payout ratio of 50% of profit after tax, the Board is recommending an ordinary dividend 
of £214 million or 53.8 pence per share which is subject to shareholder approval at the Company’s Annual General Meeting on 
9 February 2017. This will be paid on 17 March 2017 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 24 February 2017.
Return on capital employed (ROCE)
2016 2015 Change
ROCE 14.6% 22.2% (7.6ppt)
ROCE for the year was 14.6%, a decline of 7.6 percentage points on the prior year. The decrease in ROCE was due to the decrease 
in profit for the year and a 11.5% increase in the average adjusted capital employed excluding lease adjustments, primarily due to 
the acquisition of twenty aircraft during the year and favourable mark-to-market movements in derivative contracts. The ROCE 
calculation excludes borrowings, cash and money market deposits and includes an adjustment for the capital implicit in aircraft 
operating lease arrangements. The adjustment is calculated by multiplying the annual charge for aircraft dry leasing by a factor 
of seven. 
EXCHANGE RATES
The proportion of revenue and costs denominated in currencies other than sterling remained broadly consistent year-on-year:
Revenue Costs
2016 2015 2016 2015
Sterling 50% 49% 27% 27%
Euro 39% 40% 35% 32%
US dollar 1% 1% 32% 35%
Other (principally Swiss franc) 10% 10% 6% 6%
Average exchange rates
2016 2015
Euro - revenue €1.28 €1.29
Euro - costs €1.27 €1.35
US dollar $1.58 $1.58
Swiss franc CHF 1.51 CHF 1.48
The year-on-year variance in average Euro exchange rates for revenue and costs was principally due to the timing of revenue and 
cost cash flows. On average, revenue cash inflows occur several months before cost cash outflows, resulting in a change in Euro 
exchange rates impacting revenue later than costs. The net adverse impact on profit due to the year-on-year changes in exchange 
rates was mainly driven by the stronger average Euro rate:
Favourable/(adverse)
Euro 
£ million
Swiss franc 
£ million
US dollar 
£ million
Other 
£ million
T otal 
£ million
Revenue 8 10 4 2 24
Fuel – – (3) – (3)
Prior year balance sheet revaluations (3) 1 (5) – (7)
Costs excluding fuel and prior year balance sheet revaluations (84) (13) (3) (2) (102)
T otal (79) (2) (7) – (88)
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Revenue
2016 2015
£ million £ per seat
pence per  
ASK £ million £ per seat
pence per  
ASK
Seat revenue 4,587 57.43 5.23 4,616 61.54 5.51
Non-seat revenue 82 1.03 0.09 70 0.94 0.08
T otal revenue 4,669 58.46 5.32 4,686 62.48 5.59
19 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Revenue per seat decreased by 6.4% to £58.46 (2015: £62.48). At constant currency, revenue per seat fell by 6.9% to £58.16. The 
decrease is attributable to the terrorist events in Egypt, Paris, Brussels, T urkey and Nice resulting in lower demand and yield, the 
increasingly competitive capacity environment associated with the lower oil prices and the impact of the UK’s vote to leave the 
European Union leading to a more expensive Euro for British travellers during the summer.
Load factor increased by 0.1 percentage points to 91.6%.
Revenue per ASK decreased by 4.8% (or by 5.3% at constant currency), impacted by a 6.4% decrease in revenue per seat, partially 
offset by a 1.7% decrease in the average sector length, mainly from reduced flying to Egypt.
Costs excluding fuel
2016 2015
£ million £ per seat
pence per  
ASK £ million £ per seat
pence per  
ASK
Operating costs
Airports and ground handling 1,267 15.86 1.44 1,122 14.96 1.34
Crew 542 6.78 0.62 505 6.73 0.60
Navigation 336 4.21 0.38 313 4.17 0.38
Maintenance 237 2.97 0.27 229 3.06 0.27
Selling and marketing 107 1.33 0.13 102 1.36 0.12
Other costs 296 3.71 0.33 276 3.70 0.33
2,785 34.86 3.17 2,547 33.98 3.04
Ownership costs
Aircraft dry leasing 103 1.30 0.12 114 1.51 0.14
Depreciation 157 1.97 0.18 125 1.66 0.15
Amortisation 12 0.15 0.01 13 0.17 0.02
Net interest payable 6 0.08 0.01 8 0.12 –
Net exchange gains (3) (0.05) – (6) (0.09) (0.01)
275 3.45 0.32 254 3.37 0.30
T otal costs excluding fuel 3,060 38.31 3.49 2,801 37.35 3.34
Cost per seat excluding fuel increased by 2.6% to £38.31 but decreased by 1.1% per seat at constant currency.
Airports and ground handling cost per seat increased by 6.1% and by 1.5% at constant currency. Charges at regulated airports 
increased as anticipated, primarily in Italy, combined with an increase in airport and ground handling costs at Gatwick. However, 
these were partially offset by volume deals, combined with savings from renegotiated airport and ground handling contracts.
Crew cost per seat increased by 0.7% to £6.78 but decreased by 2.2% at constant currency. This was driven by efficiencies 
obtained from the up-gauging of our fleet, combined with a 1.7% decrease in average sector length and improved crew scheduling. 
This was partially offset by pay increases.
Navigation costs increased by 0.8% per seat to £4.21 but decreased by 4.7% at constant currency driven by a 1.7% decrease in 
average sector length, annual price decreases primarily in France and Germany and a one-off £8 million settlement with 
Eurocontrol in the 2015 financial year.
Maintenance costs per seat decreased by 3.0% to £2.97 and decreased by 5.3% at constant currency. A reduction in the number 
of leased aircraft resulted in reduced maintenance costs, combined with savings obtained from a new maintenance contract.
Other costs per seat increased by 0.8% to £3.71 per seat, and decreased by 1.9% at constant currency. This was driven by a 
reduction in aircraft wet leasing and savings in employee costs, which was largely offset by an increase in disruption costs as a 
result of the terrorist events in Egypt, Paris, Brussels, T urkey and Nice, combined with Air T raffic Control industrial action and 
adverse weather conditions, resulting in an increase in EU261 associated costs.
Aircraft dry leasing cost per seat decreased by 14.4% to £1.30 and by 14.3% at constant currency. Depreciation costs increased by 
18.5% on a per seat basis. The movements are principally driven by the acquisition of 20 new aircraft last year and a decrease in 
the number of leased aircraft in the fleet. The average leased fleet decreased by 6.4% to 64 and the average owned and finance 
leased fleet increased by 12.6% to 185.
Fuel
2016 2015
£ million £ per seat
pence per  
ASK £ million £ per seat
pence per  
ASK
Fuel 1,114 13.95 1.27 1,199 15.98 1.43
Fuel cost per seat decreased by 12.7% and by 13.0% at constant currency.
Financial review continued
20 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 During the period the average market jet fuel price fell by 32.9% to $415 per tonne from $619 per tonne in the previous year. 
The operation of easyJet’s fuel and US dollar hedging policy meant that the average effective fuel price movement only saw 
a decrease of 13.4% to £479 per tonne from £553 per tonne in the previous year.
NET CASH AND FINANCIAL POSITION
Summary net cash reconciliation
2016  
£ million
2015  
£ million
Change  
£ million
Operating profit 498 688 (190)
Depreciation and amortisation 169 138 31
Net working capital movement 35 50 (15)
Net tax paid (99) (98) (1)
Net capital expenditure (586) (536) (50)
Purchase of own shares for employee share schemes (22) (92) 70
Net decrease in restricted cash 6 21 (15)
Other (including the effect of exchange rates) (4) 22 (26)
Ordinary dividend paid (219) (180) (39)
Net (decrease)/increase in net cash (222) 13 (235)
Net cash at beginning of year 435 422 13
Net cash at end of year 213 435 (222)
Net cash at 30 September 2016 was £213 million (2015: £435 million) and comprised cash and money market deposits of £969 
million (2015: £939 million) and borrowings of £756 million (2015: £504 million). After allowing for the impact of aircraft operating 
leases (seven times operating lease costs incurred in the year), adjusted net debt increased by £145 million to £508 million. 
Net capital expenditure includes the acquisition of 20 A320 aircraft (2015: 20 aircraft), the purchase of life-limited parts used in 
engine restoration and pre-delivery payments relating to aircraft purchases. The number of scheduled aircraft operating in the fleet 
increased from 233 at 30 September 2015 to 249 at 30 September 2016.
easyJet made net corporation tax payments totalling £99 million during the 2016 financial year (2015: £98 million).
Borrowings as at 30 September 2016 were £756 million, an increase of £252 million from 30 September 2015. During the period 
easyJet secured credit ratings from Moody's (Baa1 Stable) and Standard & Poor's (BBB+ Stable) and announced a £3,000 million 
Euro Medium T erm Note Programme. Under this programme, on 9 February 2016 easyJet plc issued notes amounting to €500 
million for a seven-year term with a fixed annual coupon rate of 1.750%. This increase in borrowings was offset by the repayment 
of four finance leases and early repayment of five loans.
In the year ending 30 September 2015 easyJet signed a $500 million revolving credit facility with a minimum five-year term. The 
facility is due to mature in February 2021.
Summary consolidated statement of financial position
2016
£ million
2015
£ million
Change
£ million
Goodwill 365 365 –
Property, plant and equipment 3,252 2,877 375
Derivative financial instruments 98 (297) 395
Net working capital (968) (969) 1
Restricted cash 7 12 (5)
Net cash 213 435 (222)
Current and deferred taxation (258) (219) (39)
Other non-current assets and liabilities 3 45 (42)
2,712 2,249 463
Opening shareholders’ equity 2,249 2,172
Profit for the year 427 548
Ordinary dividend paid (219) (180)
Change in hedging reserve 263 (222)
Other movements (8) (69)
2,712 2,249
21 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Financial review continued
GOING CONCERN
easyJet’s business activities, together with factors likely 
to affect its future development and performance, are 
described in the strategic report on pages 1 to 42. Principal 
risks and uncertainties are described on pages 24 to 31. Note 
22 to the accounts sets out the Group’s objectives, policies 
and procedures for managing its capital and gives details of 
the risks related to financial instruments held by the Group.
At 30 September 2016, the Group held cash and cash 
equivalents of £714 million and money market deposits of 
£255 million. T otal debt of £756 million is free from financial 
covenants, with £92 million due for repayment in the year 
to 30 September 2017.
Net current liabilities at 30 September 2016 were £119 million 
and included unearned revenue (payments made by 
customers for flights scheduled post year end) of 
£568 million.
The business is exposed to fluctuations in fuel prices and 
US dollar and Euro exchange rates. The Group’s policy is 
to hedge between 65% and 85% of estimated exposures 
12 months in advance, and 45% and 65% of estimated 
exposures from 13 up to 24 months in advance. Specific 
decisions may require consideration of a longer-term 
approach. T reasury strategies and actions will be driven 
by the need to meet treasury, financial and corporate 
objectives. The Group was compliant with this policy at 
the date of this Annual report and accounts.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group will be able 
to operate within the level of available facilities and cash 
and deposits for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the Annual report and accounts.
VIABILITY STATEMENT
The Directors have assessed easyJet’s viability over a 
three-year period to September 2019. This is based on three 
years of the strategic plan, which gives greater certainty over 
the forecasting assumptions used.
In making their assessment, the Directors took account of 
easyJet’s current financial and operational positions and 
contracted capital expenditure. They also assessed the 
potential financial and operational impacts, in severe but 
plausible scenarios, of the principal risks and uncertainties 
set out on pages 24 to 31, which includes the impact of a 
sustained significant adverse movement in foreign currency 
exchange rates or jet fuel prices, and the likely degree of 
effectiveness of current and available mitigating actions.
Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to 
continue in operation and meet all their liabilities as they fall 
due up to September 2019.
In making this statement, the Directors have also made the 
following key assumptions:
• funding for capital expenditure in the form of capital 
markets debt, bank debt or aircraft leases will be 
available in all plausible market conditions;
• there will not be a prolonged grounding of a substantial 
portion of the fleet; and
• the terms of the United Kingdom leaving the European 
Union are such that easyJet will be able to continue to 
operate over broadly the same network as at present.
Net assets increased by £463 million, due to the profit generated in the period and favourable movements on the hedging reserve, 
which were only partially offset by the payment of the ordinary dividend. The movement on the hedging reserve was primarily due 
to the maturity of out of the money contracts.
The net book value of property, plant and equipment increased by £375 million driven principally by the acquisition of 20 A320 
family aircraft, and pre-delivery payments relating to aircraft purchases.
ANDREW FINDLAY
Chief Financial Officer
22 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Operating measures
2016 2015
Increase/ 
(decrease)
Seats flown (millions) 79.9 75.0 6.5%
Passengers (millions) 73.1 68.6 6.6%
Load factor 91.6% 91.5% 0.1ppt
Available seat kilometres (ASK) (millions) 87,724 83,846 4.6%
Revenue passenger kilometres (RPK) (millions) 81,496 77,619 5.0%
Average sector length (kilometres) 1,098 1,118 (1.7%)
Sectors 482,110 457,479 5.4%
Block hours 934,223 892,052 4.7%
Number of aircraft owned/leased at end of year 257 241 6.6%
Average number of aircraft owned/leased during year 248.7 232.6 6.9%
Number of aircraft operated at end of year 249 233 6.9%
Average number of aircraft operated during year 234.6 221.1 6.1%
Operated aircraft utilisation (hours per day) 10.9 11.1 (1.8%)
Owned aircraft utilisation (hours per day) 10.3 10.5 (2.3%)
Number of routes operated at end of year 803 735 9.3%
Number of airports served at end of year 132 136 (2.9%)
Financial measures
Return on capital employed 14.6% 22.2% (7.6ppt)
Liquidity per 100 seats (£m) 3.2 3.2 0.0%
Profit before tax per seat (£) 6.20 9.15 (32.3%)
Profit before tax per ASK (pence) 0.56 0.82 (31.1%)
Revenue
Revenue per seat (£) 58.46 62.48 (6.4%)
Revenue per seat at constant currency (£) 58.16 62.48 (6.9%)
Revenue per passenger (£) 63.83 68.28 (6.5%)
Revenue per passenger at constant currency (£) 63.50 68.28 (7.0%)
Revenue per ASK (pence) 5.32 5.59 (4.8%)
Revenue per ASK at constant currency (pence) 5.29 5.59 (5.3%)
Costs
Per seat measures
T otal cost per seat (£) 52.26 53.33 2.0%
T otal cost per seat excluding fuel (£) 38.31 37.35 (2.6%)
T otal cost per seat excluding fuel at constant currency (£) 37.04 37.44 1.1%
Operating cost per seat (£) 48.81 49.96 2.3%
Operating cost per seat excluding fuel (£) 34.86 33.98 (2.6%)
Operating cost per seat excluding fuel at constant currency (£) 33.55 33.98 1.2%
Ownership cost per seat (£) 3.45 3.37 (2.3%)
Per ASK measures
T otal cost per ASK (pence) 4.76 4.77 0.3%
T otal cost per ASK excluding fuel (pence) 3.49 3.34 (4.4%)
T otal cost per ASK excluding fuel at constant currency (pence) 3.36 3.35 (0.7%)
Operating cost per ASK (pence) 4.44 4.47 0.6%
Operating cost per ASK excluding fuel (pence) 3.17 3.04 (4.4%)
Operating cost per ASK excluding fuel at constant currency (pence) 3.05 3.04 (0.5%)
Ownership cost per ASK (pence) 0.32 0.30 (4.1%)
Key statistics
23 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Risk
Risk management framework
The Group faces a number of risks which, if they arise, could affect its ability to achieve its strategic 
objectives. The Board is responsible for determining the nature of these risks and ensuring 
appropriate mitigating actions are in place to manage them effectively.
Risk appetite
The level of risk it is considered appropriate to accept in 
achieving easyJet’s strategic objectives is reviewed and 
validated by the Board on an annual basis. The appropriateness 
of the mitigating actions is determined in accordance with the 
Board's approved risk appetite for the relevant area.
Risk management process
The diagram below sets out easyJet’s risk management 
process. This is co-ordinated by the risk team, which reports to 
the Chief Financial Officer. The key elements of the process are:
• The risk management process begins with the identification 
of significant risks by function. Risk identification workshops 
are run to identify matters which could materially impact on 
the functions or the wider business. These are attended by 
Executive Management T eam members and 
senior managers.
• Risks are assessed taking into account the potential impact 
and likelihood of the risks occurring and the key mitigation 
measures identified. The current level of risk is compared to 
the Board’s risk appetite to determine whether further 
mitigation measures are required. Risks specific to the 
function’s activities are managed within the function on an 
on-going basis with regular follow-up by the risk team.
• The most significant risks from each function (based on 
materiality, cross functional impact and/or those which have 
common themes across the business) are reviewed by the 
Risk Evaluation Group, which consists of members of senior 
management from each function. This Group’s role is to 
debate, agree and prioritise the principal risks.
• These risks, which form the basis of the principal risks and 
uncertainties detailed in this section, are challenged and 
validated by the Executive Management T eam and 
the Board.
• The principal risks are monitored and managed throughout 
the year by the Executive Management T eam and the 
Board in conjunction with the risk team. Risk reports are 
provided to the Board on a quarterly basis as a minimum.
• In addition to supporting the Board, the risk team supports 
the business in its management of risks relating to key 
projects, third parties, countries and bases.
T urn to page 53 for further details on 
Risk Management and Internal Control
FEEDBACK FROM THE BOARD
FEEDBACK FROM THE BOARD
Challenge & ownership
Challenge & ownership
Risk identification & assessment
Risk identification & assessment
* A separate management system monitors 
flight safety risks (easyJet's safety process is 
described in more detail on page 34).
RISK MANAGEMENT 
PROCESS
PLC 
BOARD
EXECUTIVE 
MANAGEMENT 
TEAM
SPONSORSHIP 
AND RISK 
APPETITE 
ASSESSMENT
RISK 
EVALUATION 
GROUP
AGREES AND 
PRIORITISES 
PRINCIPAL RISKS
REPUTATIONAL 
RISKS
THIRD PARTY 
 RISKS
COUNTRY/ 
BASE RISKS
FINANCIAL 
RISKS
OPERATIONAL 
RISKS
PROJECT/ 
PROGRAMME 
RISKS
SAFETY 
RISKS*
24 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 The risks and uncertainties described below are considered, at this point in time, to 
have the greatest effect on easyJet’s strategic objectives. This list is not intended to 
be exhaustive. Whilst easyJet can monitor risks and prepare for adverse scenarios, the 
ability to affect the core drivers of many risks is not within the Group’s control, for 
example adverse weather, pandemics, acts of terrorism, changes in government 
regulation and macroeconomic issues.
Risk description Mitigation
Major safety incident
A major safety incident (such as a hull 
loss) could adversely affect easyJet’s 
reputation and its operational and 
financial performance. The impact of 
such an incident would be heightened if 
easyJet failed to react promptly and 
deal with it effectively.
Link to strategy:
easyJet’s number one priority is the safety and security of its customers and people.
A Safety Committee (a committee of the Board) oversees the management of 
easyJet’s safety processes and systems.
T urn to pages: 48-49
for further details
A Safety Review Board (at Executive Management T eam level) is responsible for 
directing overall safety policy and governance. This is chaired by the Chief Executive.
Safety Action Groups from across the airline are responsible for the identification, 
evaluation and control of safety-related risks.
easyJet operates a Safety Management System using a leading software system 
(SafetyNet). This is used to:
• collect and analyse safety data (enabling potential areas of risk to be 
projected); and
• enable learning from easyJet and industry events/incidents to be captured and 
embedded into future risk mitigations.
A robust incident reporting process and "Just Culture" are in place.
T urn to page: 34
for further details
easyJet has an emergency response process and performs regular crisis 
management exercises.
Hull (all risks) and liabilities insurance (including spares) is held.
easyJet has an industry-leading fatigue risk management system and has 
implemented the EASA Flight Time Limitations regulations.
Security threat or attack
Failure to identify or prevent a major 
security-related threat or attack, or 
react immediately and effectively, could 
adversely affect easyJet’s reputation 
and its operational and 
financial performance.
Such an incident has the potential to 
impact upon easyJet’s business, 
regardless of the location or target.
The threat of further security-related 
attacks (regardless of where they may 
occur) may impact the future demand 
for air travel.
Link to strategy:
A Security Decision Group, comprising the Chairman, Chief Executive, appropriate 
members of the Executive Management T eam and other senior management, 
determines whether easyJet should continue to operate in countries or areas 
affected by security-related incidents or conflict. As part of that process the easyJet 
security team work to provide the Security Decision Group with timely, credible and 
reliable information upon which to base operational decisions. easyJet adheres to all 
recommendations and guidelines provided by the authorities.
The Director of Safety and Security and the Head of Security work with authorities 
and governments around easyJet’s network to assess whether security measures 
are effective and in compliance with regulatory requirements. A significant amount 
of work is carried out with the aim of enhancing:
• early identification of developing and emerging security risks;
• the active management of security risks;
• the methods for reducing the impact of any security-related incident; and
• the Group’s security culture and awareness.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Link to strategy:
Build number 1 and 2 
network positions
Customer and 
operational 
excellence
A lean cost 
advantage
Grow revenue
The best people
Data and digital
2 1
6
5 4
3
2 1
6
5 4
3
SAFETY FIRST
2 1
6
5 4
3
Risks impacting the viability assessment (turn to page 22 for further details) V
V
25 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Risk continued
Risk description Mitigation
Competition, capacity and 
industry consolidation
The aviation market is highly 
competitive and easyJet operates in 
competition with both flag carriers and 
other low-cost airlines.
Excess capacity in the market may arise 
due to a decrease in demand for air 
travel and/or additional capacity as a 
result of low fuel prices. This could have 
an adverse financial impact on easyJet.
easyJet’s key competitive advantages 
include its network, cost base, brand, 
digital innovation and efficient and 
robust capital structure. Failure to retain 
these advantages or react quickly to 
competitor changes could have an 
adverse financial impact on easyJet.
Industry consolidation could also 
affect the competitive environment in 
a number of markets. This could cause 
a loss of market position and erosion 
of revenue.
Link to strategy:
easyJet seeks to rapidly respond to any such activity that may impact its ability 
to grow the business.
Competitor and consolidation activity is monitored, enabling strategic decision 
making on key routes and positions.
The Network Development Forum, a cross-functional panel of senior executives, 
approves new bases and the allocation of assets around the network.
Fleet framework arrangements, together with the Group’s leasing policy, provide 
easyJet with significant flexibility in respect of scaling the fleet according to 
business requirements.
Strong cost control is a key behaviour across the Group, with initiatives to drive 
cost reduction and improve efficiency in targeted areas.
Significant network disruption
Widespread disruption to easyJet’s 
network may be caused by a single 
event or factors that occur for a 
sustained period. Examples include 
forces of nature (extreme weather, 
volcanic ash, etc.), terrorism, air traffic 
management issues, epidemics/
pandemics or the closure of a 
key airport.
Significant disruption to the network 
could adversely affect easyJet’s 
reputation and its operational and 
financial performance.
Link to strategy:
There are processes in place, and clear roles and responsibilities within teams across 
the business, to plan for and manage significant disruption.
A business disruption team, which includes senior management from relevant 
business areas, determines and initiates required action.
Board policy is to maintain a liquidity buffer which allows the Group to better 
manage the impact of downturns in business or temporary curtailment of activities.
In addition, easyJet holds business disruption insurance.
2 2 1 1
6 6
5 5 4 4
3 3
2 1
6
5 4
3
COMMERCIAL AND OPERA TIONAL
26 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Risk description Mitigation
Continuity of services
easyJet is dependent on a number of 
key IT systems and processes.
A loss of critical systems or access to 
facilities, including the website, may 
lead to significant disruption and could 
have an adverse operational, 
reputational and financial impact.
Link to strategy:
Critical systems are hosted either across two data centres or within third party 
provider locations. Recovery arrangements, including failover between the two data 
centres, are in place for all locations holding critical systems.
An IT incident management team is in place to respond rapidly to any unforeseen 
incidents that may arise.
IT disaster recovery plans are tested regularly to identify areas for improvement 
in resilience.
Business continuity plans ensure easyJet is prepared in the event of loss of facilities, 
including alternative sites for the relocation of critical staff.
Third party service providers
easyJet has entered into agreements 
with third party service providers for 
services covering a significant 
proportion of its operational and 
cost base.
Failure to manage third party 
performance adequately may adversely 
affect easyJet’s reputation and its 
operational and financial performance.
Link to strategy:
There is a defined procurement process, led by a centralised procurement team, 
which ensures a competitive and robust selection of suppliers. As part of the 
process, alternative service providers are identified and assessed against balanced 
evaluation criteria within the major markets in which easyJet operates.
Any specific supplier risks are identified and assessed during the procurement 
process and controls and risk mitigation measures are included in the contracts 
entered into with the supplier.
Contracts are managed according to easyJet’s supplier relationship management 
framework, with key principles covering defined ownership and accountability, a 
governance framework and effective communication. Supplier performance is 
monitored through regular business reviews, including achievement of service level 
agreements and key performance indicators.
Robust transition plans are agreed in the event of switching suppliers to enable an 
acceptable level of service to be maintained.
Industrial action
easyJet, and the aviation industry in 
general, has a significant number of 
employees who are members of trade 
unions. Industrial action taken by 
easyJet employees, or by the 
employees of key third-party service 
providers, could impact on easyJet’s 
ability to maintain its flight schedules.
This could adversely affect easyJet’s 
reputation and its operational and 
financial performance.
Link to strategy:
As easyJet operates across Europe there are 19 unions and nine representative 
bodies across eight countries which its crew are members of. easyJet seeks to 
maintain positive working relationships with all trade unions and other 
representative bodies.
Each of the countries in which easyJet operates has localised employment terms 
and conditions. This mitigates the risk of large scale internal industrial action 
occurring at the same time.
Processes are in place to adapt to disruptions as a result of industrial action.
2 1
6
5 4
3
2 1
6
5 4
3
COMMERCIAL AND OPERATIONAL CONTINUED
2 1
6
5 4
3
Link to strategy:
Build number 1 and 2 
network positions
Customer and 
operational 
excellence
A lean cost 
advantage
Grow revenue
The best people
Data and digital
2 1
6
5 4
3
Risks impacting the viability assessment (turn to page 22 for further details) V
27 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Risk description Mitigation
Single fleet risk
easyJet is dependent on Airbus as its 
sole supplier for aircraft.
There are significant cost and efficiency 
advantages of a single fleet, however 
there are two main associated risks:
• technical or mechanical issues that 
could ground the full fleet, or part 
of the fleet, which could cause 
negative perception; and
• valuation risks which crystallise 
when aircraft exit the fleet. The 
main exposure at this time is with 
the ageing A319 fleet, where 
easyJet is reliant on the future 
demand for second-hand aircraft.
Link to strategy:
The Board considers that the efficiencies achieved by operating a single fleet type 
outweigh the risks associated with easyJet’s single fleet strategy.
The Airbus A320 family (which includes the A319) is one of the two primary fleets 
used for short-haul travel, the other being the Boeing B737 family. There are 
approximately 6,800 A320 family aircraft operating with a proven track record for 
safety and reliability.
easyJet operates a rigorous established aircraft maintenance programme.
T o mitigate the potential valuation risks, easyJet regularly reviews the second-hand 
market and has a number of different options when looking at fleet exit strategies. 
Sale and leaseback facilitates the exit of A319 aircraft from the fleet by transferring 
residual value risk, and also provides flexibility in managing the fleet size.
COMMERCIAL AND OPERATIONAL CONTINUED
FINANCIAL
Risk continued
2 1
6
5 4
3
Risk description Mitigation
Financial risk
easyJet is exposed to various financial 
risks which could give rise to adverse 
pressure on the financial performance 
of the Group, e.g. costs, revenue and 
cash flow.
• Market risks – easyJet's business 
model is sensitive to a sustained 
significant adverse movement in 
foreign currency exchange rates, jet 
fuel prices or interest rates, which 
can't be mitigated.
• Counterparty risk – non-
performance of counterparties used 
for depositing surplus funds (e.g. 
money market funds, bank 
deposits) and hedging.
• Liquidity risk – misjudgement of the 
level of liquidity resulting in the 
inability to meet contractual/
contingent financial obligations or 
the inability to fund the business 
when needed.
Link to strategy:
The Finance Committee (a committee of the Board) oversees the Group’s treasury 
and funding policies and activities.
T urn to page: 55
for further details
The role of the Committee includes:
• maintaining and implementing a treasury policy setting out Board-approved 
strategies for foreign exchange and fuel hedging, along with liquidity, interest 
rate management, counterparties' limits; and
• reviewing and reporting on compliance with Board treasury policies.
The policy is to hedge revenue and costs within a percentage band for a rolling 
24-month period.
Board policy is to maintain a liquidity buffer including cash and a $500 million five 
year revolving credit facility provided by a group of 12 relationship banks. This allows 
the Group to better manage the impact of downturns in business or temporary 
curtailment of activities. The basis for the liquidity policy was revised in 2016 to cover 
peak unearned revenue, with a minimum position of £2.6 million per 100 
aircraft seats.
A strong balance sheet supports the business through fluctuations in the economic 
conditions and the Group has access to diverse sources of funding to support 
liquidity requirements.
2 1
6
5 4
3
V
28 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Risk description Mitigation
Delivery of projects supporting 
the business strategy
The business is undertaking a number 
of key projects and programmes to 
deliver key elements of the strategy.
Failure to deliver the planned business 
benefits and cost savings from these 
projects may result in under 
achievement of easyJet’s planned 
financial results.
Link to strategy:
The Executive Management T eam meets monthly to review progress made on the 
portfolio of programmes and solve issues that require escalation.
Key IT projects or programmes have additional oversight through the IT Governance 
and Oversight Committee (a committee of the Board).
T urn to page: 55
for further details
Each project or programme has its own steering group which provides challenge to 
the project, monitors progress and ensures that decisions are made at the 
appropriate level.
A portfolio management office is in place to oversee delivery of projects and 
programmes, and track budgets and realisation of benefits.
A project management framework, which sets out governance requirements, key 
processes and controls, is followed by all projects and programmes. "Lessons learnt" 
reviews are undertaken to ensure continuous improvement to this approach.
PEOPLE
Risk description Mitigation
Attraction and retention of talent
easyJet’s current and future success is 
reliant on having the right people with 
the right capabilities.
Increased competition in the 
recruitment market may impact 
easyJet’s ability to attract and retain 
key talent. This could adversely affect 
the delivery of strategic objectives.
Link to strategy:
There is a recruitment strategy for pilots and cabin crew. This includes pilot 
sponsorship and the Amy Johnson Flying Initiative to attract more female pilots. In 
addition, easyJet has developed a coherent employment brand to attract and retain 
top talent.
An annual survey is undertaken to measure staff engagement and identify any areas 
for further management attention.
easyJet’s aim is to develop talent from within. There are several talent development 
programmes in place for individuals who have been identified for fast-tracking into 
more senior roles as vacancies arise.
Alongside this there is an annual succession planning process to ensure there are 
clear successors for all key business roles.
2 1
6
5 4
3
FINANCIAL CONTINUED
2 1
6
5 4
3
Link to strategy:
Build number 1 and 2 
network positions
Customer and 
operational 
excellence
A lean cost 
advantage
Grow revenue
The best people
Data and digital
2 1
6
5 4
3
V Risks impacting the viability assessment (turn to page 22 for further details)
29 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Risk continued
2 1
6
5 4
3
2 1
6
5 4
3
COMPLIANCE AND REGULA TORY
Risk description Mitigation
Impact of EU exit
Following the outcome of the UK 
referendum to leave the EU, there 
remains uncertainty as to how this will 
affect easyJet’s current market access 
rights. If easyJet is unable to continue 
to fly its intra-EU network this would 
have a significant operational and 
financial impact.
Link to strategy:
An internal working group has been established to review all aspects of 
easyJet’s operations.
easyJet is actively engaging with regulators, the UK Government and the EU to 
secure European flying rights through the continuation of a liberalised and 
deregulated aviation market across Europe.
As a mitigant, easyJet is in the process of registering an Air Operator Certificate in 
an EU territory to enable access to the European aviation market in as similar a way 
as today in a post-Brexit landscape.
Legislative and regulatory risks
The airline industry is heavily regulated 
and there is a continual need to keep 
well informed and adapt to (as 
required) any legislative or regulatory 
changes across the jurisdictions in 
which easyJet operates.
Failure to comply with legislative 
and regulatory requirements (or 
interpretations thereof), such as local 
consumer laws, legal decisions or policy 
changes in relation to passenger 
compensation, environmental and 
airport regulation, in the jurisdictions 
in which easyJet operates, could 
have an adverse reputational and 
financial impact.
Link to strategy:
easyJet has an in-house legal team to advise on legal issues and developments, and 
to monitor compliance with formal regulatory requirements. It also has a panel of 
external legal advisers both in the UK and in key easyJet markets, who are briefed 
to keep easyJet informed of any changes or new legislation and to assist easyJet 
in developing appropriate responses to such legislation.
In addition, a Head of Compliance has recently been appointed to develop and lead 
internal compliance programmes.
The Regulatory Affairs Group co-ordinates easyJet’s role in influencing future and 
existing policy and regulations that affect the airline industry and will work with 
industry bodies to assist in this, as appropriate.
Country Review Boards are established for easyJet’s main markets, raising awareness 
of in-country issues, and providing a forum in which to highlight any potential 
legislative changes and impacts in the different countries.
V
30 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Risk description Mitigation
Major shareholder and brand 
owner relationship
easyJet has two major shareholders 
(easyGroup Holdings Limited and 
Polys Holdings Limited) which, as a 
concert party, control 33.73% of 
its ordinary shares.
Shareholder activism on their part could 
adversely impact the reputation of 
easyJet and cause a distraction 
to management.
easyJet does not own its company 
name or branding which is licensed 
from easyGroup Ltd. The licence 
includes certain minimum service levels 
that easyJet must meet in order to 
retain the right to use the name and 
brand. The easyJet brand could 
also be impacted through the 
actions of easyGroup or other 
easyGroup licensees.
Link to strategy:
easyJet has an active shareholder engagement programme led by its investor 
relations team. As part of that programme easyJet engages with easyGroup 
Holdings Limited on a regular basis alongside its other major shareholders.
In addition, the Company has a relationship agreement with easyGroup and Polys 
Holdings in line with the controlling shareholder regime as set out in the Financial 
Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules.
Representatives from the Board and senior management take collective 
responsibility for addressing issues arising from any activist approach adopted by the 
major shareholders. The objective is to address issues when they arise and anticipate 
and plan for potential future activism.
The brand licence agreement with easyGroup Ltd provides for the regular meeting 
of senior representatives from both sides to actively manage brand-related issues as 
they arise. Such meetings occur on a quarterly basis and have proven effective. 
easyJet also monitors compliance with brand licence service levels and has a right to 
take steps to remedy any instance of non-compliance.
Cyber threat and 
information security
easyJet receives most of its revenue 
through credit card transactions and 
operates as an e-commerce business. 
It faces both external cyber threats and 
internal risks to its data and systems.
A security breach could negatively 
impact easyJet’s reputation and have 
an adverse operational and 
financial impact.
Link to strategy:
An Information Security Steering Group, chaired by the General Counsel, oversees 
any developments in data threats and controls and determines whether appropriate 
responses are being taken to them.
There are dedicated information security teams that monitor threats and ensure that 
the design, implementation and operation of easyJet systems are secure. This is 
through the following:
• achieving "secure by design" through a dedicated security architecture capability;
• monitoring of secure systems against unauthorised access;
• reviewing the security of external and internal systems and easyJet.com through 
periodic vulnerability scanning;
• considering information security risks within procurement processes and the 
introduction of new systems and IT services;
• reviewing and refreshing information acceptable use policies; and
• maintaining staff security awareness and education through a Security 
Champions network, online training materials and periodic awareness campaigns.
Given the nature of this risk the appropriateness of the controls is under 
continuous review.
REPUTATIONAL
2 1
6
5 4
3
2 1
6
5 4
3
Link to strategy:
Build number 1 and 2 
network positions
Customer and 
operational 
excellence
A lean cost 
advantage
Grow revenue
The best people
Data and digital
2 1
6
5 4
3
V Risks impacting the viability assessment (turn to page 22 for further details)
31 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts How we run our business responsibly
Corporate responsibility
easyJet’s purpose
At easyJet we want to run our business with a true sense of 
purpose that both serves society and is based on a set of 
principles which helps us achieve sustainable profitability.
Over the last year we have been working with Blueprint for 
Business, an organisation which helps businesses develop their 
purpose and role in society.
We’ve always felt that people at easyJet know what the "right 
thing" to do is and they are passionate about making travel 
easy and affordable for our customers.
Now we are developing easyJet’s role and impact in society 
and its purpose.
We are building our purpose around our cause of making travel 
easy and affordable, our pride in helping to connect people 
across Europe, and the recognition that businesses face many 
choices and that easyJet wants to do things in the right way.
This means being open, upfront and fair with our customers 
and suppliers, to build lasting relationships with both.
It means being a good employer so that easyJet is somewhere 
people want to work, where the "Orange Spirit" of our people 
can thrive.
It means being a good citizen and having a positive impact in 
the communities which we serve, and aiming to mitigate our 
impact on the environment.
In this report we set out how easyJet is striving to live up to 
these principles.
We see this as a challenge to ourselves which will help us to 
grow sustainably and continue to be a business that people 
want to work for, fly with and invest in.
CAROLYN MCCALL DBE
Chief Executive
20%
NEW TARGET TO 
INCREASE THE 
PROPORTION OF FEMALE 
PILOT CADETS TO, BY 2020
<80g
CARBON EMISSIONS PER 
PASSENGER KILOMETRE
(1)
Achievements this year
I want to highlight some particular achievements this year:
• Female pilots – In the first year of our new Amy Johnson 
Flying Initiative we have met our target of doubling the 
proportion of our new entrant female pilots from under 
6% last year to 12% selected this year, a year ahead of 
schedule. We have now set a new target to increase the 
proportion of our easyJet female pilot cadets to 20% 
by 2020.
• Carbon reduction – Last year we increased our carbon 
emissions reduction targets, first set in 2013. This year our 
carbon emissions per passenger kilometre dropped below 
80 grams.
• Compensating passengers when their travel is disrupted – 
This year a series of mainly external events have affected 
some passengers’ travel. We want to provide good support 
at the time, such as giving useful updates or overnight 
accommodation when it’s needed. We also provide the 
appropriate compensation to passengers when it is due. 
In the year ending 30 September 2016 we processed over 
521,000 out-of-pocket expenses and compensation claims 
for passengers.
• Passengers who need special assistance – We want to offer 
a good experience for all of our passengers, including those 
who need some extra assistance. The easyJet Special 
Assistance Advisory Group (ESAAG), chaired by Lord David 
Blunkett, continues to provide valuable advice. Customer 
satisfaction amongst these passengers was 84% for the 
year ending 30 September 2016, which remains higher than 
for all passengers.
• UNICEF – Our pan-European charity partnership continues 
and we have now raised more than £8 million in just over 
four years, thanks to the efforts of our crew and the 
generosity of our passengers. We are currently on course 
to meet our target of raising £10 million by 2018.
84%
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 
AMONGST PASSENGERS 
WITH REDUCED MOBILITY
(1) 
£8m
RAISED FOR UNICEF 
SINCE 2012
(1) In the year ending 30 September 2016.
32 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 2
A RESPONSIBLE AND 
RESPONSIVE EMPLOYER
3
GOOD CITIZEN
4
A GUARDIAN FOR 
FUTURE GENERATIONS
1
HONEST AND FAIR WITH 
CUSTOMERS 
AND SUPPLIERS
easyJet’s role and impact in society – using the Blueprint principles
1. Honest and fair with customers and suppliers
• An open and honest relationship with all customers
• Supporting customers during travel disruption
• Working in partnership with suppliers
• Committed to human rights
2. A responsible and responsive employer
• A good employer across Europe
• Fair reward and a stake in the Company for employees
• Learning and development opportunities
• A diverse workforce who are supported
3. Good citizen
• Contributing to local communities
• Reducing the impact of noise and emissions from aircraft 
on local communities
• Helping local charities that are important to employees
4. A guardian for future generations
• Efficient use of aircraft to reduce carbon emissions
• Waste reduction
Read our full corporate responsibility report  
on our website at corporate.easyjet.com
SAFETY
SAFETY
SAFETY
SAFETY
33 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Fatigue Review
In 2015 the Board asked the Director of Safety and 
Security to undertake a review of fatigue within crew. This 
review was undertaken independently of all the 
operational departments.
The findings of the review were presented to the Board in 
March 2016 and included eight primary and 28 secondary 
recommendations. The business is currently considering 
its response to these recommendations and some 
actions are already being undertaken.
Corporate responsibility continued
Safety is easyJet’s number one priority. easyJet 
is committed to providing a safe journey for its 
passengers and a safe working environment for 
all of its people and suppliers. easyJet's safety is 
managed and maintained through business 
processes and structures.
Safety
The Chief Executive of easyJet Airline Company Limited 
(EACL) and the Accountable Manager of easyJet Switzerland 
S.A. (EZS) are responsible for all aspects of safety delivery. 
The Director of Safety and Security reports directly to the 
Chief Executive and the Chairman and has a remit to 
act independently outside of other operational or 
commercial considerations.
The Safety Committee, made up of independent Non-Executive 
Directors, also reviews safety matters. More information on the 
Safety Committee is provided on pages 48 and 49.
Security
The easyJet security team works closely with government and 
regulatory agencies throughout easyJet's network in order to 
minimise the vulnerability of easyJet's customers and people to 
security risks. Security risk assessments, informed by the 
current geopolitical situation, are made for each country and 
airport to which easyJet flies. The business also employs 
measures to protect business and personal data.
SAFETY
Fatigue risk management
easyJet manages the risk of fatigue to make sure that its crew 
can operate flights safely.
The airline uses a Fatigue Risk Management system which 
provides data to help predict the risk of fatigue in pilots. The 
system was established over ten years ago and is one of only 
two such systems approved for use by the UK Civil Aviation 
Authority (CAA). easyJet has also collaborated with the US 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) on 
fatigue research and analysis.
All easyJet aircraft have on-board 
defibrillators, for use by the crew or 
medical professionals travelling as 
passengers if someone on board is 
having severe heart problems.
Disruptive behaviour
easyJet does not tolerate disruptive behaviour on its flights. Its 
crew are trained to assess all situations to make sure that the 
safety of the flight and other passengers is not compromised 
at any time.
This year easyJet signed the British Air T ransport Association 
(BATA)’s Code of Conduct on this issue which seeks to 
minimise instances of disruptive behaviour and ensure a safe 
and enjoyable environment for passengers and employees.
The airline has introduced measures to discourage and try to 
prevent disruptive behaviour, as well as further increasing the 
support for its crew to respond when it does occur. This work 
is being targeted at particular flights which are known to be at 
higher risk of disruptive behaviour. This has included:
• communicating with customers in advance and at the gate 
that easyJet does not tolerate disruptive behaviour and that 
they cannot drink alcohol purchased in the airport on board;
• placing security guards at departure gates for 
specific flights;
• scheduling more experienced crew members to work on 
flights identified as higher risk;
• encouraging captains to reiterate the airline’s messages 
through their announcements to passengers;
• a robust scheme to support crew from a welfare 
perspective when they have experienced an incident 
on board; and
• the easyJet security team taking action against 
disruptive passengers and working closely with the police 
to seek prosecutions.
Disruptive behaviour on board is often caused by passengers 
who have consumed too much alcohol whilst in the airport 
before their flight or who consume alcohol on board that has 
been purchased at the airport.
easyJet is determined to tackle this issue and is working with 
industry partners to find a voluntary solution. However, if this 
is not sufficient then easyJet will also press for necessary 
regulatory changes.
34 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Customers who need special assistance
easyJet wants to make travel easy and affordable for all of its 
passengers, irrespective of any disability or other constraint they 
may have.
In 2012 easyJet established the easyJet Special Assistance 
Advisory Group (ESAAG) to provide feedback and guidance on 
the services it provides to passengers who require 
special assistance.
The group is Chaired by Lord David Blunkett, a former UK 
cabinet minister who is himself blind. The group includes 
members from key easyJet markets (the UK, France, 
Switzerland and Italy) and all have personal or professional 
experience of special assistance issues.
easyJet carried 456,821 passengers who needed special 
assistance in the year ending 30 September 2016. This 
increased by 9% from the year ending 30 September 2015. 
Customer satisfaction amongst these passengers was 
84%. This was down by 3% year-on-year, however it was 
12 percentage points higher than customer satisfaction 
amongst all passengers.
easyJet has a range of measures for passengers who require 
special assistance:
• A trained special assistance customer contact centre team.
• On-board wheelchairs on all aircraft.
• easyJet crew are trained in special assistance and 
understand the needs of passengers with disabilities, 
including how to identify and support those with 
hidden disabilities.
HONEST AND FAIR WITH  
CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS
Safety in the supply chain
easyJet carries out oversight of safety in its supply chain 
through its Standards Assurance and Compliance Monitoring 
processes. Standards Assurance enables managers to 
undertake performance reviews through sample checks to 
monitor service level agreements, key performance indicators 
and supplier engagement activities. Compliance Monitoring is 
undertaken by easyJet’s independent operations risk 
compliance monitoring team. The audit schedule is established 
on a risk-based programme focused on applicable standards 
throughout the supply chain.
RIDDOR
For the UK operation easyJet captures Reporting of Injuries, 
Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations (RIDDOR) 
reports in its safety reporting system, SafetyNet.
Customers
easyJet’s cause is to make travel easy and affordable. easyJet 
wants to provide its customers with a good, safe service and a 
friendly experience. easyJet wants to be open and honest with 
its customers to build lasting relationships with them.
In 2013 easyJet introduced a Customer Charter which sets 
out what customers can expect from easyJet. The Charter is 
available at: www.easyJet.com/customer-charter.
Please refer to the Chief Executive's review on pages 7 to 15 for 
more information on our customer and operational excellence.
Supporting passengers during disruption
easyJet seeks to support passengers during disruption and this 
has become particularly important this year due to a range of 
factors which have led to increased disruption.
easyJet has continued to increase the support options available 
for passengers. Passengers are already given timely updates 
about their flight through text messages, emails and live 
updates on easyJet’s Flight T racker tool.
This year easyJet has introduced self-service management 
tools for passengers to use during times of disruption. This 
allows passengers whose flights are cancelled to directly 
transfer to other flights, request a refund and arrange for 
overnight accommodation.
easyJet covers all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses for 
extended delay situations and adheres to EU261 compensation 
requirements. In the year ending 30 September 2016 easyJet 
processed over 521,000 out-of-pocket expenses and 
compensation claims for passengers.
easyJet has also introduced a disrupted passenger survey to 
better understand the experience of these passengers. An 
apology email and the survey are sent to every passenger who 
has been affected by a delay of over three hours or 
a cancellation.
35 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Report from the Chair of the easyJet Special 
Advisory Group - Rt Hon The Lord Blunkett, of 
Brightside and Hillsborough
The easyJet Special Assistance Advisory Group was 
established in 2012 and has continued to work with easyJet, 
as well as regulators and the wider aviation sector, to 
improve the experience for passengers who need special 
assistance and contribute to a better experience for 
all passengers.
This year easyJet’s new 186-seat A320 aircraft with a 
re-designed cabin have started to come in to service, 
including an improved ‘Space Flex’ accessible toilet which 
was introduced based on the advice of ESAAG. This 
complements the on-board wheelchairs which are already 
standard across all easyJet aircraft.
Customers booking special assistance are now served by 
a new specialist team of customer contact centre agents, 
who are fully trained in special assistance issues. This is an 
important point of contact with special assistance 
customers and ESAAG is pleased to see the improvement 
in the service.
ESAAG has continued to work with easyJet on key projects 
for the airline, including the consolidation of easyJet’s 
operations at London Gatwick in the North T erminal and the 
on-going development of its website and mobile apps. This 
has ensured that the needs of people with special assistance 
are considered throughout easyJet.
Further progress is reflected by the customer satisfaction 
score amongst passengers who use special assistance, 
which remains high and above that of the whole 
passenger population.
ESAAG has taken very seriously the importance of 
training at all levels of staffing and best practice elsewhere. 
In particular, work is being undertaken to improve the 
interface between the airline (which under regulation carries 
responsibility) and airports and their service providers, who 
are often the immediate source of either support or concern. 
There is much still to be done. 
Airports and their special assistance providers remain a very 
important part of the overall journey experience for 
passengers. This is why ESAAG has continued to work with 
European aviation regulators, airports and special assistance 
providers on its pan-European Charter on meeting the needs 
of air travellers with disabilities.
I would like to thank the members of ESAAG for their work 
and easyJet for continuing to take on our advice to improve 
the service for all passengers.
RT HON THE LORD BLUNKETT, of Brightside 
and Hillsborough
Chair of easyJet Special Assistance Advisory Group
ESAAG members
Rt Hon The Lord Blunkett, of Brightside and 
Hillsborough – Chair
Ann Bates OBE – T ransport Access Advisor - Aviation 
and Rail
Roberto Castiglioni – Access to Air T ravel Expert, Member 
of UK CAA Disability Advisory Group
Ann Frye – Member of CAA Consumer Panel, Director, 
PassePartout T raining Ltd, Visiting Professor, University 
College London
Mervyn Kholer – Age UK
Stefano Medaglia – Accessible transport adviser and 
architect based in Milan
Jean-Marie Munier – Former adviser at Association pour 
Adultes et Jeunes Handicap
Marcus Rocca – Mobility International Schweiz
Corporate responsibility continued
36 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Employment
easyJet wants to be a responsive and responsible employer, 
creating an environment where people want to work and they 
can thrive. During the year ending 30 September 2016 easyJet 
has recruited:
• 368 pilots;
• 1,496 cabin crew; and
• 279 employees to its management and administration team 
and engineering and maintenance teams.
During the year ending 30 September 2016, 35% of 
management and administration vacancies were filled through 
internal recruitment (2015: 35%).
As at 30 September 2016 easyJet employed 10,774 people 
across its network (2015: 10,104).
A RESPONSIBLE AND RESPONSIVE 
EMPLOYER
Employee turnover
2012
7.5%
6.5%
6.7% 6.6%
9.0%
2013 2014 2015 2016
Suppliers
easyJet’s suppliers have an important role in making travel easy 
and affordable for the airline’s customers. The business seeks to 
have an open, constructive and effective relationship with all 
suppliers, to contribute to its success.
easyJet has an established supplier relationship management 
framework, which provides a toolkit and guidance for easyJet 
managers who lead relationships with easyJet’s key partners. 
The framework is developed around easyJet’s core values and 
the objective is to build strong lasting relationships with partners 
and drive value from the partnership. The principles are based 
on managing suppliers in the same way that easyJet manages 
its people, and ensuring that suppliers’ rights and responsibilities 
are clearly set out.
When tendering for new suppliers easyJet seeks information 
from suppliers on factors including quality assurance, health 
and safety, environmental practices, sub-contracting 
arrangements and legal, regulatory and tax compliance.
Human Rights and the Modern Slavery Act 2015
easyJet seeks to comply with all relevant laws in the countries 
in which it operates, and co-operates with the efforts of 
national law enforcement agencies and border agencies to 
combat human rights abuses and crimes such as human 
trafficking. easyJet’s security team work closely with the UK 
Government’s Anti-Slavery Commission to try to identify human 
traffickers and fully cooperate and support police and other 
agencies with human trafficking investigations relating to 
its passengers.
easyJet’s policies seek to respect human rights standards 
defined by internationally agreed principles: the International 
Bill of Human Rights; the International Labour Organisation 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work; and 
the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights. It also expects third parties who deal on its behalf to 
observe these principles and includes specific obligations 
relating to human rights compliance in key new and renewed 
supplier agreements.
easyJet does not tolerate the use of any forced, compulsory or 
child labour or exploitation. easyJet welcomes the introduction 
of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 (MSA) and embraces the 
transparency objectives and principles of the MSA. easyJet is 
committed to enhancing its existing supply chain management 
policies and procedures and staff training to ensure improved 
transparency around working conditions of individuals working 
in its supply chain and greater staff awareness of the typical 
behaviours and actions of human traffickers.
easyJet welcomes the closer focus the UK Government has 
brought to the important issue of modern slavery and will seek 
to be a contributor to the development of best practice in this 
area. Prior to the end of March 2017, easyJet will publish its 
formal slavery and human trafficking statement and report 
in more detail on the MSA compliance programme 
work underway.
Bribery and corruption
easyJet has a company-wide anti-bribery and corruption policy. 
There is also a gifts and hospitality policy and an online 
Register to record all gifts and hospitality that are accepted 
by employees.
Overall employee turnover (based on voluntary departures) for 
the year ending 30 September 2016 was 9.0%, compared to 
6.6% in the year ending 30 September 2015. Within the 
different easyJet communities the turnover this year was:
• Pilots – 5.7%
• Cabin crew – 10.1%
• Management and administration; and engineering and 
maintenance – 10.3%
Local employment
easyJet employs people on local contracts in eight countries 
across Europe, complying with national laws. This has a higher 
cost than the approach taken by some other airlines that 
employ all of their people on one contract, irrespective of where 
they may work. easyJet does this so that its roles are attractive 
locally and to reflect each country’s employment practices.
T rade unions and employee representation
easyJet works with 19 unions and nine representative bodies 
across eight countries. In the year ending 30 September 
2016 easyJet released employee representatives for a total 
of 4,920 days. 
When tendering key new supplier contracts easyJet informs 
suppliers of its anti-bribery and corruption and gifts and 
hospitality policies and requires compliance as a condition of 
doing business with easyJet. Subsequently, in key contracts an 
appointed supplier is expected to reaffirm its commitment by 
signing up to specific contractual obligations on anti-bribery 
and corruption in its contract with easyJet.
37 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts easyJet also consults its employees across Europe on business 
issues through its European Works Council.
Engagement
easyJet’s 2016 employee survey had a fall in engagement of 
seven percentage points to 76%. The results by 
community were:
• Pilots – 66%
• Cabin crew – 76%
• Engineering and maintenance – 85%
• Management and administration – 86%
easyJet believes these results reflected the more challenging 
operational environment and the effect of this on flight crew. 
easyJet is working to better protect crew from these 
operational challenges in the future, such as by seeking to 
make crew rosters more stable.
While the overall engagement figure was lower, easyJet 
believes the survey also shows there is still a strong belief in 
easyJet as a good place to work and a commitment to looking 
after customers, the business strategy and its future success.
94% of respondents agreed that they understood 'how 
important it is to make sure our customers have a great 
experience with easyJet' and 83% agreed that they 
understood 'how my role contributes to easyJet’s 
commercial and financial success'.
Employee attendance in the year ending 30 September 2016 
was 95.8% (2015: 96.2%).
Reward
easyJet offers a competitive reward package, focused on cash 
and variable pay rather than fixed benefits. The reward package 
includes an annual performance-driven bonus (based on 
personal and Group performance) and share awards (based 
on the financial performance of the Group).
All easyJet employees, with a minimum amount of service, have 
the opportunity to become shareholders in the business. 
All employees can join easyJet’s Save As You Earn scheme, 
which allows employees to save money from their salary with 
the option to purchase shares. All UK employees can take part 
in the Buy As You Earn scheme, in which employees can buy 
shares from their salary each month and easyJet buys 
matching shares. The UK schemes are approved by Her 
Majesty’s Revenue & Customs. easyJet also awards 
Performance (free) Shares to employees.
easyJet also offers a small number of associated airline benefits 
in line with the business’ cost-focused approach. These include 
insurances and access to reduced cost travel on 
easyJet services.
easyJet contributes towards a group personal pension plan in 
the UK and, where negotiated, to pension arrangements for its 
employees in Germany and Portugal.
Part time and flexible working
easyJet aims to provide flexible working arrangements, part 
time working and job sharing that fit its business model and the 
personal circumstances of its people. As at 30 September 2016 
there were 1,454 easyJet employees who worked part time 
(working less than 35 hours per week), making up 13.5% of the 
employee population.
Learning and development
easyJet provides significant new entrant and on-going training 
for its pilots and cabin crew. It has two training centres at 
London Gatwick and London Luton airports which are used by 
crew from across the easyJet network.
easyJet has an established pilot cadet programme, in 
partnership with CTC Aviation, CAE Oxford Aviation Academy 
and FTEJerez, to train people for their first full-time flying role. 
In addition to role-specific training, easyJet also offers learning 
and development opportunities. In the year ending 30 
September 2016 it offered 158 face-to-face training workshops 
for management and administration employees, which had over 
781 participants, as well as 70 e-learning courses for 
all employees.
easyJet’s graduate programme currently has 42 participants 
from across Europe, working in different parts of the airline to 
develop their skills and knowledge.
easyJet is part of an industry working group which is 
considering the use of apprenticeships and the new 
apprenticeship system being introduced by the 
UK Government.
Diversity
Gender
easyJet is an equal opportunities employer and works hard to 
create an environment where women have the opportunity to 
build careers in all communities and at all management levels of 
the organisation. 
As at 14 November 2016 easyJet has two female Directors 
on its Board, the Chief Executive and the Chair of the Audit 
Committee. The Board’s female make-up is 22.2%. The Group 
had three female Directors between 1 January 2016 and 30 
September 2016, until Chris Browne stepped down from 
the Board.
As at 14 November 2016 55.6% (five out of nine) of easyJet’s 
Executive Management T eam were women.
easyJet is committed to ensuring there is a pipeline of women 
coming up through the organisation. Middle managers will 
provide the pipeline for future senior managers and easyJet 
wants to grow the number of women in its senior 
management team.
Corporate responsibility continued
38 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 “On behalf of the family, this is a 
wonderful opportunity being offered 
to today’s women and we know Amy 
would have been delighted.”
JUDY CHILVERS AND SUSAN CROOK
nieces of Amy Johnson
• Senior management team (including the Executive 
Management T eam) as at 30 September 2016 – 17 people 
out of 62 in total were female (27.4%). 
• Middle management as at 30 September 2016 – 89 people 
out of 252 in total were female (35.3%).
As at 30 September 2016 the overall easyJet workforce was 
46.1% female. At 30 September 2015 this was 45.4%.
Gender pay
easyJet continues to support the UK government’s 
commitment to address the gender pay gap. Last year, for the 
first time, easyJet provided information on its gender pay gap. 
T o be meaningful, pay gap comparisons need to be made by 
type of role. Otherwise the statistics, which should be a useful 
guide for companies and employees, risk becoming distorted 
and losing their value.
As an illustration, female pay as a percentage of male pay 
at easyJet, irrespective of the type of role or any other 
consideration, was 35% for the year ending 30 September 
2016, an improvement of three percentage points compared 
to the year ending 30 September 2015. This is based on 
full-time equivalent basic salary of active UK employees. This 
is influenced by the salaries and gender make-up of easyJet’s 
two largest communities, its pilots and cabin crew. Pilots are 
predominantly male and their salaries are higher than for 
cabin crew, the majority of whom are female.
However, easyJet salaries for equivalent roles are broadly 
equal across the genders, reflecting the business’ commitment 
to gender equality. Salaries for pilots and cabin crew are 
collectively agreed, meaning for example that a female 
captain’s basic salary will be 100% that of a male captain and 
a female cabin crew member’s salary will be 100% that of a 
male cabin crew member.
Female pilots
easyJet has recognised that in the whole airline industry the 
proportion of female pilots is too low. The International Society 
of Women Airline Pilots estimates that there are around 
130,000 airline pilots worldwide, of which 4,000 or just over 
3% are female.
In 2015 easyJet introduced a new strategy to encourage more 
women to become pilots and to develop women already in pilot 
roles. This became the Amy Johnson Flying Initiative, in 
partnership with the British Women Pilots Association and 
named after the female aviation pioneer.
easyJet set an initial target to double the proportion of its new 
entrant pilots who are female, from under 6% in 2015 to 12% 
over a two-year period.
Over the first year the activities by easyJet included:
• working with the UK government and organisations which 
promote female take-up of STEM (science, technology, 
engineering and maths) subjects;
• offering loan underwriting of around £100,000 for six 
female new entrant pilots;
• offering up to 10 training loan underwritings for A320 type 
ratings for female pilots entering from other airlines; 
• current pilots at easyJet have visited schools and youth 
organisations to talk about aviation careers; and
• easyJet female pilots have been highlighted in the media 
and through easyJet’s own communication channels.
easyJet was able to meet its target within one year, as just 
over 12% of new entrant pilots selected in the year ending 
30 September 2016 were female. Some of the selected new 
entrants are already flying with easyJet or have started their 
training, while others will begin in the year ending 30 September 
2017. As a result, easyJet has set a new target to increase the 
proportion of easyJet female pilot cadets to 20% by 2020.
Disability
easyJet treats applicants with disabilities equally and supports 
current employees who become disabled. This includes offering 
flexibility and making reasonable adjustments to the workplace 
to ensure they can achieve their full potential. However for 
easyJet’s two largest communities, pilots and cabin crew, there 
are a range of regulatory requirements on health and physical 
ability that all applicants and current employees must 
comply with.
Diversity survey
This year easyJet carried out a voluntary and anonymous 
survey of its UK employees, to better understand the make-up 
of its workforce and how it can further support its people. The 
results of this survey are now being considered by the business.
easyJet will also discuss carrying out similar surveys with its 
employees' representative groups and relevant national 
authorities in other European countries. This would take 
account of local legal and cultural considerations.
easyJet is also a member of OUTStanding, an organisation 
which promotes equality and inclusion for people of all 
sexualities in the workplace.
39 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts “We remain hugely grateful to 
easyJet’s customers and staff for their 
incredible support for UNICEF’s global 
polio eradication work. Thanks to 
easyJet, UNICEF was able to quickly 
support the response to a sudden 
outbreak of polio in Myanmar. We 
have also been able to help protect 
millions of children against polio in 
Afghanistan, one of the last countries 
where polio is still endemic. A historic 
opportunity exists to end polio forever 
but while the disease continues to 
survive anywhere, children everywhere 
remain at risk as the recent polio 
outbreak in Nigeria shows. We would 
like to thank easyJet for their valued 
support at this pivotal time.”
REZA HOSSAINI
UNICEF Polio Director
Corporate responsibility continued
GOOD CITIZEN
UNICEF
easyJet has a pan-European charity partnership with UNICEF , 
the world’s leading children’s organisation. Since the partnership 
began it has raised over £8 million, helping UNICEF to protect 
millions of children around the world from disease and keep 
them safe during emergencies.
During the spring, summer and winter collection periods 
easyJet cabin crew carry out on-board appeals for customers 
to donate their spare change and leftover foreign currency.
The funds primarily support UNICEF’s vaccination work to keep 
children safe from polio, as part of the global efforts to 
eradicate this deadly disease. Over the past year the funds 
raised through the partnership have helped UNICEF vaccinate 
more than seven million children against polio in Myanmar and 
purchase more than four million polio vaccines which have been 
used to protect children in Afghanistan.
In the year ending 30 September 2016 the partnership raised 
over £1.4 million, which included the on-board collections and 
other fundraising activity by easyJet employees.
This year easyJet collected on-board to support UNICEF’s 
Soccer Aid 2016 appeal, which was focussed around a celebrity 
football match. The collection on UK-based aircraft raised over 
£50,000 and donations were doubled by the UK government 
bringing the total to over £100,000.
In addition to fundraising, easyJet also helps to raise awareness 
of UNICEF’s work for children. This includes an easyJet aircraft 
with a special ‘Change for Good’ UNICEF livery, featuring the 
UNICEF partnership in the inflight magazine ‘T raveller’, and 
making announcements about UNICEF’s work on-board flights 
during collection periods.
easyJet and UNICEF’s target is to raise £10 million through the 
partnership by 2018.
Field trip
In April 2016 four easyJet employees visited Cameroon to 
witness first-hand how on-board donations are helping protect 
children from polio. They were selected through an application 
process that considered their support for UNICEF and ability to 
become an internal ambassador for the partnership.
Polio is no longer endemic in Cameroon, but in 2014 there was 
an outbreak in the eastern region. The group learnt about the 
complexities involved in ensuring every child is vaccinated in 
order to prevent future outbreaks. They joined a group of 
trained community volunteers as they went from house to 
house encouraging mothers to vaccinate their children, and 
they saw babies being vaccinated against polio in remote 
health clinics.
Employee fundraising for UNICEF
In November 2015, to mark easyJet’s 20
th
 birthday, 17 easyJet 
employees cycled from Glasgow to London, to reflect easyJet’s 
first route. The group, which included pilots, cabin crew and 
engineers, covered over 400 miles and raised money 
for UNICEF .
40 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 “I had the chance of a lifetime to see 
first-hand the work that UNICEF does 
and how the money we raise really 
makes a difference and changes 
people’s lives. It was a humbling 
experience, but at the same time 
really positive. The people we met 
were amazing and really wanted to 
make a difference and were so keen 
to answer questions. They made us 
feel so welcome. Overall this was an 
experience I will never forget.”
MARK WILKINSON
easyJet Corporate Sales for Northern Europe
easyJet’s biggest impact on the environment is its fuel 
consumption and the associated carbon emissions. easyJet is 
continuing to make more efficient use of fuel and to further 
reduce emissions per passenger kilometre on its flights.
The whole airline industry will continue to rely on the use of 
fossil fuels in the medium term. easyJet believes the industry 
must make continual improvements in the efficient use of these 
fossil fuels, whilst also supporting the longer-term technological 
change necessary to deliver flights with significantly lower 
carbon emissions.
A GUARDIAN 
FOR FUTURE GENERATIONS
Italian earthquake appeal
Following the earthquake in Italy in August 2016 easyJet carried 
out on-board collections on its Italian based aircraft for just over 
three weeks, raising over £149,000 to support the Italian Red 
Cross’ efforts.
Charity Committee
easyJet has a Charity Committee made up of airline employees 
which provides support to charities which are important to 
employees. These tend to be smaller charities in the areas 
where easyJet’s employees live. This year the Committee has 
made more than 140 awards of flight vouchers or financial 
donations, each to the value of £250 or €300.
Community work in Luton
easyJet has continued to make a significant contribution to the 
community in Luton and Bedfordshire, in the area near its head 
office and where the largest group of employees are based.
• easyJet funds a scheme with Luton T own Football Club to 
offer every primary school in Luton and Bedfordshire a free 
physical education session with the club.
• easyJet also continued to be a patron of Love Luton, an 
organisation which seeks to promote and improve the town.
• easyJet carried out a trial mentoring programme between 
easyJet female managers and young women in education 
in Luton and Bedfordshire.
Aircraft noise
easyJet seeks to reduce the impact of aircraft noise on 
residents who live near airports or under flights paths.
This includes:
• working locally with airports and ATC to put in place noise 
mitigation activities that best fit each airport;
• that easyJet aircraft meet the tightest international noise 
standards (ICAO Chapter 4); and
• easyJet pilots using flying techniques to reduce noise 
impact, such as continuous descent approaches.
From 2017 easyJet will start to receive the next generation 
A320neo aircraft. These aircraft were already expected to 
be quieter and more fuel efficient, but recent flight tests 
have shown that the A320neo aircraft are over 50% quieter 
than current generation aircraft during the take-off and 
landing phase.
Vortex generators
In recent years there has been some concern about a particular 
sound associated with A320 family aircraft of all airlines due to 
the airflow under the wing. A ‘vortex generator’ fitting has been 
introduced to address this.
All new aircraft delivered to easyJet since September 2014 are 
fitted with vortex generators. In November 2015 easyJet began 
an engineering programme to modify 197 existing aircraft with 
vortex generators. It expects to complete the programme by 
March 2018.
As at 30 September 2016 more than half of easyJet’s fleet were 
fitted with vortex generators.
41 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Carbon emissions
easyJet’s CO
2
 emissions in the year ending 30 September 2016 
were 6.5 million tonnes, compared to 6.1 million tonnes in the 
year ending 30 September 2015. This is calculated based on 
easyJet's fuel uplift.
The increase in overall emissions has been due to the continued 
expansion of easyJet’s operations. In the year ending 30 
September 2016 easyJet’s passenger numbers increased by 
6.6% compared to the year ending 30 September 2015.
easyJet’s calculation of emissions is based on fuel burn 
measurement, which is verified to comply with the European 
Union’s Emission T rading System requirements. CO
2
 equivalents 
from emissions of other greenhouse gases are not included as 
there are no conversion factors available for these emissions 
from aircraft fuel burn. 
easyJet’s carbon reduction target is based on carbon emissions 
per passenger kilometre. In 2015 easyJet strengthened this 
target, as it had already exceeded the target originally set in 
2013. easyJet’s current target, set in 2015, is to reduce its 
carbon emissions per passenger kilometre by 8% by 2020 
compared to 2013.
In the year ending 30 September 2016 easyJet’s carbon 
emissions per passenger kilometre were 79.98 grams (g), down 
from 81.05g per passenger kilometre in the year ending 30 
September 2015.
Carbon emissions per passenger kilometre (g)
2010
85.48 84.60 84.40 83.76
82.03 81.05 79.98
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
• easyJet has started to introduce lightweight Recaro seats 
that make each aircraft over 580kg lighter, a 26% seat 
weight reduction. These seats have been a standard feature 
of aircraft delivered to easyJet since April 2013 and are now 
fitted in 57 aircraft.
• Sharklet wing tips make the aircraft more fuel efficient. This 
technology delivers up to 4% savings in fuel consumption 
and consequent reductions in CO
2
 emissions. These have 
been standard on aircraft delivered to easyJet since August 
2013 and have also been retrofitted to 6 existing aircraft, 
so are now a feature on 58 easyJet aircraft.
• easyJet's pilots have implemented measures to save fuel 
whilst still operating the aircraft safely and effectively, such 
as one engine taxiing, continuous descent approaches and 
minimum use of the auxiliary power unit when on 
the ground.
• easyJet’s flight decks became paperless in 2014 and its 
entire fleet is now fitted with Panasonic T oughpads which 
replaced laptops and printed navigational charts. This has 
removed 27kg of paper per aircraft per flight, equating to 
a reduction of over 2,000 tonnes of CO
2
 emissions for 
easyJet as a whole per year.
• easyJet’s enhanced maintenance programme includes the 
washing of the engine's compressors routinely to ensure 
they operate as efficiently as possible.
Although some of these measures reduce CO
2
 emissions per 
flight by relatively small amounts, easyJet‘s large number of 
flights per day means the total savings are significant.
Industry efforts and future technology
easyJet is an active participant in Sustainable Aviation, a UK 
body made up of airlines, aviation manufacturers, air traffic 
control providers and other organisations in the sector. 
It supports efforts to reduce carbon emissions and has 
produced a carbon emissions roadmap. This shows that UK 
aviation is able to accommodate significant growth to 2050, 
without a substantial increase in absolute carbon emissions, 
through a number of measures to improve aircraft fuel 
efficiency and international carbon trading.
Local air quality
Local air quality impact arises from nitrogen oxides (NOx) 
emissions during aircraft take-offs and landings. easyJet’s new 
engines feature a tech insertion which reduces NOx emissions 
by around 25%. These are in use in 71% of easyJet’s aircraft.
De-icing fluid
Aircraft de-icing fluid contains Glycol which can affect the water 
environment if not collected after use. easyJet chairs the UK 
Glycol recovery group, of 31 member companies who are 
working to introduce airport recycling systems and developing 
technologies to reduce the amount of fluid used, such as 
varying the spray blend based on air temperature. 
Waste management
easyJet seeks to recycle as much waste as possible. On board 
the crew seek to separate recycled cans from general waste. 
The airline does not have control of the final management of 
on-board waste which is dependent on the facilities at each 
airport where waste is collected by local cleaning and ground 
handling contractors. easyJet also has recycling in place in its 
offices and hangars around its network.
Corporate responsibility continued
Efficient aircraft
easyJet operates an efficient fleet of A320 family aircraft 
equipped with CFM56 engines. 
In 2015 easyJet increased its order to 130 for the new 
generation Airbus A320neo aircraft, for delivery from 2017 to 
2022 and has purchase rights on a further 100 aircraft. These 
aircraft, equipped with CFM LEAP-1A engines and wingtip 
"Sharklets", will be 13% to 15% more fuel efficient than existing 
aircraft types.
Operating efficiently
easyJet continues to focus on reducing emissions and fuel burn 
for each aircraft.
• easyJet worked with Airbus to develop a new cabin design 
for A320 family aircraft which adds a further six seats, whilst 
maintaining the level of passenger comfort. The first aircraft 
was delivered by Airbus in May 2016 and the cabin layout is 
planned to be retrofitted to existing A320 aircraft between 
autumn 2016 and spring 2018. This is contributing to the 
overall reduction in easyJet’s carbon emissions per 
passenger kilometre.
42 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Chairman's statement on corporate governance
Committed to corporate governance
Certificate (AOC) in an EU jurisdiction. The sub-committee has 
received updates from the Company’s working group relating 
to project progress and met in November for a deep dive into 
the project detail. The Board remains confident that the UK 
leaving the EU will not have a material impact on the Group’s 
strategy or its ability to deliver long-term sustainable earnings 
growth and returns to shareholders.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS
Each year, the Board undertakes a formal evaluation of its 
effectiveness. Following the externally facilitated review by 
Independent Audit Limited last year, this year the 2016 Board 
and Committees effectiveness review was facilitated by the 
Company Secretary and Group General Counsel, Kyla Mullins. 
In addition, Charles Gurassa, the Senior Independent Director, 
also led a review of my performance with input from the other 
Non-Executive Directors. Further details of the evaluation 
process are provided on page 57. Following this review, I am 
satisfied that the Board and its Committees are performing 
effectively and that there is the appropriate balance of skills, 
experience, independence and knowledge of the Group to 
enable the Directors to discharge their respective duties and 
responsibilities effectively. I am also satisfied that the members 
of the Board, in particular the Non-Executive Directors, have 
sufficient time to undertake their roles at Board and Committee 
level with the Company, so as to be able to discharge their 
responsibilities effectively.
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to the Board 
Committees to enable it to carry out its functions effectively. 
A diagram of the Board governance structure is set out on 
page 48.
STRUCTURE OF THE CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE REPORT
The corporate governance report which follows is intended 
to give shareholders an understanding of the Company’s 
corporate governance arrangements and how they operated 
during the year. The corporate governance report includes 
reports from each of the Committee Chairs to provide details 
on key matters addressed by the Committees during the year.
We have also set out a separate section (on pages 56 to 58) 
to provide a detailed description of how the Company has 
complied with the principles of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
Dear Shareholder
At easyJet, we are committed to maintaining high standards of 
corporate governance to enhance performance and for the 
protection of our shareholders. I would like to highlight, in 
particular, the following key areas of governance during 2016:
STRATEGY
Defining the long-term strategic objectives for the Group, 
continuing to assess their appropriateness, and evaluating 
progress against these objectives has continued to be a key 
focus for the Board, in particular in light of the challenging 
economic and operating environment. This year the Board 
held strategy sessions in March and September at which we 
challenged and shaped the strategic priorities brought 
by management.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE COMPOSITION
As reported in last year’s Annual Report, there were a number 
of changes to the Board during the year.
After almost nine years of service, John Browett stepped down 
from the Board on 31 December 2015. I would like to thank 
John on behalf of the Board for his dedicated service 
and commitment.
We welcomed Chris Browne to the Board as Non-
Executive Director in January 2016. On 30 September 2016 
she stepped down from the Board to join the easyJet Executive 
Management T eam as Chief Operating Officer from 1 October 
2016. Andrew Findlay joined the Company and the Board as 
Chief Financial Officer at the start of the 2016 financial year. 
Both individuals have brought valuable experience to our 
business and further strengthened our composition in 
respect of experience, skills and personal attributes. 
There have been several changes in the make-up of our 
Committees, with a change in the chairmanship of three Board 
Committees, with Andy Martin succeeding Adèle Anderson and 
John Browett as Chair of the Finance Committee (in December 
2015) and the IT Oversight and Governance Committee (in 
January 2016) respectively. On the Safety Committee, Chris 
Browne succeeded Professor Rigas Doganis as Chair of the 
Safety Committee on 1 March 2016 and Dr. Andreas Bierwirth 
has subsequently become Chair following Chris Browne 
stepping down from the Board on 30 September 2016. The 
membership of the Board’s Committees as at 14 November 
2016, and the changes made during the 2016 financial year 
and up to this date, can be found on pages 44 to 45.
OUTCOME OF THE EU REFERENDUM
The Board has reviewed management’s plans to ensure the 
airline will fully maintain its existing network and operations at 
every scheduled Board meeting following the outcome of the 
EU referendum. A Brexit sub-committee of the Board has been 
set up to review planning in more detail, which includes 
undertaking the formal process to acquire an Air Operator 
JOHN BARTON
Non‑Executive Chairman
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE CODE
The Board considers that it and the Company have, 
throughout the year, complied without exception with 
the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(September 2014), which is the version of the Code which 
applies to the Company for its 2016 financial year. The 
Code is issued by the Financial Reporting Council and is 
available for review on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
(FRC’s) website: https://www.frc.org.uk
43 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts JOHN BARTON CHARLES GURASSA CAROLYN MCCALL 
DBE
ANDREW FINDLAY
Non‑Executive Chairman
First appointed
May 2013
Key areas of prior 
experience
Finance, Governance
Current external 
appointments
Non-Executive 
Chairman, Next plc. 
Senior Independent 
Director of SSP Group 
plc and Luceco plc. 
Non-Executive Director 
of Matheson & Co Ltd.
Previous relevant 
experience
John has also 
served as Chairman 
of Catlin Group Limited 
(2012-2015), Cable and 
Wireless Worldwide plc 
(2010-2012), 
Brit Holdings plc 
(2007-2009) and 
Wellington 
Underwriting plc 
(2003-2006).
John was previously 
Senior Independent 
Director of WH Smith plc 
(2006-2011) and 
Hammerson plc 
(1998-2007). He was also 
the Chief Executive of 
insurance broker JIB 
Group plc (1984-1997). 
After JIB’s merger with 
Lloyd Thomson he 
became Chairman of the 
combined group, Jardine 
Lloyd Thompson Group 
plc (1997-2001).
Non‑Executive Deputy 
Chairman and Senior 
Independent Director
First appointed
June 2011
Key areas of prior 
experience
Airline industry
Current external 
appointments
Non-Executive 
Chairman, Channel 4. 
Non-Executive Chairman, 
Genesis Housing 
Association. Senior 
Independent Director, 
Merlin Entertainments 
plc. T rustee, English 
Heritage. T rustee, 
Migration Museum.
Previous relevant 
experience
Charles’ career has been 
primarily in the travel, 
tourism and leisure 
industries in a number of 
senior positions including 
Chief Executive of 
Thomson T ravel Group 
plc (1999-2003), 
Executive Chairman of 
TUI Northern Europe 
Limited (1999-2003) and 
Director of Passenger 
and Cargo at British 
Airways plc (1995-1999).
Charles retired from full 
time work in June 2003 
to pursue a portfolio 
career. He was previously 
Non-Executive Chairman 
of LOVEFiLM 
International Limited 
(2006-2011), Phones4U 
Limited (2007-2011), 
Virgin Mobile plc 
(2004-2006), Alamo/
National Rent a Car 
(2004-2006), 7Days Ltd 
(2003-2010) and 
Non-Executive Director 
at Whitbread plc 
(2000-2009) and 
MACH (2007-2013).
Chief Executive
First appointed
July 2010
Key areas of prior 
experience
Media
Current external 
appointments
Non-Executive Director, 
Burberry Group plc 
and member of the 
Audit and Nominations 
Committees. Director 
of French Chamber 
of Commerce.
Previous relevant 
experience
Prior to joining easyJet, 
Carolyn was Chief 
Executive of Guardian 
Media Group plc 
(2000-2010). She was 
also Non-Executive 
Director of Lloyds TSB 
Limited (2008-2009), 
T esco plc (2005-2008) 
and New Look plc 
(1999-2005).
Carolyn was Chair 
of Opportunity Now 
(2005-2009) and former 
President of Women 
in Advertising and 
Communications London 
(WACL) (2002-2003).
Chief Financial Officer
First appointed
October 2015
Key areas of prior 
experience
Finance
Previous relevant 
experience
Andrew was previously 
Chief Financial Officer at 
Halfords plc (2011-2015). 
Prior to this, Andrew was 
Director of Finance, T ax 
and T reasury at Marks 
and Spencer Group plc 
(2009-2011). He has also 
held senior finance roles 
at the London Stock 
Exchange and at Cable 
and Wireless both in 
the UK and US.
An experienced and balanced board
Board of Directors
Safety  
Committee
Remuneration  
Committee
Audit  
Committee
Nominations  
Committee
Finance  
Committee
IT Governance  
and Oversight  
Committee
• Andrew Findlay 
was appointed on 
2 October 2015.
• John Browett 
stepped down 
from the Board 
on 31 December 
2015.
• Chris Browne was 
a member of the 
Board between 1 
January 2016 and 
30 September 
2016. She stepped 
down from the 
Board to join the 
Executive 
Management 
T eam as Chief 
Operating Officer.
S
R
A
BOARD 
COMMITTEE 
MEMBERSHIP 
AS A T 14 
NOVEMBER 2016
CHANGES DURING 
THE 2016 YEAR 
AND UP TO 14 
NOVEMBER 2016
I
N
F
N R N F
44 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 ADÈLE ANDERSON
Independent 
Non‑Executive Director
First appointed
September 2011
Key areas of prior 
experience
Finance
Current external 
appointments
Non-Executive Director, 
Intu Properties plc and 
Chair of Audit 
Committee and member 
of Remuneration 
Committee. Non-
Executive Director, Spire 
Healthcare Group plc 
and Chair of Audit and 
Risk Committee and 
member of 
Remuneration 
Committee. Member of 
Board of T rustees, Save 
the Children UK, and 
member of Audit 
Committee. Member of 
Audit Committee, 
Wellcome T rust.
Previous relevant 
experience
Until July 2011, Adèle was 
a Partner in KPMG and 
held roles including Chief 
Financial Officer of 
KPMG UK, Chief 
Executive Officer of 
KPMG’s captive insurer 
and Chief Financial 
Officer of KPMG Europe.
S A I
F
R
DR. ANDREAS 
BIERWIRTH
KEITH HAMILL OBE ANDY MARTIN FRANÇOIS RUBICHON
Independent 
Non‑Executive Director
First appointed
July 2014
Key areas of prior 
experience
Airline industry
Current external 
appointments
Chief Executive Officer, 
T-Mobile Austria GmbH. 
Member of the 
Supervisory Board 
of Lindner Hotels AG, 
Casinos Austria AG (on 
behalf of the Austrian 
Government) and the 
German-Austrian 
Chamber of Commerce, 
Austria's Association 
of Industry.
Previous relevant 
experience
Andreas previously 
served as a Member of 
the Board at Austrian 
Airlines AG (2008-2012), 
including as Chief 
Commercial Officer for 
the whole period. He 
also served as Vice 
President Marketing 
of Deutsche Lufthansa 
AG in Frankfurt 
(2006-2008). Prior to 
this, Andreas was first 
Deputy Managing 
Director and later 
Managing Director 
at Germanwings 
(2002-2006).
Independent 
Non‑Executive Director
First appointed
March 2009
Key areas of prior 
experience
Finance, Strategy
Current external 
appointments
Chairman, Horsforth 
Holdings Limited. 
Non-Executive 
Director, Samsonite 
International SA.
Previous relevant 
experience
Keith was Chairman of 
T ravelodge (2003-2012) 
and Go, prior to its 
acquisition by easyJet in 
2002, (2001-2002). His 
other previous Chairman 
roles include T ullett 
Prebon plc (2006-2013), 
Collins Stewart plc 
(2000-2006), Avant 
Homes Limited 
(2013 -2014), Heath 
Lambert Limited 
(2005-2011) and 
Moss Bros Group plc 
(2001-2008). His 
Non-Executive Director 
roles include Max 
Property Group plc 
(2010-2014), 
Electrocomponents 
plc (1999-2008) 
and Cadmus 
Communications 
Corporation 
(2002-2007).
Keith was Finance 
Director of WH Smith 
(1996-2000), of Forte 
plc (1993-1996) and of 
United Distillers 
(1991-1993), Director of 
Financial Control at 
Guinness plc (1988-1991) 
and a Partner in Price 
Waterhouse (1986-1988).
Independent 
Non‑Executive Director
First appointed
September 2011
Key areas of prior 
experience
Finance, Airline industry
Current external 
appointments
Non-Executive Director 
of Intertek Group plc 
and member of the 
Audit Committee.
Previous relevant 
experience
From 2012 to 2015, 
Andy was the Group 
Chief Operating Officer 
for Europe and Japan for 
Compass Group plc and 
prior to that served as 
their Group Finance 
Director from 2004 to 
2012. Before he joined 
the Compass Group, 
he was Group Finance 
Director at First Choice 
Holidays plc (now TUI 
Group) which had an 
airline as part of a wider 
tour operator business. 
Andy has also held 
senior financial positions 
with Granada Group plc 
(1996-2001), Forte plc 
(1994-1996) and Arthur 
Andersen (now part of 
Deloitte) (1985-1994) 
including Partner 
(1992-1994).
Independent 
Non‑Executive Director
First appointed
July 2014
Key areas of prior 
experience
Airline industry
Current external 
appointments
Project Manager, 
Le Groupe La Poste.
Previous relevant 
experience
François was most 
recently Executive Vice 
President of Human 
Resources, General 
Affairs & Organisation 
at Societe Francaise du 
Radiotelephones (SFR). 
Prior to this François was 
Deputy Chief Executive 
Officer and Chief 
Operating Officer of 
Aéroports de Paris for 
seven years. François has 
worked in a number of 
advisory positions within 
government for the 
Minister of T ransport, 
Infrastructure, Housing, 
T ourism and Maritime 
Affairs (2002-2005) 
and as a social adviser 
to the then French 
Prime Minister.
S
N F I I S A N R A N R
45 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts CHRIS BROCKLESBY
Chief Information Officer
First appointed
March 2015
Key areas of prior 
experience
IT
Previous relevant 
experience
Before joining easyJet, 
Chris was CIO at T esco 
Bank and was a member 
of the Executive 
Committee with 
responsibility for IT, 
Change Management, 
Supplier Management 
and Procurement 
(2007-2015). Chris also 
spent 18 years at 
Accenture in their 
Financial Services and 
T echnology practices. 
He became a Partner 
in 2000 and led  
the UK Financial 
Services Systems 
Integration practice as 
well as leading work at 
clients such as AXA Life, 
Zurich Financial Services, 
Standard Life and 
Prudential.
CHRIS BROWNE OBE
Chief Operating Officer
First appointed 
October 2016 
Key areas of prior 
experience 
Airline industry
Current external 
appointments 
Non-Executive Director 
of Bovis Homes plc 
and member of the 
Nominations, 
Remuneration and 
Audit Committees.
Previous relevant 
experience 
Chris was appointed to 
the Board of easyJet on 
1 January 2016 as a 
Non-Executive Director, 
before stepping down 
on 30 September 2016 
to join the Executive 
Management T eam as 
Chief Operating Officer. 
Chris has previously held 
several senior leadership 
positions within aviation 
including Chief Operating 
Officer, Aviation, of TUI 
T ravel plc (2014-2015), 
Managing Director, 
Thomson Airways (2007-
2014) and Managing 
Director, First Choice 
Airways (2002-2007). 
She also has commercial 
and general 
management experience 
in a consumer facing 
industry with previous 
roles at Carlson 
Worldwide and 
Iberia Airways.
PETER DUFFY
Chief Commercial Officer
First appointed
February 2011
Key areas of prior 
experience
Marketing, Digital and 
Commercial
Previous relevant 
experience
Before joining easyJet, 
he was Marketing 
Director for Audi in 
the UK (2007-2011). 
Prior to that, Peter was 
Marketing Services 
Director at Barclays 
(2005-2007).
ANDREW FINDLAY
Chief Financial Officer
See Board of 
Directors’ profiles.
Executive Management T eam
An experienced team to deliver
• Mike Campbell 
stepped down 
from the 
Executive 
Management 
T eam in 
December 2015, 
and is retiring at 
the end of 2016.
• Alita Benson, the 
former Group 
People Director, 
stepped down 
from the 
Executive 
Management 
T eam in 
December 2015.
• Warwick Brady, 
the former Chief 
Operating Officer, 
stepped down 
from the 
Executive 
Management 
T eam on 30 
September 2016.
• Rachel Kentleton, 
the former 
Group Director: 
Strategy and 
Implementation, 
stepped down 
from the 
Executive 
Management 
T eam in 
October 2016.
• Andrew Findlay, 
Jacky Simmonds 
and Chris Browne 
were appointed 
during the period. 
See individual 
profiles for details.
CHANGES DURING 
THE 2016 YEAR 
AND UP TO 14 
NOVEMBER 2016
46 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 CATH LYNN
Group Director of 
Strategy and Network
First appointed
September 2009
Key areas of prior 
experience
Commercial, Operations, 
Procurement
Previous relevant 
experience
Cath joined easyJet in 
2002 following the 
merger with Go and has 
carried out a number of 
senior roles at easyJet 
including Head of 
Ground Operations, 
Head of Airport 
Development and 
Procurement, Head of 
Network Development, 
Network and Planning 
Director, Customer and 
Revenue Director and 
Group Commercial 
Director. Prior to easyJet 
Cath spent 12 years in 
retail for J Sainsbury 
before joining Go 
(1998-2002) where she 
was part of the 
management buy-out 
team and headed up 
cabin services, ground 
operations and 
customer service.
CAROLYN MCCALL 
DBE
Chief Executive
See Board of 
Directors’ profiles.
PAUL MOORE
Communications 
Director
First appointed
November 2010
Key areas of prior 
experience
Communications
Previous relevant 
experience
Before joining easyJet, 
Paul was Group 
Public Affairs and 
Communications 
Director for FirstGroup 
(2006-2010). Prior to 
that Paul worked for 
Virgin Atlantic Airways 
for 10 years as its 
Director of Corporate 
Affairs (1997-2006).
KYLA MULLINS
Company Secretary and 
Group General Counsel
First appointed
February 2015
Key areas of prior 
experience
Legal, Company 
Secretarial, Regulation
Previous relevant 
experience
Kyla is a qualified 
solicitor, having spent 
four years with Clifford 
Chance (1989-1993) 
before moving in-house. 
Over the past 20 years 
she has held senior legal 
positions in the media, 
entertainment and 
strategic outsourcing 
sectors. Before joining 
easyJet Kyla was General 
Counsel and Company 
Secretary at Mitie Group 
plc (2014-2015), Global 
General Counsel of EMI 
Music (2009-2012), and 
Group Legal Director at 
ITV plc and Granada 
Media (2000-2007).
JACKY SIMMONDS
Group People Director
First appointed
January 2016
Key areas of prior 
experience
Airline industry, travel 
and tourism, Human 
Resources
Current external 
appointments
Non-Executive Director, 
Wolseley plc, and Chair 
of the Remuneration 
Committee and member 
of the Audit and 
Nominations Committee.
Previous relevant 
experience
Before joining easyJet, 
Jacky was Group Human 
Resources Director at 
TUI (2010-2015) and 
previously held a number 
of senior positions within 
the Group, including 
Human Resources 
Director for TUI UK & 
Ireland and First Choice 
plc before the merger 
with TUI (2007-2010).
47 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Corporate governance report
Board Committees
I took over from Chris Browne as Chair of the Safety 
Committee on 1 October 2016. In line with easyJet’s position 
that safety is our number one priority, the Safety Committee 
will continue to ensure that safety receives the highest level 
of Board attention.
Membership as at 14 November 2016
(all current members are independent 
Non-Executive Directors)
• Dr. Andreas Bierwirth (appointed as Chair effective from 
1 October 2016)
• Adèle Anderson (appointed to the Committee effective 
from 1 October 2016)
• Keith Hamill
Committee changes
Although Professor Rigas Doganis stepped down from the 
Board of easyJet as a Non-Executive Director on 1 December 
2014, he remained as Chairman of the Safety Committee 
until 29 February 2016. Chris Browne became a member 
of the Committee on her appointment to the Board 
on 1 January 2016 and was appointed as Chair from 
1 March 2016. She stepped down from the Committee on 
30 September 2016 at the same time she stepped down 
from the Board to join the easyJet Executive 
Management T eam. She was considered an independent 
Non-Executive Director at the Safety Committee meetings 
she attended during the 2016 financial year. Adèle Anderson 
joined the Committee effective from 1 October 2016.
DR. ANDREAS BIERWIRTH
Chair of the Safety Committee
T urn to page 56
for meeting attendance table
SAFETY COMMITTEE
Safety Committee
Chair: Dr. Andreas Bierwirth  
(from 1 October 2016) See pages 48 to 49
Remuneration Committee
Chair: Charles Gurassa See pages 49 to 50
Audit Committee
Chair: Adèle Anderson See pages 50 to 53
Nominations Committee
Chair: John Barton See page 54
Finance Committee
Chair: Andy Martin See page 55
IT Governance and 
Oversight Committee
Chair: Andy Martin See page 55
The Committee reports that follow set out, amongst other 
things, the responsibilities and activities of the Committees in 
the past financial year. The terms of reference of each 
Committee are documented and agreed by the Board.
The Committees’ terms of reference are available in the 
governance section of easyJet’s corporate website: 
http://corporate.easyJet.com
The Chair of each Board Committee formally reports 
back to the Board.
Details of Directors’ attendance at Board and Board 
Committee meetings are set out on page 56.
48 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 The remuneration policy has been designed to be 
straightforward and transparent, in alignment with the 
Company’s principle of having a simple and cost-
effective approach.
Membership as at 14 November 2016
(all current members are independent 
Non-Executive Directors)
• Charles Gurassa (Chair)
• Adèle Anderson (appointed to the Committee effective 
from 1 January 2016)
• Andy Martin (appointed to the Committee effective from 
1 October 2016)
• François Rubichon
Committee changes
John Browett stepped down from the Board and the 
Remuneration Committee on 31 December 2015. Adèle 
Anderson was appointed to the Remuneration Committee 
in his place. Chris Browne was also a member of the 
Committee on her appointment to the Board on 1 January 
2016. Once it became apparent that Chris would be joining 
the Executive Management T eam, the Board determined 
that she was no longer independent as required as a 
Committee member under the Remuneration Committee 
terms of reference. She therefore stepped down from the 
Remuneration Committee in September ahead of the 
Remuneration Committee’s last meeting of the 2016 financial 
year. Andy Martin joined the Committee effective from 
1 October 2016.
CHARLES GURASSA
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Key responsibilities
• T o monitor and follow up on safety incidents reported 
to the Board to ensure that they have been satisfactorily 
closed either by easyJet and/or the relevant external parties.
• T o receive, examine and monitor reports on actions taken 
by departments.
• T o review and monitor the implementation of easyJet’s 
annual safety plan.
The Committee also examines specific safety issues as 
requested by the Board or any member of the Committee. 
Where appropriate, the Committee reviews relevant reports 
published by the UK Air Accident Investigation Branch, major 
incidents that have affected other operators, as well as other 
external reports on matters relevant to safety and security.
Independent safety reports from the Director of Safety and 
Security are presented at every Board meeting. The Committee 
ensures that both internal and relevant external events are fully 
investigated and that appropriate actions have been taken 
where necessary.
The Director of Safety and Security has a direct reporting line 
to the Chairman which reinforces the independence of safety 
oversight. In addition, the Chairman of the Committee has 
reported to the Board with their own assessment of safety 
management within the airline throughout the year.
Highlights of the 2016 financial year
A range of safety-related matters have been reviewed by the 
Committee during the 2016 financial year involving all areas – 
flight operations, cabin crew, ground services and engineering. 
Some of these reviews followed requests from the Board to 
carry out detailed assessments of specific operational incidents; 
others were reports of safety actions taken by easyJet 
operational departments, and investigations by national 
investigation authorities. These included a review of the 
implementation of recommended measures following the 
Germanwings incident, security reports on Brussels, France and 
other relevant regions affected during the year by acts of 
terrorism, and reports on the actions of easyJet’s Disruptive 
Passenger Action Group. In 2015 the Director of Safety and 
Security was tasked by the Board to undertake a review of 
fatigue within crew, independent of all the operational 
departments. The Safety Committee monitored the progress of 
the fatigue review and reviewed its findings. The Committee will 
continue to oversee the implementation of 
the recommendations.
T urn to page 56
for meeting attendance table
49 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts During the year, the Audit Committee’s focus has, as in 
previous years, centred on the integrity of the Group’s 
financial reporting, system of risk management, internal 
controls, and the effectiveness of both internal and external 
audit. The Committee has continued to follow a detailed 
programme of work and to respond to the increasing depth 
of review and reporting that is now required of 
Audit Committees.
Membership as at 14 November 2016
(all current members are independent 
Non-Executive Directors)
• Adèle Anderson (Chair)
• Keith Hamill
• Andy Martin
The Committee members have been selected to provide the 
wide range of financial and commercial expertise necessary 
to fulfil the Committee’s duties and responsibilities. Adèle 
Anderson was a partner in KPMG until July 2011 and held 
roles including Chief Financial Officer of KPMG UK, Chief 
Executive Officer of KPMG’s captive insurer and Chief 
Financial Officer of KPMG Europe. She currently chairs the 
audit committees of Intu Properties plc and Spire Healthcare 
plc. Keith Hamill has had considerable experience as a 
Director of listed companies and was Finance Director of 
WH Smith, Forte plc and United Distillers. Andy Martin was 
Group Finance Director of Compass Group plc between 
2004 and 2012, and prior to this held other senior financial 
positions with First Choice Holidays plc (now TUI Group), 
Forte plc and Granada Group plc. He is also a Non-Executive 
Director and Audit Committee member of Intertek Group 
plc. The Board considers the Committee members’ financial 
experience to be recent and relevant for the purposes of 
the Code. Further, in accordance with the 2016 Corporate 
Governance Code (applying to the Company from its 2017 
financial year) the Board has determined that the current 
composition of the Audit Committee as a whole has 
competence relevant to the sector in which the Company 
operates. All the Committee members have had a significant 
amount of sector experience as Non-Executive Directors of 
easyJet for a number of years, and in addition Andy Martin 
has had executive sector experience in his previous role at 
First Choice Holidays plc. All three committee members are 
qualified accountants.
Corporate governance report continued
AUDIT COMMITTEE
ADÈLE ANDERSON
Chair of the Audit Committee
Key responsibilities
T o assess and make recommendations to the Board on the 
policies for remuneration for each of the Executive Directors 
and the Chairman, as well as the level and structure of 
remuneration for senior management.
Highlights of the 2016 financial year
The Committee:
• reviewed the salaries of the Executive Directors and senior 
management;
• assessed the level of performance against the 2015 financial 
year bonus measures and determined the level of award for 
the Executive Directors and senior management;
• determined the bonus targets for the 2016 financial year;
• measured achievement against the LTIP performance 
measures that were set in December 2012 and agreed 
the vesting percentage in December 2015;
• considered external reward market, corporate governance 
activity and shareholder feedback and assessed the 
implications for easyJet executives;
• agreed the performance targets for the Long T erm Incentive 
Plan for the 2016 financial year;
• reviewed and approved the PLC Board Expenses Policy; and
• considered and debated gender pay and future 
reporting requirements.
The full Directors’ remuneration report is on pages 60 to 75.
Additional disclosures under the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
For additional disclosures under the UK Corporate Governance 
Code in relation to the Remuneration Committee’s work and 
remuneration consultants, please refer to the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 75.
50 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Main activities and responsibilities of the Committee
Please refer to the Audit Committee terms of reference for further details on the Committee’s duties and responsibilities, available 
in the governance section of easyJet’s corporate website, http://corporate.easyJet.com.
Responsibilities How the Committee discharged its responsibilities
T o monitor and review:
the integrity of the financial statements and related formal 
announcements, and the significant financial reporting issues 
and judgements which they contain
Review of the financial statements and announcements 
relating to the financial performance and governance of the 
Group at year end and half year.
The Committee also considered the material areas in which 
significant judgements were applied based on reports from 
both the Group’s management and the external auditors. 
Further information is provided in the Financial reporting 
and significant financial issues section.
the Company’s risk management systems and internal control Review of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s 
ongoing risk management systems and control processes, 
through an evaluation of:
• the risk and assurance plans;
• Internal Audit reports;
• risk assessments;
• information security and business continuity;
• control themes; and
• internal financial control assessments.
the effectiveness of the Company’s Internal Audit function 
and its activities
The Committee undertook an assessment of the 
effectiveness and independence of the Internal Audit function, 
which included consideration of:
• key Internal Audit reports;
• stakeholder feedback on the quality of Internal 
Audit activity;
• Internal Audit’s compliance with prevailing professional 
standards; and
• the implementation of Internal Audit recommendations.
The Committee will also be reviewing the external quality 
assessment of the Internal Audit function to be undertaken 
later this year for reporting to the Audit Committee in 
February next year. Further information is provided in the 
Internal Audit section.
the Company’s relationship with the external auditors, 
including:
• their independence and objectivity;
• the effectiveness of the external audit process;
• recommending the appointment, reappointment or 
removal of the external auditors;
• approving their remuneration and terms of engagement; 
and
• the policy on the supply of non-audit services.
The Committee considered the appointment of the external 
auditors, confirming and assessing their independence, 
objectivity and effectiveness. The Committee welcomed 
a new senior statutory auditor for the 2016 financial year, 
and the Committee Chair was involved in selecting and 
interviewing the new partner.
Further information on:
• how the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of 
the external audit process were assessed, is provided in 
the External auditors and effectiveness of external audit 
process section; and
• the external auditors’ non-audit services, and audit 
tendering, is provided in the Non‑audit services and the 
Audit tendering sections respectively.
Committee changes
Chris Browne was also a member of the Committee on her appointment to the Board on 1 January 2016. She stepped down 
from the Committee on 30 September 2016 at the same time she stepped down from the Board to join the easyJet Executive 
Management T eam. She was considered an independent Non-Executive Director at the Audit Committee meetings she 
attended during the 2016 financial year.
T urn to page 56
for meeting attendance table
51 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Specific items which the Committee looked at during the 
financial year as part of and in addition to its main activities 
include the review of:
• the treasury function and accounting treatment of hedging 
transactions;
• the accounting treatment for property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets;
• the accounting treatment of the maintenance provision;
• the process for cash flow forecasting;
• the Group’s business continuity planning;
• the Group's depreciation policy and aircraft residual values;
• the Group’s information security programme, including 
capabilities, policies and procedures, and the PCI 
programme dealing with payment card data; and
• the support for making a viability statement.
Financial reporting and significant 
financial judgements
The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies 
have been adopted and whether management has made 
appropriate estimates and judgements. For example, during 
the financial year, the Committee reviewed the level of 
provisions and accruals recorded which are judgemental in 
nature. The Committee reviewed accounting papers prepared 
by management which provide details on significant financial 
reporting judgements. The Committee also reviewed reports by 
the external auditors on the full year and half year results which 
highlight any issues with respect to the work undertaken on 
the audit.
The Committee reviewed financial issues through discussion 
with management and the external auditors and comparison 
to other organisations. The number of such issues currently 
considered as significant are, however, limited given easyJet’s 
relatively simple business model and group structure which are 
unencumbered with legacy issues. The significant issues 
considered in relation to the accounts are detailed below:
• The Committee reviewed the maintenance provision at the 
year end. A number of judgements are used in the 
calculation of the provision, primarily pricing, utilisation of 
aircraft and timing of maintenance checks. The Committee 
addressed these matters using reports received from 
management which underpin the basis of assumptions 
used. The Committee also discussed with the external 
auditors their review of the assumptions underlying the 
estimates used.
• The Committee considered whether the carrying value 
of goodwill and landing rights held by easyJet should be 
impaired. The judgement in relation to impairment largely 
relates to the assumptions underlying the calculation of the 
value in use of the business being tested for impairment; 
primarily whether the forecasted cashflows are achievable 
and the overall macroeconomic assumptions which underlie 
the valuation process. The Committee addressed these 
matters using reports received from management outlining 
the basis for assumptions used. The forecasted cashflows 
used in the calculation were presented to the Board.
• The Committee considered the key treasury transactions, 
and the application of hedge accounting. easyJet hedges 
forward, on a rolling basis, between 65% and 85% of the 
next 12 months anticipated fuel and currency requirements 
and between 45% and 65% of the next 12 months 
anticipated requirements. Significant exposure relating to 
the acquisition cost of aircraft is also managed through the 
use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts where 
90% of the next two years forecast requirement is hedged. 
easyJet does not operate any other significant derivative 
financial instruments. However, this area remains significant 
due to the quantity of fuel and exchange rate hedges.
• The Committee reviewed the level and calculations of key 
accruals and provisions which are judgemental in nature. 
Specifically the area of customer claims in respect of flight 
delays, cancellations and Air Passenger Duty.
The Committee is satisfied that the judgements made by 
management are reasonable, and that appropriate disclosures 
have been included in the accounts.
At the request of the Board, the Committee also considered 
whether the Annual report and accounts are fair, balanced and 
understandable and whether they provided the necessary 
information for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy. The Committee is 
satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual report and accounts 
are fair, balanced and understandable. In reaching this 
Corporate governance report continued
Responsibilities How the Committee discharged its responsibilities
the adequacy and security of the Group’s arrangements 
for its employees and contractors to raise concerns, in 
confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial 
reporting or other matters
the Group’s systems and controls for the prevention of bribery 
and detection of fraud, including receiving reports on 
non-compliance
During the year, the Committee reviewed:
• whistleblower reports and the refresh and re-launch of 
the whistleblowing processes;
• reports on anti-bribery and corruption procedures;
• reports on procedures on fraud and loss prevention; and
• reports on credit card fraud monitoring and investigations.
Other duties of the Audit Committee include:
• annually reviewing its terms of reference;
• assessing potential conflicts of interest of Directors on 
behalf of the Board; and
• as requested by the Board, providing advice on whether 
the Annual report and accounts are fair, balanced and 
understandable.
The Committee reviewed its terms of reference and made 
some changes in line with best practice.
A couple of potential conflicts were considered and assessed 
during the year. The Committee determined that these were 
potential transactional conflicts of interest which were yet 
to arise.
Further information on the Committee’s role on providing 
advice on whether the annual report and accounts is fair, 
balanced and understandable is provided in the Financial 
reporting and significant financial issues section.
52 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 conclusion, the Committee considered the overall review and 
confirmation process around the Annual report and 
accounts, including:
• the input of subject matter experts, the Executive 
Management T eam and other senior management and, 
where applicable, the Board and its Committees;
• the processes and controls which underpin the overall 
review and confirmation process, including the verification 
process being carried out by an internal financial controls 
specialist (independent of the Finance function); and
• Internal Audit providing assurance over the audit trail for 
material data points relating to the non-financial statement 
aspects of the Annual report and accounts, and external 
audit providing assurance over the accounts.
The Committee was provided with, and commented on, a draft 
copy of the Annual report and accounts.
In carrying out the above processes, key considerations 
included ensuring that there was consistency between the 
accounts and the narrative provided in the front half of the 
annual report, and that there was an appropriate balance 
between the reporting of weaknesses, difficulties and 
challenges, as well as successes, in an open and 
honest manner.
Risk management and internal control
The Board, as a whole, including the Audit Committee 
members, consider the nature and extent of easyJet’s risk 
management framework and the risk profile that is acceptable 
in order to achieve the Company’s strategic objectives. The 
Audit Committee has reviewed the work done by management, 
the Committee itself and the Board on the assessment of the 
Company’s principal risks, including their impact on the 
prospects of the Company. As a result, it is considered that the 
Board has fulfilled its obligations under the Code in relation to 
risk management and internal controls. Further details on the 
Company’s principal risks and uncertainties and their impact on 
the prospects of the Company are set out on pages 24 to 31.
easyJet’s system of internal controls, along with its design and 
operating effectiveness, is subject to review by the Audit 
Committee, through reports received from management, along 
with those from both internal and external auditors. Any control 
deficiencies identified are followed up with action plans tracked 
by the Committee. Further details of risk management and 
internal control are set out on page 59.
Internal Audit
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the work of 
the Internal Audit function. It reviews and approves the scope 
of the Internal Audit annual plan and assesses the quality of 
Internal Audit reports, along with management’s actions relating 
to findings and the closure of recommended actions. The Audit 
Committee also considers stakeholder feedback on the quality 
of Internal Audit’s work. Further information on the Internal 
Audit function is provided on page 59. In order to safeguard 
the independence of the Internal Audit functions, the Head 
of Internal Audit is given the opportunity to meet privately 
with the Audit Committee without any other members of 
management present.
External auditors and effectiveness of external 
audit process
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP were reappointed auditors of 
the Company at the 2016 Annual General Meeting following 
a tender process undertaken in 2015. Senior management 
monitors the auditors’ performance, behaviour and 
effectiveness during the exercise of their duties, which informs 
the Audit Committee’s decision to recommend reappointment 
on an annual basis.
The Audit Committee also assesses the effectiveness, 
independence and objectivity of the external auditors by, 
amongst other things:
• considering all key external auditor plans and reports;
• having regular engagement with the external auditor during 
Committee meetings and ad hoc meetings (when required), 
including meetings without any member of management 
being present;
• the Committee Chair having discussions with the Senior 
Statutory Auditor ahead of each Committee meeting; and
• following the end of the financial year, each 
Committee member completing an auditor effectiveness 
review questionnaire.
Non‑audit services
In order to preserve objectivity and independence, the external 
auditors are not asked to provide consulting services unless this 
is in the best interests of the Company, in accordance with 
easyJet’s non-audit services policy which is available in the 
governance section of easyJet’s corporate website, http://
corporate.easyJet.com.
In the 2016 financial year, PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP did 
provide services in addition to its usual audit work by providing 
a comfort letter in relation to the Company’s setting up of 
a Euro Medium T erm Note (EMTN) Programme. It was 
determined that the nature of the work would not undermine 
auditor objectivity and independence. This additional scope of 
work was in line with the Company’s non-audit service policy, 
which allows an external auditor to undertake as an auditor, 
work in connection with debt capital raising. The fees relating to 
this additional work were £38,000 but were not considered to 
be non-audit services. Therefore, in the 2016 financial year the 
Company incurred no non-statutory audit fees (2015: nil).
Audit tendering
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP were first appointed to audit the 
Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 September 
2006, and have therefore served a 10 year term. Under EU 
audit reform legislation, companies are required to have a 
mandatory rotation of auditors after 10 years, or 20 years if 
there is a compulsory retender at 10 years. During the 2015 
financial year, the Committee led a tender process for external 
audit services, following which the Audit Committee agreed to 
recommend that the Board reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP as, on balance, they performed better than the 
Committee's pre-agreed selection and assessment criteria.
53 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Highlights of the 2016 financial year
• T ogether with an external consultant, leading the calibration 
of the capability and skills of the current Board against the 
future requirements in terms of size, structure, composition 
and behaviours;
• Consideration of the appointments to the Board 
Committees following the change in Board composition; and
• Reviewing management’s succession plans for senior 
executive positions.
Board appointments process
The Committee adopts a formal and transparent procedure 
for the appointment of new Directors to the Board. With the 
exception of Chris Browne’s recruitment as disclosed in last 
year’s Annual report, there were no searches for Board 
Directors during the 2016 financial year. Following the 
Committee’s review of the skills, knowledge, experience and 
diversity on the Board, the Committee is recommending to the 
Board the recruitment of at least one additional Non-Executive 
Director during the 2017 financial year. Should the Board seek 
to recruit any additional Directors during the course of next 
year, its practice is to use external search consultants.
Diversity
The Board recognises the benefits of having diversity across 
all areas of the Group and believes that this supports easyJet’s 
continued success and advantage. When considering the 
optimum make-up of the Board, the benefits of diversity of the 
Board are appropriately reviewed and balanced where possible, 
including in terms of differences in skills, industry experience, 
business model experiences, gender, race, disability, age, 
nationality, background and other contributions that individuals 
may make. The Committee continues to encourage diversity of 
business skills and experience, recognising that Directors with 
varying skill sets, capabilities and experience gained from 
different geographic and cultural backgrounds enhance the 
Board. In identifying suitable candidates the Committee will 
seek candidates from a range of backgrounds, with the final 
decision being based on merit against objective criteria.
As at 14 November 2016, the Company has two female 
Directors, one being the Chief Executive. The Board has a 
22% female representation. The Company had three female 
Directors between 1 January 2016 and 30 September 2016, 
until Chris Browne stepped down from the Board. easyJet’s 
policy on diversity applies across all levels of the organisation, 
and further details can be found in the Corporate responsibility 
section on pages 38 to 39, including further details of the 
Executive Management T eam. As at 14 November 2016, the 
number of women on the Executive Management T eam had 
increased from last year to five (out of nine positions) such that 
women now make up the majority of that team.
This year the Committee focused on leading a review of the 
composition of the Board and succession planning both at 
Board and Executive Management T eam level, and reviewing 
the make-up of the Board Committees given the changes to 
the Board during the year.
Membership as at 14 November 2016
(members are independent Non-Executive Directors and the 
Non-Executive Chairman of the Board)
• John Barton (Chair)
• Charles Gurassa
• Keith Hamill (appointed from 1 October 2016)
• Andy Martin (appointed from 1 October 2016)
• François Rubichon
Committee changes
T o ensure that the important subject matter of the 
Committee's remit is discussed with a wide number of 
Non-Executive Directors, Andy Martin and Keith Hamill joined 
the Committee effective from 1 October 2016.
Key responsibilities
• Keeping under review the composition, structure and size 
of, and succession to, the Board and its Committees;
• Succession planning for senior executives and the Board;
• Leading the process for Board appointments by identifying 
and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates 
to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise; and
• Evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge, experience 
and diversity on the Board.
JOHN BARTON
Chair of the Nominations Committee
T urn to page 56
for meeting attendance table
Corporate governance report continued
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
54 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 The Finance Committee continues to provide effective 
oversight of the Group’s treasury and funding policies and 
activities, ensuring that activities undertaken will not subject 
the Group to undesired levels of risk, and that treasury 
activities are appropriately aligned with Group strategy and 
support the Group financial performance.
Membership as at 14 November 2016
(all members are independent Non-Executive Directors)
• Andy Martin (Chair effective from 1 December 2015)
• Dr. Andreas Bierwirth (appointed to the Committee 
effective from 1 December 2015)
• Charles Gurassa
Committee changes
Adèle Anderson stepped down from the Committee as Chair 
and Committee member effective from 30 November 2015. 
Andy Martin took over as Chair from 1 December 2015 and 
Dr. Andreas Bierwirth was appointed to the Committee on 1 
December 2015.
The IT Governance and Oversight Committee provides 
governance oversight, and gives independent validation and 
challenge, to one of the Company’s key business areas.
Membership as at 14 November 2016
(all members are independent Non-Executive Directors)
• Andy Martin (Chair, appointed to the Committee 
effective from 1 January 2016)
• Adèle Anderson
• Keith Hamill
Committee changes
John Browett stepped down from the Board and the IT 
Governance and Oversight Committee (as Chair and 
member) on 31 December 2015. Andy Martin was appointed 
to the Committee and became Chair on 1 January 2016.
Key responsibilities
T o review and monitor the Group’s treasury policies, treasury 
operations and funding activities, along with associated risks.
Highlights of the 2016 financial year
The Committee:
• supported the Board in publishing credit ratings from 
Moody's and Standard & Poor's and oversaw the setting 
up of a Euro Medium T erm Note Programme under which 
Eurobonds were issued;
• reviewed the capital structure of the business, specifically in 
relation to the liquidity buffer maintained by the airline and 
the management of the aircraft residual values;
• reviewed hedge accounting on cross-currency interest rate 
swaps; and
• reviewed the Company’s treasury policy.
Key responsibilities
T o provide independent oversight over the governance and 
controls relating to the IT business area, in particular covering 
the required resilience and change. Specifically the Committee:
• monitors the strategic direction of the IT programme to 
ensure it supports easyJet’s long-term goals within the 
ambit of its strategic framework;
• reviews the risks and controls associated with IT strategy 
to ensure appropriate mitigation is built into the 
implementation process;
• monitors implementation of the IT strategy and ensures that 
changing business needs are being met in the context of the 
Company’s strategic goals and competitive position; and
• provides financial oversight over the IT programmes as the 
Committee considers necessary, including ensuring an 
appropriate framework within which budgetary decisions 
are made.
Highlights of the 2016 financial year
The Committee has:
• approved the business case for a new e-commerce 
platform and overseen the programme during its 
design phase;
• reviewed and commissioned independent assurance reports 
from consultants relating to certain IT programmes; and
• reviewed the capabilities and resourcing required to deliver 
the IT programmes.
ANDY MARTIN
Chair of the Finance Committee
ANDY MARTIN
Chair of the IT Governance and Oversight Committee
T urn to page 56
for meeting attendance table
T urn to page 56
for meeting attendance table
FINANCE COMMITTEE IT GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE
55 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Attendance at scheduled meetings during 2016 financial year
For further information regarding when Board members joined or stepped down from Committees during and after the 2016 
financial year, please refer to the “Committee changes” sections in the relevant Committee reports (pages 48 to 55).
Board
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Finance 
Committee
Safety 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
IT Governance 
and Oversight 
Committee
Number of scheduled meetings 9 4 3 4 4
(1)
3 2
Executive Directors
Carolyn McCall DBE 9/9 2* 2* 2* 2*
Andrew Findlay 9/9 4* 2* 4* 1*
Non‑Executive Directors
John Barton 9/9 3* 3* 1* 4* 3/3 1*
Charles Gurassa 9/9 3/3 4/4 3/3
Adèle Anderson
(2)
8/9 4/4 2/2 1/1 2/2
Dr. Andreas Bierwirth 9/9 3/3 4/4
John Browett
(3)
1/2 1/1  1/1 
Chris Browne
(4)
7/7 3/3 1/1 3/3
Keith Hamill OBE 9/9 4/4 4/4 2/2
Andy Martin 9/9 4/4 1* 4 /4 1/1
François Rubichon 9/9 3/3 3/3
* Not a member of the relevant Committee – attendance at meeting by invitation.
(1) Professor Rigas Doganis, who was not a member of the Board however was independent Chair of the Safety Committee, attended two meetings at 
which he was Chair until he was succeeded by Chris Browne as Chair on 1 March 2016.
(2) Adèle Anderson missed a brief Board meeting held by conference call due to having problems dialling in on the day from overseas.
(3) John Browett stepped down as Director on 31 December 2015.
(4) Chris Browne joined the Board on 1 January 2016 and stepped down as Director on 30 September 2016.
Corporate governance report continued
encouraged to communicate directly with senior management 
between Board meetings.
A.2 Division of responsibilities
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, set out 
in writing, clearly defined, and approved by the Board. They are 
available on easyJet’s corporate website: http://corporate. 
easyJet.com. The Chairman’s role is to lead the Board and 
ensure that it operates effectively. The Chief Executive’s role 
is the day-to-day running of the Group’s businesses and the 
development and implementation of strategy.
A.3 The Chairman
The Chairman, John Barton, sets the Board’s agenda and 
ensures that adequate time is available for discussion of all 
agenda items, in particular strategic issues. On his appointment 
in May 2013, the Board considered John Barton to be 
independent in character and judgement in accordance with 
the Code.
A.4 Non‑Executive Directors
Charles Gurassa is Senior Independent Director and Deputy 
Chairman. In this role, Charles provides advice and additional 
support and experience to the Chairman as required, and is 
available to act as an intermediary for the other Directors if 
necessary. Charles is also available to address shareholders’ 
concerns that have not been resolved through the normal 
channels of communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive 
or other Executive Director, and leads the appraisal of the 
Chairman’s performance annually in consultation with the other 
Non-Executive Directors in a meeting without the Chairman 
being present. The Non-Executive Directors, together with 
the Chairman, have also met without any Executive Directors 
present during the year. During the year, there were no 
unresolved concerns regarding the running of the Company.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE CODE
The Company has, throughout the 2016 financial year, 
complied without exception with the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code issued in September 2014 (the 
Code), which is the version of the Code which applies to its 
2016 financial year. The section below details how the Company 
has complied with the Code, available at www.frc.org.uk. The 
following disclosures are ordered into the sections as they 
appear in the Code.
A. Leadership
A.1 Role of the Board
The Board is responsible for providing effective leadership 
to the airline. It does this by setting strategic priorities and 
overseeing their delivery in a way that enables sustainable 
long-term growth, while maintaining a balanced approach 
to risk within a framework of effective controls.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its 
decision which is available in the governance section of 
easyJet’s corporate website: http://corporate.easyJet.com. 
Day-to-day management responsibility rests with the Executive 
Management T eam, listed on pages 46 to 47. These individuals 
are also the Directors and Company Secretary of the principal 
operating company, easyJet Airline Company Limited.
The Board meets regularly, with nine scheduled meetings 
having been held during the year. The Directors’ attendance 
records at those meetings and Board Committee meetings 
held during the year are shown in the table below. In addition 
to those scheduled meetings, two ad hoc Board meetings were 
also arranged to deal with matters arising between scheduled 
meetings as appropriate. Non-Executive Directors are also 
56 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 • the business of the Group;
• their legal and regulatory responsibilities as Directors;
• briefings and presentations from relevant executives; and
• opportunities to visit and experience easyJet’s 
business operations.
T o update the Directors’ skills, knowledge and familiarity 
with the Group, visits to bases are organised for the Board 
periodically, to assist its understanding of the operational issues 
that the business faces. The Board was invited to visit the base 
in Geneva in June 2016 and to attend a Country Review Board 
there, as well as an airside tour of airport operations and the 
crew room, and meetings with Swiss management and the 
CEO of Geneva Airport. A briefing paper is provided to Board 
members to update them on relevant developments in law, 
regulation and best practice, usually two to four times per year. 
Directors are encouraged to highlight specific areas where they 
feel their skills or knowledge would benefit from development 
as part of the annual Board evaluation process. An example of 
training undertaken this year was the session held for all the 
Directors by the Company's corporate lawyers on the new EU 
Market Abuse Regulation which came into force in July 2016.
B.5 Information and support
All members of the Board are supplied with appropriate, clear 
and accurate information in a timely manner covering matters 
which are to be considered at forthcoming Board or 
Committee meetings.
Should Directors judge it necessary to seek independent legal 
advice about the performance of their duties with the 
Company, they are entitled to do so at the Company’s expense. 
Directors also have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary who is responsible for advising the Board 
on all governance matters and ensuring that Board procedures 
are complied with.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is 
a matter requiring Board approval.
B.6 Evaluation
A performance review of the Board, its Committees and 
Directors is carried out every year and is externally facilitated at 
least every third year. Following the evaluation being externally 
facilitated last year by Independent Audit Limited, the 2016 
Board and Committee evaluation was conducted internally by 
the Company Secretary and Group General Counsel, Kyla 
Mullins, at the request of the Chairman. Kyla prepared surveys 
that were completed by Board members. In addition, 
Calibroconsult Limited, an external consultant engaged by the 
Nominations Committee to advise on Board succession 
planning and composition, undertook a series of in-depth, 
confidential working sessions with each member of the Board 
individually to understand, amongst other things, current key 
challenges for the Board and Executive Management T eam. 
This was considered as part of the 2016 Board and Committee 
evaluation and fed back to the Chairman and the Company 
Secretary and Group General Counsel who discussed the 
outcomes and recommendations. Following discussion with the 
Board as a whole, areas identified for improvement were agreed 
by the Board. Calibroconsult Limited has no connection with 
the Company beyond evaluating the Board.
The review extended to all aspects of Board and Committee 
performance including composition and dynamics (which 
complement the work undertaken by Calibroconsult Limited), 
the Chairman’s leadership, agenda and focus, time 
B. Effectiveness
B.1 Composition of the Board
As at 30 September 2016, the Board comprised eight Non- 
Executive Directors (including the Chairman) and two Executive 
Directors. Following the stepping down of Chris Browne on 30 
September 2016, as at 14 November 2016, the Board comprises 
seven Non-Executive Directors (including the Chairman) and 
two Executive Directors.
After giving thorough consideration to the matter, the Board 
considers Adèle Anderson, Dr. Andreas Bierwirth, Charles 
Gurassa, Keith Hamill, Andy Martin and François Rubichon to 
be Non-Executive Directors who are independent in character 
and judgement. Chris Browne was considered independent on 
her appointment to the Board up until the Board’s September 
meeting when it was noted that as she was close to concluding 
an agreement for the Chief Operating Officer role on the 
easyJet Executive Management T eam, she should no longer 
be viewed as independent.
B.2 Appointments to the Board
The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board 
appointments and makes recommendations to the Board. For 
information on the work of the Nominations Committee and a 
description of the Board’s policy on diversity, please refer to the 
Nominations Committee report on page 54.
B.3 Commitment
Following the Board evaluation process, detailed further below, 
the Board is satisfied that each of the Directors is able to 
allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their 
responsibilities effectively.
Contracts and letters of appointment with Directors are made 
available at the Annual General Meeting or on request. The 
standard terms and conditions of the appointment of Non- 
Executive Directors are also available in the governance section 
of easyJet’s corporate website: http://corporate.easyJet.com.
Executive Directors are encouraged to take up non-executive 
positions in other companies or organisations. Carolyn McCall 
DBE, the Chief Executive, has acted as Non-Executive Director 
at Burberry Group plc since September 2014. Appointment to 
such positions is subject to the approval of the Board which 
considers, amongst other things, the time commitment 
required. The Executive Management T eam are permitted to 
hold one appointment on a Board or Committee of a listed 
company so long as this is not thought to interfere with the 
business of the Group.
Pursuant to B3.1 of the Corporate Governance Code, 
John Barton was appointed as director of Luceco plc on 
27 September 2016, which subsequently became a publicly 
quoted company on 17 October 2016. Despite this change to 
the Chairman’s commitments outside of easyJet, the Board is 
satisfied that there has been no impact to the Chairman’s 
commitment to the Company and he still continues to devote 
more than sufficient time to his duties as Chairman, as 
evidenced by his high attendance at committees at which he 
is not a committee member (on page 56). The Executive 
Directors and Non-Executive Directors reviewed, and were 
satisfied with, the Chairman’s time commitment to the Board as 
set out under “B.6 Evaluation” on this page.
B.4 Development
On joining the Board, new members receive a tailored induction, 
organised by the Company Secretary, which covers amongst 
other things:
57 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts D. Remuneration
For further information on the Company’s compliance with 
the Code provisions relating to remuneration, please refer to:
• the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 60 to 75 for 
the level and components of remuneration (D.1); and
• pages 49 to 50 (the Remuneration Committee Report) 
for the procedure relating to remuneration (D.2).
E. Relations with shareholders
E.1 Dialogue with shareholders
The Company actively engages with investors and solicits 
their feedback. The Chairman and Deputy Chairman met with 
shareholders during the course of the year to help maintain 
a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns. They 
also attended a senior investor dinner in January and met with 
the Company's top 10 institutional investors. The Chairman has 
updated the Board on the opinions of investors. The views of 
shareholders and market perceptions are also regularly 
communicated to the Board via verbal briefings.
easyJet has an investor relations department which runs an 
active programme to facilitate engagement with investors 
based around the financial reporting calendar. This year 
the programme has included one-to-one meetings with 
institutional investors, road shows and conferences. There 
is also regular communication with institutional investors 
on key business issues.
During the course of the year the Chairman, Deputy 
Chairman and Chief Executive met with representatives 
of easyGroup Holdings Limited, the Company’s largest 
shareholder, to discuss relevant matters. The Chief Financial 
Officer has also met separately with representatives 
of easyGroup Ltd (an affiliate of easyGroup Holdings Limited) 
to discuss matters relating to the management and protection 
of the “easyJet” and “easy” brands.
E.2 Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting gives all shareholders the 
opportunity to communicate directly with the Board and 
encourages their participation. Shareholders are given the 
opportunity to raise issues formally at the Annual General 
Meeting or informally with Directors after the meeting. All 
Directors normally attend the Annual General Meeting and the 
Chairs of the Committees are available to answer questions at 
the Annual General Meeting.
management, strategic oversight, oversight of risk and 
succession planning, and priorities for change.
Charles Gurassa, as Senior Independent Director, led a review 
of the Chairman’s performance and held a private meeting of 
the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present to 
discuss the Chairman’s performance it was concluded that 
John Barton's performance and contribution are strong and 
that he demonstrates effective leadership. The Executive 
Directors and the Non-Executive Directors also reviewed and 
were satisfied with the Chairman’s time commitment to the 
Board and the business.
The Chairman conducted a process of evaluating the 
performance and contribution of each Director which included 
a one-to-one performance evaluation and feedback discussion 
with each of them.
B.7 Re‑election
The Company’s Articles of Association require the Directors to 
submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at least once 
every three years. However, the Board has decided that all 
Directors will stand for re-election or election at each Annual 
General Meeting in accordance with the Code.
C. Accountability
C.1 Financial and Business Reporting
Please refer to:
• page 79 for the Board’s statement on the Annual report 
and accounts being fair, balanced and understandable;
• page 22 for the statement on the status of the Company 
and the Group as a going concern; and
• the Strategic report on pages 4 to 15 for an explanation 
of the Company’s business model and the strategy for 
delivering the objectives of the Company.
C.2 Risk Management and Internal Control
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal 
risks facing the Company and how those risks affect the 
prospects of the Company. Please refer to pages 24 to 31 
for further information on the Company’s principal risks and 
uncertainties and page 22 for their impact on the prospects 
of the Company.
The overall responsibility for easyJet’s systems of internal 
control and for reviewing their effectiveness rests with the 
Board. The Board has conducted an annual review of the 
effectiveness of the systems of internal control during the year, 
under the auspices of the Audit Committee. Further information 
on the Company’s risk management and internal control 
systems is given on page 59.
C.3 Audit Committee and Auditors
For further information on the Company’s compliance with the 
Code provisions relating to the Audit Committee and auditors, 
please refer to the Audit Committee report on pages 50 to 53.
Corporate governance report continued
58 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board has overall responsibility for easyJet’s risk 
management and systems of internal control.
Risk management
easyJet has an established risk management process to ensure 
that significant risks are identified and mitigated where possible. 
For further details of the risk management process, the principal 
risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and the associated 
mitigating actions, please refer to pages 24 to 31.
T o ensure that risks are managed effectively, a number of 
activities are undertaken:
• an Executive Management T eam member is allocated as 
the risk owner for each principal risk, with responsibility for 
the day-to-day management of those risks;
• ongoing risk management and assurance is provided 
through the various monitoring reviews and reporting 
mechanisms that are embedded into the business 
operations. The results of these reviews are reported to the 
Audit Committee and the Board, which considers whether 
these high level risks are being effectively controlled;
• regular operational (including safety), commercial, financial 
and IT functional meetings are held to review performance 
and to consider key risks and issues (please refer to pages 
48 to 49 for details of the Safety Committee);
• the Executive Management T eam meets regularly to 
consider significant risks, status of risk mitigations and 
overall business performance; this ensures key issues are 
escalated through the management team, and, as 
appropriate, ultimately to the Board; and
• the Directors review the effectiveness of internal controls, 
including operating, financial and compliance controls.
The Audit Committee undertakes an annual review of the 
appropriateness of the risk management processes to ensure 
that they are sufficiently robust to meet the needs of the Group 
(please refer to pages 50 to 53 for details of the Audit 
Committee’s responsibilities).
Internal control
The responsibility for establishing and operating detailed control 
procedures lies with the Chief Executive. The internal control 
systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk 
of failure to achieve business objectives. By their nature, they 
can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness 
of the systems of internal control during the year, under the 
auspices of the Audit Committee. This included reviews of 
systems and controls relating to financial reporting processes 
and the preparation of the accounts. The internal financial 
control monitoring programme, administered by Internal Audit, 
has continued to enhance the review process.
The internal control regime is supported by the operation of 
a whistleblower reporting function. The system is operated by 
a specialist external third-party service provider and allows 
employees to report concerns anonymously and in confidence. 
The Audit Committee has approved the processes and 
reporting structure for the function, and receives regular 
reports on its operation.
Internal Audit
The Internal Audit function’s key objectives are to provide 
independent and objective assurance on risks and controls to 
the Board, Audit Committee and senior management, and to 
assist the Board in meeting its corporate governance and 
regulatory responsibilities. Its work is based on a risk-based 
audit plan, which is approved by the Audit Committee on 
behalf of the Board, and updated on a rolling basis.
Internal Audit reviews the extent to which systems of 
internal control:
• are designed and operating effectively;
• are adequate to manage easyJet’s key risks; and
• safeguard the Group’s assets.
The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Head of Risk and T ax 
and has direct access to the Chief Executive and the Chairman 
of the Audit Committee. The Head of Internal Audit is invited to, 
and attends, Audit Committee meetings throughout the year 
and reports regularly on Internal Audit reviews to the Executive 
Management T eam.
During the year, the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function 
was assessed by the Audit Committee. The role of the Internal 
Audit function and the scope of its work both continue to 
evolve to take account of changes within the business and 
emerging best practice. A formal audit charter is in place.
59 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts within our policy to ensure that our structures remain effective, 
competitive and aligned with the Company's objectives.
Performance and reward outcomes in the 2016 
financial year
Challenging business conditions during the 2016 financial year 
meant that performance in the year declined from the strong 
position in 2015. Profit before tax was £495 million (2015: £686 
million) and ROCE (including lease adjustments) was 14.6% 
(2015: 22.2%). There was an improvement in total cost per 
seat but on-time performance and customer satisfaction 
saw declines.
In determining the Executive Directors’ remuneration this year 
the Committee has balanced the principle of paying for 
performance with the need to motivate and retain our key 
leaders. Despite the challenging market conditions, the 
executive team has been able to deliver solid operational and 
financial performance and the Company is now in a strong 
position to capitalise on the opportunities provided by the 
current market conditions and to build and strengthen its 
strategic position for the long-term.
Bonus
Annual bonuses are based on profit before tax and key 
operational and financial targets. A bonus of 13% of the 
maximum was awarded to the Chief Executive and a bonus 
of 21% of the maximum was awarded to the Chief Financial 
Officer in respect of the 2016 financial year which have included 
a number of extraordinary external events such as prolonged 
strike action, terrorism and severe air traffic congestion. This 
reflects the challenging business and operating environment 
during the 2016 financial year. One-third of the bonus earned 
is subject to compulsory deferral into shares for three years.
LTIP
The awards made in December 2013 are due to vest in 
December 2016. These awards are based on a combination 
of average ROCE performance (including lease adjustments) 
and relative total shareholder return (TSR) compared to FTSE 
51-150 companies for the three financial years ended 
30 September 2016.
The Group achieved average ROCE performance (including 
lease adjustments) of 19.1% and the Company did not meet the 
threshold TSR performance target. This resulted in 32% of the 
awards vesting successfully, subject to continued employment 
to the vesting date.
Remuneration for the year ending 30 September 2017
The Company’s remuneration policy was approved by 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) in February 
2015 and we will not be asking shareholders to vote on a new 
policy at the 2017 AGM. We will be taking the following 
approach to implementation of the remuneration policy 
for the year ending 30 September 2017:
Bonus
The Committee has set appropriate and stretching annual 
bonus targets for the year ended 30 September 2017 based 
on profit before tax and key operational and financial targets. 
One-third of any bonus earned will be subject to compulsory 
deferral into shares for three years.
LTIP
Our LTIP for 2017 continues to be based on two measures: 
ROCE and TSR. ROCE encourages a disciplined use of  
capital and TSR creates alignment with the fortunes of 
our investors. 
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors’ 
remuneration report (the "Report") for the year ended 30 
September 2016. The 2016 Report sets out details of the 
remuneration policy for Executive and Non-Executive Directors, 
describes how the remuneration policy is implemented and 
discloses the amounts paid relating to the year ended 30 
September 2016. 
Objectives of the Committee
The Committee’s primary objective is to design a remuneration 
framework which promotes the long-term success of the 
Company. T o this end we are guided by the following reward 
principles, which remain unchanged: 
• T o establish a simple and cost-effective reward package 
in line with our low-cost and efficient business model. For 
example, our Executive Directors do not receive the level of 
executive benefits that can be found in most organisations 
(see page 62).
• T o support the achievement of our stated business strategy 
of growth and returns. Performance is assessed against a 
range of financial, operational and longer-term targets 
ensuring value is delivered to shareholders, and Directors 
are rewarded for the successful delivery of the key strategic 
objectives of the Company.
• T o pay for performance. Remuneration is heavily weighted 
towards variable pay, dependent on performance. This 
ensures that there is a clear link between the value 
created for shareholders and the amount paid to 
our Executive Directors.
Remuneration framework
Our remuneration structure is designed to be simple, 
transparent and to contribute to the building of a sustainable 
performance culture. It consists of a base salary, modest 
benefit and pension provision and, subject to stretching 
performance conditions, an annual bonus plan (part paid in 
cash and part deferred into shares) and shares awarded under 
a Long T erm Incentive Plan (LTIP). Incentive pay is subject to 
recovery and withholding provisions. A post-vesting holding 
period operates for LTIP awards and significant share ownership 
guidelines apply. 
The Committee believes that the overall remuneration structure 
continues to be appropriate. It ensures there is significant 
alignment between the interests of Executive Directors and 
shareholders, focuses Executives on safely delivering easyJet's 
key strategic objectives and incorporates features which 
contribute to an appropriate level of risk mitigation. That said, 
we keep the policy under review and make periodic changes 
Directors’ remuneration report
Annual statement by the Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee
CHARLES GURASSA
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
60 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 The Committee believes the bonus and LTIP measures in 
combination will continue to focus the executive team on 
building the long-term and sustainable success of the business. 
The trading environment remains tough and the targets that 
have been set are felt to be appropriate and demanding in 
that context.
Salary
The Chief Executive’s salary will not be increased in 2017 and 
will remain at £705,600. This compares with the typical rate of 
increase to be awarded to sales, marketing and administrative 
employees across the Group of 1%.
As reported last year, Andrew Findlay’s base salary was set at 
£425,000 when he joined the Board in October 2015. His salary 
was set at a significant discount to the market level with the 
intention that it would be brought up to the mid-market level 
over time to reflect progression in the role. The Committee 
reported in 2015 that it intended to increase his salary to 
£500,000 in equal increments over the next two to three 
years subject to individual and Company performance. In line 
with this commitment, the first step in this process will be to 
increase Andrew's salary, with effect from 1 January 2017, to 
£462,500. Andrew has indicated to the Committee that he 
would like his cash salary to remain static and that he would 
receive the amount of this increase in shares, which he would 
retain in order to build his shareholding in the Company; the 
Committee is supportive of his decision.
Looking forward
It is two years since shareholders approved our Remuneration 
Policy at the 2015 AGM and we will therefore be required to 
seek approval for a policy at the 2018 AGM for a further three 
years. In advance of that, the Committee intends to conduct 
a detailed review of our policy and practice to ensure it remains 
fit for purpose and we plan to consult shareholders during the 
course of this review.
On behalf of the Committee thank you for your continued 
support. We trust that you find the Report informative and, 
as always, I welcome any comments you may have.
14 November 2016
CHARLES GURASSA
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
OUR REMUNERATION POLICY
What is the role of our Remuneration Committee?
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for determining 
remuneration for the Executive Directors and the Chairman of 
the Board. The Committee also reviews the remuneration of the 
Group’s most senior executives in consultation with the Chief 
Executive. The Committee takes into account the need to 
recruit and retain executives and ensure that they are properly 
motivated to perform in the interests of the Company and its 
shareholders, while paying no more than is necessary.
What does the Committee consider when 
setting remuneration?
When setting the policy for Executive Directors’ remuneration, 
the Committee takes into account total remuneration levels 
operating in companies of a similar size and complexity, the 
responsibilities of each individual role, individual performance 
and an individual’s experience. Our overall policy, having had 
due regard to the factors noted, is to weight remuneration 
towards variable pay. This is typically achieved through setting 
base pay at up to market median levels, offering very modest 
pension and benefits, and above-market variable pay 
opportunities linked to the achievement of demanding 
performance targets.
In setting remuneration for the Executive Directors, the 
Committee takes note of the overall approach to reward 
for employees in the Group. Salary increases will ordinarily be 
(in percentage of salary terms) in line with those of the wider 
workforce. The Committee does not formally consult directly 
with employees on executive pay but does receive periodic 
updates from the Group People Director.
The Committee also considers developments in institutional 
investors’ best practice expectations and the views expressed 
by shareholders during any dialogue.
How do we take into account the views of shareholders 
when we determine the remuneration policy?
easyJet remains committed to shareholder dialogue and takes 
an active interest in voting outcomes. We consult extensively 
with our major shareholders when setting our remuneration 
policy. If any of these shareholders were to be opposed to our 
policy, we would endeavour to meet with them, as appropriate, 
to understand and respond to any issues they may have.
WHAT IS IN THIS REPORT?
This report sets out easyJet’s remuneration policy for Executive and Non-Executive Directors, describes the implementation 
of that policy and discloses the amounts earned relating to the year ended 30 September 2016.
The report complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and supporting regulations. The report has been 
prepared in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA 
Listing Rules.
The Directors’ remuneration policy was approved by shareholders in a binding vote at the 2015 AGM on 12 February 2015. 
The policy took formal effect from the date of approval and the intention is that it will apply until the 2018 AGM. A summary 
of the policy has again been included in this report (set out on pages 61 to 67) for the purposes of clarity and transparency.
The Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee (set out on pages 60 to 61) and the Annual Report 
on Remuneration (set out on pages 67 to 75) will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2017 AGM.
61 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Element, purpose 
and link to strategy Operation (including maximum levels where applicable)
Framework used to assess 
performance and provisions 
for the recovery of sums paid
Salary
T o provide the 
core reward 
for the role.
Sufficient level to 
recruit and retain 
individuals of the 
necessary calibre 
to execute the 
Company’s 
business strategy.
Base salaries are normally reviewed annually, with changes effective 
from 1 January.
Salaries are typically set after considering salary levels in companies of 
a similar size and complexity, the responsibilities of each individual role, 
progression within the role, individual performance and an individual’s 
experience. Our overall policy, having had due regard to the factors noted, 
is normally to target salaries at the market median level.
Salaries may be adjusted and any increase will ordinarily be (in percentage 
of salary terms) in line with those of the wider workforce.
Increases beyond those granted to the wider workforce (in percentage of 
salary terms) may be awarded in certain circumstances such as where there 
is a change in responsibility, progression in the role, experience or a 
significant increase in the scale of the role and/or size, value and/or 
complexity of the Group.
The Committee 
considers individual 
salaries at the 
appropriate Committee 
meeting each year after 
having due regard to 
the factors noted in 
operating the 
salary policy.
No recovery provisions 
apply to salary.
Benefits
In line with the 
Company’s 
policy to keep 
remuneration 
simple and 
consistent.
Executive Directors receive modest personal accident and life assurance 
cover (0.5 x salary), at similar levels as the wider UK workforce. The cost 
to the Company of providing these benefits may vary from year-to-year 
depending on the level of the associated premium.
Executive Directors receive no other conventional executive 
company benefits.
Executive Directors can pay for voluntary benefits, where Company 
purchasing power may provide an advantage to employees.
Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in any all-employee share 
plans operated by the Company, in line with HMRC guidelines currently 
prevailing (where relevant), on the same basis as for other eligible employees.
Should it be appropriate to recruit a Director from overseas, flexibility is 
retained to provide benefits that take account of those typically provided in 
their country of residence (e.g. it may be appropriate to provide benefits that 
are tailored to the unique circumstances of such an appointment as 
opposed to providing the benefits detailed above).
Necessary expenses incurred undertaking Company business are reimbursed 
so that Executive Directors are not worse off on a net of tax basis for 
fulfilling Company duties.
Not applicable.
No recovery provisions 
apply to benefits.
Pension
T o provide 
employees with 
long-term savings 
via pension 
provisions in line 
with the 
Company’s 
strategy to keep 
remuneration 
simple and 
consistent.
Defined contribution plan with the same monthly employer contributions as 
those offered to eligible employees in the wider UK workforce, of 7% of base 
salary. A cash alternative may be considered.
While individuals are not obliged to make contributions, easyJet operates a 
pension salary sacrifice arrangement whereby individuals can exchange part 
of their salary for Company paid pension contributions. Where individuals 
exchange salary this reduces employer National Insurance contributions. 
easyJet credits half of this reduction (currently 6.9% of the salary 
exchanged) to the individual’s pension plan.
Not applicable.
No recovery provisions 
apply to employer 
pension contributions.
Share ownership
T o ensure 
alignment 
between the 
interests of 
Executive 
Directors and 
shareholders.
200% of salary holding required for the Chief Executive and 175% of salary 
for the Chief Financial Officer which is expected to be reached within five 
years of appointment.
Executive Directors are required to retain half of the post-tax shares vesting 
under the LTIP until the guideline is met.
Not applicable.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
62 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Element, purpose 
and link to strategy Operation (including maximum levels where applicable)
Framework used to assess performance and provisions 
for the recovery of sums paid
Annual bonus
T o incentivise 
and recognise 
execution of the 
business strategy 
on an annual 
basis.
Rewards the 
achievement 
of annual 
financial and 
operational goals.
Compulsory 
deferral provides 
alignment with 
shareholders.
Maximum opportunity of 200% of salary for 
Chief Executive and 175% of salary for other 
Executive Directors.
One-third of the bonus earned is subject to 
compulsory deferral into shares (or equivalent) in 
a Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP), typically for 
a period of three years, and is normally subject to 
continued employment.
The remainder of the bonus is paid in cash.
Dividend equivalent payments may be made (in cash 
or shares) under the DABP, at the time of vesting and 
may assume the reinvestment of dividends.
All bonus payments are at the discretion of the 
Committee, as shown following this table.
Bonuses are based on stretching financial, 
operational and, in some cases, personal/ 
departmental performance measures, as set 
and assessed by the Committee in its 
discretion. Financial measures (e.g. profit before 
tax) will represent the majority of bonus, with 
other measures representing the balance. 
A graduated scale of targets is set for each 
measure, with 10% of each element being 
payable for achieving the relevant 
threshold hurdle.
Safety underpins all of the operational activities 
of the Group and the bonus plan includes 
provision that enables the Remuneration 
Committee to scale back the bonus earned in 
the event that there is a safety event which it 
considers warrants the use of such discretion.
The cash and deferred elements of bonuses 
are subject to provisions which enable the 
Committee to recover the cash paid (clawback) 
or to lapse the associated deferred shares 
(malus) in the event of a misstatement of 
results for the financial year to which the bonus 
relates, or an error in determining the cash 
bonus or the number of shares comprising a 
deferred share award, within three years of 
the payment of the cash bonus.
LTIP 
Performance 
Share Award
T o incentivise 
and recognise 
execution of the 
business strategy 
over the longer 
term.
Rewards strong 
financial 
performance 
and sustained 
increase in 
shareholder value.
Each year LTIP awards may be granted subject to the 
achievement of performance targets. Awards normally 
vest over a three-year period.
The maximum opportunity contained within the plan 
rules for Performance Share Awards is 250% of salary 
(with awards up to 300% of salary eligible to be made 
in exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment).
The normal maximum face value of annual awards will 
be 250% of salary for the Chief Executive and 200% 
of salary for other Executive Directors.
A dividend equivalent provision exists which allows the 
Committee to pay dividends on vested shares (in cash 
or shares) at the time of vesting and may assume the 
reinvestment of dividends. A holding period applies to 
share awards granted in the financial year ended 30 
September 2015 and beyond. The holding period will 
require the Executive Directors to retain the after-tax 
value of shares for 24 months from the vesting date.
LTIP awards vest based on three-year 
performance against a challenging range of 
financial targets and relative TSR performance 
set and assessed by the Committee in its 
discretion. Financial targets will determine 
vesting in relation to at least 50% of awards.
In order for the TSR portion of the award to 
be earned, the Company’s absolute TSR 
performance must also be positive over 
the performance period.
25% of each element vests for achieving the 
threshold performance target with 100% of 
the awards being earned for maximum 
performance (there is straight-line vesting 
between these points).
The LTIP includes provisions which enable the 
Committee to recover value in the event of a 
misstatement of results for the financial year to 
which the vesting of awards related, or an error 
in calculation when determining the vesting 
result within three years of the vesting (i.e. 
clawback provisions apply). The mechanism 
through which the clawback can be 
implemented enables the Committee to:  
(i) reduce the outstanding LTIP share awards 
(i.e. malus provisions may be used to effect a 
clawback), or (ii) for the Committee to require 
that a net of tax balancing cash payment 
be made.
63 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts How were the performance metrics chosen and how 
were the performance targets set?
The performance metrics used for the annual bonus plan and 
LTIP have been selected to reflect the Group’s key 
performance indicators.
Profit before tax is used to assess annual performance as this 
reflects how successful the Company has been in managing 
operations effectively (e.g. in maximising profit per seat whilst 
maintaining a high load factor). The balance is determined 
based on how well the Company performs against other 
specific key performance indicators set annually (e.g. 
on-time performance and customer satisfaction) to ensure 
that Executive Directors are motivated to deliver across 
a scorecard of objectives.
Since safety is of central importance to the business, the award 
of any bonus is subject to an underpin that enables the 
Remuneration Committee to reduce the bonus earned in the 
event that there is a safety event that it considers warrants the 
use of such discretion.
LTIP awards are earned for delivering performance against 
ROCE and relative TSR targets. These seek to assess the 
underlying financial performance of the business while 
maintaining clear alignment between shareholders and 
Executive Directors. T argets are set based on a sliding scale 
that takes account of relevant commercial factors.
Only modest awards are available for delivering threshold 
performance levels with maximum awards requiring substantial 
outperformance of challenging plans.
No performance targets are set for Save As You Earn and Share 
Incentive Plan awards since these form part of all-employee 
arrangements that are purposefully designed to encourage 
employees across the Group to purchase shares in 
the Company.
Have LTIP Awards always been granted subject to the 
same performance targets?
The LTIP, under which the Performance Awards are granted, 
was approved by shareholders in 2015. The measures used last 
year are the same as those intended to be used in the coming 
year. Further details on how the awards are structured and 
operated are set out in the plan rules which are available, on 
request, from the Company.
How does the Executive Directors pay policy differ 
from that for other easyJet employees?
The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is more 
heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other 
employees, to make a greater part of their pay conditional on 
the successful delivery of business strategy. This aims to create 
a clear link between the value created for shareholders and the 
remuneration received by the Executive Directors. However, in 
line with the Company’s policy to keep remuneration simple and 
consistent, the benefit and pension arrangements for the 
current Executive Directors are on the same terms as those 
offered to eligible employees in the wider workforce.
What discretion is retained by the Committee in 
operating its incentive plans?
The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, LTIP 
and DABP according to their respective rules (or relevant 
documents) and in accordance with the Listing Rules where 
relevant. The Committee retains discretion, consistent with 
market practice, in a number of regards to the operation and 
administration of these plans. These include, but are not limited 
to, the following in relation to the LTIP and DABP:
• the participants;
• the timing of grant of an award;
• the size of an award;
• the determination of vesting;
• discretion required when dealing with a change of control 
or restructuring of the Group;
• determination of the treatment of leavers based on the 
rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen;
• adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights 
issues, corporate restructuring events and special 
dividends); and
• the annual review of performance measures and weighting, 
and targets for the LTIP from year-to-year.
In relation to the annual bonus plan, the Committee retains 
discretion over:
• the participants;
• the timing of grant of a payment;
• the determination of the bonus payment;
• dealing with a change of control;
• determination of the treatment of leavers based on the 
rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen; and
• the annual review of performance measures and weighting, 
and targets for the annual bonus plan from year-to-year.
In relation to both the Company’s LTIP and annual bonus plan, 
the Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets and/or 
set different measures if events occur which cause it to 
determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate (e.g. 
material acquisition and/or divestment of a Group business), 
and the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve 
their original purpose and are not materially less difficult 
to satisfy.
Any use of the above discretions would be explained in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration and may be the subject of 
consultation with the Company’s major shareholders.
The use of discretion in relation to the Company’s Save As You 
Earn and Share Incentive Plans will be as permitted under 
HMRC rules and the Listing Rules.
Details of share awards granted to existing Executive Directors 
are set out on page 71 of the Annual Report on Remuneration. 
These remain eligible to vest based on their original 
award terms.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
64 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 It should be noted that since the analysis above shows what 
could be earned by the Executive Directors based on the 
remuneration policy described above (ignoring the potential 
impact of share price growth), the numbers will be different to 
the values included in the table on page 69 detailing what was 
actually earned by the Executive Directors in relation to the 
financial year ended 30 September 2016, since these values are 
based on the actual levels of performance achieved to 30 
September 2016 and include the impact of share price growth 
in relation to share awards.
What are the Executive Directors’ terms 
of employment?
Under the Executive Directors’ service contracts both parties 
are required to give 12 months’ notice of termination 
of employment.
For Executive Directors, if notice is served by either party, the 
Executive Director can continue to receive basic salary, benefits 
and pension for the duration of their notice period during which 
time the Company may require the individual to continue to 
fulfil their current duties or may assign a period of garden leave.
The policy for a new hire would be based on similar terms and 
will also include the ability for easyJet to make a payment in lieu 
of notice of up to 12 monthly instalments which would be 
reduced if alternative employment was taken up.
Under the current Chief Executive’s contract, the Company, 
by mutual consent, may elect to make a payment in lieu of 
notice equivalent in value to 12 months’ basic salary, payable 
in monthly instalments which would be subject to mitigation 
if alternative employment is taken up during this time. 
Alternatively, this payment may be paid as a lump sum. Bonus 
payments may be made, payable in cash, on a pro-rata basis, 
but only for the period of time served from the start of the 
financial year to the date of termination and not for any 
period in lieu of notice. Any bonus paid would be subject to 
the normal bonus targets, tested at the end of the financial 
year. The current Chief Executive has a contractual entitlement 
to such a pro-rated payment under her service contract, other 
than in the cases of resignation or termination resulting from 
gross misconduct. These provisions do not apply to the Chief 
Financial Officer.
In relation to a termination of employment, the Committee 
may make any statutory entitlements or payments to settle 
or compromise claims in connection with a termination of 
any existing or future Executive Director as necessary. 
The Committee also retains the discretion to reimburse 
reasonable legal expenses incurred in relation to a termination 
of employment and to meet any outplacement costs if 
deemed necessary.
The Executive Directors’ service contracts and the Non-
Executive Directors’ letters of appointment are available for 
inspection by shareholders at the Company’s registered office.
What is the policy when an Executive Director leaves 
or there is a takeover?
The rules of both schemes (LTIP and DABP) set out what 
happens to awards if a participant ceases to be an employee 
or Director of easyJet before the end of the vesting period. 
Generally, any outstanding share awards will lapse on such 
cessation, except in certain circumstances.
How much could the Executive Directors earn under 
the remuneration policy?
A significant proportion of remuneration is linked to 
performance, particularly at maximum performance levels. The 
charts below show how much the Chief Executive and Chief 
Financial Officer could earn under easyJet’s remuneration policy 
(as detailed above) under different performance scenarios 
(based on their salaries as at 1 October 2016). The following 
assumptions have been made:
Minimum (performance below threshold) – Fixed pay only with 
no vesting under any of easyJet’s incentive plans.
In line with expectations – Fixed pay plus a bonus at the 
mid-point of the range (giving 50% of the maximum 
opportunity) and vesting of 43% of the maximum under 
the LTIP.
Maximum (performance meets or exceeds maximum) – Fixed 
pay plus maximum bonus and maximum vesting under the LTIP.
Fixed pay comprises:
• salaries – salary effective as at 1 October 2016;
• benefits – amount received by each Executive Director in 
the 2016 financial year;
• pension – employer contributions or cash-equivalent 
payments received by each Executive Director in the 2016 
financial year; and
• Free and matching shares under the all-employee share 
incentive plan.
The scenarios do not include any share price growth or 
dividend assumptions.
Fixed pay Annual Bonus L TIP (Performance)
Below threshold
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Exceeds target
In line with expectations
£3,932,000
£2,212,000
£757,000
19%
34%
100%
36% 45%
34% 32%
Fixed pay Annual Bonus L TIP (Performance)
Below threshold
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
Exceeds target
In line with expectations
£2,050,000
£1,190,000
£457,000
22%
38%
100%
36% 41%
30% 31%
65 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Should it be appropriate to recruit a Director from overseas, 
flexibility is retained to provide benefits that take account of 
those typically provided in their country of residence (e.g. it 
may be appropriate to provide benefits that are tailored to the 
unique circumstances of such an appointment).
The maximum level of variable pay that may be offered on an 
ongoing basis and the structure of remuneration will be in 
accordance with the approved policy detailed above, i.e. at an 
aggregate maximum of up to 450% of salary (200% annual 
bonus and 250% Performance Shares under the LTIP), taking 
into account annual and long-term variable pay. This limit does 
not include the value of any buy-out arrangements.
Different performance measures may be set initially for the 
annual bonus, taking into account the responsibilities of the 
individual, and the point in the financial year that they joined. 
Any incentive offered above this limit would be contingent on 
the Company receiving shareholder approval for an amendment 
to its approved policy at its next AGM.
The above policy applies to both an internal promotion to the 
Board or an external hire.
In the case of an external hire, if it is necessary to buy out 
incentive pay or benefit arrangements (which would be 
forfeited on leaving the previous employer), this would be 
provided for taking into account the form (cash or shares), 
timing and expected value (i.e. likelihood of meeting any 
existing performance criteria) of the remuneration being 
forfeited. Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted 
using easyJet’s share plans to the extent possible, although 
awards may also be granted outside these schemes if 
necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
In the case of an internal promotion, any outstanding variable 
pay awarded in relation to the previous role will be paid 
according to its terms of grant (adjusted as relevant to take 
into account the Board appointment).
On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive 
Director, fees will be set taking into account the experience 
and calibre of the individual. Where specific cash or share 
arrangements are delivered to Non-Executive Directors, these 
will not include share options or other performance-
related elements.
How are the Non-Executive Directors paid?
The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 
receive an annual fee (paid in monthly instalments). The fee for 
the Chairman is set by the Remuneration Committee and the 
fees for the Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are 
approved by the Board, on the recommendation of the 
Chairman and Chief Executive.
What are the terms of appointment of the 
Non-Executive Directors?
The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ 
terms of appointment are recorded in letters of appointment, 
which are usually renewed every three years. The required 
notice from the Company is three months in all cases. The 
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any compensation 
on loss of office.
If an Executive Director ceases to be an employee or Director 
of easyJet as a result of death, injury, retirement, the sale of the 
business or company that employs the individual, or any other 
reason at the discretion of the Committee, then they will be 
treated as a ‘good leaver’ under the relevant plan’s rules. Under 
the DABP, the shares for a good leaver will normally vest in full 
on the normal vesting date (or on cessation of employment in 
the case of death) and if the award is in the form of an option, 
there is a 12-month window in which the award can be 
exercised. Awards structured as options which have vested 
prior to cessation can be exercised within 12 months of 
cessation of office or employment.
Under the LTIP, a good leaver’s unvested awards will vest (either 
on the normal vesting date or the relevant date of cessation, as 
determined by the Committee) subject to achievement of any 
relevant performance conditions, with a pro-rata reduction to 
reflect the proportion of the vesting period served. The 
Committee has the discretion to disapply time pro-rating if it 
considers it appropriate to do so. A good leaver may exercise 
their vested awards structured as options for a period of 12 
months following the individual’s cessation of office or 
employment, whereas unvested awards may be exercised 
within 12 months of vesting.
In determining whether an Executive Director should be treated 
as a good leaver, and the extent to which their award may vest, 
the Committee will take into account the circumstances of an 
individual’s departure.
In the event of a takeover or winding-up of easyJet plc (which is 
not part of an internal reorganisation of the easyJet Group, in 
circumstances where equivalent replacement awards are not 
granted) all awards will vest subject to, in the case of LTIP 
awards, the achievement of any relevant performance 
conditions with a pro-rata reduction to reflect the proportion 
of the vesting period served. The Committee has discretion to 
disapply time pro-rating if it considers it appropriate to do so. 
In the event of a takeover, the Committee may determine, with 
the agreement of the acquiring company, that awards will be 
exchanged for equivalent awards in another company.
What is the policy on Executive Directors holding 
external appointments?
Executive Directors are permitted to accept one appointment 
on a board of a listed company so long as this is not thought to 
interfere with the business of the Group. Any fees received in 
respect of these appointments are retained directly by the 
relevant Executive Director.
What would the remuneration policy be if a new 
Director was appointed?
Base salary levels will be set in accordance with easyJet’s 
remuneration policy, taking into account the experience and 
calibre of the individual (e.g. typically up to market median 
levels but salaries above or below this level may be set 
dependent upon the level of the individual). Where it is 
appropriate to offer a lower salary initially, a series of increases 
to achieve the desired salary positioning may be given over the 
following few years subject to individual performance. Benefits 
will be provided in line with those offered to other employees, 
with relocation expenses/arrangements provided if necessary. 
easyJet may offer a cash amount on recruitment, payment of 
which may be staggered, to reflect the value of benefits a new 
recruit may have received from a former employer.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
66 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation (including maximum levels where applicable)
Fees T o attract and retain a 
high-calibre Chairman, 
Deputy Chairman 
and Non-Executive 
Directors by offering 
market-competitive 
fee levels.
The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities.
The other Non-Executive Directors receive a basic Board fee, with supplementary fees 
payable for additional Board Committee responsibilities.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the 
Company’s incentive arrangements.
Fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, and may be increased, taking into account 
factors such as the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies of 
comparable size and complexity.
Flexibility is retained to exceed current fee levels if it is necessary to do so in order to 
appoint a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director of an appropriate calibre.
Necessary expenses incurred undertaking Company business will be reimbursed so 
that the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are not worse off, on a net of tax 
basis, for fulfilling Company duties.
No other benefits or remuneration are provided to the Chairman or 
Non-Executive Directors.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
Who is on the Company’s Remuneration Committee?
As at 30 September 2016, the members of the Committee 
were: 
• Charles Gurassa (Chair)
• Adèle Anderson (appointed to the Committee effective 
from 1 January 2016)
• François Rubichon
John Browett stepped down from the Board and the 
Committee on 31 December 2015. Adèle Anderson was 
appointed to the Committee in his place. Chris Browne was also 
a member of the Committee on her appointment to the Board 
on 1 January 2016. However, once it became apparent that 
Chris would be joining the Executive Management T eam, the 
Board determined that she was no longer independent and she 
therefore stepped down from the Committee in September 
2016, ahead of the Committee’s last meeting of the financial 
year. Andy Martin joined the Committee on 1 October 2016.
The responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the 
Corporate governance section of the Annual Report on pages 
49 to 50.
The Chief Executive attends meetings by invitation and assists 
the Committee in its deliberations as appropriate. The 
Committee also receives assistance from the Group People 
Director and the Group Head of Reward. The Company 
Secretary and Group General Counsel acts as secretary to the 
Committee. No Directors are involved in deciding their 
own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee is advised by New Bridge Street 
(NBS), (a trading name of Aon plc). NBS has no other 
connection with the Company. However, a sister company in 
the Aon group also provides pension and flexible benefits 
administration services to the Company. NBS was appointed by 
the Committee in 2004. NBS advises the Committee on 
developments in executive pay and on the operation of 
easyJet’s incentive plans. T otal fees (excluding VAT) paid to NBS 
in respect of services to the Committee during the 2016 
financial year were £59,700.
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group 
Code of Conduct. The Committee has reviewed the operating 
processes in place at NBS and is satisfied that the advice it 
receives is independent and objective.
How will the remuneration policy be applied for the 
2017 financial year?
What are the Executive Directors’ current salaries?
The current and proposed salaries of the Executive 
Directors are:
1 January 
2017 salary
1 January 
2016 salary Change
CEO £705,600 £705,600 0%
CFO £462,500 £425,000 9%
Andrew Findlay’s base salary was set at £425,000 when he 
joined the Board in October 2015. The salary was set at a 
significant discount to the market level with the intention that it 
would be brought up to the mid-market level (£500,000) over 
time to reflect progression in the role. The increase is effective 1 
January 2017, to £462,500 which was subject to an assessment 
of individual and Company performance, is the first stage in this 
process. Any future salary increase will remain subject to 
satisfactory individual and Company performance. Andrew 
Findlay has indicated to the Committee that he would like his 
cash salary to remain static and that he would receive the 
amount of this increase in shares, which he would retain in order 
to build his shareholding in the Company.
67 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Awards vest on a straight-line basis from threshold to on-target 
and from on-target to maximum. As with the awards granted 
in the 2016 financial year, ROCE targets are based on average 
ROCE over a three-year performance period, commencing 
on 1 October 2016. TSR targets are based on relative TSR 
compared to companies ranked FTSE 51-150 at the start of 
the performance period, where the average share price is 
calculated over three months at the start and end of the 
period. In addition, in order for the TSR-based awards to vest, 
easyJet must have achieved positive absolute TSR over the 
performance period. T argets are set taking account of 
management’s strategic plan, market consensus and the 
Board’s strong focus on driving value from its increasing capital 
base. The Committee considers the range of ROCE targets set 
to be at least as demanding as those set in prior years.
A post-vesting holding period requiring the Executive Directors 
to retain the after tax value of any shares for two years from 
the vesting date will apply to awards made in 2017. The ability 
to apply clawback has also been extended from 2016 to cover 
situations where the individual is considered to have contributed 
to any safety failure which could result in reputational damage 
for the Company.
How will the Non-Executive Directors be paid in the 
2017 financial year?
The fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will be 
as follows:
Chairman £300,000
Basic fee for other Non-Executive Directors £60,000
Fees for Deputy Chairman and SID role
(1)
£25,000
Chair of the Audit, Safety and 
Remuneration Committees
(1)
£15,000
Chair of the Finance Committee
(1)
£10,000
(1) Supplementary fees.
The Board has agreed that there will be no increase to the 
basic fees for the 2017 financial year; these were last reviewed 
and increased on 1 October 2013.
For comparison, the typical rate of salary increase to be 
awarded to employees in sales, marketing and Group 
functions is 1%.
What bonus will be awarded in respect of 
performance in the 2017 financial year?
The maximum bonus opportunity remains at 200% of salary for 
the Chief Executive and at 175% for the Chief Financial Officer. 
The measures have been selected to reflect a range of financial 
and operational goals that support the key strategic objectives 
of the Company.
The performance measures and weightings will be as follows:
Measure
As a percentage of maximum 
bonus opportunity
CEO CFO
Profit before tax  
(at constant currency) 70% 60%
On-time performance 10% 10%
Customer satisfaction 10% 10%
Operating costs (excluding fuel) 
per seat at constant currency 10% 10%
Departmental objectives – 10%
The proposed target levels for the 2017 financial year have been 
set to be challenging relative to the business plan.
The Committee is comfortable that the bonus targets for both 
Executive Directors are appropriately demanding in light of their 
respective bonus opportunities.
The targets themselves, as they relate to the 2017 financial 
year, are commercially sensitive. However, retrospective 
disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be 
provided in next year’s remuneration report unless they remain 
commercially sensitive. The safety of our customers and people 
underpins all of the operational activities of the Group and the 
bonus plan includes a provision that enables the Remuneration 
Committee to scale back the bonus earned in the event that 
there is a safety event that occurs, which it considers warrants 
the use of such discretion. One-third of the bonus earned will 
be deferred into shares for a period of three years and subject 
to continued employment.
How will the LTIP be operated in relation to the 2017 
financial year awards?
The award levels for the Executive Directors in the 2017 financial 
year will be 250% of salary for the Chief Executive and 200% of 
salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
The 2017 financial year LTIP awards will be subject to the 
following performance conditions:
Below 
threshold 
(0% vesting)
Threshold 
(25% vesting)
On-target 
(50% vesting)
Maximum 
(100% 
vesting)
ROCE 
(70% of 
total award) <9.0% 9.0% 11.2% 13.0%
Below 
threshold 
(0% vesting)
Threshold 
(25% vesting)
Maximum 
(100% 
vesting)
TSR  
(30% of total award) <Median Median
Upper 
quartile
Directors’ remuneration report continued
68 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 What did the Directors earn in relation to the 2016 financial year?
The table below sets out the amounts earned by the Directors (£’000) (Audited)
£’000
2016 2015
Fees and 
Salary Buy out
(5)
Benefits
(6)
Bonus
(7)
LTIP
(8)
Pension
(9)
T otal
Fees and 
Salary Benefits Bonus LTIP
(10)
Pension T otal
Executive
Carolyn McCall DBE 704 – 5 189 518 49 1,465 694 4 917 4,577 49 6,241
Andrew Findlay 423 613 42 155 – 30 1,263 – – – – – –
Chris Kennedy
(1)
– – – – – – – 394 – – – 20  414 
Non-Executive
John Barton 300 – – – – – 300 300 – – – – 300
Charles Gurassa 100 – – – – – 100 100 – – – – 100
Adèle Anderson 77 – – – – – 77 85 – – – – 85
Dr. Andreas Bierwirth 60 – – – – – 60 60 – – – – 60
John Browett
(2)
15 – – – – – 15 60 – – – – 60
Chris Browne OBE
(3)
54 – – – – – 54 – – – – – –
Professor Rigas 
Doganis
(4)
– – – – – – – 13 – – – – 13
Keith Hamill OBE 60 – – – – – 60 60 – – – – 60
Andy Martin 68 – – – – – 68 60 – – – – 60
François Rubichon 60 – – – – – 60 60 – – – – 60
T otal 1,921 613 47 344 518 79 3,522 1,886 4 917 4,577 69 7,453
(1) Left the Board on 1 September 2015.
(2) Left the Board on 31 December 2015.
(3) Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2016 and left the Board on 30 September 2016.
(4) Left the Board on 1 December 2014.
(5) Performance related buy-out arrangements were agreed to compensate Andrew Findlay for bonus and LTIP forfeited from his previous employer. The 
buy-out comprised a £311,837 cash pay-out as well as various share awards (see page 71 for details). Of these share awards, 22,762 vested on 7 August 
2016; the share price at the vesting date was £10.35. A further 4,680 awards will vest on 17 December 2016 based on performance measured to 30 
September 2016. For the purpose of this table, the award has been valued using the average share price over the three months to 30 September 2016 
of £10.781. This compares to £17.14 at grant.
(6) Benefits relate to the cost to the Company of personal accident and life assurance cover and the value of shares during the year under the Company’s 
Share Incentive Plan. Andrew Findlay's benefits also include a one-off relocation allowance payment of £40,000.
(7) One-third of the bonus will be compulsorily deferred in shares for three years and subject to forfeiture.
(8) This relates to the LTIP awards granted in December 2013 which vest in December 2016 based on performance measured to 30 September 2016. For the 
purposes of this table, the award has been valued using the average share price over the three months to 30 September 2016 of £10.781. This compares 
to £14.99 at grant.
(9) Carolyn McCall has reached her lifetime pension limit and received a cash alternative of £49,270 in lieu of pension contributions.
(10) This relates to the LTIP awards granted in December 2012 which vested in December 2015 based on performance measured to 30 September 2015. For 
the purposes of the table in last year's report, the award was valued using the average share price over the three months to 30 September 2015 of 
£16.988. The value has been updated in this table using the share price at the date of vesting of £17.15. This compares to £7.37 at grant.
How was pay linked to performance in the 2016 financial year?
Measure CEO CFO Threshold On-T arget Maximum Actual Payout
Profit before tax (£m) 70% 60% 635 706 810 495 0%
On-time performance 
(1)
10% 10% 80% 82% 86% 81.2% 34%
Customer satisfaction targets
(2)
10% 10% 75% 77% 81% 72% 0%
Cost per seat (ex. fuel)
(3)
10% 10% £37.61 £37.35 £36.84 £36.62 100%
Departmental objectives
(4)
– 10% n/a Successful Outstanding Exceeding 75%
(1) 81.2% represented actual on-time performance of 77% adjusted for the impact of extraordinary events (primarily prolonged strike action and terrorist 
events) and of unanticipated and severe air traffic congestion. This adjustment neutralises the impact of these external factors and means that the 
resulting comparison implies the same level of stretch as was intended by the Committee when the target was set. This adjustment is consistent with the 
approach taken for all other employees whose bonus is also subject to this measure.
(2) Customer satisfaction – this measures the percentage of our passengers that are ‘Quite satisfied’, ‘Very satisfied’ or ‘Completely satisfied’ at last contact.
(3) Cost per seat (excluding fuel) targets are at constant (plan) currency.
(4) Exceeding is half way between successful and outstanding.
69 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual Bonus
A sliding scale of targets for each objective was set at the start of the 2016 financial year. 10% of each element is payable for 
achieving the threshold target, increasing to 50% for on-target performance and 100% for achieving maximum performance. 
Achievements between these points are calculated on a straight-line basis.
Challenging business conditions during the 2016 financial year meant that performance in the year declined from the results 
achieved in 2015. Performance highlights during the year were:
• profit before tax was £495 million (2015: £686 million);
• ROCE (including lease adjustments) was 14.6% (2015: 22.2%); and
• there was an improvement in total cost per seat but on-time performance and customer satisfaction saw declines.
13% of the maximum bonus was awarded to the Chief Executive in respect of performance for the year ended 30 September 
2016. This will result in a bonus payment of £188,632 to the Chief Executive. One-third of the bonus is compulsorily deferred into 
shares for three years and subject to continued employment.
21% of the maximum bonus was awarded to the Chief Financial Officer in respect of performance for the year ended 
30 September 2016. This will result in a bonus payment of £154,855 to the Chief Financial Officer. One-third of the bonus 
is compulsorily deferred into shares for three years and subject to continued employment.
The Committee is satisfied with the overall payments in light of the level of performance achieved.
LTIP
The awards made to Executive Directors in December 2013 were subject to a combination of average ROCE (including lease 
adjustments) and relative TSR compared to FTSE 51-150 companies performance conditions measured over the three financial 
years ended 30 September 2016. The percentage which could be earned was determined using the following vesting schedule:
Below threshold 
(0% vesting)
Threshold 
(25% vesting)
On T arget 
(40% vesting)
Maximum 
(100% vesting)
ROCE awards Below 15% 15% 18.5% 20% or above
(50% of total awards)
TSR awards Below median Median Upper Quartile
(50% of total awards)
Three-year average ROCE (including lease adjustments) to 30 September 2016 was 19.1% and the Company did not meet the 
threshold TSR performance target; correspondingly 32% of awards of Performance Shares and Matching Shares are due to vest in 
December 2016, subject to continued service.
What LTIP awards were granted to Directors in the financial year?
Details of the LTIP awards made to the Executive Directors are summarised below, with further details given in the table on 
outstanding share interests on page 71.
Award T ype
Number  
of shares
Face value (% of 
salary)
(1)
Performance condition
(2)
Performance period
% vesting at 
threshold 
performance
CEO Performance
Nil cost 
option
102,977 £1,763,996 250%
70% based on average  
ROCE
(3)
 and 30% based  
on relative TSR  
(versus FTSE 31–130)
(4)
3 financial  
years ending  
30 September  
2018
25% 
CFO
(5)
Performance 49,620 £849,991 200%
(1) Face value calculated based on the closing share price of £17.13 on 17 December 2015.
(2) Performance conditions are set out on page 63.
(3) ROCE (including lease adjustments) 15% threshold to 20% maximum.
(4) Relative TSR against companies ranked FTSE 31-130 median threshold to upper quartile maximum. In addition, the TSR awards will not vest unless there has 
been positive TSR over the performance period.
(5) The CFO was also awarded awards in relation to his buy-out agreement, which were fully disclosed in the 2015 Annual report and accounts and is detailed 
on page 71.
Have there been any payments to past Directors? (Audited)
A payment of £10,417 was paid to Professor Rigas Doganis for continuing to Chair the Safety Committee until 29 February 2016. 
There have been no other payments made to past Directors during the year.
Have there been any payments for loss of office? (Audited)
No payments for loss of office have been made to Directors during the year.
70 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 What share awards do the Executive Directors have outstanding at the financial year end? (Audited)
Details of share options and share awards outstanding at the financial year end are shown in the following tables:
Carolyn McCall DBE
Scheme
No. of shares/
options at
30 September
 2015
(1)
Shares/ 
options 
granted 
in year
Shares/ 
options 
lapsed 
in year
Shares/ 
options 
exercised  
in year
No. of shares/ 
options at 
30 September
2016
(1)
Date 
of grant
Exercise 
price 
(£)
Market price 
on exercise 
date 
(£)
Date from which 
exercisable (or 
date of vesting 
for SIP) Expiry Date
A 180,461 –  –  – 180,461 18 Dec 2012
(2)
 –  – 18 Dec 2015 18 Dec 2022
A 90,517 –  –  – 90,517 17 Dec 2013
(3)
 –  – 17 Dec 2016 17 Dec 2023
A 84,987  –  –  – 84,987 19 Dec 2014
(4)
 –  – 19 Dec 2017 19 Dec 2024
A – 102,977  –  – 102,977 17 Dec 2015
(5)
 –  – 17 Dec 2018 17 Dec 2025
B 86,438 –  –  – 86,438 18 Dec 2012
(2)
 –  – 18 Dec 2015 18 Dec 2022
B 38,283 –  –  – 38,283 17 Dec 2013
(3)
 –  – 17 Dec 2016 17 Dec 2023
B 31,441 –  –  – 31,441 19 Dec 2014
(4)
 –  – 19 Dec 2017 19 Dec 2024
C 807 –  –  – 807 1 May 2011 –  – 1 May 2014 n/a
C 617 –  –  – 617 18 Apr 2012 –  – 18 Apr 2015 n/a
C 265 –  –  – 265 30 Apr 2013 –  – 30 Apr 2016 n/a
C 176 –  –  – 176 25 Apr 2014 –  – 25 Apr 2017 n/a
C 122 –  –  – 122 24 Apr 2015 –  – 24 Apr 2018 n/a
C – 199  –  – 199 28 Apr 2016 –  – 28 Apr 2019 n/a
D 989 105  –  – 1,094 – – See note 9 – n/a
E 947 –  –  – 947 12 Jun 2014 13.30 – 1 Aug 2017 31 Jan 2018
E 408 –  –  –  408 10 Jun 2015 13.23 – 1 Aug 2018 31 Jan 2019
Andrew Findlay
Scheme
No. of shares/
options at
30 September
 2015
(1)
Shares/ 
options 
granted 
in year
Shares/ 
options 
lapsed 
in year
Shares/ 
options 
exercised 
in year
No. of shares/
options at 30 
September
2016
(1)
Date of grant
Exercise 
price 
(£)
Market price 
on exercise 
date 
(£)
Date from which 
exercisable (or 
date of vesting 
for SIP) Expiry Date
A – 22,762  –  – 22,762 20 Nov 2015
(6)
 –  – 7 Aug 2016 20 Nov 2025
A – 14,625  –  – 14,625 20 Nov 2015
(7)
 –  – 17 Dec 2016 20 Nov 2025
A –  39,923  –  – 39,923 20 Nov 2015
(8)
 –  – 19 Dec 2017 20 Nov 2025
A –  49,620  –  – 49,620 17 Dec 2015
(5)
 –  – 17 Dec 2018 17 Dec 2025
D –  91  –  – 91 –  – See note 9 – n/a
E –  1,051 –  – 1,051 10 Jun 2016 11.98 – 1 Aug 2019 31 Jan 2020
71 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts The closing share price of the Company’s ordinary shares at 30 September 2016 was £10.07 and the closing price range during 
the year ended 30 September 2016 was £9.90 to £18.08.
Key:
A Long T erm Incentive Plan – Performance Shares 
B Long T erm Incentive Plan – Matching Shares 
C Share Incentive Plan – Performance (Free) Shares 
D Share Incentive Plan – Matching Shares 
E Save As You Earn Awards (SAYE)
Notes:
Note 1: The number of shares is calculated according to the scheme rules of individual plans based on the middle-market closing share price of the day prior 
to grant. As is usual market practice, the option price for SAYE awards is determined by the Committee in advance of the award by reference to the share 
price following announcement of the half year results.
Note 2: For LTIP awards made in December 2012, 50% of vesting was based on three-year average ROCE (including lease adjustment) performance for the 
three financial years ending 30 September 2015. This was the first award where ROCE calculations included operating leases and this is the basis for all 
subsequent awards. 50% of vesting was based on relative TSR performance compared to companies ranked FTSE 51-150. Three year average ROCE (including 
lease adjustments) was 20.0% and the Company was ranked at the 94
th
 percentile versus FTSE 51-150 companies in terms of TSR; correspondingly 100% of 
these awards vested in December 2015. The following targets applied for these awards:
Below 
threshold 
(0% vesting)
Threshold 
(25% vesting)
Maximum 
(100% vesting)
ROCE awards (50% of total award) < 12.0% 12.0% 16.0%
TSR awards (50% of total award) < Median Median Upper 
quartile
Note 3: For LTIP awards made in December 2013, 50% of vesting is based on three-year average ROCE (including lease adjustment) performance for the three 
financial years ending 30 September 2016 and 50% of vesting is based on relative TSR performance compared to companies ranked FTSE 51-150. Three year 
average ROCE (including lease adjustments) was 19.1% and the Company did not meet the TSR performance metric. The following targets apply for 
these awards:
Below 
threshold 
(0% vesting)
Threshold 
(25% vesting)
T arget 
(40% vesting)
Maximum 
(100% vesting)
ROCE awards (50% of total award) < 15.0% 15.0% 18.5% 20.0%
TSR awards (50% of total award) < Median Median n/a Upper 
quartile
In addition, the TSR awards will not vest unless there has been positive TSR over the performance period.
Note 4: For LTIP awards made in December 2014, 50% of vesting is based on three-year average ROCE (including lease adjustment) performance for the three 
financial years ending 30 September 2017 and 50% of vesting is based on relative TSR performance compared to companies ranked FTSE 31-130. The following 
targets apply for these awards:
Below 
threshold 
(0% vesting)
Threshold 
(25% vesting)
T arget 
(40% vesting)
Maximum 
(100% vesting)
ROCE awards (50% of total award) < 15.0% 15.0% 18.2% 20.0%
TSR awards (50% of total award) < Median Median n/a Upper 
quartile
In addition, the TSR awards will not vest unless there has been positive TSR over the performance period.
Note 5: For LTIP awards made in December 2015, 70% of vesting is based on three-year average ROCE (including lease adjustment) performance for the three 
financial years ending 30 September 2018 and 30% of vesting is based on relative TSR performance compared to companies ranked FTSE 31-130. The 
following targets apply for these awards: 
Below 
threshold  
(0% vesting)
Threshold 
(25% vesting)
T arget  
(40% vesting)
Maximum 
(100% vesting)
ROCE awards (70% of total award) < 15.0% 15.0% 18.0% 20.0%
TSR awards (30% of total award) < Median Median n/a Upper 
quartile
In addition, the TSR awards will not vest unless there has been positive TSR over the performance period.
Note 6: An award made to compensate Andrew Findlay for the forfeiture of the LTIP award he received in August 2013 from his previous employer. Since 
around two-thirds of the vesting period for this award had already run its course, the Committee assessed the extent to which the performance targets were 
likely to be met (based on current market forecasts) in respect of the shares comprising two-thirds of the award and converted this number of shares into an 
equivalent value of easyJet shares on joining. These vested on 7 August 2016, so as to mirror the original time horizon of the award.
Note 7: An award of 14,625 easyJet shares relating to the forfeiture of the LTIP Andrew Findlay received in August 2013 from his previous employer. This award 
was calculated based on the value of one-third of the award at the time of joining easyJet, but these shares will only vest to the extent that the performance 
targets set for the 2013 easyJet LTIP award (as provided in Note 3 above) are met and continued employment to 17 December 2016. This compensation 
replicated the assessed value of the awards forfeit and also, in part, switched into easyJet performance on a pro-rata basis for part of the award.
Note 8: An award to compensate for the forfeiture of the award granted to Andrew Findlay in August 2014 from his previous employer. This award comprised 
an exchange of the maximum number of shares that could vest under his previous employer's award which were then converted to easyJet shares on joining. 
These shares will only vest based on the extent to which the performance targets applying to the 2014 easyJet LTIP award (as provided in Note 4 above) are 
met and Andrew remaining in employment until 19 December 2017, being the ordinary vesting date for the easyJet award and later than the vesting date of 
the original award at his former employer.
Note 9: Participants buy Partnership Shares monthly under the Share Incentive Plan. The Company provides one Matching Share for each Partnership Share 
purchased, up to the first £1,500 per year. These Matching Shares are first available for vesting three years after purchase.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
72 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 What are the shareholding guidelines for Directors?
The Chief Executive is required to build up a shareholding of 200% of salary and the Chief Financial Officer is required to build 
a shareholding of 175% of salary, to be built up over five years from the adoption of the policy (27 September 2012) or their 
appointment, if later. Until the guideline is met, they are required to retain 50% of net vested shares from the LTIP.
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman of the Board, are required to build up a shareholding of 100% of annual fees 
over a period of three years from the adoption of the policy or date of appointment, if later.
What are the Directors’ current shareholdings and interests in shares?
The following table provides details on the Directors’ shareholdings and interests in shares as at 30 September 2016, or on leaving 
the Board if earlier (Audited):
Unconditionally
owned
shares
(3)
Shareholding
guidelines
achieved
(4)
DABP
(5)
Interests in shares
SAYE LTIP
(6)
SIP
(7)
T otal
John Barton 34,000 100% – – – – –
Charles Gurassa 18,198 100% – – – – –
Carolyn McCall DBE 328,442 100% 64,327 1,355 615,104 1,591 682,377
Andrew Findlay 91 0% – 1,051 126,930 91 128,072
Adèle Anderson 5,114 100% – – – – –
Dr. Andreas Bierwirth 5,251 100% – – – – –
John Browett
(1)(8)
5,412 100% – – – – –
Chris Browne OBE
(2)
– – – – – – –
Keith Hamill OBE 4,560 100% – – – – –
Andy Martin 7,000 100% – – – – –
François Rubichon 3,465 100% – – – – –
(1) Left the Board on 31 December 2015.
(2) Left the Board on 30 September 2016.
(3) Includes SIP Partnership Shares, vested SIP Performance (Free) Shares, vested SIP Matching Shares, LTIP Investment Shares, and any shares owned by 
connected persons.
(4) Unconditionally owned shares and share interests under the DABP count towards achievement of the shareholding guidelines.
(5) The principal terms of the DABP are described on page 63.
(6) LTIP shares are granted in the form of nil cost options subject to performance.
(7) Consists of unvested SIP Performance (Free) Shares and unvested SIP Matching Shares.
(8) 100% of the shareholding guideline had been achieved on the date John Browett left the Board.
Note: As at 11 November 2016, the unconditionally owned shares of Carolyn McCall had increased by 53 shares since 30 September 
2016 to 328,495 shares and the unconditionally owned shares of Andrew Findlay had increased by 31 shares since 30 September 
2016 to 122 shares.
Any changes subsequent to the date of this Report may be found on our corporate website, http://corporate.easyJet.com
Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in the unvested shares held by the easyJet Share Incentive Plan T rust and the 
easyJet plc Employee Benefit T rust. At 30 September 2016, ordinary shares held in the T rusts were as follows:
Number
easyJet Share Incentive Plan T rust 1,509,231
easyJet plc Employee Benefit T rust 80,487
T otal 1,589,718
73 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Position against dilution limits
easyJet complies with the Investment Association's Principles of Remuneration with regard to dilution limits. These principles 
require that commitments under all of the Company’s share ownership schemes must not exceed 10% of the issued share capital 
in any rolling 10 year period. The requirement for shares under all current share incentive schemes (LTIP, Save As you Earn and 
Share Incentive Plan) will be satisfied with share purchases on the market. The Company’s current position against its dilution limit 
is therefore under the maximum 10% limit.
Employee share plan participation
easyJet encourages share ownership throughout the Group by the use of Performance (Free) Shares and Matching Shares within 
a Share Incentive Plan and a Save As You Earn scheme. All staff subject to minimum service were granted shares during the year. 
Executive Directors may also participate in these plans on the same terms as other eligible staff. They are summarised in the 
Corporate Responsibility report on page 38.
Details of Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment
Details of the service contracts and letters of appointment in place as at 30 September 2016 for Directors are as follows:
Date of current service contract  
or letter of appointment
Unexpired term at 
30 September 2016
John Barton 3 October 2013 2 years 7 months
Charles Gurassa 27 June 2014 9 months
Carolyn McCall DBE 1 July 2010 –
Andrew Findlay 10 April 2015 –
Adèle Anderson 1 September 2014 11 months
Dr. Andreas Bierwirth 19 June 2014 10 months
Chris Browne 1 January 2016 –
Keith Hamill OBE 3 March 2015 1 year 5 months
Andy Martin 1 September 2014 11 months
François Rubichon 19 June 2014 10 months
Review of past performance
The chart below sets out the TSR performance of the Company relative to the FTSE 250, FTSE 100 and a group of European 
airlines
(1)
. The FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 were chosen as easyJet has been a member of both indices during the period.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2016, of £100 invested in easyJet on 30 September 2008 compared with the value 
of £100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index, FTSE 250 Index or a comparator group of airlines. The other points plotted are the values 
at intervening financial year ends (overseas companies have been tracked in their local currency, i.e. ignoring exchange rate 
movements since 30 September 2008).
(1) British Airways, Lufthansa, Ryanair, Air France-KLM and Iberia have all been included in the comparative European Airlines group. British Airways and Iberia 
have been tracked forward for 2011 to 2016 as IAG.
T otal shareholder return 
VALUE (LOCAL CURRENCY)
 easyJet FTSE 250 Index FTSE 100 Index Comparator Airlines
(1)
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
30 Sep 2016 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2014 30 Sep 2013 30 Sep 2012 30 Sep 2011 30 Sep 2010 30 Sep 2009 30 Sep 2008
74 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive over the same eight year period. The total 
remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in those years.
The annual bonus and LTIP vesting percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Single total figure of remuneration 
(£’000) 1,075 1,686  2,741
(4)
1,552 3,694 7,777 9,209
(3)
6,241
(2)
1,465
(1)
Annual bonus (%) 23%  89% 0% 63% 96% 87% 76% 66% 13%
LTIP vesting (%) 67% 0% 0% 0% 92% 100% 100% 100% 32%
(1) Includes 41,216 LTIP shares vesting for the period, share price is £10.781 (the average share price for the three months to 30 September 2016) a decrease 
of 28% on the share price at grant of £14.99. 
(2) Includes 266,899 LTIP shares vesting for the period, share price is £17.15 (the actual share price at vesting) an increase of 133% on the share price at grant 
of £7.37.
(3) Includes 445,575 LTIP shares vesting for the period, share price was £16.71 (the actual share price at vesting) an increase of 325% on the share price at 
grant of £3.928.
(4) Includes remuneration for the current Chief Executive, Carolyn McCall, of £178,000 and for the former Chief Executive of £2,563,000.
How does the change in Chief Executive pay for the year compare to that for easyJet employees?
The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned between the year ended 
30 September 2016 and the year ended 30 September 2015 for the Chief Executive, compared to the average earnings of all other 
easyJet UK employees.
% Salary Benefits Annual bonus
CEO 1% 0% (79%)
Average pay based on all easyJet’s UK employees
(1)
2% 0% (73%)
(1) Reflects the change in average pay for UK employees employed in both the year ended 30 September 2016 and the year ended 30 September 2015.
How much does easyJet spend on employee pay each year?
The table below shows the total pay for all of easyJet’s employees compared to other key financial indicators.
Year ended 
30 September 
2016
Year ended 
30 September 
2015
Change 
%
Employee costs (£m) 604 582 3.8%
Ordinary dividend (£m) 214 219 (2.3%)
Average number of employees 10,273 9,811 4.7%
Revenue (£m) 4,669 4,686 (0.4%)
Profit before tax (£m) 495 686 (27.8%)
Additional information on the number of employees, total revenue and profit has been provided for context.
The majority of easyJet’s employees (around 93%) perform flight and ground operations roles, with the rest performing 
administrative and managerial roles.
What have Executive Directors earned for holding external appointments?
Carolyn McCall DBE received fees of £80,000 in the period to 30 September 2016 for her role as Non-Executive Director of 
Burberry Group plc. No other Executive Directors held external appointments in the year ended 30 September 2016.
How did shareholders vote on remuneration at the last AGM?
Votes cast at the AGM in February 2016 in respect of the Company’s Annual report on remuneration are given in the table below. 
In line with the Company’s commitment to on-going dialogue with its shareholders, meetings are offered, where appropriate, to 
understand the reasons for any potential or actual opposition to the Company’s remuneration policy. Changes are made to our 
policy where it is considered appropriate to do so.
Shareholders’ vote on remuneration
Policy Annual Report on Remuneration
Votes cast in favour 169,949,424 97.59% 166,050,528 98.16%
Votes cast against 4,205,137 2.41% 3,104,257 1.84%
T otal votes cast in favour or against 174,154,561 100% 169,154,785 100%
Votes withheld 354,559 20,845,104
75 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts subject to shareholder approval at the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting to be held on 9 February 2017.
Appointment and retirement of Directors
Subject to applicable law, a Director may be appointed by 
an ordinary resolution of shareholders in a general meeting 
following nomination by the Board or a member (or members) 
entitled to vote at such meeting, or following retirement by 
rotation if the Director chooses to seek re-election at a general 
meeting. In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to 
fill a vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the 
individual retires at the next Annual General Meeting. A Director 
may be removed by the Company as provided for by applicable 
law, in certain circumstances set out in the Company’s Articles 
of Association (for example bankruptcy or resignation), or by 
an ordinary resolution of the Company in a general meeting. 
All Directors stand for election at the Annual General Meeting 
following their appointment, and stand for re-election on an 
annual basis.
Powers conferred on the Directors in relation to 
issuing or buying back shares
Subject to applicable law and the Company’s Articles of 
Association the Directors may exercise all powers of the 
Company, including the power to authorise the issue and/or 
market purchase of the Company’s shares (subject to an 
appropriate authority being given to the Directors by 
shareholders in a general meeting and any conditions attaching 
to such authority). The shareholders delegated the following 
powers in relation to the issuing or market purchase by the 
Company of its shares at the Company’s 2016 Annual 
General Meeting:
• authority to allot equity securities with a nominal value of 
up to approximately 10% of its issued share capital;
• authority to allot equity securities, without first offering 
them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings, 
with a nominal value of up to approximately 5% of its issued 
share capital; and
• authority to make market purchases of its own shares, up 
to a maximum of approximately 10% of the Company’s 
issued share capital.
These standard authorities will expire on 11 May 2017, or at the 
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2017, whichever is 
the earlier. The Directors will seek to renew the authorities at 
the Annual General Meeting in 2017. As at 14 November 2016, 
none of these authorities had been exercised.
During the 2016 financial year, no ordinary shares in the 
Company were issued.
Directors’ indemnities
Directors’ and officers’ insurance cover has been established for 
all Directors to provide cover against their reasonable actions on 
behalf of the Company. A deed was executed in 2007 
indemnifying each of the Directors of the Company and/or its 
subsidiaries as a supplement to the directors’ and officers’ 
insurance cover. The indemnities, which constitute a qualifying 
third party indemnity provision as defined by section 234 of the 
Companies Act 2006, were in force during the 2016 financial 
year and remain in force for all current and past Directors of 
the Company.
The Annual report and accounts have been drawn up and 
presented in accordance with UK company law and the 
liabilities of the Directors in connection with the report shall be 
subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
easyJet plc is incorporated as a public limited company and 
is registered in England with the registered number 3959649. 
easyJet plc’s registered office is Hangar 89, London Luton 
Airport, Luton, Bedfordshire, LU2 9PF . The Company’s registrars 
are Equiniti Limited who are situated at Aspect House, Spencer 
Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
Political donations and expenditure
easyJet works constructively with all levels of government 
across its network, regardless of political affiliation. easyJet 
believes in the rights of individuals to engage in the 
democratic process, however it is easyJet’s policy not 
to make political donations.
In May 2016, David Cameron visited easyJet’s headquarters in 
Luton to share his views on the forthcoming EU referendum 
and take questions from easyJet staff and the media. The cost 
for hosting David Cameron to the Company, which included 
additional security provision and staging the event, constitutes 
political expenditure under the Companies Act 2006, as the 
former prime minister’s visit involved campaigning for the EU 
referendum. easyJet’s political expenditure during the 2016 
financial year therefore amounted to £2,056 (2015: nil), all 
of which was for the hosting of this event. This political 
expenditure does not exceed the authority granted by the 
Company’s shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting, 
for the Group to make political donations and/or incur political 
expenditure not exceeding £5,000 in aggregate.
Dividend
The Directors are recommending an ordinary dividend, with a 
payout ratio of 50% of profit after tax, resulting in a dividend of 
£214 million or 53.8 pence per share. The ordinary dividend is 
Directors’ report
The Directors present the Directors’ report, together with 
the audited accounts for the year ended 30 September 
2016. The Directors’ report comprises pages 76 to 79, and 
the sections of the annual report incorporated by 
reference are set out below:
Membership of Board during 
2016 financial year See pages 44 to 45
Financial instruments and 
financial risk management See pages 106 to 111
Greenhouse gas emissions See pages 41 to 42
Corporate governance report See pages 43 to 59
Future developments of the 
business of the Group See page 15
Employee equality and diversity See pages 38 to 39
Employee involvement See pages 37 to 38
In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authority’s 
Listing Rules (LR 9.8.4C), the information to be included in 
the Annual report and accounts, where applicable, under 
LR 9.8.4, is set out in this Directors’ report, with the 
exception of details of transactions with controlling 
shareholders which is set out on page 113 (note 26 to 
the accounts).
76 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or voting rights.
Employee share schemes – rights of control
The trustee of the easyJet UK Share Incentive Plan (the Plan) 
will, on receipt of any offer, compromise, arrangement or 
scheme which affects ordinary shares held in the Plan, or in 
relation to any resolutions proposed at a general meeting 
(including the Annual General Meeting), invite participants to 
direct the trustee on the exercise of any voting rights attaching 
to the ordinary shares held by the trustee on their behalf and/or 
direct how the trustee shall act in relation to those ordinary 
shares. The trustee shall take no action in respect of ordinary 
shares for which it has received no direction to vote, or ordinary 
shares which are unallocated. On a poll, the trustee shall vote 
in accordance with directions given by participants. In the 
absence of directions, or on a show of hands, the trustee 
shall not vote.
The trustee of the easyJet plc Employee Benefit T rust (the 
T rust), which is used to acquire and hold shares in the Company 
for the benefit of employees, including in connection with the 
easyJet Long T erm Incentive Plan, the International Share 
Incentive Plan and Sharesave plans, has the power to vote or 
not vote, at its absolute discretion, in respect of any shares in 
the Company held unallocated in the T rust. However, in 
accordance with good practice, the trustee adopts a policy of 
not voting in respect of such shares.
Both the trustees of the easyJet UK Share Incentive Plan and 
the easyJet plc Employee Benefit T rust have a dividend waiver 
in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property 
of each of the trusts.
Amendment of the Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended 
by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Change of control provisions
The following significant agreements which were in force at 14 
November 2016 take effect, alter or terminate on a change of 
control of the Company.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or 
employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or 
employment resulting from a change of control on takeover, 
except that provisions of the Company’s share schemes and 
plans may cause options and awards granted to employees 
under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
Revolving Credit Facility
The Company is party to a Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) which 
contains change of control provisions. The effect of a change 
of control would be that unless otherwise agreed by the 
Company and the agent of the lenders:
• a lender would not be obliged to fund a utilisation of 
the facility;
• the commitment of the lenders would be cancelled; and
• all amounts accrued would become immediately due 
and payable.
As at 14 November 2016 no amounts had been drawn down 
under the RCF .
Directors’ conflicts of interest
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they 
have, or may have, interests that conflict with those of easyJet, 
unless that conflict is first authorised by the Board. The 
Company has in place procedures for managing conflicts of 
interest. The Company’s Articles of Association also contain 
provisions to allow the Directors to authorise potential conflicts 
of interest so that a Director is not in breach of his/her duty 
under company law. Should a Director become aware that he/ 
she has an interest, directly or indirectly, in an existing or 
proposed transaction with easyJet, he/she should notify the 
Board in line with the Company’s Articles of Association. 
Directors have a continuing duty to update any changes to 
their conflicts of interest.
Share capital and rights attaching to shares
Details of the authorised and issued share capital during the 
year are provided in note 17 to the accounts on page 104.
On 30 September 2016 there was a single class of 397,208,133 
ordinary shares of 27 2/7 pence in issue, each with one vote. 
There were no shares held in treasury at that date.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary 
shares are set out in its Articles of Association. Holders of 
ordinary shares are entitled, subject to any applicable law and 
the Company’s Articles of Association, to:
• have shareholder documents made available to them, 
including notice of any general meeting;
• attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general 
meetings, either in person or by proxy; and
• participate in any distribution of income or capital.
Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares
None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard 
to control of the Company. There are no restrictions on 
transfers of shares other than:
• certain restrictions which may from time to time be 
imposed by laws or regulations such as those relating to 
insider dealing;
• pursuant to the Company’s Share Dealing Code, whereby 
the Directors and designated employees require approval 
to deal in the Company’s shares;
• where a person with an interest in the Company’s shares 
has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to 
provide the Company with information concerning interests 
in those shares;
• where a proposed transferee of the Company’s shares has 
failed to furnish to the Directors a declaration of nationality 
(together with such evidence as the Directors may require) 
as required by the Company’s Articles of Association; and
• the powers given to the Directors by the Company’s Articles 
of Association to limit the ownership of the Company’s 
shares by non-UK nationals and powers to enforce this 
limitation including the right to force a sale of any 
affected shares.
There are no restrictions on exercising voting rights save in 
situations where the Company is legally entitled to impose such 
a restriction (for example under the Articles of Association 
where amounts remain unpaid in the shares after request, or 
the holder is otherwise in default of an obligation to the 
Company). The Company is not aware of any arrangements 
77 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Independent auditors
A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 
auditors of the Company will be put to shareholders at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Relationship agreement with controlling shareholders
Any person who exercises or controls on their own or together 
with any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30% or 
more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all 
matters at general meetings of a company are known as 
‘controlling shareholders’. The Financial Conduct Authority’s 
Listing Rules require companies with controlling shareholders to 
enter into a written and legally binding agreement which is 
intended to ensure that the controlling shareholder complies 
with certain independence provisions. The agreement must 
contain undertakings that:
(a) transactions and arrangements with the controlling 
shareholder (and/or any of its associates) will be conducted 
at arm’s length and on normal commercial terms;
(b) neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates 
will take any action that would have the effect of preventing 
the listed company from complying with its obligations 
under the Listing Rules; and
(c) neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates 
will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder 
resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to 
circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Listing Rules, 
on 14 November 2014, the Company entered into such an 
agreement with Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou (easyJet’s founder) and 
easyGroup Holdings Limited, an entity in which Sir Stelios holds 
a beneficial interest and which holds shares in the Company on 
behalf of Sir Stelios (the ‘Relationship Agreement’). Under the 
terms of the Relationship Agreement, Sir Stelios and easyGroup 
Holdings Limited have agreed to procure the compliance of 
Polys and Clelia Haji-Ioannou with the independence obligations 
contained in the Relationship Agreement. Sir Stelios, easyGroup, 
Polys and Clelia Haji-Ioannou together comprise controlling 
shareholders of the Company who have a combined total 
holding of approximately 33.73% of the Company’s 
voting rights.
The Board confirms that, since the entry into the Relationship 
Agreement on 14 November 2014 until 11 November 2016, being 
the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual 
report and accounts:
i. the Company has complied with the independence 
provisions included in the Relationship Agreement;
ii. so far as the Company is aware, the independence 
provisions included in the Relationship Agreement have 
been complied with by Sir Stelios, easyGroup, and Clelia 
and Polys Haji-Ioannou and their associates; and
iii. so far as the Company is aware, the procurement obligation 
included in the Relationship Agreement has been complied 
with by Sir Stelios and easyGroup Holdings Limited.
Important events affecting the Group since 30 
September 2016 
On 11 October 2016, the Company issued Eurobonds with a 
notional of €500 million for a seven year term with a fixed 
annual coupon rate of 1.125%. Further details of the Company’s 
Euro Medium T erm Note Programme are set out above.
EMTN Programme and Eurobond issue
On 7 January 2016, the Group established a Euro Medium T erm 
Note Programme (the “EMTN Programme”) which provides the 
Group with a standardised documentation platform to allow for 
senior unsecured debt issuance in the Eurobond markets. The 
maximum potential issuance under the EMTN Programme is 
£3 billion. Under the EMTN Programme, in February 2016, the 
Company issued Eurobonds consisting of €500 million 
guaranteed notes paying 1.75% interest and maturing in 
2023, and in October 2016 Eurobonds consisting of €500 
million guaranteed notes paying 1.125% interest and maturing 
in October 2023 were also issued (the “Notes”). Pursuant to 
the final terms attaching to the Notes, the Company will be 
required to make an offer to redeem or purchase its Notes at 
its principal amount plus interest up to the date of redemption 
or repurchase if there is a change of control of the Company 
which results in a downgrade of the credit rating of the notes 
to a non-investment grade rating or withdrawal of the rating by 
both Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s.
Substantial interests
In accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and T ransparency 
Rules DTR 5, the Company, as at 30 September 2016, has been 
notified of the following disclosable interests in its issued 
ordinary shares:
Number of 
shares as 
notified to the 
Company
% of 
issued share 
capital as at 
30 September 
2016
The Haji-Ioannou family concert party 
shareholding, consisting of easyGroup 
Holdings Limited (holding vehicle for 
Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou and Clelia 
Haji-Ioannou) and Polys Haji-Ioannou 
(through his holding vehicle Polys 
Holdings Limited)
133,977,772 33.73%
Invesco Ltd *  20,468,678  5.15%
BlackRock, Inc.  20,157,137  5.07%
* Note: On 8 November 2016, Invesco Ltd disclosed an increase in 
shareholding to 10.02% (39,814,678 ordinary shares). No other changes 
to the above have been disclosed to the Company in accordance with 
the Disclosure Guidance and T ransparency Rules DTR 5, between 30 
September 2016 and 11 November 2016. All interests disclosed to the 
Company in accordance with DTR 5 that have occurred since 30 
September 2016 can be found at easyJet’s corporate website: http://
corporate.easyJet.com/investors.
Directors’ report continued
78 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report, 
the Directors’ remuneration report and the accounts in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for 
each financial year. Under that law the Directors have prepared 
the Group and Company accounts in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union (EU). Under company law the Directors 
must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group 
and the Company for that period. In preparing these accounts, 
the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have 
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the accounts; and
• prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue 
in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s and 
the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and 
the Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts 
and the Directors’ remuneration report comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group accounts, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of, amongst other things, the financial and corporate 
governance information provided on the easyJet website 
(http://corporate.easyJet.com). Legislation in the United 
Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of 
accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual report and accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the Group’s and the Company’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on 
pages 44 and 45 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
• the Group and Company accounts, which have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the Group and Company; and
• the Strategic report, included in the Annual report, includes 
a fair review of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Group, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that 
it faces.
In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, 
each Director in office at the date the Directors’ report is 
approved, confirms that:
• so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are 
unaware; and
• he/she has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have 
taken as a Director in order to make himself/herself aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
The Annual report on pages 1 to 79 was approved by the Board 
of Directors and authorised for issue on 14 November 2016 and 
signed on its behalf by:
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
CAROLYN MCCALL DBE
Chief Executive
ANDREW FINDLAY
Chief Financial Officer
79 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Our audit approach
Overview
REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our opinion
In our opinion:
• easyJet plc’s Group financial statements and Company 
financial statements (the ‘financial statements’) give a true 
and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the 
Company’s affairs as at 30 September 2016 and of the 
Group’s profit and the Group’s and the Company’s cash 
flows for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the 
European Union;
• the Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing 
the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. 
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective 
judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions, and considering 
future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits 
we also addressed the risk of management override of internal 
controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of 
bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material 
misstatement due to fraud. 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of easyJet plc
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of 
focus
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual 
Report, comprise:
• the Group consolidated and Company statements of 
financial position as at 30 September 2016;
• the Group consolidated income statement and 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income for 
the year then ended;
• the Group consolidated and Company statements 
of cash flows for the year then ended;
• the Group consolidated and Company statements 
of changes in equity for the year then ended; and
• the notes to the financial statements, which include 
a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union and, as regards the company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect 
on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and 
effort, are identified as ‘areas of focus’ in the following table. 
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address 
these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the 
financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make 
on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. 
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Materiality
Overall group materiality: £24.7 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Audit scope
The Group operates through the Company and its trading subsidiaries; and the 
Group accounts are a consolidation of these entities. The accounting for these 
entities, along with the Group consolidation, is largely centralised in the UK. Our 
audit scope comprises an audit of the complete financial information of the 
trading subsidiaries and the Company.
Areas of focus
• Aircraft maintenance provisions.
• T reasury operations.
• Judgemental accruals and provisions.
• Goodwill and landing rights impairment assessment.
80 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Aircraft maintenance provisions
Refer to page 52 (Audit Committee report), page 91 
(Accounting policies) and pages 103 to 104 (notes). 
The Group operates aircraft which are owned or held 
under finance or operating lease arrangements. Liabilities 
for maintenance costs are incurred during the term of the 
lease in respect of aircraft leased under operating leases. 
These arise from legal and contractual obligations relating 
to the condition of the aircraft when it is returned to 
the lessor.
Maintenance provisions of £259 million for aircraft 
maintenance costs in respect of aircraft leased under 
operating leases were recorded in the accounts at 30 
September 2016.
At each balance sheet date, the maintenance provision is 
calculated using a model that incorporates a number of 
variable factors and assumptions including: 
• likely utilisation of the aircraft; 
• the expected cost of the heavy maintenance check at 
the time it is expected to occur; 
• the condition of the aircraft; and 
• the lifespan of life-limited parts.
We focus on this area because of an inherent level of 
management judgement required in calculating the 
amount of provision needed as a result of the complex 
and subjective elements around these variable factors and 
assumptions together with the materiality of the balance.
As with any significant audit risk, we understood and evaluated 
the controls that the Group has in place in respect of the 
aircraft maintenance provision.
We evaluated the maintenance provision model and tested the 
mechanics of the underlying calculations therein. Specifically, we:
• assessed the process by which the variable factors within the 
provision were estimated;
• understood and challenged the key assumptions that were based 
on the Group’s internal data, such as business plans and 
maintenance contract terms;
• validated the input data; 
• performed sensitivity analysis on the key drivers of the 
model; and 
• reviewed the calculations within the model. 
We found no material exceptions from these assessments and 
comparisons. 
Having ascertained the magnitude of movements in those key 
assumptions, that either individually or collectively would be required 
for the provision to be misstated, we considered the likelihood of 
such movements arising and any impact on the overall level of 
aircraft maintenance provisions recorded in the accounts. Our 
assessment as to likelihood and magnitude did not identify any 
material exceptions. 
T reasury operations
Refer to page 52 (Audit Committee report), page 94 
(Accounting policies) and pages 106-111 (notes). 
The Group holds significant net funds, comprising cash 
and money market deposits and borrowings through 
bank loans and finance lease obligations. 
Given the nature of the business, the Group also makes 
use of derivative financial instruments. 
These derivative financial instruments include foreign 
currency forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign 
currency risks on transactions denominated in US dollars, 
euros, Swiss francs and South African rand. 
These transactions primarily affect revenue, fuel and 
aircraft dry leasing costs, and the carrying value of owned 
aircraft. The Group also uses jet fuel forward contracts to 
hedge fuel price risks. At 30 September 2016, cash and 
money market deposits amounted to £969 million, 
borrowings were £756 million, derivative financial assets 
amounted to £422 million and derivative financial liabilities 
were £324 million.
We focused on these balances because of their 
materiality to the financial position of the Group, the 
volume of transactions passing through the respective 
accounts and the number of counterparties involved.
We understood and evaluated the processes, procedures and 
controls in place in respect of the Group’s treasury and other 
management functions which directly impact the relevant account 
balances and transactions.
We tested management’s year end account reconciliation process, 
the results of which allowed us to focus on substantiating the 
year-end positions recorded in the accounts.
We independently obtained third-party confirmations from 
counterparties of the year end positions as well as agreeing to 
original agreements. We assessed the appropriateness of hedge 
accounting for the derivative financial instruments and tested, using 
independent data-feeds, the fair values being ascribed to those 
instruments at the year end.
We found no material exceptions from these assessments 
and comparisons.
We also assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures in the 
accounts in respect of both non-derivative and derivative financial 
instruments. Based on our work, we considered the disclosures to 
be appropriate.
81 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Judgemental accruals and provisions
Refer to page 52 (Audit Committee report), page 91 
(Accounting policies) and page 103 (notes).
The Group records a number of accrual balances which 
are specific to the business and its operations. At 30 
September 2016, the aggregate of all accruals and 
provisions was £379 million. Whilst some accruals are 
easily and ordinarily calculated, others contain an element 
of judgement and are more complex in nature, for 
example, customer claims in respect of flight delays, 
cancellations and refunds of air passenger duty or 
similar charges.
We focused on this area because there is an inherent 
level of complexity in management estimating certain 
provisions owing to their uncertain nature. These types 
of provisions are not individually material but may, under 
certain circumstances, be material in the aggregate.
We understood and evaluated the processes, procedures and 
controls in place in respect of these judgmental provision balances 
and assessed key account reconciliation processes. 
We tested and challenged the reasonableness of the key 
assumptions underlying the judgmental provisions which included: 
• passenger claim history; 
• levels of passenger claims; 
• flight disruptions; 
• no-show passengers; and 
• time periods over which the assessment is made. 
We tested the input data of the judgmental provisions, reperformed 
the underlying calculations and performed sensitivity analysis over 
the key drivers of the valuation of the provision. 
Having ascertained the magnitude of movements in those key 
assumptions, that either individually or collectively would be required 
for the provision to be materially misstated, we considered the 
likelihood of such movements arising and any impact on the overall 
level of judgmental provisions recorded in the accounts. Our 
assessment as to likelihood and magnitude did not identify any 
material exceptions.
We obtained evidence of post year end cash and other account 
movements which provided evidence as to the validity of the 
provisions at the year end. 
We found no material exceptions from these procedures. 
Goodwill and landing rights impairment assessment
Refer to page 52 (Audit Committee report), page 91 
(Accounting policies) and pages 100 to 101 (notes).
The Group holds significant amounts of goodwill and 
costs of landing rights on the balance sheet. The risk is 
that these balances are overstated.
The Group has one cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) being its 
route network, to which all goodwill and landing 
rights relate.
We focused on the impairment test and the estimated 
values in use of the one CGU, which has a net book value 
of goodwill and landing rights of £459 million as at 30 
September 2016. 
We focused on this assessment as the impairment test 
involves a number of subjective judgements and 
estimates by management, many of which are forward-
looking. These estimates include key assumptions 
surrounding the strategic plan through to 2021, fuel prices, 
exchange rates, long-term economic growth rates and 
discount rates.
We evaluated the directors’ future cash flow forecasts, and the 
process by which they were drawn up, including testing the 
underlying calculations and comparing them to the latest Board 
approved strategic plan. We challenged: 
• the directors’ key assumptions for long term growth rates in the 
forecasts by comparing them to historical results, economic and 
industry forecasts; 
• the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the Group 
and comparable organisations; and
• the assumptions used in the Group’s five-year Plan, including fuel 
prices and exchange rates, by comparing them to historical 
results, and economic and industry forecasts.
We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions above 
to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions that either 
individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill and 
landing rights to be impaired. We found no material exceptions from 
this analysis.
We also assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures in the 
accounts in respect of goodwill and landing rights. Based on our 
work, we considered the disclosures to be appropriate.
Independent auditors’ report to the members of easyJet plc continued
82 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed 
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic 
structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, 
and the industry in which the Group operates. 
The Group operates through the Company and its four trading 
subsidiary undertakings as set out on page 117 and the Group 
accounts are a consolidation of these entities. The accounting 
for these entities is largely centralised in the UK and our audit 
scope comprises an audit of their complete financial 
information. These procedures gave us the evidence that we 
needed for our opinion on the Group’s accounts as a whole.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application 
of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for 
materiality. These, together with qualitative considerations, 
helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, 
timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual 
financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating 
the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the 
financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined 
materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall group materiality £24.7 million (2015: £34.3 million).
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for 
benchmark applied
We believe that profit before tax is 
the primary measure used by 
shareholders in assessing the 
performance of the Group, and is a 
generally accepted 
auditing benchmark.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report 
to them misstatements identified during our audit above 
£1.2 million (2015: £2 million) as well as misstatements below 
that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for 
qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ 
statement, set out on page 22, in relation to going concern. We 
have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we 
have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation 
to the directors’ statement about whether they considered it 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements. We have nothing material to add or to 
draw attention to. 
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have 
concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements. The going concern 
basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate 
resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors 
intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the 
financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have 
concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis 
is appropriate. However, because not all future events or 
conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a 
guarantee as to the Group’s and Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern.
83 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts Independent auditors’ report to the members of easyJet plc continued
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 reporting
In our opinion:
• The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
In our opinion:
• The information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out set out on page 59 with respect to internal control and 
risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements. 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• Information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge 
of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions 
to report.
• The statement given by the Directors on page 79, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a 
whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
members to assess the group’s and company’s position and performance, business model and 
strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in 
the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions 
to report.
• The section of the Annual Report on pages 50 to 53, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, 
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions 
to report.
The Directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the 
solvency or liquidity of the Group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in 
relation to:
• the Directors’ confirmation on page 79 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 
of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the 
Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency 
or liquidity.
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
• the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being 
managed or mitigated.
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
• the Directors’ explanation on page 22 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 
of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they 
have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to 
whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation 
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related 
disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Group and the Directors’ statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group. Our review was 
substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors’ process supporting 
their statements; checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering whether 
the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to report 
having performed our review.
84 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Adequacy of accounting records and information 
and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
• We have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit; or
• Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• The Company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 
2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are not made. We have no 
exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has 
not been prepared by the Company. We have no exceptions 
to report arising from this responsibility. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of 
the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further 
provisions of the Code. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review. 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AND THE AUDIT
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and 
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no 
other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it 
may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent 
in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: 
• Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the 
group’s and the company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
• The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates 
made by the Directors; and
• The overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the 
Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our 
own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the 
financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other 
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary 
to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. 
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness 
of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the Annual Report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect 
based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge 
acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we 
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
ANDREW KEMP
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
14 November 2016
85 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts 86 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
 
Consolidated income statement 
 
Notes 
Year ended  
30 September 
2016  
£ million 
Year ended 
30 September 
2015 
£ million 
Seat revenue  4,587 4,616
Non-seat revenue  82 70
Total revenue 25 4,669 4,686
   
Fuel  (1,114) (1,199)
Airports and ground handling  (1,267) (1,122)
Crew  (542) (505)
Navigation  (336) (313)
Maintenance  (237) (229)
Selling and marketing  (107) (102)
Other costs  (296) (276)
EBITDAR  770 940
   
Aircraft dry leasing  (103) (114)
Depreciation 9 (157) (125)
Amortisation of intangible assets 8 (12) (13)
Operating profit  498 688
   
Interest receivable and other financing income  10 9
Interest payable and other financing charges  (13) (11)
Net finance charges 2 (3) (2)
   
Profit before tax 3 495 686
   
Tax charge 5 (68) (138)
   
Profit for the year  427 548
   
Earnings per share, pence   
Basic 6 108.4 139.1
Diluted 6 107.6 138.0
 
   87 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts
 
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income 
 
 Notes 
Year ended
30 September 
2016 
£ million 
Year ended
30 September 
2015
£ million 
Profit for the year  427 548
Other comprehensive income/(expense)   
Cash flow hedges   
Fair value gains/(losses) in the year  10 (510)
Losses transferred to income statement  347 229
(Losses)/gains transferred to property, plant and equipment  (28) 3
Related tax (charge)/credit 5 (66) 56
  263 (222)
Total comprehensive income for the year  690 326
For capital expenditure cash flow hedges, the accumulated gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income will be 
transferred to the initial carrying amount of the asset acquired, within property, plant and equipment. All other items in other 
comprehensive income will be reclassified to the income statement.  
Losses/(gains) on cash flow hedges reclassified from other comprehensive income in income statement captions are as follows: 
 
2016
£ million 
2015
£ million 
Revenue (7) (64)
Fuel 375 299
Maintenance (8) (1)
Aircraft dry leasing (11) (3)
Other costs (2) (2)
 347 229 88 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
 
Consolidated statement of financial position 
 Notes 
30 September 
2016 
£ million 
30 September 
2015
£ million 
Non-current assets   
Goodwill 8 365 365
Other intangible assets 8 152 127
Property, plant and equipment 9 3,252 2,877
Derivative financial instruments 21 154 44
Restricted cash 12 7 6
Other non-current assets 10 121 130
  4,051 3,549
Current assets   
Trade and other receivables 11 217 206
Derivative financial instruments 21 268 128
Restricted cash 12 – 6
Money market deposits 12 255 289
Cash and cash equivalents 12 714 650
  1,454 1,279
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables 13 (564) (495)
Unearned revenue  (568) (619)
Borrowings 14 (92) (182)
Derivative financial instruments 21 (275) (368)
Current tax payable  (21) (43)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 16 (53) (61)
  (1,573) (1,768)
   
Net current liabilities  (119) (489)
   
Non-current liabilities   
Borrowings 14 (664) (322)
Derivative financial instruments 21 (49) (101)
Non-current deferred income 15 (35) (47)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 16 (235) (165)
Deferred tax  5 (237) (176)
  (1,220) (811)
Net assets  2,712 2,249
Shareholders' equity   
Share capital 17 108 108
Share premium  659 659
Hedging reserve  24 (239)
Translation reserve  1 1
Retained earnings  1,920 1,720
  2,712 2,249
The accounts on pages 86 to 113 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 14 November 2016 and 
signed on behalf of the Board. 
  
CAROLYN MCCALL DBE ANDREW FINDLAY 
Director Director 89 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts
 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
  
Share 
capital 
£ million 
Share 
premium 
£ million 
Hedging 
reserve 
£ million 
Translation 
reserve  
£ million 
Retained 
earnings 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
At 1 October 2015  108 659 (239) 1 1,720 2,249 
Total comprehensive income – – 263 – 427 690 
Dividends paid (note 7)  – – – – (219) (219)
Share incentive schemes        
Value of employee services  – – – – 19 19 
Related tax (note 5)  – – – – (5) (5)
Purchase of own shares  – – – – (22) (22)
At 30 September 2016  108 659 24 1 1,920 2,712 
        
  
Share 
capital 
£ million 
Share 
premium
£ million 
Hedging 
reserve 
£ million 
Translation 
reserve  
£ million 
Retained 
earnings 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
At 1 October 2014  108 658 (17) 1 1,422 2,172
Total comprehensive (expense)/income – – (222) – 548 326
Dividends paid (note 7)  – – – – (180) (180)
Share incentive schemes   
Proceeds from shares issued  – 1 – – – 1
Value of employee services  – – – – 18 18
Related tax (note 5)  – – – – 4 4
Purchase of own shares  – – – – (92) (92)
At 30 September 2015  108 659 (239) 1 1,720 2,249
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in fair value of cash flow hedging instruments 
relating to highly probable transactions that are forecast to occur after the year end. 90 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
 
Consolidated statement of cash flows 
 Notes 
Year ended  
30 September 
2016 
£ million 
Year ended 
30 September 
2015
£ million 
Cash flows from operating activities   
Cash generated from operations 19 724 895
Ordinary dividends paid 7 (219) (180)
Net interest and other financing charges paid  (19) (8)
Net tax paid  (99) (98)
Net cash generated from operating activities  387 609
   
Cash flows from investing activities   
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 9 (549) (509)
Purchase of intangible assets 8 (37) (27)
Net decrease in money market deposits 20 45 277
Other  – 4
Net cash used by investing activities  (541) (255)
   
Cash flows from financing activities   
Net proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital  – 1
Purchase of own shares for employee share schemes  (22) (92)
Proceeds from Eurobond issue 20 379 –
Repayment of bank loans and other borrowings 20 (142) (80)
Repayment of capital element of finance leases  20 (98) (11)
Net decrease in restricted cash  6 21
Net cash generated from financing activities  123 (161)
   
Effect of exchange rate changes  95 33
   
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  64 226
   
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  650 424
   
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 12 714 650 91 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts
 
Notes to the accounts 
1. Significant accounting policies 
Statement of compliance 
easyJet plc (the ‘Company’) and its subsidiaries (‘easyJet’ or the ‘Group’ as applicable) is a low-cost airline carrier operating principally 
in Europe. The Company is a public limited company whose shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange under the ticker 
symbol EZJ and is incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The address of its registered office is Hangar 89, London 
Luton Airport, Luton, Bedfordshire, LU2 9PF. 
The accounts are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European 
Union, taking into account IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRSIC) interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.  
Basis of preparation 
The accounts are prepared based on the historical cost convention except for certain financial assets and liabilities including 
derivative financial instruments that are measured at fair value.  
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all years presented in these accounts. 
easyJet’s business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development and performance, are described in the 
strategic report on pages 1 to 42. Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 24 to 31. Note 22 to the accounts sets out 
the Group’s objectives, policies and procedures for managing its capital and gives details of the risks related to financial instruments 
held by the Group. 
The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis. Details on going concern are provided on page 22. 
Significant judgements, estimates and critical accounting policies 
The preparation of accounts in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of 
income and expenses during the reporting period. Although these amounts are based on management’s best estimates of the 
amount, events or actions may mean that actual results ultimately differ from those estimates, and these differences may be 
material. The estimates and the underlying assumptions are reviewed regularly. 
The following three accounting policies are considered critical accounting policies as they require a significant amount of 
management judgement and the results are material to easyJet’s accounts. 
Aircraft maintenance provisions (Note 16) 
easyJet incurs liabilities for maintenance costs in respect of aircraft leased under operating leases during the term of the lease. 
These arise from legal and constructive contractual obligations relating to the condition of the aircraft when it is returned to the 
lessor. To discharge these obligations, easyJet will also normally need to carry out one heavy maintenance check on each of the 
engines and the airframe during the lease term.  
A charge is made in the income statement, based on hours or cycles flown, to provide for the cost of these obligations. Estimates 
required include the likely utilisation of the aircraft, the expected cost of the heavy maintenance check at the time it is expected to 
occur, the condition of the aircraft and the lifespan of life-limited parts.  
The bases of all estimates are reviewed annually, and also when information becomes available that is capable of causing a material 
change to an estimate, such as renegotiation of end of lease return conditions, increased or decreased utilisation, or changes in the 
cost of heavy maintenance services.  
Other provisions (Note 16) 
easyJet incurs liabilities for amounts payable to customers who make claims in respect of flight delays and cancellations, and 
refunds of air passenger duty or similar charges. Estimates include passenger claim rates, level of claims that will be made and the 
period of time over which claims will be made. The bases of all estimates are reviewed at least annually and also when information 
becomes available that is capable of causing a material change to the estimate. 
Goodwill and landing rights (Note 8) 
Goodwill and landing rights are tested for impairment at least annually. easyJet has one cash-generating unit, being its route 
network. In making this assessment, easyJet has considered the manner in which the business is managed including the centralised 
nature of its operations and the ability to open or close routes and redeploy aircraft and crew across the whole route network.  
The value in use of the cash-generating unit is determined by discounting future cash flows to their present value. When applying 
this method, easyJet relies on a number of estimates including its strategic plans, fuel prices, exchange rates, long-term economic 
growth rates for the principal countries in which it operates, and its pre-tax weighted average cost of capital. 
   92 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
Notes to the accounts continued 
92 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 
1. Significant accounting policies continued 
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated accounts incorporate those of easyJet plc and its subsidiaries for the years ended 30 September 2015 and 2016. 
A full list of subsidiaries can be found in the Notes to the Company accounts on page 117. 
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by easyJet plc. Control is achieved when easyJet is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns 
from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power, directly or indirectly, over 
the investee. 
Intragroup balances, transactions and any unrealised gains and losses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing 
the consolidated accounts. 
Foreign currencies 
The primary economic environment in which a subsidiary operates determines its functional currency. The consolidated accounts 
of easyJet are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest £million, which is the Company’s functional currency and the Group’s 
presentation currency. Certain subsidiaries have operations that are primarily influenced by a currency other than Sterling. Exchange 
differences arising on the translation of these foreign operations are taken to shareholders’ equity until all or part of the interest is 
sold, when the relevant portion of the accumulated exchange gains or losses is recognised in the income statement. Profits and 
losses of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at average rates of exchange during the year, since this approximates the 
rates on the dates of the transactions.  
Transactions arising in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling using the rate of exchange ruling at the end of 
a reporting period and (except where the asset or liability is designated as a cash flow hedge) the gains or losses on translation are 
included in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling 
at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the transactions were effected.  
Revenue recognition 
Revenue comprises seat revenue, being the value of airline services (net of air passenger duty and similar charges, VAT and 
discounts), and non-seat revenue. 
Seat revenue arises from the sale of flight seats, including the provision of checked baggage, allocated seating, administration, credit 
card and change fees. Seat revenue is recognised when the service is provided. This is generally when the flight takes place, but in 
the following cases, this is at the time of booking: 
 administration and credit card fees as they are contractually non-refundable; and 
 change fees as the service provided is that of allowing customers to change bookings. 
Amounts paid by ‘no-show’ customers are recognised as seat revenue when the booked service is provided as such customers are 
not generally entitled to change flights or seek refunds once a flight has departed. 
Unearned revenue represents flight seats, including the provision of checked baggage and allocated seating, sold but not yet flown 
and is held in the statement of financial position until it is realised in the income statement when the service is provided. 
Non-seat revenue arises from commissions earned from services sold on behalf of partners and is recognised when the service is 
provided. This is generally when the related flight takes place. In the case of commission earned from travel insurance, revenue is 
recognised at the time of booking as easyJet acts solely as appointed representative of the insurance company. 
Business combinations  
Business combinations in prior years were accounted for by applying the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured 
at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given and liabilities incurred or assumed plus any costs directly 
attributable to the business combination. The acquiree’s identifiable assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair values at the 
acquisition date. There have been no business combinations since the effective date of IFRS 3 Business Combinations (Revised).  
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business 
combination over easyJet’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.  
Goodwill and other intangible assets 
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. It has an indefinite expected useful life and is tested for 
impairment at least annually or where there is any indication of impairment. 
Landing rights are stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. They are considered to have an indefinite useful life as 
they will remain available for use for the foreseeable future provided minimum utilisation requirements are observed, and are tested 
for impairment at least annually or where there is any indication of impairment. 
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation, which is calculated to write off their cost, less estimated 
residual value, on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives. Expected useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually. 
 Expected useful life 
Computer software 3-7 years 
Contractual rights Over the length of the related contracts  93 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts
 
 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost, 
less estimated residual value, of assets, on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives. Expected useful lives are 
reviewed annually. 
 Expected useful life 
Aircraft 23 years 
Aircraft spares 14 years 
Aircraft – prepaid maintenance 7-10 years 
Leasehold improvements 5-10 years or the length of lease if shorter 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 years or length of lease of property where equipment is used if shorter 
Computer hardware 3-5 years 
Aircraft held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their expected useful lives, as 
shown above.  
Residual values, where applicable, are reviewed annually against prevailing market rates at the end of the reporting period for 
equivalently aged assets and depreciation rates adjusted accordingly on a prospective basis. The carrying value is reviewed for 
impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. For aircraft, easyJet 
is dependent on Airbus as its sole supplier. This gives rise to a valuation risk which crystallises when aircraft exit the fleet, where 
easyJet is reliant on the future demand for second-hand aircraft. 
An element of the cost of a new aircraft is attributed on acquisition to prepaid maintenance and is depreciated over a period 
ranging from seven to ten years from the date of manufacture. Subsequent costs incurred which lend enhancement to future 
periods, such as long-term scheduled maintenance and major overhaul of aircraft and engines, are capitalised and depreciated 
over the length of period benefiting from these enhancements. All other maintenance costs are charged to the income statement 
as incurred.  
Pre-delivery and option payments made in respect of aircraft are recorded in property, plant and equipment at cost. These amounts 
are not depreciated. Interest attributed to pre-delivery and option payments made in respect of aircraft and other qualifying assets 
under construction are capitalised and added to the cost of the asset concerned. 
Gains and losses on disposals (other than aircraft sale and leaseback transactions) are determined by comparing the net proceeds 
with the carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement.  
Impairment of non-current assets 
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the higher of the asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair 
value less cost to sell and its value in use. Impairment losses recognised on goodwill are not reversed. Impairment losses recognised 
on assets other than goodwill are only reversed where changes in the estimates used result in an increase in recoverable amount.  
Leases 
easyJet enters into sale and leaseback transactions whereby it sells either new or mid-life aircraft to a third party and immediately 
leases it back under an operating lease. Surpluses arising on disposal, where the price that the aircraft is sold for is above fair value, 
are recognised in deferred income and amortised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected lease term.  
In some operating sale and leaseback arrangements, receipt of part of the proceeds is deferred until the end of the lease, the 
amount of which is recorded as deferred consideration within non-current or current assets as appropriate.  
Additionally, in some cases, receipt of part of the sales proceeds due is exchanged for a reduction in future lease rentals, which 
consequently are below market price. As a result, the proceeds received on sale and leaseback are lower than the fair value of the 
aircraft sold. The resulting shortfall is deferred within non-current or current assets as appropriate, and amortised on a straight-line 
basis in the income statement over the expected lease term.  
Non-contingent operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease. 
A number of operating leases require easyJet to make contingent rental payments based on variable interest rates; these are 
expensed as incurred.  
Finance leases, which transfer to easyJet substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are 
recognised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset, or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease 
payments. Any directly attributable costs of entering into financing sale and leasebacks are included in the value of the asset 
recognised. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and the reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve 
a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are included in interest payable and other 
financing charges.  
   94 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
Notes to the accounts continued 
1. Significant accounting policies continued 
Financial instruments 
Financial instruments are recognised when easyJet becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument and 
derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such provisions. 
Where market values are not available, the fair value of financial instruments is calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing 
interest rates and by applying year end exchange rates.  
Non-derivative financial assets 
Non-derivative financial assets are recorded at amortised cost and include trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents and money 
market deposits.  
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held in bank accounts with no access restrictions and bank deposits and tri-party 
repos repayable on demand or maturing within three months of inception. Interest income on cash and money market deposits is 
recognised using the effective interest method. Restricted cash comprises cash deposits which have restrictions governing their 
use and is classified as a current or non-current asset based on the estimated remaining length of the restriction.  
Impairment losses are recognised on financial assets carried at amortised cost where there is objective evidence that an impairment 
loss has been incurred. The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present 
value of future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.  
If, subsequently, the amount of the impairment loss decreases, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event that 
occurred after the impairment was recognised, the appropriate portion of the loss is reversed. Both impairment losses and reversals 
are recognised in the income statement as components of net finance charges.  
Non-derivative financial liabilities 
Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially recorded at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs, and subsequently at 
amortised cost, and include trade and other payables, borrowings and provisions. Interest expense on borrowings is recognised 
using the effective interest method. 
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless there is an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 
12 months after the reporting period date. 
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities 
easyJet uses foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency risks on transactions denominated in US 
dollars, Euros, Swiss francs and South African rand. These transactions primarily affect revenue, fuel and aircraft dry leasing costs, 
and the carrying value of owned aircraft. easyJet also uses cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge currency and interest rate 
risk on certain borrowings, and jet fuel forward contracts to hedge fuel price risks. 
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value. Hedge accounting is applied to those derivative financial instruments that 
are designated as cash flow hedges or fair value hedges. 
Fair value hedges 
Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, 
together with any changes in the fair values of the hedged assets or liabilities that are attributable to the hedged risk. 
Cash flow hedges 
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of forward contracts are recognised in other comprehensive income and 
deferred in the hedging reserve to the extent that the hedges are determined to be effective. All other changes in fair value are 
recognised immediately in the income statement.  
When the hedged forecast transaction relates to an item of property, plant and equipment, the relevant accumulated gains and 
losses are transferred from the hedging reserve and included in the initial carrying amount of that purchased asset. Otherwise they 
are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged transaction affects the income statement. 
In the event that a hedged forecast transaction is no longer considered highly probable, any related gains and losses are 
immediately transferred from the hedging reserve and recognised in the income statement. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging instrument is derecognised (e.g. through expiry or disposal), or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. Where the hedged item remains a highly probable forecast transaction, the related gains and losses remain 
deferred in the hedging reserve until the transaction takes place. 
Financial guarantees 
If a claim on a financial guarantee given to a third party becomes probable, the obligation is recognised at fair value. For subsequent 
measurement, the carrying amount is the higher of initial measurement and best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the 
obligation at the reporting date. 
Tax 
Tax expense in the income statement consists of current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement except when 
it relates to items credited or charged directly to other comprehensive income or shareholders’ equity. The charge for current tax is 
based on the results for the year, as adjusted for income that is exempt and expenses that are not deductible, using tax rates that 
are applicable to the taxable income.   95 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts
 
 
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences relating to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, where it is 
probable that the recovery or settlement will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future, with the 
following exceptions: 
 where the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) 
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither taxable income nor accounting profit; and 
 deferred tax arising on investments in subsidiaries is not recognised where easyJet is able to control the reversal of the 
temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which recovery of assets and settlement of 
liabilities are expected to take place, based on tax rates or laws enacted or substantively enacted at the date of the statement of 
financial position. 
Deferred tax assets represent amounts recoverable in future periods in respect of deductible temporary differences, losses and tax 
credits carried forwards. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits 
from which they can be deducted.  
Deferred tax liabilities represent the amount of income taxes payable in future periods in respect of taxable temporary differences. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and it is the intention to settle these on a net basis. 
Aircraft maintenance provisions 
The accounting for the cost of providing major airframe and certain engine maintenance checks for owned and finance-leased 
aircraft is described in the accounting policy for property, plant and equipment.  
easyJet has contractual obligations to maintain aircraft held under operating leases. Provisions are created over the term of the 
lease based on the estimated future costs of major airframe checks, engine shop visits and end of lease liabilities. These costs are 
discounted to present value.  
Where an aircraft is sold and leased back, other than when first delivered to easyJet, a liability to undertake future maintenance 
activities, resulting from past flying activity, arises at the point the lease agreement is signed. This liability is treated as part of the 
surplus or shortfall arising on the sale and leaseback, the accounting treatment of which is described in the leases accounting policy.  
A number of leases also require easyJet to pay recoverable supplemental rent to the lessor. The purpose of these payments is 
to provide the lessor with collateral should an aircraft be returned in a condition that does not meet the requirements of the lease. 
This recoverable supplemental rent is included in trade and other receivables within current assets and other non-current assets, as 
applicable, and is refunded when qualifying heavy maintenance is performed, or is offset against the costs incurred at the end of 
the lease.  
Employee benefits 
easyJet contributes to defined contribution pension schemes for the benefit of its employees. easyJet has no further payment 
obligations once the contributions have been paid. The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of easyJet in 
independently administered funds. easyJet's contributions are charged to the income statement in the year in which they 
are incurred. 
The expected cost of compensated holidays is recognised at the time that the related employees' services are provided. 
Share capital and dividend distribution 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are 
shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.  
Where any Group company or employee benefit trust purchases the Company’s equity shares, the consideration paid and any 
directly attributable incremental costs are deducted from retained earnings until the shares are cancelled or re-issued. Proceeds 
from re-issue are shown as a credit to retained earnings. 
easyJet settles share awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan, the Save As You Earn scheme and Share Incentive Plans by 
purchasing its own shares on the market through employee benefit trusts. The cost of such purchases is deducted from retained 
earnings in the period that the transaction occurs. 
Dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved 
by the Company’s shareholders. 
Share-based payments 
easyJet has a number of equity-settled share incentive schemes. The fair value of share options granted under the Save As You 
Earn scheme is measured at the date of grant using the Binomial Lattice option pricing model. The fair value of grants under the 
TSR-based Long Term Incentive Plan is estimated under the Stochastic model (also known as the Monte Carlo model). The fair value 
of all other awards is the share price at the date of grant. 
   96 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
Notes to the accounts continued 
1. Significant accounting policies continued 
The fair value of the estimated number of options and awards that are expected to vest is expensed to the income statement on 
a straight-line basis over the period that employees’ services are rendered, with a corresponding increase in shareholders’ equity. 
Where non-market performance criteria (such as ROCE) attached to the share options and awards are not met, any cumulative 
expense previously recognised is reversed. For awards with market-related performance criteria (such as TSR), an expense is 
recognised irrespective of whether the market condition is satisfied.  
The social security obligations payable in connection with grant of the share options are an integral part of the grant itself and the 
charge is treated as a cash-settled transaction.  
Segmental disclosures 
easyJet has one operating segment, being its route network, based on management information provided to the Executive 
Management Team, which is easyJet’s chief operating decision maker. Resource allocation decisions are made for the benefit of the 
route network as a whole, rather than for individual routes within the network. Performance of the network is assessed based on the 
consolidated profit or loss before tax for the year.  
Revenue is allocated to geographic segments on the following bases: 
 revenue earned from passengers is allocated according to the location of the first departure airport on each booking; and 
 commission revenue earned from partners is allocated according to the domicile of each partner. 
New and revised standards and interpretations not applied 
There were no new standards or interpretations/amendments to standards applied during the year ended 30 September 2016. 
The following new or revised standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) have not 
been applied in preparing these accounts as their effective dates fall in periods beginning on or after 1 October 2016. 
Effective for the year ending 30 September 2017 
IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ – Amendments relating to the Disclosure Initiative. 
IAS 16 ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’ and IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ – Amendments relating to Clarification of Acceptable Methods 
of Depreciation and Amortisation.  
IAS 27 ‘Separate Financial Statements’ – Amendments relating to Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements.  
IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ and IAS 28 ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’ – Amendments relating to 
Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture (not yet EU endorsed). 
IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ – Amendments relating to Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations.  
Annual Improvements to IFRS 2012-2014 Cycle.  
Effective for the year ending 30 September 2018 (not yet EU endorsed) 
IAS 7 ‘Statement of Cash flows’ – Amendments relating to the IASB’s Disclosure Initiative intended to provide information to help 
investors better understand changes in a company’s debt. 
IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’ – Amendments relating to the accounting for deferred tax assets for unrealised losses on debt instruments 
measured at fair value.  
Effective for the year ending 30 September 2019 (not yet EU endorsed) 
IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ – Amendments clarifying how to account for certain types of share-based payment transactions.  
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ – Introduces new requirements for classification and measurement of financial assets and financial 
liabilities, impairment methodology and hedge accounting. 
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ – Provides a single model for measuring and recognising revenue arising from 
contracts with customers, unless the contracts are in the scope of other standards, such as IAS 17. It supersedes all existing revenue 
requirements in IFRS. 
Effective for the year ending 30 September 2020 (not yet EU endorsed) 
IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ – Provides a single lessee accounting model, specifying how leases are recognised, measured, presented 
and disclosed. 
The Directors are currently evaluating the financial and operational impact of adopting IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with 
Customers’ and IFRS 16 ‘Leases’. The review of the impact of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 will require an assessment of all leases and all 
revenue streams, and the impact of adopting these standards cannot be reliably estimated until this work is substantially complete. 
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of the other standards and interpretations listed above will have a material impact 
on easyJet’s accounts. Certain of these standards and interpretations will, when adopted, require addition to or amendment of 
disclosures in the accounts. 
   97 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts
 
 
2. Net finance charges 
 
2016
£ million 
2015
£ million 
Interest receivable and other financing income 
Interest income (4) (3)
Dividend income (3) – 
Net exchange gains on monetary assets and liabilities (3) (6)
 (10) (9)
Interest payable and other financing charges  
Interest payable on bank and other borrowings 8 5 
Interest payable on finance lease obligations 4 5 
Other interest payable 1 1 
 13 11 
Net finance charges 3 2 
3. Profit before tax 
The following have been included in arriving at profit before tax: 
 
2016
£ million 
2015
£ million
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  
Owned assets 150 117
Assets held under finance leases 7 8
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3 1
Operating lease rentals  
Aircraft 113 115
Other assets 6 5
Auditors’ remuneration  
During the year easyJet incurred fees payable for the audit of the Group and individual accounts from easyJet’s auditors and their 
associates totalling £0.4 million (2015: £0.4 million). In addition easyJet incurred audit related fees of £38,000 from its auditors. 
4. Employees 
The average monthly number of people employed by easyJet was: 
 
2016
Number 
2015
Number
Flight and ground operations 9,571 9,164
Sales, marketing and administration 702 647
 10,273 9,811
Employee costs for easyJet were: 
 
2016
£ million 
2015
£ million
Wages and salaries 474 453
Social security costs 63 67
Pension costs 48 44
Share-based payments 19 18
 604 582
Key management compensation was: 
 
2016
£ million 
2015
£ million 
Short-term employee benefits 7 7
Share-based payments 4 3
 11 10
   98 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
Notes to the accounts continued 
4. Employees continued 
The Directors of easyJet plc and the other members of the Executive Management Team are easyJet's key management as they 
have collective authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the business. 
Emoluments paid or payable to the Directors of easyJet plc were: 
 
2016 
£ million 
2015
£ million 
Remuneration 3 3
Gains made on the exercise of Long Term Incentive Plan awards – 21
 3 24
Details of Directors' remuneration are disclosed in the Directors' remuneration report on pages 60 to 75. 
5. Tax charge 
Tax on profit on ordinary activities 
 
2016 
£ million 
2015
£ million 
Current tax  
United Kingdom corporation tax 77 109
Foreign tax 4 6
Prior year adjustments (2) (14)
Total current tax charge 79 101
Deferred tax  
Temporary differences relating to property, plant and equipment 23 28
Other temporary differences (1) 2
Prior year adjustments 3 8
Change in tax rate from financial year 2017 to 19% (2015: 20%) (14) (1)
Change in tax rate from financial year 2020 to 17% (22) –
Total deferred tax (credit)/charge (11) 37
  
 68 138
  
Effective tax rate 13.7% 20.1%
Reconciliation of the total tax charge 
The tax for the year is lower than (2015: lower than) the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK as set out below: 
 
2016 
£ million 
2015
£ million 
Profit before tax 495 686
  
Tax charge at 20.0% (2015: 20.5%) 99 141
Attributable to rates other than standard UK rate 1 –
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes – 3
Share-based payments 3 1
Adjustments in respect of prior years – current tax (2) (14)
Adjustments in respect of prior years – deferred tax 3 8
Change in tax rate from financial year 2017 to 19% (2015: 20%) (14) (1)
Change in tax rate from financial year 2020 to 17% (22) –
 68 138
Current tax payable at 30 September 2016 amounted to £21 million (2015: £43 million). The current tax payable at 30 September 
2016 of £21 million related to £24 million of tax payable in the UK and £3 million related to tax recoverable in other European 
countries. The current tax payable at 30 September 2015 of £43 million entirely related to tax payable in the UK.  
During the year ended 30 September 2016, net cash tax paid amounted to £99 million (2015: £98 million). 
   99 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts
 
 
Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income or shareholders' equity 
 
2016
£ million 
2015
£ million
(Charge)/credit to other comprehensive income  
Deferred tax on change in fair value of cash flow hedges (66) 56
  
Credit/(charge) to shareholders' equity  
Current tax credit on share-based payments 1 13
Deferred tax charge on share-based payments (6) (9)
 (5) 4
Deferred tax 
The net deferred tax liability in the statement of financial position is as follows: 
 
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£ million 
Short-term 
timing 
differences 
£ million 
Fair value 
gains/(losses) 
£ million 
Share-based 
payments 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
At 1 October 2015 199 37 (46) (14) 176 
(Credited)/Charged to income statement (8) (4) (1) 2 (11)
Charged to other comprehensive income – – 66 – 66 
Charged to shareholders' equity – – – 6 6 
At 30 September 2016 191 33 19 (6) 237 
 
 
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£ million 
Short-term 
timing 
differences 
£ million 
Fair value 
gains/(losses) 
£ million 
Share-based 
payments 
£ million
Total 
£ million 
At 1 October 2014 171 29 10 (24) 186
Charged to income statement 28 8 – 1 37
Credited to other comprehensive income – – (56) – (56)
Charged to shareholders' equity – – – 99
At 30 September 2015 199 37 (46) (14) 176
It is estimated that deferred tax assets of approximately £1 million (2015: deferred tax assets of £50 million) will reverse during the 
next financial year. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where they relate to taxes levied by the same taxation authority. As a result the 
net UK deferred tax liability is £237 million (2015: £176 million). The net overseas deferred tax asset is £nil (2015: £nil). 
No deferred tax liability has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as no tax is expected to be 
payable in the foreseeable future based on the current repatriation policy of the Group. 
6. Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit for the year by the weighted average number of shares in issue 
during the year after adjusting for shares held in employee benefit trusts. 
To calculate diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion 
of all dilutive potential shares. Share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price 
of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year are considered to be dilutive potential shares. Where share options are exercisable 
based on performance criteria and those performance criteria have been met during the year, these options are included in the 
calculation of dilutive potential shares. 
   100 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
Notes to the accounts continued 
6. Earnings per share continued 
Earnings per share is based on: 
 
2016 
£ million 
2015
£ million 
Profit for the year 427 548
   
 
2016 
million 
2015
million 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares used to calculate basic earnings per share 394 394
Weighted average number of dilutive potential shares 3 3
Weighted average number of ordinary shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share 397 397
   
Earnings per share 
2016 
pence 
2015
pence 
Basic 108.4 139.1
Diluted 107.6 138.0
7. Dividends 
An ordinary dividend in respect of the year ended 30 September 2016 of 53.8 pence per share, or £214 million, is to be proposed at 
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. These accounts do not reflect this proposed dividend. 
An ordinary dividend of 55.2 pence per share, or £219 million in respect of the year ended 30 September 2015 was paid in the year 
ending 30 September 2016. An ordinary dividend of 45.4 pence per share, or £180 million in respect of the year ended 30 
September 2014 was paid in the year ended 30 September 2015. 
8. Goodwill and other intangible assets 
 Other intangible assets
 
Goodwill 
£ million 
Landing 
rights  
£ million 
Computer 
software  
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
Cost     
At 1 October 2015 365 94 60 154 
Additions – – 37 37 
Disposals – – (22) (22)
At 30 September 2016 365 94 75 169 
Amortisation     
At 1 October 2015 – – 27 27 
Charge for the year – – 12 12 
Disposals – – (22) (22)
At 30 September 2016 – – 17 17 
Net book value     
At 30 September 2016 365 94 58 152 
At 1 October 2015 365 94 33 127
     
  Other intangible assets 
 
Goodwill 
£ million
Landing 
rights  
£ million 
Computer 
software  
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
Cost   
At 1 October 2014 365 94 38 132
Transfer from property, plant and equipment – – 27 27
Disposals – – (5) (5)
At 30 September 2015 365 94 60 154
Amortisation   
At 1 October 2014 – – 19 19
Charge for the year – – 13 13
Disposals – – (5) (5)
At 30 September 2015 – – 27 27
Net book value   
At 30 September 2015 365 94 33 127
At 1 October 2014 365 94 19 113 101 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts
 
 
easyJet has one cash-generating unit, being its route network. The recoverable amount of goodwill and other assets with indefinite 
expected useful lives has been determined based on value in use calculations of the route network. 
Pre-tax cash flow projections have been derived from the forecast cash flows presented to the Board for the period up to 2021, 
using the following key assumptions: 
Pre-tax discount rate (derived from weighted average cost of capital) 11%
Fuel price (US dollars per metric tonne) 480 – 600
Exchange rates: 
US dollar  1.30 
Euro 1.20 
Swiss franc 1.30
Both fuel price and exchange rates are volatile in nature, and the assumptions used represent management's view of reasonable 
average rates. Operating margins are sensitive to significant changes in these rates. 
Cash flow projections beyond the forecast period have been extrapolated using growth rate scenarios ranging from zero up to 
an estimated average of long-term economic growth rates for the principal countries in which easyJet operates. No impairment 
resulted from any of these scenarios. 
The impairment model is sensitive to a sustained significant adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates. 
No reasonably possible combination of changes to the key assumptions above would result in the carrying value of the cash-
generating unit exceeding its recoverable amount. 
9. Property, plant and equipment 
 
Aircraft and spares 
£ million 
Other 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
Cost    
At 1 October 2015 3,485 43 3,528 
Additions 526 23 549 
Transfer to maintenance provision (14) – (14)
Disposals (26) (3) (29)
At 30 September 2016 3,971 63 4,034 
Depreciation    
At 1 October 2015 636 15 651 
Charge for the year 152 5 157 
Disposals (25) (1) (26)
At 30 September 2016 763 19 782 
Net book value    
At 30 September 2016 3,208 44 3,252 
At 1 October 2015 2,849 28 2,877
  
 
Aircraft and spares  
£ million 
Other 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
Cost    
At 1 October 2014 3,035 36 3,071 
Additions 500 36 536 
Transfer to intangible assets – (27) (27)
Transfer to maintenance provision (48) – (48)
Disposals (2) (2) (4)
At 30 September 2015 3,485 43 3,528 
Depreciation    
At 1 October 2014 517 12 529 
Charge for the year 121 4 125 
Disposals (2) (1) (3)
At 30 September 2015 636 15 651 
Net book value    
At 30 September 2015 2,849 28 2,877 
At 1 October 2014 2,518 24 2,542 
The net book value of aircraft includes £280 million (2015: £275 million) relating to advance and option payments for future 
deliveries. This amount is not depreciated.  102 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
Notes to the accounts continued 
9. Property, plant and equipment continued 
Aircraft with a net book value of £381 million (2015: £583 million) are mortgaged to lenders as loan security. 
Aircraft with a net book value of £76 million (2015: £149 million) are held under finance leases. 
easyJet is contractually committed to the acquisition of 166 (2015: 150) Airbus A320 family aircraft, with a total list price of 
US$14.8 billion (2015: US$13 billion) before escalations and discounts for delivery in 2017 (21 aircraft), in 2018 (15 aircraft) and 
between 2017 and 2022 (130 new generation aircraft).  
The ‘Other’ category mainly comprises leasehold improvements, computer hardware, and fixtures, fittings and equipment. 
10. Other non-current assets 
 
2016 
£ million 
2015
£ million 
Deferred consideration and deposits held by aircraft lessors 95 81
Leased aircraft – shortfall on sale and leaseback 15 35
Recoverable supplemental rent (pledged as collateral) 7 10
Other 4 4
 121 130
11. Trade and other receivables 
 
2016 
£ million 
2015
£ million 
Trade receivables 62 61
Less provision for impairment (5) (3)
 57 58
Prepayments and accrued income 97 86
Leased aircraft – shortfall on sale and leaseback 20 20
Recoverable supplemental rent (pledged as collateral) 5 7
Other receivables 38 35
 217 206
Trade and other receivables of £24 million (2015: £14 million) are up to three months past due but not impaired. 
With respect to trade receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications at the reporting date that the 
payment obligations will not be met. Amounts due from trade receivables are short-term in nature and largely comprise credit card 
receivables due from financial institutions with credit ratings of at least A and, accordingly, the possibility of significant default is 
considered to be unlikely. 
12. Cash and money market deposits 
 
2016 
£ million 
2015
£ million 
Cash and cash equivalents (original maturity less than three months) 714 650
Money market deposits (original maturity more than three months) 255 289
Current restricted cash  –  6
Non-current restricted cash 7 6
 976 951
Interest rates on money market deposits and restricted cash are repriced within 185 days based on prevailing market rates of 
interest. Carrying value is not significantly different from fair value. 
Restricted cash comprises: 
 
2016 
£ million 
2015
£ million 
Pledged as collateral to third parties:  
Aircraft operating lease deposits 7 12
   103 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts
 
 
13. Trade and other payables 
 
2016
£ million 
2015
£ million 
Trade payables 126 101
Accruals 350 310
Leased aircraft – surplus on sale and leaseback 11 12
Taxes and social security 13 16
Other payables 64 56
 564 495
14. Borrowings 
 
Current  
£ million 
Non-current 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
At 30 September 2016  
Eurobond – 435 435 
Bank loans 84 126 210 
Finance lease obligations 8 103 111 
 92 664 756 
    
 
Current  
£ million 
Non-current 
£ million
Total 
£ million 
At 30 September 2015  
Bank loans 88 228 316
Finance lease obligations 94 94 188
 182 322 504
Bank loans, which bear interest at variable rates linked to LIBOR, were drawn down to finance the acquisition of aircraft that have 
been mortgaged to the lender to provide security. None of the agreements contain financial covenants required to be met. 
Finance lease obligations relate to aircraft and bear interest partly at fixed rates and partly at variable rates linked to LIBOR. 
The maturity profile of borrowings is set out in note 22. 
On 7 January 2016, the UK Listing Authority approved a prospectus relating to the establishment of a £3,000 million Euro 
Medium Term Note Programme of easyJet plc. Under this programme, on 9 February 2016 easyJet plc issued notes amounting 
to €500 million for a seven year term with a fixed annual coupon rate of 1.750% and on 11 October 2016 easyJet plc issued notes 
amounting to €500 million for a seven year term with a fixed annual coupon rate of 1.125%. 
The €500 million Eurobond issued on 9 February 2016 was designated as the hedged item in an effective fair value hedging 
relationship. The Group used cross-currency interest rate swaps to convert the fixed rate Eurobond to a Sterling floating rate 
exposure. The cross-currency interest rate swaps have the same maturity and common terms as the Eurobond that they are 
hedging. The carrying value of the fixed rate Eurobond net of cross-currency interest rate swaps at 30 September 2016 was 
£376 million. See note 21 for additional details. 
On 10 February 2015 easyJet signed a $500 million revolving credit facility with a minimum five-year term. The facility is due to 
mature in February 2021. 
15. Non-current deferred income 
The balance principally comprises the non-current surplus of sale proceeds over the fair value of aircraft that have been sold and 
leased back under operating leases. This balance will be realised in the income statement over the next six years. 
16. Provisions for liabilities and charges 
 
Maintenance 
provisions  
£ million 
Other 
provisions 
£ million
Total 
provisions 
£ million
At 1 October 2015 205 21 226
Exchange adjustments 32  – 32
Charged to income statement 63 84 147
Transferred from property, plant and equipment (14)  – (14)
Utilised (27) (76) (103)
At 30 September 2016 259 29 288 
Amounts transferred from property, plant and equipment relate to aircraft life-limited parts used in engine restoration in the year. 
Other provisions comprise liabilities for amounts payable to customers who make claims in respect of flight delays and cancellations, 
and refunds of air passenger duty or similar charges. 
   104 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
Notes to the accounts continued 
16. Provisions for liabilities and charges continued 
 
 
2016 
£ million 
2015
£ million 
Current 53 61
Non-current 235 165
 288 226
Maintenance provisions are expected to be utilised within seven years. Other provisions are expected to be utilised within one year. 
17. Share capital 
 Number  Nominal value 
 
2016
£ million 
2015 
£ million 
2016 
£ million 
2015
£ million 
Authorised    
At 30 September 2016 and 30 September 2015    
Ordinary shares of 27 
2
/7 pence each 458 458  125  125 
Allotted, called up and fully paid    
At 30 September 2016 and 30 September 2015 397 397  108  108 
There was no new share capital issued in the year. The weighted average share price for options exercised during the prior year 
was £15.84.  
easyJet’s employee benefit trusts hold the following shares. The cost of these has been deducted from retained earnings: 
 2016 2015 
Number of shares (million) 2 2
Cost (£ million) 25 25
Market value at year end (£ million) 16 30
18. Share incentive schemes 
easyJet operates the following share incentive schemes, all of which are equity settled. The change in the number of awards 
outstanding and weighted average exercise prices during the year, and the number exercisable at each year end were as follows: 
Grant date 
1 October 
2015
million 
Granted 
million
Forfeited  
million 
Exercised  
million 
30 September 
2016
million 
Long Term Incentive Plan    
4 January 2012 0.1  –  –  (0.1)  – 
18 December 2012 0.9  –  –  (0.6) 0.3 
17 December 2013 0.5  –  –   –  0.5 
19 December 2014 0.7  –  –   –  0.7 
18 December 2015  – 0.7  –   –  0.7 
Save As You Earn scheme    
1 July 2012 0.2  –  –  (0.2)  – 
1 July 2013 0.6  –  –  (0.3) 0.3 
1 July 2014 0.8  – (0.2)  –  0.6 
1 July 2015 1.2  – (0.3)  –  0.9 
1 July 2016  – 1.3 (0.1)  –  1.2 
Share Incentive Plans 4.4 1.0 (0.2) (0.9) 4.3 
 9.4 3.0 (0.8) (2.1) 9.5 
Weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 
 
1 October 
2015
£ 
Granted 
£
Forfeited  
£ 
Exercised  
£ 
30 September 
2016
£ 
Save As You Earn scheme 
11.85 11.98 13.05 7.49 12.39 
The exercise price of all awards save those disclosed in the above table is £nil. 
The number of awards exercisable at each year end and their weighted average exercise price is as follows: 
 
Price  
£  
Number
million 
 2016 2015 2016 2015 
Long Term Incentive Plan – – 0.3 0.1
Save As You Earn scheme 9.69 4.18 0.3 0.2
   0.6 0.3 105 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts
 
 
The weighted average remaining contractual life for each class of share award at 30 September 2016 is as follows: 
 Years
Long Term Incentive Plan 8.0 
Save As You Earn scheme 2.2 
Long Term Incentive Plan 
The plan is open, by invitation, to Executive Directors and senior management, and provides for annual awards of Performance 
Shares worth up to 250% (200% up to 31 December 2014) of salary each year. For awards granted from the 2015 financial year, 
the vesting of these shares is dependent on return on capital employed (ROCE) targets and total shareholder return (TSR) targets 
compared to FTSE 31-130 ranked companies at the start of the performance period. All awards have a three year vesting period; 
2016 awards are assessed on performance conditions measured over the three financial years ended 30 September 2018. 
Save As You Earn scheme 
The scheme is open to all employees on the UK payroll. Participants may elect to save up to £500 per month under a three year 
savings contract. An option is granted by the Company to buy shares at a discount of 20% from market price at the time of the 
grant. At the end of the savings period the option becomes exercisable for a period of six months. Employees who are not paid 
through the UK payroll may participate in the scheme under similar terms and conditions, albeit without the same tax benefits. 
Share Incentive Plan 
The plan is open to all employees on the UK payroll. Participants may invest up to £1,800 of their pre-tax salary each year to 
purchase partnership shares in easyJet. For each partnership share acquired easyJet purchases a matching share up to a maximum 
value of £1,500 per annum. Employees must remain with easyJet for three years from the date of purchase of each partnership 
share in order to qualify for the matching share, and for five years for the shares to be transferred to them tax free. The employee 
is entitled to dividends on shares purchased and to vote at shareholder meetings.  
Subject to Company performance, easyJet also issues free shares to UK employees under an approved share incentive plan of up 
to £3,000 per annum in value. There is a similar unapproved free shares scheme for international employees. 
The fair value of grants under the Save As You Earn scheme are calculated by applying the Binomial Lattice option pricing model. 
The fair value of grants under the TSR based Long Term Incentive Plan is estimated under the Stochastic model (also known as the 
Monte Carlo model). The fair value of grants under all other schemes is the share price on the date of grant. The following 
assumptions are used: 
Grant date 
Share
price 
£ 
Exercise
price 
£ 
Expected 
volatility 
% 
Option 
life  
years 
Risk-free 
interest rate 
%
Fair
value 
£ 
Long Term Incentive Plan        
4 January 2012 3.92 –  –  –   – 3.92
18 December 2012 – ROCE 7.37 –  –  –   – 6.92
18 December 2012 – TSR 7.37 – 33 3.0 0.44 5.16
17 December 2013 – ROCE 14.99 –  –  –   – 14.99
17 December 2013 – TSR 14.99 – 31 3.0 0.76 9.83
19 December 2014 – ROCE 16.52 –  –  –   – 16.52
19 December 2014 – TSR 16.52 – 29 3.0 0.78 11.65
18 December 2015 – ROCE 17.13 –  –  –   – 17.13
18 December 2015 – TSR 17.13 – 29 3.0 0.81 9.69
Save As You Earn scheme        
1 July 2012 5.23 4.18 35 3.5 0.24 1.77
1 July 2013 12.11 9.69 34 3.5 0.32 3.54
1 July 2014 16.62 13.30 33 3.5 1.64 5.03
1 July 2015 16.54 13.23 31 3.5 0.95 4.42
1 July 2016 14.98 11.98 35 3.5 0.20 4.28
Share price is the closing share price from the last working day prior to the date of grant.  
Exercise price for the Save As You Earn scheme is set at a 20% discount from the share price at grant date.  
Expected volatility is based on historical volatility over a period comparable to the expected life of each type of option. 
Levels of early exercises and forfeitures are estimated using historical averages.  
The weighted average fair value of matching shares granted under the Share Incentive Plan during the year was £15.04 (2015: £16.69).  
For grants under the Save As You Earn scheme after 30 September 2011, the dividend yield assumption is calculated based on the 
actual yield at the date of grant. For the options granted in 2012 to 2014, the dividend yield assumption was 2%, this increased to 
2.75% in 2015 and to 3.5% in 2016.  106 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
Notes to the accounts continued 
19. Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations 
 
2016 
£ million 
2015
£ million 
Operating profit 498 688
  
Adjustments for non-cash items:  
Depreciation  157 125
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3 1
Amortisation of intangible assets 12 13
Share-based payments 19 18
  
Changes in working capital and other items of an operating nature:  
Decrease in trade and other receivables 8 5
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 44 (30)
(Decrease)/increase in unearned revenue (51) 47
Increase in provisions 44 23
Decrease in other non-current assets 9 22
Decrease in derivative financial instruments (7) (2)
Decrease in non-current deferred income (12) (15)
Cash generated from operations 724 895
20. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net cash 
 
1 October 
2015
£ million 
Fair value and 
foreign 
exchange 
£ million
Loan issue 
costs  
£ million 
Net 
cash flow  
£ million 
30 September 
2016
£ million 
Cash and cash equivalents 650 95 – (31) 714 
Money market deposits 289 11 – (45) 255 
 939 106 – (76) 969 
Eurobond – (58) 2 (379) (435)
Bank loans (316) (35) (1) 142 (210)
Finance lease obligations (188) (21) – 98 (111)
 (504) (114) 1 (139) (756)
    
Net cash 435 (8) 1 (215) 213 
21. Financial instruments 
Carrying value and fair value of financial assets and liabilities 
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying value at each reporting date, are as follows: 
 Amortised cost Held at fair value    
At 30 September 2016 
Loans and 
receivables  
£ million 
Financial 
liabilities
£ million 
Fair value 
hedges
(1)
£ million   
Cash flow 
hedges 
£ million 
Other  
£ million 
Carrying 
value  
£ million 
Fair
value 
£ million 
Other non-current assets 102 – –   – 19 121 121 
Trade and other receivables 145 – –   – 72 217 217 
Trade and other payables – (468) –   – (96) (564) (564)
Derivative financial instruments – – 61   37 – 98 98 
Restricted cash 7 – –   – – 7 7 
Money market deposits 255 – –   – – 255 255 
Cash and cash equivalents 714 – –   – – 714 714 
Eurobond
(1)
 – (435) –   – – (435) (453)
Bank loans – (210) –   – – (210) (210)
Finance lease obligations – (111) –   – – (111) (117)
(1) On 9 February 2016, easyJet plc issued a €500 million Eurobond under the £3,000 million Euro Medium Term Programme guaranteed by easyJet Airline 
Company Limited. The Eurobond pays an annual fixed coupon of 1.750%. At the same time the Group entered into three cross-currency interest rate 
swaps to convert the entire €500 million fixed rate Eurobond to a sterling floating rate exposure. All three swaps pay floating interest (3 month LIBOR plus 
a margin) quarterly, receive fixed interest annually, and have maturities matching the Eurobond. The Group designated all three cross-currency interest rate 
swaps as a fair value hedge of the interest rate and currency risks on the €500 million Eurobond. The swaps are measured at fair value through profit or 
loss, with any gains or losses being taken immediately to the income statement. The carrying value of the Eurobond is adjusted for changes in fair value 
attributable to the risks being hedged. This net carrying value differs to the fair value depending on movements in the Group’s credit risk. The fair value of 
the Eurobond represents the quoted market price of the Eurobond as at 30 September 2016. The carrying value of the fixed rate Eurobond net of cross-
currency interest rate swaps at 30 September 2016 was £376 million.   107 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts
 
 
At 30 September 2015 
 Amortised cost Held at fair value    
Loans and 
receivables 
£ million 
Financial 
liabilities 
£ million 
Cash flow hedges 
£ million 
Other  
£ million 
Carrying 
value  
£ million 
Fair
value 
£ million 
Other non-current assets 91 – – 39 130 130
Trade and other receivables 136 – – 70 206 206
Trade and other payables – (398) – (97) (495) (495)
Derivative financial instruments – – (297) – (297) (297)
Restricted cash 12 – – – 12 12
Money market deposits 289 – – – 289 289
Cash and cash equivalents 650 – – – 650 650
Bank loans – (316) – – (316) (316)
Finance lease obligations – (188) – – (188) (194)
The fair value of the Eurobond is classified as level 1 of the IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ fair value hierarchy. The remaining 
financial instruments for which fair value is disclosed in the table above, and derivative financial instruments, are classified as level 2. 
The fair value measurement hierarchy levels have been defined as follows: 
 Level 1, fair value of financial instruments based on quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
 Level 2, fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over the counter derivatives) 
which are determined using valuation techniques which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible 
on entity-specific estimates. 
 Level 3, fair value of financial instruments that are not based on observable market data. 
Amounts disclosed in the ‘Other’ column are items that do not meet the definition of a financial instrument. They are disclosed to 
facilitate reconciliation of the carrying values of financial instruments to line items presented in the statement of financial position. 
Fair value calculation methodology  
The fair values of derivatives and financial instruments have been determined by reference to observable market prices where the 
instruments are traded, where available. Where market prices are not available, the fair value has been estimated by discounting 
expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year end exchange rates.  
Fair value of derivative financial instruments 
At 30 September 2016 
Quantity 
million 
Non-current 
assets 
£ million 
Current 
assets 
£ million 
Current  
liabilities  
£ million 
Non-current 
liabilities 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
Designated as cash flow hedges       
US dollar 2,311 56 152 – – 208 
Euro 1,700 14 107 (67) (29) 25 
Swiss franc 356 – – (19) (11) (30)
South African rand 428 3 1 – – 4 
Jet fuel 3 20 8 (189) (9) (170)
       
Designated as fair value hedges       
Cross-currency interest rate swaps 379 61 – – – 61 
  154 268 (275) (49) 98 
 
  
At 30 September 2015 
Quantity 
million
Non-current 
assets 
£ million 
Current 
assets 
£ million
Current  
liabilities  
£ million 
Non-current 
liabilities 
£ million
Total 
£ million
Designated as cash flow hedges  
US dollar 2,614 18 71 (1) (2) 86
Euro 2,3602355 (3) (4) 71
Swiss franc 329 2 2 (1) (1) 2
South African rand 479 – – – – –
Jet fuel 3 1 – (363) (94) (456)
 44 128 (368) (101) (297)
For foreign currency forward exchange contracts, cross-currency interest rate swap contracts and foreign exchange swap 
contracts, quantity represents the nominal value of currency contracts held, disclosed in the contract currency. For jet fuel forward 
contracts, quantity represents contracted metric tonnes. 
   108 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
Notes to the accounts continued 
21. Financial instruments continued 
The hedged foreign exchange and jet fuel transactions are expected to occur on various dates within the next 24 months. 
The foreign exchange and jet fuel contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and the accumulated gains or losses deferred 
in the hedging reserve will be recognised in the income statement in the periods that the hedged transaction affects the income 
statement. This will be within 24 months of the end of the reporting period, except where the gain or loss is included in the initial 
amount recognised for the purchase of an aircraft in which case recognition will be over a period of up to 23 years in the form of 
depreciation of the purchased asset. 
The Group maintains cross-currency interest rate swap contracts as fair value hedges of the interest rate and currency risk on fixed 
rate debt issued by the Group. The cross-currency interest rate swap contracts are designated and qualify as fair value hedges and 
changes in fair value are recorded in the income statement, together with the change in the fair value of the hedged liability. 
The following derivative financial instruments are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting agreements: 
At 30 September 2016 
Gross  
amount  
£ million 
Amount  
not set off  
£ million 
Net 
amount 
£ million 
Derivative financial instruments   
Assets 422 (264) 158 
Liabilities (324) 264 (60)
 98 – 98 
    
At 30 September 2015 
Gross  
amount  
£ million 
Amount  
not set off  
£ million 
Net 
amount 
£ million 
Derivative financial instruments   
Assets 172 (145) 27
Liabilities (469) 145 (324)
 (297) – (297)
All financial assets and liabilities are presented gross on the face of the statement of financial position as the conditions for netting 
specified in IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments Presentation’ are not met. 
22. Financial risk and capital management 
easyJet is exposed to financial risks including fluctuations in exchange rates, jet fuel prices and interest rates. Financial risk 
management aims to limit these market risks with selected derivative hedging instruments being used for this purpose. easyJet’s 
policy is not to trade in derivatives but to use the instruments to hedge anticipated exposure. As such, easyJet is not exposed to 
market risk by using derivatives as any gains and losses arising are offset by the outcome of the underlying exposure being hedged. 
In addition to market risks, easyJet is exposed to credit and liquidity risk.  
The Board is responsible for setting financial risk and capital management policies and objectives which are implemented by the 
treasury function on a day-to-day basis. The policy outlines the approach to risk management and also states the instruments and 
time periods which the treasury function is authorised to use in managing financial risks. The policy is regularly reviewed to ensure 
best practice, however there have been no significant changes during the current year.  
Capital employed 
Capital employed comprises shareholders’ equity, borrowings, cash and money market deposits (excluding restricted cash) and an 
adjustment for the capital implicit in aircraft operating lease arrangements. The adjustment is calculated by multiplying the annual 
charge for aircraft dry leasing by a factor of seven, in line with accepted practice for the airline industry.  
Normalised operating profit is adjusted for the implied interest incorporated in the charge for aircraft dry leasing.  
   109 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts
 
 
Consequently, the capital employed at the end of the current and prior year and the return earned during those years were 
as follows:  
 
2016
£ million 
2015
£ million
Shareholders' equity 2,712 2,249
Borrowings 756 504
Cash and money market deposits (excluding restricted cash) (969) (939)
Reported capital employed 2,499 1,814
Operating lease adjustment 721 798
Capital employed including operating leases adjustment 3,220 2,612
  
Operating profit – reported 498 688
Implied interest in operating lease costs 34 38
Operating profit – adjusted 532 726
Operating profit after tax – adjusted 426 581
Return on capital employed 14.6% 22.2%
Return on capital employed is calculated by dividing the adjusted operating profit after tax by the average of the opening and 
closing capital employed, including the operating leases adjustment.  
The percentage of operating leased aircraft at 30 September 2016 was 25% (2015: 28%).  
Capital management 
The objective of capital management is to ensure that easyJet is able to continue as a going concern whilst delivering shareholder 
expectations of a strong capital base as well as returning benefits for other stakeholders. 
easyJet manages its capital structure in response to changes in both economic conditions and strategic objectives. The cash 
and net debt position, together with the maturity profile of existing debt, is monitored to ensure the continuity of funding.  
On 7 January 2016, easyJet was assigned long-term corporate credit ratings from both Standard & Poor's (BBB+ stable) 
and Moody's (Baa1 stable). At the same time easyJet plc established a £3,000 million Euro Medium Term Note Programme 
guaranteed by easyJet Airline Company Limited. Under this programme, on 9 February 2016, easyJet plc issued notes amounting 
to €500 million for a seven year term with a fixed annual coupon rate of 1.750%. At the same time easyJet Airline Company Limited 
entered into a cross-currency interest rate swap converting the €500 million notes issued at a fixed rate of 1.750% to £379 million 
at a floating rate of 3 month LIBOR plus a margin, with principal exchanges of €500 million and £379 million at inception and 
maturity of the bond. 
Liquidity risk management 
The objective of easyJet's liquidity risk management is to ensure sufficient cash is available to meet future liabilities as they fall due 
and ensure access to cost effective funding in various markets.  
easyJet continues to hold significant cash and liquid funds to mitigate the impact of potential business disruption events as well as a 
$500 million revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility was agreed on 10 February 2015 and was undrawn at 30 September 
2016. easyJet has a target minimum liquidity requirement to cover peak unearned revenue with a minimum of £2.6 million per 100 
seats in the fleet. This requires the revolving credit facility to be taken into consideration in assessing this liquidity metric. Total cash 
(excluding restricted cash) and money market deposits at 30 September 2016 was £969 million (2015: £939 million). Surplus funds 
are invested in high quality short-term liquid instruments, mainly money market funds, bank deposits and tri-party repos. 
   110 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
Notes to the accounts continued 
22. Financial risk and capital management continued 
The maturity profile of financial liabilities based on undiscounted cash flows and contractual maturities is as follows: 
At 30 September 2016 
Within 1 year 
£ million 
1-2 years  
£ million 
2-5 years  
£ million 
Over 5 years 
£ million 
Borrowings 106 88 186 443 
Trade and other payables 468 – – – 
Derivative contracts – receipts
(1)
 (2,384) (1,123) (61) – 
Derivative contracts – payments
(1)
 2,394 1,086 54 – 
(1) The cross-currency interest rate swaps’ cashflows have been excluded from the table above as these were in a net asset position at 30 September 2016. 
At 30 September 2015 
Within 1 year 
£ million 
1-2 years  
£ million 
2-5 years  
£ million 
Over 5 years 
£ million 
Borrowings 190 93 199 52
Trade and other payables 398 – – –
Derivative contracts – receipts (2,193) (1,667) (73) –
Derivative contracts – payments 2,433 1,727 69 –
The maturity profile has been calculated based on spot rates for the US dollar, Euro, Swiss franc, South African rand and jet fuel at 
close of business on 30 September each year. 
Credit risk management 
easyJet is exposed to credit risk arising from cash and money market deposits, derivative financial instruments and trade and other 
receivables. Credit risk management aims to reduce the risk of default by setting limits on credit exposure to counterparties based 
on their respective credit ratings. Credit ratings also determine the maximum period of investment when placing funds on deposit. 
Credit risk is limited to the carrying amount in the statement of financial position at each year end.  
Counterparties for cash investments, currency forward contracts, cross-currency interest rate swap contracts, foreign currency swap 
contracts and jet fuel forward contracts are required to have a long-term credit rating of A- or better at contract inception. 
Exposures to these counterparties are regularly reviewed and, if the long term credit rating falls below A- management will make a 
decision on remedial action to be taken. 
Disclosure relating to the credit quality of trade and other receivables is given in note 11. 
Foreign currency risk management 
The majority of easyJet's exposure to currency arises from fluctuations in the US dollar, Euro and Swiss franc exchange rates which 
can significantly impact easyJet's financial results and cash flows. The aim of the foreign currency risk management is to reduce the 
impact of these exchange rate fluctuations. 
Significant currency exposures in the income statement are managed through the use of currency forward contracts, in line with the 
Board approved policy. The policy states that easyJet hedges between 65% – 85% of the next 12 months forecast surplus cash 
flows on a rolling basis, and 45% – 65% of the following 12 months forecast surplus cash flows on a rolling basis. 
Significant currency exposures relating to the acquisition cost of aircraft is also managed through the use of currency forward 
contracts and foreign exchange swap contracts where up to 90% of the next 24 months forecast requirement is hedged. In 
addition, easyJet has substantial borrowings and other liabilities denominated in US dollars and Euros, which are largely offset by 
holding US dollar and Euro cash and money market deposits. 
Significant currency exposures relating to foreign currency denominated debt issuances are managed through the use of 
cross-currency interest rate swap contracts, where deemed appropriate. These hedges are designated as fair value hedges 
where possible. Where hedge accounting has been elected, changes in the fair value of derivatives including changes in the fair 
value of the hedged liabilities are recorded in the income statement. 
Management may take action to hedge other currency exposures as deemed appropriate. 
Financing and interest rate risk management 
Interest rate cash flow risk arises on floating rate borrowings and cash investments. 
Interest rate risk management policy aims to provide certainty in a proportion of financing while retaining the opportunity to benefit 
from interest rate reductions. All borrowings are at floating interest rates repricing every three to six months. A significant proportion 
of US dollar loans by value are matched with US dollar cash. Operating leases are a mix of fixed and floating rates. Of the 63 
operating leases in place at 30 September 2016 (2015: 67), 73% were based on fixed interest rates and 27% were based on floating 
interest rates (2015: 75% fixed, 25% floating).  
In addition, on 7 January 2016 easyJet plc issued a £3,000 million European Medium Term Note Programme. Under this programme, 
on 9 February 2016 easyJet plc issued notes amounting to €500 million for a seven-year term with a fixed annual coupon rate of 
1.750%. The proceeds from this issuance were used for general corporate purposes. 
   111 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts
 
 
Fuel price risk management 
easyJet is exposed to fuel price risk. The objective of the fuel price risk management policy is to provide protection against sudden 
and significant increases in jet fuel prices, thus mitigating volatility in the income statement in the short-term. In order to manage 
the risk exposure, forward contracts are used in line with Board approved policy to hedge between 65% and 85% of estimated 
exposures up to 12 months in advance which is hedged on a rolling basis, and to hedge between 45% and 65% of estimated 
exposures from 13 up to 24 months in advance which is hedged on a rolling basis. Specific decisions may require consideration 
of a longer term approach. Treasury strategies and actions will be driven by the need to meet treasury, financial and 
corporate objectives. 
Market risk sensitivity analysis 
Financial assets and liabilities affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits, trade and other receivables, trade and other 
payables and derivative financial instruments. The following analysis illustrates the sensitivity of changes in relevant foreign exchange 
rates, interest rates and fuel prices. It should be noted that the analysis reflects the impact on profit or loss after tax for the year and 
other comprehensive income on financial instruments in a cash flow hedge relationship held at the reporting date. The sensitivities 
are calculated based on all other variables remaining constant. The analysis is considered representative of easyJet's exposure over 
the next 12 month period.  
The sensitivity analysis is based on easyJet's financial assets and liabilities and financial instruments held as at 30 September 2016.  
The currency exchange rate analysis assumes a +/-10% change in both US dollar and Euro exchange rates. 
The interest rate analysis assumes a 1% increase in interest rates over the next 12 months.  
The fuel price analysis assumes a 10% increase in fuel price over the next 12 months. 
 Currency rates   
At 30 September 2016 
US dollar 
+10%
(1)
£ million   
US dollar 
-10%
(2)
£ million    
Euro 
+10%
(1)
£ million   
Euro    
-10%
(2)
 
£ million    
Interest rates 
1% increase 
£ million 
Fuel price 10%
increase 
£ million 
Income statement impact: gain/(loss) 25   (21)    5   (4)    3 – 
Impact on other comprehensive income: 
increase/(decrease) 139   (113)    –   –    – 83 
       
 Currency rates  
At 30 September 2015 
US dollar   
+10%
(1)
£ million   
US dollar   
-10%
(2)
£ million    
Euro  
+10%
(1)
£ million   
Euro    
-10%
(2) 
£ million    
Interest rates
1% increase 
£ million
Fuel price 10%
increase 
£ million 
Income statement impact: gain/(loss) 17  (14)   4  (3)    4 –
Impact on other comprehensive income: 
increase/(decrease) 109  (89)   24  (20)    – 79
(1) GBP weakened. 
(2) GBP strengthened. 
The market risk sensitivity analysis has been calculated based on spot rates for the US dollar, Euro and jet fuel at close of business 
on 30 September each year. 
23. Leasing commitments 
Commitments under operating leases 
  Aircraft  Other 
 
2016
£ million 
2015 
£ million 
2016
£ million 
2015
£ million 
Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases due:    
Not later than one year 110 98 2 3
Later than one year and not later than five years 223 255 6 5
Later than five years 11 31 2 4
 344 384 10 12
easyJet holds 63 aircraft (2015: 67 aircraft) under operating leases, with initial lease terms ranging from five to sixteen years. easyJet 
is contractually obliged to carry out maintenance on these aircraft, and the cost of this is provided based on the number of flying 
hours and cycles operated. Further details are given in the significant accounting policies section of note 1. 
   112 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
Notes to the accounts continued 
23. Leasing commitments continued 
Commitments under finance leases 
 
2016 
£ million 
2015
£ million 
Present value of minimum lease payments fall due as follows:  
Not later than one year 12 98
Later than one year and not later than five years 114 62
Later than five years – 44
 126 204
Future finance charges (15) (16)
 111 188
easyJet holds 5 aircraft (2015: 11 aircraft) under finance leases with ten year initial terms. Further details are given in notes 9 and 14. 
24. Contingent liabilities 
easyJet is involved in a number of disputes and litigation which arose in the normal course of business. The likely outcome of these 
disputes and litigation cannot be predicted, and in complex cases reliable estimates of any potential obligation may not be possible.  
Having reviewed the information currently available, management considers that the ultimate resolution of these disputes and 
litigation is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on easyJet’s results, cash flows or financial position.  
At 30 September 2016 easyJet had outstanding letters of credit and performance bonds totalling £49 million (2015: £44 million), 
of which £38 million (2015: £33 million) expires within one year. The fair value of these instruments at each year end was negligible. 
No amount is recognised on the statement of financial position in respect of any of these financial instruments as it is not probable 
that there will be an outflow of resources. 
25. Geographical revenue analysis 
 
2016 
£ million 
2015
£ million 
United Kingdom 2,243 2,205
Southern Europe 1,376 1,456
Northern Europe 984 950
Other 66 75
 4,669 4,686
Southern Europe comprises countries lying wholly or mainly south of the border between Italy and Switzerland, plus France.  
easyJet’s non-current assets principally comprise its fleet of 189 owned and 5 finance leased aircraft. A further 63 aircraft are held 
under operating leases, giving a total fleet of 257 at 30 September 2016. All of these aircraft are registered in the United Kingdom 
except for 23 (2015: 24) registered in Switzerland. These assets are used flexibly across the entire route network, and accordingly 
there is no suitable basis for allocating them to geographic segments. 
   113 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts
 
 
26. Related party transactions 
The Company licenses the easyJet brand from easyGroup Ltd (‘easyGroup’), a wholly owned subsidiary of easyGroup Holdings 
Limited, an entity in which easyJet’s founder, Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou, holds a beneficial controlling interest. The Haji-Ioannou family 
concert party shareholding (being easyGroup Holdings Limited and Polys Holdings Limited) holds, in total, 33.73% of the issued share 
capital of easyJet plc as at 30 September 2016. 
Under the Amended Brand Licence signed in October 2010 and approved by the shareholders of easyJet plc in December 2010, 
an annual royalty of 0.25% of total revenue is payable by easyJet to easyGroup for a minimum term of 10 years. The full term of 
the agreement is 50 years. 
easyJet and easyGroup established a fund to meet the annual costs of protecting the ‘easy’ (and related marks) and the ‘easyJet’ 
brands. easyJet contributes up to £1 million per annum to this fund and easyGroup contributes £100,000 per annum. Beyond the 
first £1.1 million of costs, easyJet can commit up to an aggregate £5.5 million annually to meet brand protection costs, with 
easyGroup continuing to meet its share of costs on a 10:1 ratio. easyJet must meet 100% of any brand protection costs it wishes 
to incur above this limit. 
A side letter to the Brand Licence was entered with easyGroup, dated 29 September 2016, under which, in return for easyGroup 
consenting to easyJet acquiring a portion of the equity share capital in Founders Factory Limited, easyJet made a payment of £1. 
A separate agreement was entered into with Sir Stelios (‘the Comfort Letter’), dated 9 October 2010, under which, in return for 
certain non-compete obligations, easyJet made payment of a fee of £300,000, adjusted annually per the UK Retail Price index, 
each year for five years (or until the expiry of the longest subsisting restriction, whichever is later). All of the obligations in the 
Comfort Letter have now expired and no further payments will be made under it.  
The amounts included in the income statement, within Other Costs, for these items were as follows: 
 
2016
£ million 
2015
£ million 
Annual royalty 11.7 11.7
Brand protection (legal fees paid through easyGroup to third parties) 1.0 0.9
Comfort letter agreement with Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou – 0.3
 12.7 12.9
At 30 September 2016, £nil million (2015: £1 million) of the above aggregate amount was included in trade and other payables. 
  114 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
 
Company statement of financial position 
 Notes 
30 September 
2016 
£ million 
30 September
2015
£ million 
Non-current assets   
Investments in subsidiary undertakings c 897 878
   
Current assets   
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings  1,152 684
Derivative financial instruments with subsidiary undertakings d 61 –
  1,213 684
   
Current liabilities   
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings  (1) (1)
Current tax payable  (12) (6)
  (13) (7)
   
Net current assets  1,200 677
   
Non-current liabilities   
Borrowings e (435) –
   
Net assets  1,662 1,555
   
Shareholders' equity   
Share capital  108 108
Share premium  659 659
Retained earnings  895 788
  1,662 1,555
The accounts on pages 114 to 118 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 14 November 2016 and 
signed on behalf of the Board. 
  
CAROLYN MCCALL DBE ANDREW FINDLAY 
Director Director 115 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts
 
Company statement of changes in equity 
Share 
capital 
£ million 
Share  
premium  
£ million 
Retained 
earnings 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
At 1 October 2015 108 659 788 1,555 
Total comprehensive income     
Profit for the year – – 307 307 
Dividends paid – – (219) (219)
Share incentive schemes     
Movement in reserves for employee share schemes – – 19 19 
At 30 September 2016 108 659 895 1,662 
     
Share 
capital 
£ million 
Share  
premium  
£ million 
Retained 
earnings 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
At 1 October 2014 108 658 729 1,495
Total comprehensive income  
Profit for the year – – 221 221
Dividends paid – – (180) (180)
Share incentive schemes  
Proceeds from shares issued – 1 – 1
Movement in reserves for employee share schemes – – 18 18
At 30 September 2015 108 659 788 1,555
An ordinary dividend in respect of the year ended 30 September 2016 of 53.8 pence per share or £214 million is to be proposed at 
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. These accounts do not reflect this proposed dividend. 
An ordinary dividend of 55.2 pence per share, or £219 million in respect of the year ended 30 September 2015 was paid in the year 
ended 30 September 2016. An ordinary dividend of 45.4 pence per share, or £180 million, in respect of the year ended 30 
September 2014 was paid in the year ended 30 September 2015. 
The disclosures required in respect of share capital are shown in note 17 to the consolidated accounts. 116 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
 
Company statement of cash flows 
 Notes 
Year ended  
30 September 
2016 
£ million 
Year ended 
30 September 
2015
£ million 
Cash flows from operating activities   
Cash used by operations (excluding dividends) f (54) (35)
Interest received   19 15
Interest paid  (5) –
Dividends received  259 199
Dividends paid  (219) (180)
Net cash used by operating activities  – (1)
   
Cash flows from financing activities   
Net proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital  – 1
Proceeds from drawdown of bank loans and other borrowings  379 –
Movement in loans with subsidiary undertakings  (379) –
Net cash generated from financing activities  – 1
   
Net movement in cash and cash equivalents  – –
   
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning and end of year  – – 117 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts
 
Notes to the company accounts 
a) Significant accounting policies 
The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Company accounts are the same as those set out in note 1 
to the consolidated accounts with the addition of the following.  
Investments 
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment. Where subsidiary undertakings incur charges for 
share-based payments in respect of share options and awards granted by the Company, a capital contribution in the same amount 
is recognised as an investment in subsidiary undertakings with a corresponding credit to shareholders’ equity. 
b) Income statement and statement of total comprehensive income 
In accordance with Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own 
income statement and statement of comprehensive income. The Company’s profit for the year was £307 million (2015: £221 million). 
Included in this amount are dividends received of £259 million (2015: £199 million), which are recognised when the right to receive 
payment is established. The Company recognised no other income or expenses in either the current or prior year, other than the 
profit for each year. 
The Company has eight employees at 30 September 2016 (2015: eight), however one employee left the Company’s employment 
on 1 October 2016. These employees are the Non-Executive Directors of easyJet plc; their remuneration is paid by easyJet Airline 
Company Limited. The Executive Directors of easyJet plc are employed and paid by easyJet Airline Company Limited. Details of 
Directors' remuneration are disclosed in note 4 to the consolidated accounts and in the Directors' remuneration report on pages 
60 to 75. 
c) Investments in subsidiary undertakings 
Investments in subsidiary undertakings were as follows: 
 
2016
£ million 
2015
£ million
At 1 October 878 309
Capital contributions to subsidiaries 19 18
Allotment and issue of shares by subsidiaries – 551
At 30 September 897 878
A full list of Group companies are detailed below. 
 Country of incorporation Principal activity 
Percentage of 
ordinary shares 
held 
easyJet Airline Company Limited England and Wales Airline operator 100
easyJet Switzerland S.A. Switzerland Airline operator 49
Dawn Licensing Holdings Limited Malta Holding company 100
Dawn Licensing Limited Malta Graphic design 100
easyJet Sterling Limited
(1)
 Cayman Islands Aircraft trading and leasing 100
easyJet Leasing Limited
(1)
 Cayman Islands Aircraft trading and leasing 100
(1) Although these companies are Cayman Islands incorporated they have always been, and continue to be, UK tax resident. 
The Company has a 49% interest in easyJet Switzerland S.A. with an option to acquire the remaining 51%. The option is 
automatically extended for a further year on a rolling basis, unless the option is terminated by written agreement prior to the 
automatic renewal date. easyJet Switzerland S.A. is a subsidiary on the basis that the Company exercises a dominant influence 
over the undertaking. A non-controlling interest has not been reflected in the consolidated accounts on the basis that holders of 
the remaining 51% of the shares have no entitlement to any dividends from that holding and the Company has an option to acquire 
those shares for a predetermined minimal consideration. 
d) Financial instruments 
On 9 February 2016, easyJet plc issued a €500 million Eurobond under the £3,000 million Euro Medium Term Programme 
guaranteed by easyJet Airline Company Limited. At the same time the Company entered into cross-currency interest rate swaps to 
convert the entire €500 million fixed rate Eurobond to a Sterling floating rate exposure. For further details please refer to note 21 of 
the consolidated accounts. 
e) Borrowings 
 
Current  
£ million 
Non-current 
£ million 
Total 
£ million 
At 30 September 2016  
Eurobond – 435 435 
For further details please see the disclosures shown in note 14 to the consolidated accounts. 
   118 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
Notes to the company accounts continued 
f) Reconciliation of profit for the year to cash used by operations 
 
2016 
£ million 
2015
£ million 
Profit for the year 307 221
  
Adjustments for:  
Finance and other similar income (16) (15)
Unrealised foreign exchange differences (45) (12)
Tax charge 12 5
Dividends received  (259) (199)
  
Operating cash flows before movement in working capital (1) –
  
Changes in working capital:  
Increase in amounts due from subsidiary undertakings (50) (35)
Increase in derivative financial instruments (3) –
 (54) (35)
g) Guarantees and contingent liabilities 
The Company has given a formal undertaking to the Civil Aviation Authority to guarantee the payment and discharge of all liabilities 
of easyJet Airline Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Company. The guarantee is required for that company to maintain its 
operating licence under Regulation 3 of the Licensing of Air Carriers Regulations 1992. 
The Company has issued a guarantee in favour of easyJet Airline Company Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, in relation to the 
processing of credit card transactions, and also in respect of hedging transactions carried out according to treasury policy. 
The Company has guaranteed the contractual obligations of easyJet Airline Company Limited and easyJet Leasing Limited, both 
subsidiary undertakings, in respect of its contractual obligations to Airbus SAS in respect of the supply of Airbus 320 family aircraft. 
The Company has guaranteed the repayment of borrowings that financed the acquisition of aircraft by subsidiary undertakings. 
The Company has also guaranteed the payment obligations for the lease of aircraft by subsidiary undertakings. 
The Company has guaranteed certain letters of credit issued on behalf of subsidiary undertakings. 
The Company has guaranteed the contractual obligations of easyJet Airline Company Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, in respect 
of a $500 million revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility was agreed during the year ended 30 September 2015, for 
a minimum of five years, and was undrawn at 30 September 2016 and 30 September 2015. The facility is due to mature in 
February 2021. 
No amount is recognised on the Company statement of financial position in respect to any of these guarantees as it is not probable 
that there will be an outflow of resources. 
h) Related party transactions 
Transactions with subsidiary undertakings, which principally relate to the provision of funding within the Group, are carried out on an 
arm's length basis. Outstanding balances are placed on intercompany accounts with no specified credit period, are unsecured, and 
bear market rates of interest. 
On 9 February 2016 easyJet plc provided easyJet Airline Company Limited with a loan of £379 million. The loan is interest bearing, 
with an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin. The loan is repayable within five working days of a written demand of repayment. At 
the same time easyJet plc entered into a cross-currency interest rate swap with easyJet Airline Company Limited, to convert €500 
million with a fixed interest rate of 1.75% per annum to £379 million at a variable rate of LIBOR plus a margin, for a period consistent 
with the underlying loan. 
On 18 October 2016 easyJet plc provided easyJet Airline Company Limited with a loan of €500 million. The loan is interest bearing, 
with a fixed interest rate of 1.125%. The loan is repayable within five working days of a written demand of repayment. 
For full details of transactions and arrangements with easyJet’s largest shareholder, see note 26 of the consolidated accounts.  119 www.easyJet.com
Strategic report Governance Accounts
 
Five-year summary 
 
2016
£ million 
2015
£ million 
2014 
£ million 
2013
£ million
2012
£ million 
Income statement  
Revenue 4,669 4,686 4,527 4,258 3,854
EBITDAR 770 940 823 711 531
Operating profit 498 688 581 497 331
Profit before tax 495 686 581 478 317
Profit for the year 427 548 450 398 255
   
Earnings per share (basic) – pence 108.4 139.1 114.5 101.3 62.5
Earnings per share (diluted) – pence 107.6 138.0 113.2 100.0 61.7
Ordinary dividend per share – pence 53.8 55.2 45.4 33.5 21.5
Special dividend per share – pence – – – 44.1 –
   
Statement of financial position   
Non-current assets 4,051 3,549 3,221 2,964 2,968
Current assets 1,454 1,279 1,261 1,448 1,327
Current liabilities (1,573) (1,768) (1,420) (1,379) (1,264)
Non-current liabilities (1,220) (811) (890) (1,016) (1,237)
Net assets 2,712 2,249 2,172 2,017 1,794
   
Net cash   
Operating activities 387 609 394 616 261
Investing activities (541) (532) (445) (416) (389)
Financing activities (excluding movements in  
borrowings and money market deposits) (61) (70) (76) 439 (50)
Loan issue costs 1 – (1) (3) (3)
Exchange gains/(losses) (8) 6 (8) (4) 7
Net (decrease)/increase in net cash (222) 13 (136) 632 (174)
   
Key performance indicators   
Return on capital employed 14.6% 22.2% 20.5% 17.4% 11.3%
Net cash/(debt) 213 435 422 558 (74)
Profit before tax per seat (£) 6.20 9.15 8.12 7.03 4.81
Revenue per seat (£) 58.46 62.48 63.31 62.58 58.51
Cost per seat (£) 52.26 53.33 55.19 55.55 53.70
Cost per seat excluding fuel (£) 38.31 37.35 37.70 38.17 36.25
Seats flown (millions) 79.9 75.0 71.5 68.0 65.9 120 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016
 
Glossary 
Adjusted capital employed Capital employed plus seven times operating lease costs incurred in the year. 
Adjusted net cash/debt Net cash/debt less seven times operating lease costs incurred in the year. 
Aircraft dry / 
wet leasing 
Payments to lessors under dry leasing arrangements relate solely to the provision of an 
aircraft. Payments to lessors under wet leasing arrangements relate to the provision of 
aircraft, crew, maintenance and insurance. 
Aircraft owned/leased at end of year Number of aircraft owned or on lease arrangements of over one month’s duration at the end 
of the period. 
Available seat kilometres (ASK) Seats flown multiplied by the number of kilometres flown. 
Average adjusted  
capital employed 
The average of opening and closing capital employed. 
Block hours Hours of service for aircraft, measured from the time that the aircraft leaves the terminal at 
the departure airport to the time that it arrives at the terminal at the destination airport. 
Capital employed Shareholders’ equity less net cash/debt. 
Cost per ASK Revenue less profit before tax, divided by available seat kilometres. 
Cost per seat Revenue less profit before tax, divided by seats flown. 
Cost per seat, excluding fuel Revenue, less profit before tax, plus fuel costs, divided by seats flown. 
EBITDAR Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortisation, aircraft dry leasing costs, and profit 
or loss on disposal of aircraft held for sale. 
Gearing Adjusted net cash/debt divided by the sum of shareholders’ equity and adjusted net 
cash/debt. 
Load factor Number of passengers as a percentage of number of seats flown. The load factor is not 
weighted for the effect of varying sector lengths. 
Net cash/debt Total cash less borrowings. (Cash includes money market deposits but excludes 
restricted cash). 
Normalised operating profit after tax Reported operating profit adjusted for one-third of operating lease costs incurred in the year, 
less tax at the prevailing UK corporation tax rate at the end of the financial year. 
Operated aircraft utilisation Average number of block hours per day per aircraft operated. 
Other costs Administrative and operational costs not reported elsewhere, including some employee costs, 
compensation paid to passengers, exchange gains and losses and the profit or loss on the 
disposal of property, plant and equipment. 
Passengers Number of earned seats flown. Earned seats comprises seats sold to passengers (including 
no-shows), seats provided for promotional purposes and seats provided to staff for 
business travel. 
Profit before tax per seat Profit before tax divided by seats flown. 
Revenue The sum of seat revenue and non-seat revenue. 
Revenue passenger  
kilometres (RPK) 
Number of passengers multiplied by the number of kilometres those passengers were flown. 
Revenue per ASK Revenue divided by available seat kilometres. 
Revenue per seat Revenue divided by seats flown. 
ROCE Return on capital employed. 
ROCE (excluding lease adjustments) Operating profit, less tax at the prevailing UK corporation tax rate at the end of the financial 
year, divided by average capital employed. 
ROCE (including lease adjustments) Normalised operating profit after tax divided by average adjusted capital employed. 
Seats flown Seats available for passengers. 
Sector A one-way revenue flight. 
  WE’D LIKE TO THANK 
EVERYONE WHO HAS HELPED 
TO PRODUCE THIS REPORT :
Paul Ablin, Charlotte Allin, Adèle Anderson, Michael Barker, Meena Bhatia-Ahir, 
Maxwell Bruce, Gail Butler, Phil Chastell, Rob Denham, Peter Duffy, 
Andrew Findlay, James Fisher, Matt Garner, Bill Gosbee, Pallavi Ghosh, 
Michael Hargitay, Mike Hirst, Stuart Knapp, Mark Johnston, Sarah Kayser, 
Nick Kennedy, Monika Kuznik, Brian Madiyiko, Carolyn McCall DBE, Jo Merchant, 
Tom Minion, Paul Moore, Stuart Morgan, Kyla Mullins, Matthew Newman, 
Emma Papworth, Mark Ramsden, Mary Robertson, Zarina Sabir, Ben Souter, 
Ian Southerland, Hayley Thomas, Claire Walker, Geoff Want, Charlotte Warner, 
Charles Whitehouse and all of our employees across the network. Annual report and accounts 2016
Hangar 89
London Luton Airport
Luton
Bedfordshire
LU2 9PF
www.easyJet.com
