 CREATING CLARITY
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
for the year ended 31 December 2016 CONTENTS 
Visit us online at  
www.ebiquity.com/en/investors
Strategic report
Financial highlights 2
At a glance 4
Chairman’s statement 6
Market overview 7
Chief Executive Officer’s review 8
Business model 16
Our strategy 18
Case studies 20
Chief Financial  
Officer’s review 24
Governance
Board of Directors 28
Corporate  
governance report 30
Audit & Risk  
Committee report 34
Remuneration  
Committee report 36
Directors’ report 39
Financial statements
Statement of Directors’  
responsibilities 41
Independent auditors’ report 42
Consolidated income statement 44
Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income 44
Consolidated statement  
of financial position 45
Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity 46
Consolidated statement  
of cash flows 47
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements 48
Independent auditors’ report 80
Company statement  
of financial position 82
Company statement  
of changes in equity 83
Notes to the Company  
financial statements 84
Advisers 91
Shareholder information 91
Glossary 92 Today’s marketing ecosystem 
is complex, at times confusing, 
and often opaque.
Being an effective marketer has 
never been more challenging.
Multi-channel marketing presents 
brands with a bewildering 
cocktail of opportunities and 
obstacles. Each new link in the 
adtech supply chain commands 
attention and competes for 
constrained resources.
Advertisers have never needed 
more help in understanding 
where, why, and how 
they should allocate their 
marketing investments.
DIGITAL COMPLEXITY Today’s marketing ecosystem 
is complex, at times confusing, 
and often opaque.
Being an effective marketer has 
never been more challenging.
Multi-channel marketing presents 
brands with a bewildering 
cocktail of opportunities and 
obstacles. Each new link in the 
adtech supply chain commands 
attention and competes for 
constrained resources.
Advertisers have never needed 
more help in understanding 
where, why, and how 
they should allocate their 
marketing investments.
DIGITAL COMPLEXITY Strategic report
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  1
STRATEGIC REPORT
At Ebiquity, we help brands to 
navigate the complexity of the 
evolving marketing ecosystem 
to achieve their marketing and 
business objectives.
We generate data‑driven insights 
through our unique combination 
of independent consultancy 
services, multi‑channel media 
analytics, and marketing 
optimization tools.
This is how we empower our 
clients to become more effective 
and efficient marketers. It’s by 
creating clarity in the ever‑more 
digital, increasingly opaque media 
landscape that we help them to 
become better advertisers.
CREATING CLARITY STRATEGIC REPORT
2 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
FY2016
1
CY2015
2
76.6
12.4
10.8
43.3
0
(0.4)
83.6
13.0
11.3
FY2015
3
FY2015
3
FY2015
3
REVENUE £m
UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT £m
UNDERLYING DILUTED EPS pence
FY2016
1
CY2015
2
+9.1%
+4.4%
+5.0%
Final results for the year ended 31 December 2016
Ebiquity, a leading independent marketing analytics specialist, 
announces final results for the year ended 31 December 2016. 
Ebiquity provides services to 80 of the top 100 global advertisers, 
with data‑driven insights spanning over 90 countries.
 Michael Karg, PhD, CEO, commented: 
“   We have seen continued strong performance from our consultancy businesses MVM and 
MPO, which are at the core of the changing nature of the media landscape particularly 
around effectiveness and efficiency of marketing investments. We have already made 
good progress with our Growth Acceleration Plan which will replicate our service 
offering across key territories, further strengthening our ability to service global clients. 
    Investments into expanding our digital services across our three practice areas coupled 
with events in the media marketplace – such as the debate around the performance 
of digital advertising – create significant medium‑term growth opportunities. The 
implementation of our plans, the opportunities arising from the changing nature 
of the industry, make us excited for the future.”  
27 March 2017
FY2016
1
CY2015
2 Strategic report
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  3
1. FY2016 is the year ended 31 December 2016 (audited).
2. CY2015 is the calendar year from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 (unaudited).
3. FY2015 is the financial period from 1 May 2015 to 31 December 2015 (audited).
4. Like‑for‑like means prior year results are adjusted to include the results of recent acquisitions as if they had been owned for the same period in the prior year.
5. Constant currency is calculated by taking current year denominated results restated at last year’s foreign exchange rates.
Continued revenue, profit and earnings growth
• Revenue up 9.1% to £83.6m (CY2015: £76.6m), with like‑for‑like
4
 constant currency
5
  
revenue growth of 2.1%
• Underlying operating profit up 4.4% to £13.0m (CY2015: £12.4m)
• Underlying PBT up 5.5% to £11.8m (CY2015: £11.2m)
• Underlying diluted EPS up 5.0% to 11.3p (CY2015: 10.8p)
• Underlying net cash inflow from operations £11.3m (CY2015: £13.7m) with cash  
conversion from underlying operating profit of 88%
• Net debt reduced to £28.1m (31 December 2015: £28.9m)
• Proposed dividend of 0.65p per share continuing progressive dividend policy
Growing revenue contribution from Media Value Measurement  
and Marketing Performance Optimization
• Media Value Measurement (‘MVM’) achieved total revenue growth of 12.3% 
 over CY2015, an increase of 3.6% on a like‑for‑like constant currency basis
• Marketing Performance Optimization (‘MPO’) continued to deliver strong revenue  
growth with total revenue growth of 31.2% over CY2015 and like‑for‑like constant  
currency revenue growth of 21.6%
• Together MVM and MPO accounted for 72% of Group revenues (CY2015: 68%)
• Market Intelligence (‘MI’) revenues were down by 5.2% on a total basis and by 8.5%  
on a like‑for‑like constant currency basis, with the decrease largely due to an expected  
substantial decline in revenues from our project‑based research business
Delivered on a number of milestones set out in Growth Acceleration Plan 
• Formally launched Strategic Media Consultancy service offering in Q4 2016
• Commenced rollout of marketing effectiveness practice into Germany, France and  
Asia Pacific, with first local projects in Continental Europe in Q1 2017, Asia Pacific in H2 2016
• Digital product development on track with rollout of Portfolio Digital commencing in Asia Pacific  
and launch of digital attribution service expected in Q2 2017
• Talent review programme undertaken in Q1 2017, kicking off first phase of the Growth 
Support Programme STRATEGIC REPORT
4 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
AT A GLANCE
Ebiquity, a leading, independent, technology‑enabled 
marketing and media analytics consultancy.
WE GO TO MARKET WITH THREE PRACTICE AREAS
   READ MORE ABOUT THE  
THREE PRACTICE AREAS ON PAGE 12.
Marketing Performance Optimization
(‘MPO’) 
Enabling clients to decide where to allocate and how  
to optimize marketing investment
Media Value Measurement
(‘MVM’)
Helping clients to increase efficiency and transparency 
in their media performance
Market Intelligence 
(‘MI’)
Providing clients with a clear picture of their own and their  
competitors’ advertising
REVENUE %
REVENUE %
28%
16%
REVENUE %
56% Strategic report
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  5
Ebiquity, a leading, independent, technology‑enabled 
marketing and media analytics consultancy.
MARKET PRESENCE   
Our clients
We work with 80 
of the top 100  
global advertisers.
Global locations
Global expertise and offices  
in 14 countries across 
North America, Europe,  
and Asia Pacific.
Our people
Employing over 900 people 
including data scientists, 
developers, modellers,  
analysts, and digital and  
media experts.
   FOR A FULL LIST OF LOCATIONS  
PLEASE VISIT www.ebiquity.com/en/contact-us STRATEGIC REPORT
6 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Financially, reported revenue grew 9.1% 
to £83.6 million, underlying operating 
profit increased 4.4% to £13.0 million and 
underlying fully diluted earnings per share 
were up 5% to 11.3p. I am also pleased 
to report we have continued to increase 
the dividend in line with our progressive 
dividend policy, with a proposed payment 
of 0.65p per share.
Change has been a constant during the 
year, both in the marketing industry and 
at Ebiquity. Technology has helped make 
the broad marketing ecosystem ever‑more 
complex, inevitably more confusing, and 
often less transparent than one might expect. 
This is particularly true when we reflect that 
digital data should – if anything – enable 
much more detailed and meaningful analysis.
It is a striking fact that today only about 
40% of digital programmatic advertising 
investment reaches the publisher, with 
value being eroded by the multiple links 
between advertisers and publishers, fraud, 
lack of viewability and non‑human traffic. 
I don’t envy any business leader who has 
to tell his Board and shareholders that 
they’re investing in anything that suffers up 
to 60% wastage. The trouble is, that’s what 
many CMOs should be saying. 
Digital complexity and the increasing calls 
for transparency mean that our clients 
– the world’s biggest advertisers – need 
more help than ever from an independent 
firm with the necessary knowledge and 
expertise to navigate their way through this.
Within Ebiquity itself there was significant 
change in 2016. Michael Karg, PhD took 
the helm as Group CEO early in the year 
and undertook a complete review of the 
business. There were great foundations in 
place, with businesses around the world, 
tremendous talent and expertise, and a 
client list that includes more than three 
quarters of the world’s biggest advertisers. 
Michael has now set about moving these 
individual businesses into a single, aligned 
organization that can address the global 
requirements of our international clients as 
well as the local needs of domestic ones.
Meeting these challenges will be achieved 
both by continuing to bring in and 
develop talent, but also by increasing the 
underpinning processes and technology 
that enables us to handle the demands 
of analyzing and drawing actionable 
intelligence from the avalanche of data 
that digital marketing creates.
We are, I believe, a leader in the ongoing 
debate about media transparency, and that 
position has only been enhanced throughout 
2016. Our independence is paramount, 
and we must remain at the heart of the 
marketing ecosystem, enabling marketers 
to seize the opportunities offered by digital.
2016 was just the beginning of the process 
of evolution in the industry, but as it 
gathers momentum the opportunities for 
Ebiquity can only grow. There will also be 
more change to come, as – for example 
– in 2018 new regulations over the use of 
personal data come into force in Europe. 
These will add another level of complexity 
and will reinforce the need for the 
professional independent expert – Ebiquity.
As always, we couldn’t achieve any of this 
without the people around the world who 
bring their individual expertise and efforts 
to the business and create the capability 
that the whole Group can deploy for the 
benefit of its clients. 
Thank you to you all.
Michael Higgins
Non‑Executive Chairman
27 March 2017
We are a leader in the debate about 
media transparency. Our independence 
is paramount, and we must remain at the 
heart of the marketing ecosystem.
• Revenue up 9.1% to £83.6m
• Profit up 4.4% to £13.0m
• Diluted EPS up 5% to 11.3p
• Michael Karg, PhD new Group CEO
• Leading global transparency debate
Highlights
Michael Higgins
Non‑Executive Chairman Strategic report
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  7
It is predicted
1
 that the global 
advertising market will be worth almost 
US$750 billion by 2020, with 38% 
(US$280 billion) in both TV and digital, 
18% (US$135 billion) in print, and 6% 
(US$48 billion) in out of home. This will 
represent a compound annual growth 
rate of 6% in the five years from 2016. 
Digital advertising has been around for 
more than 20 years and revenues from 
digital advertising are now approaching 
or overtaking spend on TV in many 
markets. These include the US and some 
of the bigger, mature, Western European 
markets. So, digital advertising can no 
longer be categorized as “new”  media.
The digital advertising ecosystem has 
rapidly developed. Today, it is highly 
concentrated, with the leading platforms 
Google and Facebook accounting for 
more than 70% of all global online 
advertising revenue. At the same 
time, it has evolved to become highly 
fragmented, with a vast number of 
players offering adtech and martech 
solutions. One consequence of this 
complexity is that – for many brand 
owners – online advertising has become 
increasingly opaque. What’s more, 
many experts in digital attribution and 
Marketing Performance Optimization 
repeatedly find it difficult to detect 
significant returns on investment for 
digital advertising.
These factors are driving the world’s 
leading advertisers to scrutinize digital 
with increasing intensity, as evidenced 
by Marc Pritchard, Chief Brand Officer 
of the world’s biggest advertiser, Procter 
& Gamble, in his January 2017 address 
to the Internet Advertising Bureau. This 
follows P&G scaling back on targeted 
Facebook advertising in summer 2016
2
, 
and Coca Cola’s Chief Marketing Officer 
advocating for TV as still delivering 
“the best bang for buck” and “very, very 
critical for our business” in December. 
In the same speech
3
, he questioned his 
company’s historical digital spend.
Advertisers have never needed more 
help in creating clarity out of the 
complexity of the ever‑more digital 
marketing ecosystem. It is encouraging 
that some of the world’s most 
progressive marketers are now leading 
from the front in looking to make digital 
work harder for them. Ebiquity is proud 
to be many advertisers’ partner in 
these initiatives.
MARKET OVERVIEW
Every week a new link appears in the 
adtech supply chain, every month a 
new social platform commands attention 
and competes for finite resources. 
And although programmatic platforms 
are revolutionizing how all media inventory 
is traded, this advance potentially comes 
at the expense of both transparency 
and advertisers’ access to data.
In response to this growing complexity, 
the clamour for clarity and impartial 
analysis of media performance is growing 
in the global advertiser community.
Advertisers – whose advertising dollars 
fund the entire ecosystem – have never 
needed more help in understanding where 
they should allocate their marketing 
investments and why.
They have never needed more the services 
of a partner that can give informed, 
long‑term strategic, and above all 
independent advice on how to help secure 
optimal ROI.
This is where Ebiquity can help, as our 
products and consultancy services are 
designed to create clarity, efficiency, and 
effectiveness for advertisers in all aspects 
of their marketing investment.
Today’s marketing ecosystem is complex, 
at times confusing, and often opaque. 
It has never been more challenging to 
be an effective marketer or marketing 
procurement professional.
The  
advertising  
market today
1.  http://bit.ly/2kQ1Z8n
2.  http://on.wsj.com/2maj4z2 
3.  http://bit.ly/2gjKdIw  STRATEGIC REPORT
8 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
2016 in review
2016 represented another good year of 
revenue and profit growth for Ebiquity. 
Underlying operating profit growth over 
the year was on track with the growth 
plan we outlined in Autumn 2016.
Revenues grew 9.1% to £83.6 million 
over pro‑forma revenue for the 12 months 
ended 31 December (CY2015). Underlying 
operating profit increased to £13.0 million. 
This represents an increase of 4.4% 
over CY2015, reflecting a slight drop in 
underlying operating margin to 15.5%, at 
the higher end of our direct peer group. 
Underlying profit before tax increased 
by 5.3% to £11.8 million. Reported 
operating profit grew to £7.7 million, up 
from £3.6 million in CY2015, and reported 
profit before tax increased to £6.5 million, 
up from £2.5 million in CY2015.
With approximately 68% of revenue 
denominated in currencies other than 
sterling, revenue was significantly boosted 
by the depreciation of sterling during the 
year. In total, foreign exchange benefited 
revenue by 5.8%, with acquisitions further 
increasing revenue by 1.2%. This resulted 
in like‑for‑like constant currency revenue 
growth of 2.1%.
Our Media Value Measurement (‘MVM’) 
practice reported revenue increase 
of 12.3%, an increase of 3.6% on a 
like‑for‑like constant currency basis. ‘MVM’ 
now accounts for 56% of Group revenue. 
Revenue grew fastest from our international 
media practice and business units in 
Continental Europe, and we continued to 
see strong demand for both our digital and 
pitch management services.
Overall ‘MVM’ revenue growth was 
held back by a decline in revenue from 
our contract compliance business, 
FirmDecisions, due to clients reflecting 
on the findings of the U.S. Association 
of National Advertisers’ (‘ANA’) media 
transparency report. We continue to view 
the ongoing industry debate about media 
transparency as a long‑term growth 
driver for the ‘MVM’ practice. Underlying 
operating margins dropped from those 
achieved in CY2015 principally as a result 
of the decline in revenue from our contract 
compliance business feeding through 
to profitability.
Revenue from our Marketing Performance 
Optimization (‘MPO’) practice continued 
to grow strongly, with reported revenue 
growth of 31.2% and like‑for‑like constant 
currency revenue growth of 21.6%. 
Revenue grew from both our US‑based 
Multi‑Channel Analytics practice (13.9%) 
and our European based Marketing 
Effectiveness practice (30.7%). Our 
underlying operating margin rose slightly 
year on year.
Together, our faster growing practices 
– MVM and MPO – now represent 72% 
of Group revenues.
Revenue from our Market Intelligence (‘MI’) 
practice declined by 5.2% on a reported 
basis, and by 8.5% on a like‑for‑like 
constant currency basis. As indicated in 
our half‑year report, revenue from our 
project‑based research business declined 
sharply following the loss of a specific 
contract at the beginning of the year. The 
decline in revenue was largely anticipated, 
and the cost base of the business was 
managed appropriately.
The market intelligence sector is highly 
competitive, mature, and experiencing low 
growth rates across the world. Revenue 
from Portfolio, our Advertising Intelligence 
(‘AI’) subscription service, grew by 1.7% 
on a reported basis. Eliminating the impact 
of currency, revenue from AI declined 
Ebiquity’s long term ambition is 
to become the world’s leading, 
independent, technology‑enabled 
consultancies specializing in 
marketing and media analytics.
• Strong growth in revenue and profit
• New practice: Strategic Media 
Consultancy
• Corporate purpose launched: 
“creating clarity”
• Chief Client Officer appointed
• Matrix organizational 
structure introduced
• Digital investment: Portfolio, OPTIX, 
Attribution, Connect
Highlights
Michael Karg, PhD
Group Chief Executive Officer Strategic report
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  9
  Bob Liodice, 
President & CEO at the ANA: 
“ Ebiquity is an outstanding friend and 
partner. Even more, they are superb 
analysts and strategists. In the ANA’s 
media transparency work, Ebiquity 
provided the intellectual capital to 
translate major industry findings 
into workable business process 
prescriptions. These were critical action 
steps that successfully completed 
many years of productive efforts.”
  Laetitia Zinetti, 
Global Practice Principal  
of Strategic Media Consulting: 
“ Our deep global media expertise 
means we are best placed to help 
marketers capitalize on the evolving 
market. We always start with “Why?”, 
encouraging clients to be clear 
about the drivers of their marketing 
strategies. We then collaborate with 
our clients to enable them to make 
better strategic decisions and build 
future‑proofed media capabilities.”
1.7% owing to the loss of three contracts 
in our US business unit at the beginning 
of the year. 
Renewal rates were 88% on a value basis, 
and we have already seen a positive 
reaction from clients to the upgrade to our 
new Portfolio media platform rolled out 
from September 2016 onwards. Due to 
good cost control and a decline in revenue 
contribution from our project‑based 
research business, underlying operating 
margins rose year on year.
Sector and thought leadership
In addition to our strong financial 
performance overall, 2016 was a significant 
year for Ebiquity due to our ongoing 
leadership role in the global debate 
about media transparency, the launch 
of our Strategic Media Consultancy 
services, and our programme of product 
development and roll‑out. Here are 
some highlights.
1. In June, the ANA published its 
long‑awaited study into media 
transparency. Written by independent 
investigative services firm K2 Intelligence, 
the study reported for the first time 
evidence that rebates and other 
non‑transparent practices may be 
pervasive in the US media market.
This study was followed by the July 
publication of a report which we 
co‑authored with the ANA and our 
specialist contract compliance business, 
FirmDecisions. The report was titled 
Media Transparency: Prescriptions, 
Principles, and Processes for Advertisers. 
Following the findings of the K2 study, 
this report provided advertisers with a 
practical roadmap to manage and mitigate 
media agencies’ non‑transparent and 
non‑disclosed practices. In this way, we 
are providing guidance to help advertisers 
optimize their media management.
The ANA report has put media 
transparency firmly on the management 
agenda of the world’s leading advertisers. 
For example, speaking at the Internet 
Advertising Bureau’s (‘IAB’) annual 
leadership conference in January 2017, 
Marc Pritchard, Chief Brand Officer at 
the world’s biggest advertiser Procter & 
Gamble, called time on the digital media 
supply chain, dubbing it “murky at best, 
and fraudulent at worst”. Transparency 
now matters to advertisers, agency 
groups, and media owners. This includes 
online platforms such as Facebook, which 
recently agreed to undergo audits of its 
metrics by the Media Ratings Council, 
following concerns over transparency
1
.
Our evolving range of products and 
services are designed to create 
clarity about marketing investments, 
particularly in digital. Consequently we 
are well positioned to grow our business 
through practical, impartial media 
consultancy advice.
2. For today’s progressive advertiser, the 
media landscape offers unprecedented 
opportunities to connect with customers – 
often directly. But its complexity threatens 
to overwhelm even the best‑informed 
marketer. That’s why in 2016 we launched 
a new, specialized, Strategic Media 
Consultancy offering. Our suite of bespoke 
services enables advertisers to address 
their most pressing needs: from owning 
and managing data and ad technology, 
to choosing and managing the right agency 
and technology partners; from creating 
the right internal team structure to manage 
marketing communications, to helping 
advertisers develop the optimal media 
strategies and plans.
In addition to our strong financial 
performance overall, 2016 was a 
significant year for Ebiquity because of 
our ongoing leadership role in the global 
debate about media transparency.
1. http://on.wsj.com/2kzSSf8 STRATEGIC REPORT
10 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
3. Long recognized as one of the leading 
providers of market intelligence to the 
global advertising community, in 2016 
we completely overhauled our advertising 
intelligence service.
Our Portfolio advertising platform offers 
the world’s richest and most searchable 
repository of both offline and online 
advertising combining creative and spend 
data. This allows advertisers to research 
and analyze exactly what campaigns their 
competitors are running, in which media, at 
what frequency, and at what cost. Portfolio 
now covers advertising across 15 European 
countries and approaching 90 territories 
worldwide, and a database of 25 million 
individual ads.
The evolving nature of online advertising 
has also required us to create new ways 
to identify, capture, and tag the increasing 
variety of formats of digital ads. To do this, 
we had to develop pioneering search and 
spidering technology that experiences 
the internet like people do. We are fast 
approaching the roll‑out of a new digital 
service, and this will be integrated into the 
new platform.
Building for the future
I became Group Chief Executive Officer 
in January 2016, and inherited a company 
with great foundations on which to build. 
A company with a global presence, a 
client base including 80 of the world’s top 
100 advertisers, and a strong brand with 
global leadership in MVM. With advertisers 
under increasing pressure to validate and 
justify marketing expenditure, I also found 
a powerful and thriving MPO practice: 
strong talent, unique and proprietary 
methodologies, and growing revenue. 
Since I took the helm of Ebiquity, we’ve put 
in place several important building blocks 
we need to ensure that the business is 
fit for the next stage of our development 
and growth. These are significant steps 
on the road to transforming Ebiquity 
from what was effectively a collective of 
independently‑run, local entities into a 
global, professional services business. 
What’s more, this is more straightforward 
to achieve currently, with most of our 
acquisitions now beyond earn‑out 
and becoming fully integrated into the 
Ebiquity business. Founder entrepreneurs 
of these companies are therefore less 
concerned about individual profitability 
and more focused on our collective journey 
of change.
1. To achieve this transformation, we have 
developed and articulated a distinctive 
statement of corporate purpose, grounded 
in our clients’ needs: “we are creating 
clarity for our clients”. This statement 
of purpose is designed to change the 
way we think and talk about why we do 
what we do, and how we do it. “Creating 
clarity” is not a one‑off statement. Rather, 
it represents the start of a continuous 
process that takes courage and conviction, 
guided by our teams’ expertise. It requires 
us always to deliver analysis and 
recommendations that are straightforward, 
transparent, and precise.
2. To achieve this transformation, we are 
now taking a dedicated, client‑first 
approach. We have identified and 
appointed a global Chief Client Officer 
– Andrew Challier – who is responsible 
for several of our most important client 
relationships. We are embedding our 
client‑first approach across the business 
through clear client partner job profiles, 
training, and development by region, 
by market, and by expertise.
We want to work closer still with those 
clients who partner with us because they 
see the greatest value in our services. 
By providing them with the right level of 
service, we can help them to become even 
more effective and efficient advertisers. 
We know that deepening and expanding 
the relationships with our key clients will 
be a critical lever of growth.
3. To achieve this transformation, we’ve 
introduced a matrix organizational 
structure, creating global practice 
responsibilities. This is designed to drive 
better and clearer accountability to those 
responsible for markets and those running 
products and services across geographies. 
We have done this to ensure that we 
deliver our products and services at 
consistently‑high standards. And we have 
done this to ensure that these products 
and services reflect and accommodate 
local‑market differences.
Our ability to put ourselves in our 
clients’ shoes is every bit as important 
as technical skills like digital attribution 
and media value measurement.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW continued
  Andrew Challier,  
Chief Client Officer: 
“ Understanding our clients’ business 
and marketing objectives is just good 
business practice. But the combination 
of our independence, our ability to put 
ourselves in the clients’ shoes, and our 
mastery of the technical tools of the 
trade is business dynamite.” Strategic report
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  11
50%
In 2016, over 50% of our incremental 
MPO revenues in the UK were generated 
from an existing MVM relationship.
€800k
First, multi discipline, multi‑market 
pitch led to €800k revenues via a 
single contract.
$1m
In the US joint selling resulted in over  
$1m incremental revenues this year.
4. And to achieve this transformation, 
we’ve started to develop more 
sophisticated approaches to talent 
management. During 2016, we developed 
new global processes for reviewing our 
talent base to drive development and 
retention programmes, and to support 
succession planning. These are rolling 
out into the business in 2017. We are 
committed to also continue to improve our 
ability to recruit the specialist talent that 
our clients’ needs demand, and to further 
enhance employee engagement.
Our investments in digital
Currently, less than 20% of our revenue 
comes from digital. As the marketing 
ecosystem becomes increasingly 
dominated by digital technology and 
Big Data – and as our clients allocate 
an ever‑increasing proportion of their 
marketing budgets in digital – we are 
investing in technology‑based solutions 
to deliver against their requirements.
1. For example, with Portfolio we are 
modernizing and enhancing our advertising 
intelligence platform. It is our ambition 
that it should become one of the most 
comprehensive, best‑tagged, and most 
searchable real‑time archives of advertising 
creative executions and spend data. 
It has been designed to cover more than 
40 major markets around the world with 
an authoritative and intelligent, living 
database of digital display and traditional 
media advertising content on any system 
in the world.
Our new Portfolio Digital platform 
is intended to explore websites and 
experiences ads like people do, recognizes 
the different adtech used to serve digital 
ads, and harnesses and presents a broad 
array of ad data, metadata, and metrics 
in a simple, clear, and unified way. 
We have launched this in pilot in selected 
markets and it is our ambition to roll it out 
progressively across the world during 2017 
and beyond.
2. For example, with OPTIX we are 
developing a comprehensive data 
measurement platform (‘DMP’) for 
benchmarking digital advertising 
performance. Online advertising is 
complex, fragmented, and sprawling. 
It offers millions of opportunities to reach 
billions of consumers directly, across 
multiple technologies and platforms. 
It is also characterized by many more 
links in the transactional chain between 
the advertiser and the publisher than 
traditional advertising.
OPTIX is a DMP designed to help 
advertisers cut through the complexity of 
online advertising. A combined software 
and consultancy service, it brings together 
all relevant data that describe both media 
cost and media quality under a single, 
global methodology. This will empower 
advertisers to use the same benchmarking 
methodology and metrics across 
multiple markets, platforms, and brands. 
This single standard has been designed 
to be genuinely scalable across the world.
3. For example, our MPO practice is 
developing a Digital Attribution service that 
uses modelling to enable our consultants 
to understand how different digital media 
channels and activations each play a part 
and interact during our clients’ customers’ 
path to purchase. In conjunction with our 
econometrics team, this service identifies 
the relative and absolute contribution 
of both digital and traditional media to 
business and marketing KPIs. Attribution 
is a major concern for marketers using 
digital media to stimulate a response, and 
our attribution modelling service addresses 
this concern.
4. And for example, with Connect we’ve 
developed a fully‑automated DMP for 
media agencies to upload raw media data 
from all different media categories to our 
pool, in a clear and consistent fashion. 
This makes life quicker and easier for our 
advertiser clients’ media agency partners 
to provide the data we need to calculate 
media efficiency and effectiveness. 
It removes the potential for human error, 
inconsistencies, and inaccuracy. And it 
means that clients can be certain that 
we have unfiltered access to their data. 
It truly is a triple‑win for all partners in 
this ecosystem – advertiser, consultant, 
and agency.
We are starting to benefit from a closer collaboration  
between our MVM and MPO practices: STRATEGIC REPORT
12 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW continued
Our evolving range of products and services 
are designed to create clarity about marketing 
investments, particularly in digital.
Our service offering
Today, we go to market in three, core practice areas.
We provide clients with a clear picture of 
their own and their competitors’ in‑market 
creative executions, ad spend, and media 
strategies. Our Portfolio media platform 
was thoroughly reconfigured and launched 
in September 2016, and now incorporates 
optimized charting and presentation 
facilities, automated reporting functionality, 
and an enhanced user interface.
In MI, our global team captures, 
categorizes, analyzes, and delivers 
advertising and communications 
intelligence in more than 40 languages from 
over 80 major markets. The team’s insights 
are designed to enable advertisers to plan 
more effectively, respond smarter, and so 
enhance their marketing performance. 
In 2017, we plan to start rolling out a 
new Portfolio Digital service, providing 
coverage of creative and spend data for 
the world’s digital advertising content. 
Portfolio is supported by specialist insight, 
market, and earned media research 
experts who enhance automated analytics 
with experienced, native‑language 
human analysis.
Market Intelligence
(‘MI’)
We guide clients to decide where to 
allocate and how to optimize their 
marketing investments, which marketing 
technologies to select, and how to 
leverage data to improve digital customer 
journeys. Our work in this rapidly‑growing 
practice has two distinct service offerings: 
econometrics and multi‑channel analytics.
In MPO, our award‑winning team of 
marketing econometricians build cause and 
effect models to help brands understand 
and exploit consumer paths to purchase. 
Our data scientists are skilled at integrating 
and analyzing data sets from any source 
to deliver evidence‑based insights that 
optimize marketing performance. 
We have particular expertise in working 
with data generated by digital customer 
touchpoints, including owned media 
properties, online stores, social media 
platforms, and digital kiosks. In these 
ways, we take the guesswork out of 
marketing investment.
Marketing Performance Optimization
(‘MPO’)
We empower clients to increase the 
efficiency and transparency of their 
media performance through media 
auditing, benchmarking, and performance 
measurement. We help them to select and 
manage their media trading partners.
We enable them to make the right, 
long‑term decisions through our new, 
Strategic Media Consultancy service. 
We also report on agencies’ compliance 
with contractual terms via our specialist 
contract compliance business, 
FirmDecisions.
In MVM, we have one of the world’s 
richest and most comprehensive pool of 
benchmarking media spend data across 
all media channels. This is interrogated 
by our world‑leading team of 300 media 
experts in 14 countries who have been 
optimizing media efficiency for global 
brands for decades.
Media Value Measurement
(‘MVM’) Strategic report
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  13
For today’s progressive advertiser, the media 
landscape offers unprecedented opportunities 
to connect with customers – often directly.
Morag Blazey,  
Global Practice Principal  
of Market Intelligence: 
“ Advertisers and their agencies need 
a complete picture of what their 
competitors are saying, who they 
are talking to, how often, and in 
which media. 
 
 
This information allows marketers 
and their insight teams make 
better‑informed decisions when setting 
communications budgets, strategies, 
and messaging decisions.”
Mike Campbell, 
Head of Ebiquity’s International 
Effectiveness Practice: 
“ Given the sheer volume of media and 
marketing data, it has never been more 
challenging to work out what each 
marketing investment contributes to 
overall brand performance. At the same 
time, it has never been more possible 
to improve the impact investments have 
on KPIs.”
Maigiri Jinkiri, 
Head of Ebiquity’s North American 
Multi‑Channel Analytics Practice: 
“ Maximizing each customer interaction 
demands a rounded understanding 
of emerging technology, big data 
analytics, and customer behavior. 
Our consultants maintain a unique 
blend of technological, analytical, 
and business management skills to 
ensure that clients capitalize on the 
marketplace opportunity.”
Dietmar Kruse, 
Global Practice Principal  
of Media Measurement:
“ To invest with confidence in the most 
effective and efficient media channels, 
advertisers need proper access to the 
right data. To optimize budgets, they 
need to know how effective their spend 
is compared with their competitors’ 
and peers’ investments, and what they 
need to do to improve. Advertisers need 
to know whether their agencies are 
delivering, how they’re performing, and 
so how best they should reward them.”
Stephen Broderick, CEO of Ebiquity’s 
contract compliance business, 
FirmDecisions: 
“ Because of the pace of change in 
all media – but especially digital – 
advertisers should review the contracts 
they have with their media agency of 
record at least annually. This will help 
them be sure they have access to 
the data they need to have the level 
of transparency over their marketing 
spend that’s right for them. Put simply, 
it’s good governance.” STRATEGIC REPORT
14 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW continued
The purpose of our business is 
creating clarity for our clients on the 
return on investment that their media 
investments yield for them in all channels. 
By understanding simply and clearly 
the effectiveness and efficiency of their 
media choices, we help them to optimize 
performance. This performance is mediated 
through an increasingly diverse range of 
partner businesses. The most significant 
of these partners is usually the advertiser’s 
media agency of record, although it now 
also includes an array of specialist digital, 
technology, and data businesses across 
the adtech and martech ecosystem.
Because we evaluate the performance of 
the output of our clients’ agencies, it is our 
long‑term ambition and aspiration to work 
in partnership with them too. It is our role to 
test – independently – and demonstrate the 
real value that they are delivering for our 
clients, as well as to recommend strategies 
for improving media performance still 
further. This is why we would like – over the 
coming years – to become the partner of 
choice for our clients’ partner agencies too. 
This is true across all our services, 
from pitch management to marketing 
performance optimization; from media 
value measurement to market intelligence; 
from strategic media consultancy to 
contract compliance reviews. We recognize 
that some of our services – including 
agency pitch management and contract 
compliance reviews – are a cost of doing 
business for agencies. Nevertheless, they 
are important aspects of good governance, 
and we try to deliver these services in a 
straightforward and professional manner 
for all parties.
Our desire to become the partner of choice 
for the media industry is also why – for 
instance – we are developing our new 
Connect data management platform to 
allow seamless and automated uploads of 
media data from media agencies. This will 
reduce the load on agencies, improving 
the accuracy of data, and save time for 
agencies and advertisers.
If an advertiser decides to change its 
agency of record, for instance, and we’re 
appointed to manage the pitch process, 
it’s important that we should have good 
relationships with and deep knowledge 
of the capabilities of all potential media 
agency partners. We also need good 
relationships with the leadership of 
agencies, data partners, and adtech 
providers such as ad servers and DSPs. 
We are building these relationships in both 
local markets and at a global level.
Part of our commitment to being the 
partner of choice to the global advertiser 
community extends to our close working 
relationship with leading industry trade 
bodies. This includes the World Federation 
of Advertisers (‘WFA’), the Incorporated 
Society of British Advertisers (‘ISBA’), the 
U.S. Association of National Advertisers 
(‘ANA’), and representative bodies in other 
key global markets including Australia, 
France, Germany, and Spain.
Our Growth Acceleration Plan
Across our one global Ebiquity, we are now 
actively embedding our matrix structure, 
our people strategy, and our narrative 
purpose as fundamentals required to grow 
the business. In the next stage of our 
development, we are actively transforming 
Ebiquity into a technology‑enabled 
consultancy.
Our clients demand and rightly 
expect quick turnaround of analysis 
of large volumes of data. Over the 
coming years, we can only meet these 
expectations and scale our business 
by making our products and services 
technology‑enabled throughout.
We have identified that, compared with 
similar services firms, we have been 
running “too lean” – delivering 15‑16% 
underlying operating profit margin 
against 10‑11% for comparable firms. 
By investing in technology to make our 
business technology‑enabled, we should 
nevertheless be able to deliver above 
average margin of 12‑13%.
Enhanced technology is critical to our 
future success, right across our three, 
core practice areas.
An aspiration for the future
Ebiquity as the partner of choice for the 
media, data, and adtech communities.
  Stephan Loerke, CEO at the World 
Federation of Advertisers 
“ The WFA has worked with Ebiquity 
for a number of years now, and we 
highly value our partnership with them. 
Their expertise has been very valuable 
in helping us to guide our advertiser 
members towards best‑practice in 
marketing and media effectiveness, and 
to provide real clarity into the complexity 
of today’s marketing landscape.” Strategic report
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  15
In Marketing Performance Optimization, 
we face a rapidly‑growing need to analyze 
enterprise scale sets of consumer and 
media, behavioural and transactional 
data. Our ability to deliver here will be 
underpinned by technology.
In Media Value Management, we need 
to ingest and integrate large sets of media 
data from multiple different sources – from 
ad servers to demand side platforms – to 
help our clients optimize campaigns in near 
real time. Our ability to deliver here will be 
underpinned by technology.
And in Market Intelligence, we bring 
together the world’s display advertising – 
from print, broadcast, and online services; 
creative executions, media placement, and 
spend data – into fully searchable, properly 
tagged databases. Our ability to deliver 
here will be underpinned by technology.
Our approach
Our corporate purpose of “creating clarity” 
shapes everything we do. This includes 
the clear and straightforward strategy 
we have adopted to deliver our Growth 
Acceleration Plan. We call this the 5Ps, and 
it covers: People, Product, Process, Profile, 
and Performance.
We believe that by having the right people 
and products in place, developed and 
delivered using the right processes, we will 
deliver the strong performance that our 
current and future stakeholders demand. 
By raising the profile of our cutting‑edge 
approaches to creating clarity of marketing 
performance for our advertiser clients, 
we will further enhance our performance. 
Indeed, performance – in terms of revenue, 
profit and underlying operating profit – 
will be a consequence of our focus on 
the first 4Ps.
Our corporate purpose of  
“creating clarity” shapes  
everything we do.
This straightforward framework has allowed 
us to simplify management reporting on 
People, Product, Process, and Profile, 
and we are driving these through the 
business. This applies to both near‑term 
financial management at an operational 
level, as well as the longer‑term strategic 
management of the business.
Just as we are straightforward in all our 
client engagements designed to create 
clarity about effectiveness and efficiency 
of marketing investments, so we are clear 
about what we want to achieve over the 
next five years.
Our five-year objectives
Our 5Ps strategy provides the framework 
for our five‑year objectives:
1:  PEOPLE 
Attract, retain and develop high calibre 
talent from the media, data science and 
consultancy sectors.
2:  PRODUCT 
Launch proprietary products and 
services that harness our data and 
insights and enable us to be trusted 
advisers for our clients.
3:  PROCESS 
Shape the organization and its 
processes to support broader and 
deeper client relationships.
4:  PROFILE 
Raise our brand profile and broaden the 
perception of our expertise to support 
our growth plans.
5:  PERFORMANCE 
Delivery of our Growth Acceleration  
Plan resulting in sustainable double‑digit 
revenue growth at sustainable 
operating margins.
   READ MORE ABOUT  
THE FIVE Ps ON PAGES 18 AND 19.
As we start to meet these objectives, 
we will increasingly be known as 
one of the leading, independent, 
technology‑enabled marketing and 
media analytics consultancies, right 
around the world. Board‑level executives 
will trust us more deeply. Our services 
and methodologies will help to set the 
standards for the industry. And advertisers, 
industry bodies, analysts, and the media 
will increasingly seek out our thought 
leadership.
Michael Karg, PhD
Chief Executive Officer 
27 March 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT
16 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
BUSINESS MODEL
Our business model
Common across all our diverse products 
and services, and central to our business 
model, is our data‑driven approach to 
creating clarity from complexity. We always 
start an engagement with a strategic 
review of where our clients are today, 
where they want to get to, and what their 
motivations are for action. This is true 
for both long‑established and first‑time 
clients. This process of triage enables us to 
determine the most effective order in which 
to address specific priority tasks.
We then capture data; we cleanse, 
organize, and harmonize that data; we 
apply advanced analytics to the data; 
we generate actionable insights; and, 
we tell our clients data‑driven stories from 
which they can take tangible, practical, 
and measurable action. This is how we 
empower our clients to take rightful 
ownership of their digital marketing 
strategy, technology, data, and spend.
Applying data‑driven insights to help 
advertisers achieve greater marketing 
return on investment.
CREATING 
 
 
CLARITY
Inputs: 
data & insights
1) Client data
 (e.g. media spend, sales)
2) Consumer data
 (e.g. behavioural data, web data)
3) Market data
 (e.g. creative assets)
Example sources: 
Clients, third‑party data/agencies,  
Ebiquity automated tracking programs
We  
organize  
data
We conduct 
strategic  
reviews
We  
capture  
data
DATA 
SCIENTISTS
STRATEGIC 
CONSULTANTS
DEVELOPERS
   FIND OUT MORE ABOUT OUR DIVISIONS ON PAGE 12. Strategic report
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  17
CREATING 
 
 
CLARITY
Outputs: 
improved media & 
marketing decisions
Increase sales
(e.g. optimized marketing investments,  
increased marketing response)
Reduce costs
(e.g. ensure trading partners deliver  
against savings claims)
We apply 
advanced 
analytics
We generate 
actionable 
insights
We tell 
data-driven 
stories
MODELLERS
ANALYSTS
CLIENT 
PARTNERS
MEDIA 
EXPERTS
DIGITAL  
EXPERTS
   FIND OUT MORE IN OUR STRATEGY SECTION ON PAGES 18 AND 19. STRATEGIC REPORT
18 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
OUR STRATEGY
Our long term strategic ambition is for Ebiquity to be  
known as the leading, independent, technology‑enabled  
marketing and media analytics consultancy globally.
PEOPLE
PRODUCT
PROCESS PROFILE PERFORMANCE
GOAL
Attract, retain and develop high calibre 
talent from the media, data science and 
consultancy sectors.
Launch proprietary products and 
services that harness our data and 
insights and enable us to be trusted 
advisers to our clients.
Shape the organization and its 
processes to support broader  
and deeper client relationships.
Raise our brand profile and broaden the 
perception of our expertise to support our 
growth plans.
Delivery of our Growth Acceleration Plan 
resulting in sustainable double‑digit 
revenue growth at sustainable 
operating margins.
PROGRESS
• Appointed leadership for each of our 
global practices.
• Commenced talent review process 
to identify key talent within the 
organization.
• Launched Strategic Media 
Consultancy service offering. 
• Launched Portfolio Media upgrade 
in September 2016 and commenced 
the rollout of the first phase of our 
Portfolio Digital Service in APAC.
• Appointed Chief Client Officer to 
focus on growing some of our largest 
global clients. 
• Hired Operations Director to develop 
tools and processes to enhance our 
internal operational capabilities.
• Became recognized as an industry 
leader on the topic of media 
transparency following the publication 
of the ANA report in July 2016.
• Introduced matrix organization 
enabling clear accountability at 
practice and regional levels.
• Set out clear goals for financial 
performance over the next five years 
and published specific milestones 
for 2017 and 2018.
PRIORITIES
• Develop training programme for our 
client‑facing employees focusing on 
client development and engagement.
• Create a competency framework to 
assess, maintain and monitor the skills 
and attributes of our employees.
• Continue rollout of our Portfolio 
Digital Service.
• Launch our digital paid media 
performance measurement 
platform “Optix”. 
• Launch “Connect”.
• Expand our Marketing Effectiveness 
footprint in Europe and APAC. 
• Grow our key clients by identifying and 
realizing cross‑selling opportunities. 
• Evolve our Operations function to support 
growth and provide timely and improved 
management data.
• Publication of thought leadership 
articles providing insightful and 
actionable points of view to our clients.
• Increased presence at relevant 
industry events.
• Launch of digital services offerings  
and expansion of MPO services to  
new markets.
• Delivery against the milestones 
published within our growth 
acceleration plan.
KPIs
• Targeting a voluntary annual employee 
turnover rate of less than 20%.
• Increase the proportion of revenue 
generated from new/enhanced 
products and services.
• Percentage of clients taking two or more  
products/services. 
• Increased speaking engagements 
at leading industry events. 
• Publication of thought  
leadership pieces.
• Revenue CAGR of +10% between 
2016‑2021. 
• Medium term underlying operating 
profit margin target of 12‑13%.
RISKS
• Our talent continues to be highly 
in demand due to the breadth of 
experience that it gains through our 
unique positioning. There is a risk of an 
industry‑wide talent shortage for data 
scientists in particular as demand by 
clients, agencies, internet platforms 
and publishers increases. We work 
hard on a number of initiatives to make 
Ebiquity a great place to work and 
foster retention.
• The media landscape is constantly 
changing, resulting in increasing 
pressure to develop/refine products 
and services faster. Through evolving 
our delivery methods and creating 
product owners we aim to stay highly 
relevant to our clients.
• Our clients often have complex 
decentralized management structures 
requiring considerable investment of 
time to negotiate global commercial 
agreements. We ensure we devote 
appropriate commercial and senior 
client facing resource to expedite the 
negotiation of commercial agreements.
• The recent high profile cases of 
transparency and ad fraud issues may 
have created strained relationships 
between some clients, agencies 
and publishers. We continue to 
educate and advise on these topics 
to provide objective, sound and 
independent advice.
• Identifying key talent to enable 
expansion of MPO could take longer 
than expected due to scarcity in 
the market.
• Clients may be slower to respond 
to issues in media transparency 
and data driven marketing causing 
a delay in potential revenue growth. 
We leverage our relationships 
with clients and industry bodies 
to influence change. Strategic report
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  19
PEOPLE
PRODUCT
PROCESS PROFILE PERFORMANCE
GOAL
Attract, retain and develop high calibre 
talent from the media, data science and 
consultancy sectors.
Launch proprietary products and 
services that harness our data and 
insights and enable us to be trusted 
advisers to our clients.
Shape the organization and its 
processes to support broader  
and deeper client relationships.
Raise our brand profile and broaden the 
perception of our expertise to support our 
growth plans.
Delivery of our Growth Acceleration Plan 
resulting in sustainable double‑digit 
revenue growth at sustainable 
operating margins.
PROGRESS
• Appointed leadership for each of our 
global practices.
• Commenced talent review process 
to identify key talent within the 
organization.
• Launched Strategic Media 
Consultancy service offering. 
• Launched Portfolio Media upgrade 
in September 2016 and commenced 
the rollout of the first phase of our 
Portfolio Digital Service in APAC.
• Appointed Chief Client Officer to 
focus on growing some of our largest 
global clients. 
• Hired Operations Director to develop 
tools and processes to enhance our 
internal operational capabilities.
• Became recognized as an industry 
leader on the topic of media 
transparency following the publication 
of the ANA report in July 2016.
• Introduced matrix organization 
enabling clear accountability at 
practice and regional levels.
• Set out clear goals for financial 
performance over the next five years 
and published specific milestones 
for 2017 and 2018.
PRIORITIES
• Develop training programme for our 
client‑facing employees focusing on 
client development and engagement.
• Create a competency framework to 
assess, maintain and monitor the skills 
and attributes of our employees.
• Continue rollout of our Portfolio 
Digital Service.
• Launch our digital paid media 
performance measurement 
platform “Optix”. 
• Launch “Connect”.
• Expand our Marketing Effectiveness 
footprint in Europe and APAC. 
• Grow our key clients by identifying and 
realizing cross‑selling opportunities. 
• Evolve our Operations function to support 
growth and provide timely and improved 
management data.
• Publication of thought leadership 
articles providing insightful and 
actionable points of view to our clients.
• Increased presence at relevant 
industry events.
• Launch of digital services offerings  
and expansion of MPO services to  
new markets.
• Delivery against the milestones 
published within our growth 
acceleration plan.
KPIs
• Targeting a voluntary annual employee 
turnover rate of less than 20%.
• Increase the proportion of revenue 
generated from new/enhanced 
products and services.
• Percentage of clients taking two or more  
products/services. 
• Increased speaking engagements 
at leading industry events. 
• Publication of thought  
leadership pieces.
• Revenue CAGR of +10% between 
2016‑2021. 
• Medium term underlying operating 
profit margin target of 12‑13%.
RISKS
• Our talent continues to be highly 
in demand due to the breadth of 
experience that it gains through our 
unique positioning. There is a risk of an 
industry‑wide talent shortage for data 
scientists in particular as demand by 
clients, agencies, internet platforms 
and publishers increases. We work 
hard on a number of initiatives to make 
Ebiquity a great place to work and 
foster retention.
• The media landscape is constantly 
changing, resulting in increasing 
pressure to develop/refine products 
and services faster. Through evolving 
our delivery methods and creating 
product owners we aim to stay highly 
relevant to our clients.
• Our clients often have complex 
decentralized management structures 
requiring considerable investment of 
time to negotiate global commercial 
agreements. We ensure we devote 
appropriate commercial and senior 
client facing resource to expedite the 
negotiation of commercial agreements.
• The recent high profile cases of 
transparency and ad fraud issues may 
have created strained relationships 
between some clients, agencies 
and publishers. We continue to 
educate and advise on these topics 
to provide objective, sound and 
independent advice.
• Identifying key talent to enable 
expansion of MPO could take longer 
than expected due to scarcity in 
the market.
• Clients may be slower to respond 
to issues in media transparency 
and data driven marketing causing 
a delay in potential revenue growth. 
We leverage our relationships 
with clients and industry bodies 
to influence change. STRATEGIC REPORT
20 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
CASE STUDY
AUTOMOTIVE CLIENT  
(MVM)
Client objectives
Our client is one of the world’s biggest motor 
manufacturers. They were looking to achieve 
savings in their investment in paid media across 
two dozen major markets.
Just because our business and digital marketing 
is complex doesn’t mean it’s impossible to 
understand. Ebiquity have helped us make 
sense of our investment, in traditional and digital 
media, and delivered substantial cost savings 
and efficiencies in the process.
Automotive client
CMO
300
media experts
£25m
of media savings
£60m
in value generated from 
our analysis, for our 
client, over three years
14
countries
£35m
of value in cash refunds, 
additional free space 
and/or other forms 
of agency volume 
bonification
Our approach
We have a network of 300 media experts in 
14 countries who have been optimizing media 
efficiency for global brands for decades. 
We deployed this expertise to verify cost savings 
and then consolidated the results globally. 
This “glocal” approach benefited our client in two 
ways. Our deep market knowledge, local market 
data pools, and country‑level service and delivery 
enabled us to develop customized savings per 
market. We then created standardized global 
quality control processes, reporting procedures, 
and outputs to give a truly global worldview 
to central teams.
Business outcomes
Our analysis generated more than £60 million 
in value for our client over three years. This was 
made up of more than £25 million of media 
savings, promised to the client by the agency 
in the spirit of their agreement, as well as in 
excess of £35 million of value in cash refunds, 
additional free space and/or other forms of agency 
volume bonification. Strategic report
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  21
CASE STUDY
UNILEVER #unstereotype  
(MI)
It’s hard to understand what you need to 
improve before you see what it is that you’re 
doing today. I think everyone was struck when 
they saw our audit. You don’t often get that 
whole picture based on what is actually hitting 
consumers’ TVs in the markets. Having a partner 
like Ebiquity has allowed us that view, helped us 
make the opportunity to improve visibility,  
and provided us with a strong impetus to act.
Josh Cleveland
Global Marketing Manager at Unilever
50%
of FMCG ads in 2016 
researched contained 
stereotypical portrayals 
of women
12%
ads felt to be progressive 
have 12% more impact 
on consumers
Client objectives
At the 2016 Cannes Lions Festival, Unilever 
CMO Keith Weed announced that the company 
had begun to remove stereotypical portrayals 
of gender from its ads around the world. It took 
this decision because of global research showing 
that campaigns that are more relevant for today’s 
consumers are better for society and better for 
brands. Progressive advertising has been found to 
generate stronger engagement, more talkability, 
and better branded impact.
Our approach
To know with certainty which adverts for which 
products in which markets needed to change, 
Unilever commissioned Ebiquity to review how 
the company and its competitors portray women 
and men in ads across its global portfolios of 
refreshment, food, personal care, and home 
care products. 
We gathered hundreds of ads from our Portfolio 
database. All were reviewed and coded by 
analysts, and evaluated against a comprehensive 
set of criteria to identify the extent to which both 
women and men were presented stereotypically. 
Criteria included whether (or not, as was often 
the case) the ads portrayed women as funny, 
in leadership roles, in multiple environments 
or just in the home, and as whole people or 
‘disembodied’ (e.g. just an arm, leg, or face only 
for beauty products).
Business outcomes
Informed by this comprehensive, strategic review 
from our Advertising Intelligence Insight team, 
Unilever is now using a set of global benchmarks 
to train its brand marketing teams to produce ads 
that avoid stereotypical, outdated gender roles. 
These guidelines are also now routinely used to 
brief creative and media agencies. Weed and CEO 
Paul Polman underlined Unilever’s commitment 
to the #unstereotype campaign
1
 in a flagship 
speech at the World Economic Forum in Davos 
in January 2017.
1. http://bit.ly/2jZewX1 STRATEGIC REPORT
22 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
CASE STUDY
DIRECT LINE GROUP  
(MPO)
Client objectives
Direct Line Group (‘DLG’) became the UK’s largest 
home and motor insurance company by subverting 
the industry in the 1980s through cutting out 
the middle man, the insurance broker. When 
online price comparison websites commoditized 
the market, DLG needed to innovate again to 
differentiate its offer and reassert leadership. 
The starting point was a new philosophy, 
embodied in the new positioning and campaign 
featuring Harvey Keitel, reprising his “fixer” role 
of Winston Wolf from the movie Pulp Fiction for 
the company’s flagship Direct Line brand.
The Direct Line ‘Fixer’ campaign improved 
brand measures like ‘Integrity’, ‘Preference’ 
and perceived ‘Quality’. It was also successful 
in terms of the econometric ROI and topline 
customer growth. It’s rare for campaigns to 
demonstrate effectiveness across so many 
different types of metric.
Carl Bratton
DLG
£11m
inefficient spend cut from 
annual marketing budget
£1.22
ROI for every £1 invested 
in IPA paper – and still 
improving
Our approach
Ebiquity’s Marketing Performance Optimization 
experts worked in partnership with DLG’s 
in‑house insight and effectiveness teams and 
its media, creative, and research agencies to 
build best‑in‑class econometric models. These 
enabled Direct Line to optimize its media and 
direct response activity, and deliver sustainable 
improvements in return on investment. Our work 
assisted DLG to validate and drive fundamental 
operational changes right across the organization, 
from direct mail to paid social, from enhancing the 
impact of digital display to optimizing mass media 
such as TV and search.
Business outcomes
The Direct Line campaign improved brand health 
measures including ‘Integrity,’ ‘Preference,’ and 
perceived ‘Quality.’ It was successful in terms 
of the econometric ROI. And it drove topline 
customer growth. DLG’s innovative use of 
econometric modelling was recently awarded 
a gold in the prestigious, biennial marketing 
effectiveness awards from the Institute of 
Practitioners in Advertising (‘IPA’). Strategic report
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016   23
CASE STUDY
TRAVEL CLIENT  
(MCA)
Our relationship with Ebiquity has enabled us 
to make data work harder for the business. 
We now extract meaningful insights from 
customer behaviour which means we are 
‘there’ in the right way to enhance the 
consumer experience.
Travel client
Head of Analytics
>50%
total ad tech vendors 
better than halved
$30m
incremental 
revenue annually
Client objectives
We worked with a leading company in the travel 
and hospitality industry, looking to move from a 
decentralized to a centralized data management 
structure. The business wanted to streamline 
its multi‑channel data analytics technology, 
personnel, and processes to create the best 
possible customer experience at all touchpoints. 
It was looking to harness the untapped potential 
to provide highly personalized and targeted offers 
to its customers based on their individual patterns, 
seasonality, and frequency of travel. The company 
could see the opportunity that taming its digital 
data offered in terms of incremental revenue, 
and it needed a partner to help it set a vision and 
deliver against a clear and actionable strategy.
Our approach
We built an analytics programme for the 
newly‑centralized business from the ground 
up. This covered everything from collecting and 
analyzing data to generating the insights required 
to improve the customer journey and so enhance 
sales. Those insights are then used to drive the 
optimization efforts across the entire business.
We started by creating a strategic roadmap to direct 
future performance. This included a full vendor 
evaluation – made more complicated because the 
project required the integration of multiple legacy 
systems and sets of vendors – and implementation 
of the roadmap. This involved data integration, data 
analysis and benchmarking, and finally continuous 
optimization. Our consultants are unusual for this 
industry in that most have a hybrid of technological 
and business management skills. They can therefore 
both conceptualize enhanced data management 
systems and then go on to deliver a genuine 
digital transformation.
Business outcomes
We have enabled the travel company to deliver 
an incremental, year‑on‑year revenue lift of tens 
of millions of dollars. The strategic roadmap 
streamlined the personnel, processes, and 
technology our client uses to optimize customer 
experience, removing overlapping or conflicting 
vendors, technology and services. Inside a month 
of our first engagement, we operationalized 
analytics data across all stakeholder groups. 
Within three months, we had given multiple 
functional units the confidence to answer complex 
business questions with certainty. With enhanced 
data collection governance and processes, the right 
data now goes to the right people at the right time. STRATEGIC REPORT
24 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER’S REVIEW
Summary of results
Revenues grew to £83.6 million which 
represents 9.1% total revenue growth over 
£76.6 million recorded over the 12 months 
ended 31 December 2015 (‘CY2015’). 
Ebiquity received a very positive revenue 
benefit from the depreciation of sterling 
against the US dollar and euro. With 33% 
of revenues denominated in euros, and 
26% in US dollars the depreciation of 
sterling against these currencies by 11%, 
both led to a revenue boost of £4.5 million 
or 5.8%. 
Revenue growth was further benefited 
by the impact of the acquisition of 
Fairbrother Marsh Company Limited 
(‘FMC’) in March 2016 and the full year 
impact of our acquisition of Media Value 
SL in March 2015. The impact on revenue 
was to increase revenue growth by 1.2% 
over CY2015. Discounting the impact 
of currency movements and the impact 
of current and prior year acquisitions, 
like‑for‑like constant currency revenue 
growth was 2.1% over CY2015. 
Taken together our Media Value 
Measurement and Marketing Performance 
Optimization practices contributed 72% 
of revenue (CY2015: 68%). Together 
the two practices achieved like‑for‑like 
constant currency revenue growth of 7%. 
Further detail of performance by practice 
is outlined on pages 25 and 26.
Underlying operating profit increased 
by 4.4% from £12.4 million in CY2015 
to £13.0 million and reflected a slight 
decrease in underlying operating profit 
margin from 16.2% to 15.6%. Reported 
operating profit increased from £3.6 million 
in CY2015 to £7.8 million in 2016. The 
prior year included a non‑cash charge 
in respect of the impairment of goodwill, 
purchased intangible assets and related 
capitalized development costs of the 
Reputation business.
Net finance costs were £1.1 million 
in the year to December 2016 
(CY2015: £1.2 million), the reduction 
reflects lower gross debt in 2016 
compared with 2015.
Underlying profit before tax was 5.3% 
higher at £11.8 million in the year to 
December 2016 (CY2015: £11.2 million). 
Reported profit before tax increased by 
£4.1 million to £6.6 million in the year to 
December 2016 (CY2015: £2.5 million), 
due to the non‑cash goodwill impairment 
booked in the prior period.
Earnings per share
Underlying diluted earnings per share was 
11.3p in the year to 31 December 2016 
(CY2015: 10.8p), being an increase of 5% 
comparable with the increase in underlying 
profit before tax.
Highlighted items
Highlighted items total £5.2 million 
in the year to December 2016, 
(CY2015: £8.8 million). Highlighted items 
comprised the following:
• £1.9 million related to purchased 
intangible asset amortization 
(CY2015: £2.0 million);
• £0.6 million share‑based payment 
expenses (CY2015: £0.8 million);
• £2.0 million of acquisition related 
costs, (CY2015: credit £0.1 million) 
including £0.8 million in relation to the 
increase of the Stratigent earn‑out and 
deferred consideration adjustments 
of £0.6 million resulting from foreign 
exchange differences net of the impact 
of discounting to present value; and
• £0.7 million of integration costs, 
(CY2015: £1.6 million) including the 
cost of management restructure of 
£0.5 million and a further £0.2 million 
relating to fees in relation to the 
appointment of the new Group CEO.
Delivering double digit growth  
with strong cash conversion.
• 9% revenue growth, with significant 
benefit from foreign exchange, 2.1% 
LFL CC revenue growth
• Underlying operating profit margin  
of 15.6%
• Growth in underlying diluted EPS  
to 11.3p
• Increase in proposed dividend to 
0.65p per share
• Underlying cash conversion of 88%
Highlights
Andrew Noble
Chief Financial Officer Strategic report
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  25
Headline financials
76.6 12.4 10.8
43.3 0 (0.4)
83.6 13.0 11.3
REVENUE £m OPERATING PROFIT £m DILUTED EPS pence
+9.1% +4.4% +5.0%
       FY2016 CY2015 FY2015 
       Audited Unaudited Audited 
       for the for the eight month 
       year ended  year ended period ended 
       31 December 31 December 31 December  
       2016 2015 2015 
Revenue       £’000 £’000 £’000
Media Value Measurement      47,161 41,998 20,409
Marketing Performance Optimization      13,048 9,936 6,899
Market Intelligence       23,360 24,650 16,002
Total revenue       83,569 76,584 43,310
Underlying operating profit/(loss)   
Media Value Measurement      12,124 12,057 (81)
Marketing Performance Optimization      3,739 2,802 1,874
Market Intelligence       3,902 3,668 2,070
Central costs       (6,806) (6,116) (3,866)
Total underlying operating profit/(loss)     12,959 12,411 (3)
Highlighted items       (5,202) (8,768) (6,656)
Reported operating profit/(loss)      7,757 3,643 (6,659)
Net finance costs       (1,132) (1,199) (800)
Share of profit of associates      — 18 13
Reported profit/(loss) before tax      6,625 2,462 (7,446)
Underlying profit/(loss) before tax      11,827 11,230 (790)
Underlying diluted earnings per share     11.3p 10.8p (0.4)p
Performance by practice is outlined below:
MVM – Media Value Measurement (56% of total revenue) 
       FY2016 CY2015  FY2015  
        Audited Unaudited  Audited 
       £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue       47,161 41,998 20,409
Underlying operating profit/(loss)      12,124 12,057 (81)
Underlying operating profit/(loss) margin %     25.7% 28.7% (0.4)%
Our Media Value Measurement (‘MVM’) practice reported revenue increase up 12.3%, an increase of 3.6% on a like‑for‑like constant 
currency basis. MVM now accounts for 56% of Group revenue. The recent acquisitions of FMC in Ireland and the full year impact of the 
2015 acquisition of Media Value SL in Spain increased revenue by 2.2%. Revenue growth was held back by a decline in revenue from 
our contract compliance business which itself represents less than 10% of total MVM revenue. Excluding contract compliance, the MVM 
practice achieved 6.6% like‑for‑like constant currency revenue growth. 
FY2016
1
CY2015
2
FY2016
1
CY2015
2
FY2016
1
CY2015
2
FY2015
3
FY2015
3
FY2015
3
1. FY2016 is the year ended 31 December 2016 (audited).
2. CY2015 is the calendar year from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 (unaudited).
3. FY2015 is the financial period from 1 May 2015 to 31 December 2015 (audited). STRATEGIC REPORT
26 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER’S REVIEW continued
MVM – Media Value Measurement continued
Operating margin reduced to 25.7% from 28.7% in FY2015 primarily as a result of the revenue decline in the contract compliance 
business which directly impacted operating profit, investment in additional resources in our media business in China to enable sustainable 
revenue growth in that rapidly evolving market and the shift in revenue to lower margin international benchmarking engagements.
MPO – Marketing Performance Optimization (16% of total revenue)
       FY2016 CY2015  FY2015  
        Audited Unaudited  Audited 
       £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue       13,037 9,936 6,899
Underlying operating profit      3,739 2,802 1,874
Underlying operating profit margin %      28.7% 28.2% 27.2%
Revenue from our Marketing Performance Optimization (‘MPO’) practice continued to grow strongly, with reported revenue growth 
of 31.2% and like‑for‑like constant currency revenue growth of 21.6%. MPO now accounts for 16% of total revenue (CY2015: 13%), 
which we expect to continue to grow as a proportion of our total business. Operating margins were marginally ahead of CY2015 at 
28.7%, with resources growing largely in line with revenue growth. As we expand our MPO practice into new markets and resource 
for sustainable growth, we anticipate a reduction from current operating margin levels.
MI – Market Intelligence (28% of total revenue)
       FY2016 CY2015  FY2015  
        Audited Unaudited  Audited 
       £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue       23,360 24,650 16,002
Underlying operating profit      3,902 3,668 2,070
Underlying operating profit margin %      16.7% 14.9% 12.9%
Revenue from Market Intelligence (‘MI’) declined by 5.2% on a reported basis, and by 8.5% on a like‑for‑like constant currency basis. 
As indicated in our half‑year report and as largely anticipated, revenue from our project‑based research business declined sharply 
during the year and now represents less than 10% of MI revenues. Revenue from Portfolio, our Advertising Intelligence (‘AI’) subscription 
service, and related insight services grew by 1.7% on a reported basis. Eliminating the impact of currency, revenue from AI declined 
1.7% owing to the loss of three contracts in our US business unit at the beginning of the year.
Despite the decline in revenue, operating margins improved by 1.8% to 16.7% in 2016 because of both cost control within the AI business 
and the change in business mix, with costs being managed down with revenue in the lower margin project‑based research business. 
Central costs
       FY2016 CY2015  FY2015  
        Audited Unaudited  Audited 
       £’000 £’000 £’000
Central costs       (6,806) (6,116) (3,866)
Central costs include central salaries (Board, Finance, IT, Marketing and HR), legal and advisory costs and property costs. Central costs 
have increased by £0.7 million or in 2016 due to increased staff costs, travel costs and IT costs. The increase in travel costs, especially 
in the second half of the year, reflected the need to bring management teams together more often as our matrix organization was 
implemented. 
Taxation
The total tax charge for the year ended December 2016 is £2.2 million (FY2015 credit: £1.3 million) representing a current tax charge of 
£1.8 million (FY2015: credit of £0.1 million) and a deferred tax charge of £0.4 million (FY2015: £1.2 million).
On a calendar year comparative basis, the effective rate of tax on underlying profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2016 is 
21.7% (CY2015: 22.2%). The effective rate of tax is raised by under provision from previous periods. Excluding the release of provisions 
the underlying effective tax rate is 21.0%.
Dividend
It is the Board’s intention to pay a dividend of 0.65p per share for the 12 months ended 31 December 2016, (FY15: 0.4p per share). 
This would represent an increase in dividend per share on a pro‑rata basis and would also represent the continuation of a progressive 
dividend policy which commenced with our maiden dividend paid in October 2015. The dividend will be recommended as a final 
dividend at the Company’s AGM on 10 May 2017.
Equity
During the 12 months to December 2016, 38,063 shares were issued upon the exercise of employee share options. As a result our share 
capital increased to 77,199,751 ordinary shares (31 December 2015: 77,161,688).
Acquisitions
On 11 March 2016, the Group acquired the outstanding 50% interest in its Irish media consultancy associate, FMC. The 50% interest 
in FMC was acquired for an initial cash consideration of €150,000 (£118,000). €643,000 (£500,000) in deferred consideration was 
recognized at acquisition, however the maximum total purchase consideration is up to €2,000,000 (£1,559,000), payable in cash, 
depending on the performance of the FMC business during the period ending 31 December 2020.  Strategic report
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  27
Cash conversion
         Eight month 
       Year ended Year ended period ended  
       31 December 31 December 31 December 
       2016  2015  2015 
       Audited Unaudited Audited 
       £’000 £’000 £’000
Reported cash from operations      10,782 11,515 5,028
Underlying cash from operations      11,342 13,673 6,889
Underlying operating profit/(loss)      12,959 12,411 (3)
Cash conversion       87.5% 110.2% n/a
Underlying cash from operations represents the cash flows from operations excluding the impact of highlighted items. The underlying 
net cash inflow from operations was £11.3 million in the year ended 31 December 2016 (CY2015: £13.7 million). 
After highlighted items are considered, reported net cash inflow from operations for 2016 was £10.8 million (CY2015: £11.5 million).
Cash conversion has improved significantly since the interim results due to the seasonality of cash flows, but is below the very strong 
cash conversion in CY2015. Improvement in the processes around working capital management remains a key focus for the business 
in 2017.
Net debt and banking facilities
        31 December 31 December 
        2016 2015 
        Audited Audited 
        £’000 £’000
Net cash        4,600 6,364
Bank debt
1
        (32,750) (35,250)
Net debt
1
        (28,150) (28,886)
1. Bank debt in the statement of financial position at 31 December 2016 is shown net of £0.1 million (31 December 2015: £0.2 million) of loan arrangement 
fees that have been paid and which are amortized over the life of the facility. The bank debt stated above excludes these costs. 
All bank borrowings are held jointly with Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland (‘RBS’). The committed facility, 
totalling £40,000,000, comprises a term loan of £10,000,000 (of which £3,750,000 remains outstanding at 31 December 2016 
(31 December 2015: £6,250,000)), and a revolving credit facility of £30,000,000 (of which £29,000,000 was drawn down at 
31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: £29,000,000)).
During the period, the Group continued to trade within each of its banking facilities and associated covenants. Net debt to EBITDA ratio 
was 1.94x at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: 2.04).
Statement of financial position and net assets
Net current assets as at 31 December 2016 increased by £3.6 million to £9.2 million (2015: £5.6 million) and total net assets increased 
by £9.7 million to £52.1 million (2015: £42.4 million) as a result of the profit for the year of £4.7 million and foreign exchange gains on the 
translation of overseas subsidiaries. Trade and other receivables increased by £4.1 million to £28.4 million reflecting an increase in trade 
receivables of £3.0 million and accrued income of £1.8 million.
Goodwill as at 31 December 2016 was £58.0 million (2015: £54.8 million) with the increase due to foreign exchange gains on 
retranslation of overseas subsidiaries of £2.8 million and the acquisition of FMC in Ireland adding £0.4 million to goodwill.
Deferred contingent consideration has decreased by £2.9 million since 31 December 2015 to £2.0 million, due to the settlement of 
deferred consideration. Two earnouts relating to our recent acquisitions ended during 2016, and in total £5.1 million was paid to former 
shareholders. At 31 December 2016 of the remaining deferred consideration of £2.0 million, which relates to the recent acquisition of 
FMC and our media business in China, £1.8 million is expected to be settled in the next 12 months.
Outlook
Our delivery on the milestones set out in the Growth Acceleration Plan, coupled with events in the media marketplace – such as the 
debate around the performance of digital advertising – create significant medium‑term growth opportunities. The implementation of our 
plans, the opportunities arising from the changing nature of the industry, make us excited for the future. 
By order of the Board
Andrew Noble
Chief Financial Officer 
27 March 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
28 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Michael Higgins
Non‑Executive Chairman
Michael, in addition to chairing 
the Ebiquity Board, chairs the 
Nomination Committee and sits on 
the Remuneration Committee and 
the Audit & Risk Committee.
Experience 
Michael qualified as an accountant 
at Price Waterhouse (now 
PwC). He then worked at Saudi 
International Bank and Charterhouse 
before becoming a partner at KPMG 
in 1996, from which he retired in 
2006. Michael is currently senior 
independent director of Plant Health 
Care plc, a leading provider of 
novel patent protected biological 
products to the global agricultural 
market, and a non‑executive 
director of Progility plc. Michael is 
also a non‑executive director of the 
Quoted Companies Alliance and is 
an alternate member of the Panel on 
Takeovers and Mergers on behalf of 
the Quoted Companies Alliance.
Committees
  
Michael Karg, PhD
Group Chief Executive Officer
Michael took up his post on 
1 January 2016. 
Experience 
Michael was previously CEO 
International for Razorfish, the 
digital business transformation 
agency of Publicis Groupe, and 
held senior international leadership 
positions with both Razorfish and 
Digitas over a 15‑year career. 
A native of Austria, he has been 
based in Boston, Paris and London. 
He advised clients globally across 
industries on marketing and digital 
strategies, worked closely with 
technology partners, and led the 
integration of acquired businesses. 
Michael holds a degree in Finance 
and Accounting and a doctorate in 
Management from the University 
in St Gallen, Switzerland and was a 
visiting Fellow at Harvard University 
from 1999 to 2000. Michael is a 
member of the Board and Chair 
of the Compensation Committee 
of Travelzoo Inc.
Committees
Andrew Noble
Chief Financial Officer
Andrew joined Ebiquity early in 2015 
as Group Finance Director, before 
becoming Chief Financial Officer in 
September 2016. 
Experience
Having obtained his degree in 
Politics, Philosophy and Economics 
from Oxford University he joined 
PwC where he spent four years 
before joining market research 
company Synovate where he 
held a number of finance roles, 
culminating in his appointment 
as Director of Financial Reporting 
and Control. Following the 
acquisition of Synovate by Ipsos 
in 2011, he became Global Chief 
Financial Officer within their 
marketing division, overseeing 
financial performance and 
developing strategy.
Nick Manning
Chief Strategy Officer
Nick joined Ebiquity in October 2007 
as Chief Operating Officer with 
special responsibility for the 
Analytics division before becoming 
President, International, in overall 
charge of Ebiquity’s non‑UK based 
operations and subsequently Chief 
Strategy Officer.
Experience
Nick has spent 37 years in the 
media industry, principally having 
co‑founded Manning Gottlieb Media 
(‘MGM’) in 1990. MGM became one 
of the most highly respected and 
fastest growing media specialist 
agencies before becoming part 
of Omnicom in 1997. His most 
recent agency position was CEO 
of OMD’s operations in the UK. Nick 
also co‑founded Opera, the media 
negotiation arm for OMD and PHD, 
with billings of £1 billion.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the  
Group and aims to represent the interests of shareholders  
and provide leadership and control in order to ensure the 
growth and development of the business. Corporate governance
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016   29
Morag Blazey
Managing Principal,  
Market Intelligence
In 2016 Morag took up the new role 
of Managing Principal for Ebiquity’s 
Market Intelligence practice. Morag 
is a fellow of the IPA.
Experience
Morag spent more than 20 years 
in ad agencies as a TV buyer, 
planner and account director. 
She became Managing Director of 
PHD in 1999 and served as CEO 
from 2006 to 2008. She assisted 
PwC and Fishburn Hedges in the 
development of a communications 
strategy for the pensions reform 
bill, and worked with the Olympic 
Delivery Authority before joining 
Ebiquity in 2009 as International 
Practice Leader for Advertising 
Intelligence. In 2012 Morag became 
CEO of Ebiquity’s UK business and 
in 2015 she was appointed as an 
executive director. 
Richard Nichols
Non‑Executive Director
Richard is Chairman of Ebiquity’s 
Audit & Risk Committee and also 
sits on the Nomination Committee.
Experience
Richard is Chief Executive of 
Instinctif Partners, the international 
business communications 
consultancy and Non‑Executive 
Chairman of the Digital Innovation 
Group. Prior to joining Instinctif 
Partners, Richard was Chief 
Executive of Huntsworth plc, 
following the merger with Incepta 
Group plc where he was the Chief 
Executive and formerly Group 
Finance Director. An economics 
graduate from Cambridge 
University, Richard subsequently 
qualified as a chartered accountant 
with Price Waterhouse (now PwC) 
in London. 
Committees
  
Julie Baddeley 
Non‑Executive Director
Julie is Chairman of Ebiquity’s 
Remuneration Committee and sits 
on the Nomination Committee.
Experience
Julie has served in both executive 
and non‑executive capacities on 
the boards of leading companies in 
the FTSE100 and FTSE250 as well 
as a number of major public sector 
organizations. She has chaired 
the remuneration committee of 
several company boards and been 
chairman of Harvey Nash plc since 
June 2013. She is currently Senior 
Independent Director of Marshall 
of Cambridge and a director 
of Chrysalis VCT plc. Julie has 
broad experience of businesses in 
professional services like Ebiquity, 
and of those in the consumer 
industry sectors Ebiquity serves, 
including The Woolwich, Camelot 
and Greggs. She was Associate 
Fellow at Oxford University Said 
Business School from 2000 to 2010, 
having previously run a global team 
as a partner at Accenture. 
Committees
 
Tom Alexander
Non‑Executive Director
Tom sits on Ebiquity’s Nomination 
Committee, Remuneration 
Committee, and Audit & Risk 
Committee.
Experience
Following senior sales positions 
with Telia and BT Cellnet, Tom 
founded Virgin Mobile in 1999 and 
subsequently built the business to 
revenues of £1 billion and 4.3 million 
customers in eight years. He led 
the company’s IPO in 2004 and 
eventual sale to NTL in 2006. From 
2007 he was Chief Executive Officer 
of Orange, leading its turnaround 
and subsequent successful 
merger in 2010 with T‑Mobile to 
create Everything Everywhere. 
After running EE for a further year 
he left to pursue private equity 
opportunities and non‑executive 
roles. Tom brings a wealth of 
international business experience 
and consumer instinct to Ebiquity. 
Committees
  
  
Audit & Risk Committee 
  
Nomination Committee 
  
Remuneration Committee 
  
Denotes Chairperson CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
30 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Chairman’s governance overview
I am pleased to present the corporate 
governance report for the year ended 
31 December 2016. 
The corporate governance report describes 
the framework for corporate governance 
and internal control that the Directors 
have established. Ebiquity is committed to 
robust standards of corporate governance.
Corporate governance code
As a company listed on AIM, Ebiquity is not 
required to comply with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. Ebiquity has adopted 
the Corporate Governance Code for Small 
and Mid‑Size Quoted Companies 2013 
produced by the Quoted Companies 
Alliance (the ‘QCA Code’). The Quoted 
Companies Alliance is the membership 
organization which represents the interests 
of small and mid‑size quoted companies, 
of which Ebiquity is a member.
The QCA Code contains minimum 
disclosure requirements for a company 
to meet in order for that company to 
state that it complies with the QCA Code. 
The Directors are of the opinion that the 
Company complies with these minimum 
disclosure obligations save to the extent 
referred to in the report.
My role as Chairman
It is my principal responsibility as Chairman 
to ensure that the Board is effective in 
interrogating, approving and monitoring 
the Company’s direction and strategy. 
As Chairman I am also responsible, in 
consultation with the Company Secretary, 
for ensuring proper information is 
supplied to the Board in a timely fashion, 
that Board meetings are conducted 
effectively and that proper debate is 
had at Board meetings.
Board evaluation
The Board carried out a review of its 
effectiveness for the first time. This review 
was performed by me as Chairman. 
I coordinated responses to a confidential 
questionnaire to gather feedback from all 
Directors. The Board will carry out further 
reviews of its effectiveness on an annual 
basis and will as part of such reviews 
consider whether the use of an external 
adviser would be advantageous.
A summary of the issues and comments 
raised by the Directors in response to 
the questionnaire was circulated to all 
Directors. These issues and comments 
were also discussed in meetings of the 
Nomination Committee and the Board. 
No material issues were raised by 
the Directors regarding the Board’s 
effectiveness. A number of matters were 
identified which could make the Board’s 
activities and administration more effective 
and efficient, which the Board will be 
seeking to implement in the coming year.
Michael Higgins
Chairman 
27 March 2017
We are committed to embedding 
corporate governance as a discipline 
across the Group to complement 
our aim to deliver long‑term success 
on behalf of our stakeholders.
Michael Higgins
Chairman Corporate governance
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016   31
Board of Directors
Role of the Board
The Board is responsible to shareholders 
for the proper management of the affairs 
of the Group. The Directors are also 
collectively responsible for acting in 
the way which they consider, in good 
faith, is most likely to promote the 
success of the Company for the benefit 
of Ebiquity’s shareholders as a whole. 
In doing so, the Directors have regard 
(amongst other matters) to the interests 
of the Company’s employees and the 
need to foster the Company’s business 
relationships with suppliers, customers 
and other stakeholders.
A statement of the Directors’ responsibilities 
with regards to the annual report and 
financial statements is set out on page 41.
Composition of the Board  
and roles of the Directors
During the year ended 31 December 2016, 
Michael Greenlees and Andrew Beach 
stood down as Directors of the Company, 
and Michael Karg and Andrew Noble were 
appointed as Directors of the Company. 
The Board of Directors now comprises an 
independent Non‑Executive Chairman, 
three further independent Non‑Executive 
Directors and four Executive Directors. 
Michael Higgins (independent 
Non‑Executive Chairman) is a qualified 
chartered accountant. He brings to the 
Board significant experience of advising 
smaller quoted companies and is a director 
of a number of such companies. Michael 
is a non‑executive director of the Quoted 
Companies Alliance. The Directors are of 
the view that Michael Higgins retains his 
independence notwithstanding that he 
chairs the Board.
Michael Karg, PhD (Group Chief Executive 
Officer) is responsible for setting long‑term 
strategy, developing appropriate annual 
business plans, agreeing management KPIs 
and leading the Executive Directors and the 
senior Executive team in the day‑to‑day 
running of the Group’s business, including 
chairing the management committees 
and communicating their decisions/
recommendations to the Board. He is also 
responsible for shareholder communication 
and ongoing relationships with investors.
Andrew Noble (Chief Financial Officer) 
is responsible for the Group’s worldwide 
functions in finance, treasury and taxation. 
He has responsibility for the Group’s 
finance systems, accounting policies 
and controls. Andrew also works closely 
with the practice principals, regional 
managing directors and finance leaders 
across Ebiquity. 
Nick Manning (Chief Strategy Officer) 
has responsibility for developing and 
implementing Ebiquity’s strategy across 
its three business segments, ensuring that 
Ebiquity provides the services advertisers 
need. He is also responsible for the 
Group’s marketing strategy. 
Morag Blazey (Managing Principal, 
Market Intelligence) leads the Market 
Intelligence capability globally. 
Her principal responsibilities are to 
raise Ebiquity’s profile, drive renewals 
and new business, and develop 
and execute service and product 
developments and growth strategies. 
Richard Nichols (independent 
Non‑Executive Director) is a qualified 
chartered accountant. His previous 
experience includes serving as Finance 
Director and Chief Executive Officer of a 
number of listed and private companies. 
Richard is currently Chief Executive 
Officer of Instinctif Partners, who provide 
Ebiquity with financial PR advice. Richard 
is not part of the Instinctif team which 
advises Ebiquity and in the event that 
the Board formally discusses Instinctif’s 
instruction by the Company, Richard would 
recuse himself from those discussions. 
Accordingly, the Board considers Richard 
to be independent.
Julie Baddeley (independent 
Non‑Executive Director) has significant 
experience of serving on the boards of 
listed companies, both as an executive 
and as a non‑executive director, and of 
serving on and chairing board committees. 
Julie has experience across industry 
sectors, including in professional services 
organizations such as Accenture. She is 
currently chairman of Harvey Nash plc, 
which is listed on the Official List. Julie 
brings valuable governance experience 
to Ebiquity.
Tom Alexander (independent 
Non‑Executive Director) has enjoyed a 
highly successful career in the telecoms 
industry. The commercialism and business 
instinct developed by Tom during his 
career is of great value to the Board. 
The Board also draws upon Tom’s 
experience of an industry undergoing 
rapid technological change in guiding 
Ebiquity’s management through similar 
changes in the sectors in which the 
Company operates.
Further biographical details regarding 
the Directors are contained on 
pages 28 and 29.
Each of the Non‑Executive Directors 
has a written letter of appointment with 
the Company. These are available for 
inspection on Ebiquity’s website. Each 
of the Executive Directors has a written 
service agreement with the Company. 
None of these service agreements entitles 
a director to receive more than six months’ 
notice terminating his/her employment. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
32 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
Matters reserved for the Board
As part of good governance there are 
certain matters which are not appropriate 
to be delegated to management or a 
committee of the Board and should be 
reserved for consideration by the Board as 
a whole. The Board has formally approved 
a written list of such matters (which is 
available on Ebiquity’s website) and 
which include:
• approving the annual budget and 
quarterly reforecasts;
• changes to the Group’s capital structure;
• approving the Company’s 
dividend policy;
• reviewing non‑routine regulatory news 
service announcements made by 
the Company; and
• approving material contracts to be 
entered into by the Group.
Board meetings
During the year the Board met formally 
on 10 occasions. In addition, there were 
a small number of meetings convened on 
short notice to consider ad hoc matters.
The Board receives monthly management 
accounts and other relevant information 
as appropriate in advance of each 
Board meeting. This information is made 
available electronically via an online 
platform. Directors are able to access this 
information at any time, including following 
Board meetings.
There are a number of standing agenda 
items reviewed by the Board at each 
regular Board meeting, including current 
trading and outlook. Other items are 
considered by the Board as appropriate, 
including as a minimum, an annual 
review of the Company’s governance 
arrangements. 
Detailed minutes are taken of all Board 
meetings. Minutes are circulated to the 
Board and approved at the following 
Board meeting.
Advisers to the Board and its committees
The Board seeks advice from external 
advisers, including legal, tax and financial 
advisers, on various matters as and when 
appropriate. The Company Secretary 
attends all Board meetings and is available 
to advise on any corporate governance 
issues which may arise.
The Company’s auditors, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, attend 
meetings of the Audit & Risk Committee. 
The Remuneration Committee relies from 
time‑to‑time on advice and benchmarking 
data from Hewitt New Bridge Street in 
setting certain specific matters of the 
Executive Directors’ remuneration. 
Risk management
The Board retains ultimate control and 
direction over appropriate strategic, 
financial, organizational and compliance 
issues. The Board has put in place an 
organizational structure with defined 
lines of responsibility. The Company has 
adopted an authority matrix which sets 
out the delegation of authority to individual 
business units and members of staff.
The internal control system put in place 
by the Company is designed to provide 
reasonable assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. Commercial risks are 
an inherent part of business and as such 
the internal control system cannot provide 
absolute assurance against these risks.
Board committees
The Board has constituted several 
committees to help it in the performance 
of its functions. The principal committees 
are the Audit & Risk Committee, the 
Remuneration Committee and the 
Nomination Committee. The roles of 
these committees are set out below.
Audit & Risk Committee
The Audit & Risk Committee, which meets 
at least three times a year, is chaired 
by Richard Nichols. The Audit & Risk 
Committee comprises Richard Nichols, 
Michael Higgins and Tom Alexander. 
The Board considers Richard Nichols 
to have recent and relevant financial 
experience. Richard is a qualified 
chartered accountant and has served as 
the Finance Director and Chief Executive 
Officer of listed and private companies. 
Richard currently serves as the Chief 
Executive Officer of a private‑equity 
backed company. The purpose of the 
Audit & Risk Committee is to ensure the 
preservation of good financial practices 
throughout the Group; to monitor that 
controls are in force to ensure the 
integrity of financial information; to 
review the interim and annual financial 
statements; to assess the adequacy 
and effectiveness of the Company’s risk 
management systems and to provide a line 
of communication between the Board and 
the external auditors.
The Audit & Risk Committee is responsible 
for reviewing the performance of the 
external auditors on an annual basis, 
and for agreeing the scope of their work. 
The Audit & Risk Committee also monitors 
the level of non‑audit work conducted 
by the external auditors to ensure 
that independence and objectivity are 
safeguarded. Details of non‑audit fees paid 
to the external auditors are set out in note 4 
to the consolidated financial statements.
During the year, the Audit & Risk 
Committee expanded its scope of 
reference to include certain matters 
relating to risk and risk management, 
when its name was changed from the Audit 
Committee to the Audit & Risk Committee.
The Audit & Risk Committee’s report can 
be found on pages 34 and 35.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee, which 
meets at least twice a year, is chaired 
by Julie Baddeley. The Remuneration 
Committee comprises Julie Baddeley, 
Michael Higgins and Tom Alexander. 
The Remuneration Committee is 
responsible for the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration and other benefits and terms 
of employment, including performance 
related bonuses and share options. 
The Remuneration Committee Report can 
be found on pages 36 to 38.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired 
by Michael Higgins. The Nomination 
Committee comprises Michael Higgins, 
Richard Nichols, Julie Baddeley, 
Tom Alexander and Michael Karg. 
The Nomination Committee meets as 
necessary and has responsibility for 
nominating candidates to the Board for 
appointment as Directors, bearing in 
mind the need for diversity and a broad 
representation of skills across the Board.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Corporate governance
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016   33
Attendance at meetings
Details of the Directors’ attendance at each regular Board and Committee meeting in the year is as set out below (number of meetings 
attended by each Director/the maximum number of meetings each Director was entitled to attend):
      Board Audit & Risk Remuneration Nomination
Michael Higgins      10/10 5/5 7/7 1/1
Michael Karg, PhD      10/10 — — 1/1
Andrew Noble      3/3 — — —
Nick Manning      7/10 — — —
Morag Blazey      9/10 — — —
Richard Nichols      9/10 4/5 — 1/1
Julie Baddeley      10/10 — 7/7 1/1
Tom Alexander      10/10 5/5 6/7 1/1
Michael Greenlees      3/3 — — —
Andrew Beach      8/8 — — —
Management committees
Additionally, and not formal committees of 
the Board, the Company’s management 
has constituted a number of regional 
committees which comprise the principal 
vehicles for directing the Group’s business 
at an operational level.
Shareholders
The Executive Directors meet regularly 
with institutional shareholders to discuss 
the Company’s performance and future 
prospects. The views of institutional 
shareholders as presented at these 
meetings are reported by the Executive 
Directors to the Board. An important 
vehicle for communications with private 
shareholders is the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting. The information displayed 
on the Investor Relations pages of the 
Company’s website is regularly refreshed 
in order to provide accurate and up‑to‑date 
information to all shareholders. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
34 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT
Introduction
The Audit & Risk Committee is a key 
component of the Group’s governance 
framework. The Board has delegated to 
the Committee oversight of the Group’s 
financial reporting. During the year, and at 
the request of the Board, the Committee 
expanded its scope of reference to include 
oversight of the Group’s risk management 
and of the procedures in place to identify 
and mitigate significant risks.
All of the members of the Committee are 
independent Non‑Executive Directors with 
a combination of accounting, financial 
and commercial experience. The Board 
considers Richard Nichols, who chairs the 
Committee, to have recent and relevant 
financial experience. Richard is a chartered 
accountant with significant financial and 
commercial experience in both listed and 
unquoted companies. Richard’s biography 
and appointments are set out on page 29.
The Committee met on five occasions 
during the year. The attendance of 
its members is set out in the table on 
page 33. Meetings of the Committee 
are commonly comprised of three 
sections. The first section of meetings 
of the Committee are also normally 
attended by the Group Chief Executive 
Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the 
Company Secretary and other members 
of the senior management together 
with representatives from the external 
auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
(‘PwC’) which ensures the Committee and 
the external auditors have access to all 
financial and operational knowledge. 
Subsequently, Committee members also 
meet with the external auditors without 
the Executive Directors and other senior 
management in attendance, which 
ensures that the Committee maintains an 
independent view. Finally, there is a section 
of the meeting attended solely by the 
members of the Committee.
Role and responsibility of the  
Audit & Risk Committee
The Committee’s terms of reference can 
be found on the Company’s website. 
The principal responsibilities of the 
Committee include:
• monitoring the integrity of the Group’s 
financial statements, including a review 
of significant financial reporting issues 
and judgements;
• reviewing the external auditors’ 
independence and objectivity, the 
effectiveness of the external audit 
process and the appointment, 
reappointment and removal of the 
external auditors;
• reviewing the Group’s financial controls 
and other internal reporting systems;
• reviewing progress on implementing 
control improvements; and
• keeping under review the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the Company’s risk 
management systems.
Activities during the year
The key matters the Committee considered 
during the year are listed below.
In respect of the Group’s financial 
statements and interim accounts:
• the assessment of the carrying value 
of goodwill and intangible assets: the 
Committee assesses on a twice‑yearly 
basis whether there are any indicators of 
impairment to the carrying value of any 
cash‑generating unit. The Committee 
reviewed the key assumptions in 
the assessment of goodwill and the 
sensitivity of these assumptions and 
impact on the carrying value of goodwill 
and intangible assets. On this basis the 
Committee makes recommendations to 
the Board in this regard;
• going concern: the Committee reviews, 
in particular, management’s forecasts 
of the Group’s performance including 
performance against the covenants 
contained in the credit agreement with 
Barclays and RBS;
• presentation of highlighted items: 
the Committee reviews the nature 
and quantum of the items proposed 
by management to be classified as 
highlighted to ensure they are consistent 
with the Group’s accounting policies;
• deferred contingent consideration: 
the Group has been acquisitive over 
recent years and the Committee reviews 
management’s forecasts regarding 
the Group’s future obligations to pay 
consideration for acquisitions;
• capitalisation of intangibles: the 
Committee reviews the nature and 
quantum of the items proposed 
by management to be capitalized, 
together with the period over which 
the capitalized items will be amortized, 
to ensure they are consistent with the 
Group’s accounting policies;
• revenue recognition: the Committee 
reviews the quantum of accrued/
deferred income and the judgement 
applied by management in calculating 
revenue recognition cut off. The 
Committee reviews the quality 
of evidence available to support 
revenue recognition; and
• taxation: The Committee reviews the 
significant components of the tax charge 
and provision and the overall effective 
tax rate of the Group as a whole.
In respect of risk management:
• the Committee undertook significant 
work reviewing the output of 
management’s exercise preparing a 
register of the principal risks relevant 
to the Group and its business together 
with the mitigation steps taken to date 
by management and planned to be 
undertaken in the future;
• the Committee reviewed and approved 
the risk management framework 
prepared by management which 
outlined how risk would be identified 
and managed across the business; and
• the Committee included risk as a 
standing agenda item at each meeting 
for management to update the 
Committee on significant changes to 
the risk register and mitigating actions. Corporate governance
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016   35
With regard to Ebiquity’s external auditors, 
the Committee’s principal activities 
were to:
• approve the terms of engagement and 
fees to be paid to the external auditors;
• approve the annual audit plan;
• review the findings of the auditors 
and management’s response; and
• evaluate the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditors.
External auditors
PwC have been the external auditors of 
the Group since 2012, when a full tender 
process was carried out. The original audit 
partner served from PwC’s appointment 
until completion of the audit for the year 
ended 31 December 2016 when he 
rotated off the audit. A new partner has 
been appointed regarding the audit of 
the Company’s financial statements for 
the year commenced 1 January 2017. 
A review of PwC’s independence is carried 
out each year before a recommendation 
is made to the Board to propose PwC for 
re‑election at the AGM. In assessing PwC’s 
independence, the Committee received 
confirmation that, in PwC’s professional 
judgement, PwC is independent within 
the meaning of relevant UK regulatory 
and professional requirements.
Provision of non‑audit services
The Committee reviews with management 
the engagement of the external auditors 
for non‑audit services and the level of 
associated non‑audit fees. Details of fees 
paid to PwC during the year are outlined 
in note 4 to the financial statements. 
Non‑audit fees of approximately £19,000 
were paid to PwC during the year in 
connection with Group restructuring 
activities. The Committee does not 
consider that auditor independence 
has been impacted by this matter. 
Richard Nichols
Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee 
27 March 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
36 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
Element
Objective and  
link to strategy Operation Opportunity
Performance  
conditions and assessment
Base  
salary
Provides an appropriate level of 
fixed income – commensurate 
with the role – to attract and 
retain the individual with the 
required capability.
Militates against excessive 
risk‑taking and/or focus 
on short‑term metrics 
by establishing sufficient 
balance against variable 
remuneration elements.
Paid monthly.
Used as basis for pension 
contributions and 
performance‑related 
pay eligibility.
Reviewed annually, normally 
effective 1 April.
Set at role commencement. 
Updated via review against 
market comparators as needed.
The Committee has not set a 
maximum salary. 
The Committee ensures base 
salaries are equitable across 
all variables.
The Committee aims to maintain 
alignment between increases 
for the Directors and the wider 
workforce. It retains discretion 
to deviate in order to address 
specific circumstances, for 
example, but not limited to: 
• an increase in the individual’s 
scope and responsibilities; 
and
• the need to retain specialist 
expertise within a competitive 
talent market.
Not applicable.
Benefits 
(including  
pension)
Provides the necessary current 
and future health and security 
(for the individual and their 
dependents) to enable the 
individual to focus maximum 
attention on their role.
Private medical, life and 
critical illness insurances.
Defined contributions to 
personal pension.
Other benefits as considered 
appropriate by the Committee.
The Committee has not set 
maximum levels for benefits. 
It aims to ensure that individual 
arrangements for Directors are 
in line with policies applicable 
to the wider workforce.
Not applicable.
Performance 
bonus
Incentivizes achievement of 
short‑term financial and strategic 
performance goals.
On‑target expectations 
expressed as a percentage of 
salary, relative to role.
Group financial targets set 
annually in relation to 
management expectations. 
Personal goals are set annually 
for each Executive Director in 
relation to strategy.
Individual participation is set with 
respect to the role performed
Individual on‑target expectation 
capped at 50% of base salary.
Maximum award of 200% of 
on‑target amount in any one 
year i.e. a maximum of 100% of 
base salary for any one Director.
Measured over a one‑year period.
Minimum thresholds of the 
Group’s annual financial 
performance determine the 
extent to which individuals may 
attain on‑target expectation, 
which is also judged on 
individual performance against 
personal goals.
Long‑Term  
Incentives 
(equity)
Incentivizes longer‑term growth 
and value creation through 
shareholder returns
Standard LTIP, with nominal 
price options subject to a 
minimum three‑year vesting 
period with performance 
conditions.
Extent of individual awards 
determined with reference to 
role, performance and perceived 
future value.
Awards made in respect of each 
financial year typically do not 
exceed 100% of salary, subject 
to a maximum of 200% of salary 
inexceptional circumstances.
Uses appropriate targets for 
growth in earnings per share 
(and/or total shareholder return) 
over vesting period.
This policy reflects the Company’s current stage of development and anticipated growth, and balances risk and reward.
Remuneration policy
The Board recognizes the role of appropriate remuneration in attracting and retaining people with the industry‑leading skills, knowledge 
and experience needed to develop and grow the business, and incentivizing them to perform.
The Remuneration Committee has maintained the policy set out in the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015, which 
is used to determine Executive Directors’ remuneration and as a guide for the Executive Committee in setting organization‑wide 
remuneration. 
In summary, the policy is as follows: Corporate governance
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016   37
The Remuneration Committee has consulted with its largest institutional investors during 2016/17 regarding the introduction of a 
shareholding guideline and development of its Long‑Term Incentive (‘LTI’) to better align Directors’ (and other Executives’) interests with 
those of shareholders and the longer‑term strategy of the Group. The Company has not issued LTIs to executives during 2016/17; we 
expect to conclude the consultation shortly and to ensure that LTIs are in place for executive management in the first half of 2017.
The Remuneration Committee relies from time‑to‑time on advice and benchmarking from third parties in setting specifics of the 
Executive Directors’ remuneration.  
Directors’ remuneration in the year ended 31 December 2016
         FY2015 
       FY2016 CY2015 eight month 
       year ended year ended period ended 
       31 December  31 December 31 December 
     Taxable  2016 2015 2015 
    Salary/fees benefits Bonus Total Total Total 
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive      
Michael Karg, PhD    400 9 120
1
 529 — —
Andrew Noble
2
    53 1 — 54 — —
Nick Manning    300 — — 300 300 200
Morag Blazey    230 5 8 243 47 47
Andrew Beach
2
    171 1 — 172 219 146
Michael Greenlees
3
    107 3 — 110 326 217
Non‑Executive      
Michael Higgins    68 — — 68 68 45
Richard Nichols    35 — — 35 45 33
Julie Baddeley    35 — — 35 47 35
Tom Alexander    35 — — 35 40 28
       1,581 1,092 751
1. Michael Karg, CEO, received a one‑time cash sign‑on bonus of £120,000 in March 2016 in order to compensate him for the loss of certain retention 
incentives from his previous employer. No performance bonuses were attained for the year ended 31 December 2016.
2. Andrew Beach left the Company on 14 October 2016, handing over the role of Chief Financial Officer to Andrew Noble on 9 September 2016.
3. Michael Greenlees retired from the post of Chief Executive Officer with effect from 17 January 2016, and ceased to be a Director on 30 April 2016.
The totals above are inclusive of annual performance bonuses (FY2015: £nil). Directors were eligible for cash bonuses as a 
percentage of base salary, dependent on individual and Company performance against established financial targets in excess of 
analyst expectations.
No Director was a member of a company pension scheme (FY2015: nil). Contributions totalling £28,127 (FY2015: £6,721) were made 
to Directors’ private pension schemes (£14,000 to the highest paid Director, FY2015: £nil) during the year.
No Directors exercised share options during the year (FY2015: 150,000). The highest paid Director exercised no share options, 
(FY2015: nil).
Termination payments to Directors
Two Directors left the Company in the year ended 31 December 2016. No termination payments were made to Directors (FY2015: £nil). CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
38 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued
Long‑Term Incentives
During the year, a total of 311,355 share options that were previously granted to Directors under the Company’s Executive Incentive 
Plan vested (FY2015: nil) as follows:
Beneficiary Grant date Volume
Exercise  
price
Performance 
conditions
Achievement 
vs condition
%  
vested
Number 
vested
Michael Greenlees 17 January 2014 350,000
£0.25
Growth in 
adjusted 
diluted EPS  
vs 2012/13
10.8p/share 
vs 9p – 7.08% 
compound 
growth
36.63%
128,205
Morag Blazey 17 January 2014 200,000 73,260
Nick Manning 17 January 2014 200,000 73,260
Andrew Beach 17 January 2014 100,000 36,630
During the fiscal period, no options were granted to any Directors under the Group’s Executive Incentive Plan (FY2015: 400,000).
Share options totalling 500,000 were 
granted to the incoming Chief Executive 
Officer, Michael Karg, in order to 
compensate him for the loss of certain 
retention incentives. These were as follows: 
• 200,000 ordinary shares of 25p each, 
half vesting after six months’ service 
and the remaining half vesting after 
12 months’ service, subject to continued 
employment; and
• 300,000 ordinary shares of 25p each, 
which will vest conditional on the 
satisfaction of performance criteria 
relating to the growth of the Company’s 
diluted adjusted earnings per share 
(‘EPS’), as follows:
• 200,000 (“tranche one”) will vest 
conditional on the EPS growth 
for the financial year ending 
31 December 2016 over the 
previous 12 month period ended 
31 December 2015; and 
• 100,000 (“tranche two”) will vest 
conditional on the EPS growth 
for the financial year ending 
31 December 2017 over the prior 
financial year. Any options from 
tranche one which do not vest will 
be rolled over into tranche two and 
will be capable of vesting along 
with the options granted as part 
of tranche two.
EPS growth, over the relevant performance 
period for each tranche, of 10% or more 
will result in all of the options in that 
tranche vesting. EPS growth of 4% over 
the relevant performance period will vest 
one‑fifth of the options in that tranche. 
None of the options in a tranche will vest if 
EPS growth over the relevant performance 
period is less than 4%. Three‑fifths of the 
options in a tranche will vest if EPS growth 
over the relevant performance period is 
8%. The options in a tranche will vest on a 
straight‑line basis where EPS growth over 
the relevant performance period is between 
4% and 8% or between 8% and 10%.
Implementation of remuneration 
policy in 2017
The Executive Directors’ remuneration 
for the year that commenced on 
1 January 2017 includes base salary and 
benefits and an annual cash bonus in line 
with the Company’s remuneration policy.
The target bonus is 50% of base salary 
for the Group CEO and 30% for the other 
Executive Directors. Each individual must 
achieve the personal performance targets 
(‘KPIs’) set for them by the Board, and the 
Company must achieve its budgeted levels 
of pro‑forma (i.e. excluding that derived 
from in‑year acquisitions) revenue and 
operating profit – which have been agreed 
by the Board and which are in excess 
of analyst expectations – for full 100% 
achievement of the theoretical bonus. 
Thresholds below budgeted levels of 
revenue (minimum 97.5% of budget) 
and operating profit (minimum 90% of 
operating profit post‑bonus) have been set 
to allow for pro‑rata payment of bonuses 
at a level which protects operating profit 
margins and overall Group performance. 
Each Director has the potential to 
achieve up to a maximum of 200% of 
their theoretical target bonus as a result 
of exceptional individual and Company 
performance.
No share options have been granted to 
Directors since 1 January 2017.
Julie Baddeley
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
27 March 2017 Corporate governance
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016   39
The Directors present their report and the 
audited consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Ebiquity plc is incorporated in England and 
Wales under registered number 3967525. 
Its registered address and principal office 
is at CityPoint, One Ropemaker Street, 
London EC2Y 9AW. The Company is the 
ultimate parent of the Group. The Group 
has a branch in France. Its other overseas 
operations are subsidiaries or associates 
(see notes 12 and 13).
Future developments
The future developments of the Group 
are considered in the strategic report 
on pages 2 to 27.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Dividends
The Board is recommending the payment 
of a final dividend of 0.65p per share 
for the year ended 31 December 2016. 
If shareholders approve this payment at the 
AGM on 10 May 2017, the dividend will be 
paid on 26 May 2017 to all shareholders 
who were on the Register of Members at 
close of business on 5 May 2017.
Research and development
The Group continues to invest in the 
development of products. During the period 
a total of £1.1 million was capitalized in 
relation to development projects. This has 
resulted in the development of a number of 
new initiatives.
Political donations and 
political expenditure
No political donations were made and no 
political expenditure was incurred in the 
period (2015: nil).
Modern Slavery Act 2015
Ebiquity’s statement regarding the Modern 
Slavery Act 2015 can be viewed on 
its website (ebiquity.com). 
Events after the reporting period
There have been no events after the 
reporting period requiring disclosure.
Directors and Directors’ interests
The Directors in office during the period and until the date of this report were as follows:
Michael Higgins   Non‑Executive Chairman 
Michael Karg, PhD
1
 Executive Director Chief Executive Officer 
Andrew Noble
2
  Executive Director  Chief Financial Officer 
Nick Manning  Executive Director  Chief Strategy Officer 
Morag Blazey  Executive Director  Managing Principal, Market Intelligence 
Richard Nichols   Non‑Executive Director 
Julie Baddeley  Non‑Executive Director 
Tom Alexander   Non‑Executive Director
Michael Greenlees stood down as a Director on 30 April 2016. 
Andrew Beach stood down as a Director on 14 October 2016.
Andrew Watkins, General Counsel, acts as the Company Secretary.
1. Appointed 27 January 2016.
2. Appointed 9 September 2016.
The beneficial interests of Directors, who were Directors at the period end, in the ordinary shares of the Company and options to 
purchase such shares at the beginning and end of the financial period comprised:
 31 December 2016 31 December 2015
        
      Ordinary  Ordinary  
      shares Options shares Options
Michael Higgins      64,500 — 64,500 —
Michael Karg      — 500,000 — —
Andrew Noble      — 60,000 — 60,000
Nick Manning      230,000 2,543,490 230,000 2,670,230
Morag Blazey      — 601,429 — 728,169
Richard Nichols      100,000 — 100,000 —
Julie Baddeley      — — — —
Tom Alexander      — — — —
No Director has any direct interest in the shares of any subsidiary company. There have been no changes in the above Directors’ 
shareholdings or holdings of options between 31 December 2016 and the date of this report. 
Further information about the Directors’ interests is provided in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 36 to 38.
Directors’ third‑party and pension scheme indemnity provisions
The Company purchased and maintained throughout the period and up to the date of this report, directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance in respect of its Directors and officers and those of its subsidiaries. There were no pension scheme indemnity provisions 
in place during the period. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
40 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued
Employees
Ebiquity is committed to the continuous 
development of its employees. The Group’s 
employees are integral to the success of 
the business and as a result the Group 
pursues employment practices which are 
designed to attract, retain and develop 
this talent to ensure the Group retains its 
market leading position with motivated 
and satisfied employees. The Group has 
continued this year with its employee 
engagement programme, initiated in 
2011, measuring engagement levels and 
drivers through an annual survey and 
taking actions to further develop the 
leadership and organization on the back 
of these findings. 
The Group has continued its practice of 
using formal and informal communication 
channels to provide employees with the 
information they need to understand and 
achieve the objectives of the Group and 
to keep employees informed of matters 
affecting them as employees and the 
financial and economic factors affecting 
the performance of the Group.
Applications for employment by disabled 
persons are given full and fair consideration 
for all vacancies in accordance with their 
particular aptitudes and abilities. Where 
existing employees become disabled it is 
the Group’s policy to provide continuing 
employment wherever practicable in 
the same or an alternative position and 
to provide appropriate training. It is the 
policy of the Group that training, career 
development and promotion opportunities 
should be available to all employees.
Employees are encouraged to own shares 
in the Company, and many employees are 
shareholders and/or hold options under the 
Company’s share option schemes.
Financial instruments
The Group’s principal financial instruments 
comprise bank loans and cash. The main 
purpose of these financial instruments 
is to provide finance for the Group’s 
operations. The Group has various other 
financial assets and liabilities such as 
trade receivables and trade payables, 
which arise directly from its operations. 
The operations of the Group generate 
cash and the planned growth of activities 
is cash generative. Full details of financial 
instruments are included in note 25 to the 
financial statements.
Substantial shareholdings
At the date of this report the Company’s 
issued share capital consisted of 
77,199,751 ordinary shares of 25p each 
and a total of 72,999,751 voting rights. 
The Ebiquity plc 2010 Employee Benefit 
Trust (the ‘EBT’) held 4,200,000 issued 
ordinary shares to satisfy awards for the 
Company’s senior management team. 
At the date of this report, these awards had 
not been exercised. The trustee has agreed 
not to vote the ordinary shares held by it. 
As such 4,200,000 ordinary shares are 
treated as not carrying voting rights for the 
purposes of the City Code on Takeovers 
and Mergers.
At the date of this report, the following had 
notified the Company that they held more 
than 3% of the Company’s ordinary share 
capital, other than the shareholdings held 
by Directors and the EBT. No other person 
has reported an interest of more than 3% 
in the Company’s ordinary shares.
        % of issued % of total 
Name       Number of shares share capital voting rights
Artemis Investment Management      12,052,282 15.61 16.51
T Rowe Price Global Investments      8,337,921 10.80 11.42
Kabouter Management       8,142,430 10.55 11.15
JO Hambro Capital Management      7,111,150 9.21 9.74
Invesco Perpetual       6,452,446 8.36 8.84
Herald Investment Management      5,491,125 7.11 6.29
Hargreave Hale       4,330,000 5.61 5.93
Legal & General       3,945,200 5.11 5.40
Fidelity International       2,439,234 3.16 3.34
AGM notice
The notice of the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting accompanies this 
document and is also available for 
inspection on the Company’s website. 
Going concern
The Board is responsible for considering 
whether it is appropriate to prepare the 
financial statements on a going concern 
basis. After making appropriate enquiries 
the Board concluded that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operation 
for the foreseeable future and operate within 
banking facilities and the covenants therein. 
For this reason the Group continues to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements.
Independent auditors and  
disclosure of information to auditors
All of the current Directors have taken all 
the steps that they ought to have taken to 
make themselves aware of any information 
needed by the Group’s auditors for the 
purposes of their audit and to establish that 
the auditors are aware of that information. 
The Directors are not aware of any relevant 
audit information of which the auditors 
are unaware.
The auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, 
have indicated their willingness to continue 
in office, and a resolution that they be 
reappointed will be proposed  
at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board
Andrew Watkins 
Company Secretary 
27 March 2017 Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  41
The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the annual report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors 
to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law the 
Directors have prepared the Group 
financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European 
Union, and the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards, comprising Financial Reporting 
Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure 
Framework (‘FRS 101’), and applicable 
law). Under company law the Directors 
must not approve the financial statements 
unless they are satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of 
the Group and the Company and of the 
profit or loss of the Group for that period. 
In preparing these financial statements, the 
Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and 
then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting 
estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
• state whether IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union and applicable 
UK Accounting Standards comprising 
FRS 101 have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the Group and 
parent company financial statements 
respectively; and
• prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that 
are sufficient to show and explain the 
Company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and 
enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for 
the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website. Legislation in 
the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
42 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
Report on the Group  
financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Ebiquity plc’s 
Group financial statements (the 
‘financial statements’):
• give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s affairs as at 
31 December 2016 and of its profit and 
cash flows for the year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as 
adopted by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within 
the annual report, comprise:
• the consolidated statement of financial 
position as at 31 December 2016;
• the consolidated income statement 
and consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income for the 
year then ended;
• the consolidated cash flow statement for 
the year then ended;
• the consolidated statement of changes 
in equity for the year then ended; and
• the notes to the financial statements, 
which include a summary of significant 
accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that 
has been applied in the preparation of the 
financial statements is IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union, and applicable law.
In applying the financial reporting 
framework, the Directors have made 
a number of subjective judgements, 
for example in respect of significant 
accounting estimates. In making such 
estimates, they have made assumptions 
and considered future events.
Opinions on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work 
undertaken in the course of the audit:
• the information given in the strategic 
report and the Directors’ report for the 
financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent 
with the financial statements; and
• the strategic report and the 
Directors’ report have been prepared 
in accordance with applicable 
legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge 
and understanding of the Group and its 
environment obtained in the course of the 
audit, we are required to report if we have 
identified any material misstatements in the 
strategic report and the Directors’ report. 
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Other matters on which we are 
required to report by exception
Adequacy of information  
and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit. 
We have no exceptions to report arising 
from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we 
are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are not 
made. We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility. 
Responsibilities for the financial 
statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and  
those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the statement 
of Directors’ responsibilities set out on 
page 41, the Directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the financial statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’). 
Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, 
has been prepared for and only for the 
parent company’s members as a body 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no 
other purpose. We do not, in giving these 
opinions, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown or 
into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent 
in writing.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
to the members of Ebiquity plc Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  43
What an audit of financial  
statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance 
with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An audit involves 
obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements 
sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes 
an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies 
are appropriate to the Group’s 
circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and 
• the overall presentation of the 
financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas 
by assessing the Directors’ judgements 
against available evidence, forming our 
own judgements, and evaluating the 
disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using 
sampling and other auditing techniques, 
to the extent we consider necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw 
conclusions. We obtain audit evidence 
through testing the effectiveness of 
controls, substantive procedures or 
a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the annual 
report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited financial statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired 
by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report. 
With respect to the strategic report and 
Directors’ report, we consider whether 
those reports include the disclosures 
required by applicable legal requirements.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the 
parent company financial statements 
of Ebiquity plc for the year ended 
31 December 2016.
Simon O’Brien 
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and 
Statutory Auditors 
London
27 March 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
44 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 December 2016
 Year ended 31 December 2016 Eight month period ended 31 December 2015
       
    Before Highlighted  Before Highlighted  
    highlighted items  highlighted items  
    items (note 3) Total items (note 3) Total 
   Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue   2 83,569 — 83,569 43,310 — 43,310
Cost of sales    (38,282) — (38,282) (22,514) — (22,514)
Gross profit    45,287 — 45,287 20,796 — 20,796
Administrative expenses    (32,328) (5,202) (37,530) (20,799) (6,656) (27,455)
Operating profit/(loss)   4 12,959 (5,202) 7,757 (3) (6,656) (6,659)
Finance income   6 18 — 18 13 — 13
Finance expenses   6 (1,150) — (1,150) (813) — (813)
Net finance costs    (1,132) — (1,132) (800) — (800)
Share of profit of associates  13 — — — 13 — 13
Profit/(loss) before taxation   11,827 (5,202) 6,625 (790) (6,656) (7,446)
Taxation (charge)/credit   7 (2,570) 340 (2,230) 576 756 1,332
Profit/(loss) for the year/period   9,257 (4,862) 4,395 (214) (5,900) (6,114)
Attributable to:       
Equity holders of the parent   8,987 (4,837) 4,150 (336) (5,885) (6,221)
Non-controlling interests    270 (25) 245 122 (15) 107
    9,257 (4,862) 4,395 (214) (5,900) (6,114)
Earnings/(loss) per share       
Basic   8   5.38p   (8.08)p
Diluted   8   5.20p   (8.08)p
The notes on pages 48 to 79 are an integral part of these financial statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the year ended 31 December 2016
         Eight month 
        Year ended period ended 
        31 December 31 December 
        2016 2015 
        £’000 £’000
Profit/(loss) for the year/period       4,395 (6,114)
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss  
Exchange differences on translation of overseas subsidiaries     4,844 (116)
Total other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year/period    4,844 (116)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year/period     9,239 (6,230)
Attributable to:  
Equity holders of the parent       8,994 (6,337)
Non-controlling interests        245 107
        9,239 (6,230)
The notes on pages 48 to 79 are an integral part of these financial statements.  Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  45
        31 December 31 December 
        2016 2015 
       Note £’000 £’000
Non‑current assets   
Goodwill       9 58,045 54,827
Other intangible assets       10 14,034 13,527
Property, plant and equipment      11 2,438 2,928
Investment in associates       13 — 45
Deferred tax asset       20 1,338 2,267
Total non‑current assets       75,855 73,594
Current assets   
Trade and other receivables      14 28,416 24,318
Cash and cash equivalents      15 6,662 8,755
Total current assets        35,078 33,073
Total assets        110,933 106,667
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables      16 (5,919) (6,566)
Accruals and deferred income      17 (11,890) (12,340)
Financial liabilities       18 (6,253) (8,227)
Current tax liabilities       7 (1,841) (251)
Provisions       19 (9) (89)
Total current liabilities        (25,912) (27,473)
Non‑current liabilities   
Financial liabilities       18 (30,448) (34,055)
Provisions       19 (393) (486)
Deferred tax liability       20 (2,125) (2,244)
Total non‑current liabilities       (32,966) (36,785)
Total liabilities        (58,878) (64,258)
Total net assets        52,055 42,409
Equity   
Ordinary shares       22 19,300 19,290
Share premium       23 — 11,764
Other reserves       23 6,134 656
Retained earnings       23 25,860 9,891
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent      51,294 41,601
Non‑controlling interests       761 808
Total equity        52,055 42,409
The notes on pages 48 to 79 are an integral part of these financial statements. The financial statements on pages 44 to 78 were 
approved and authorized for issue by the Board of Directors on 27 March 2017 and were signed on its behalf by:
Michael Karg, PhD   Andrew Noble
Director     Director 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
as at 31 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
46 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
       Equity  
       attributable  Non-  
   Ordinary Share Other Retained to owners of controlling Total 
   shares premium reserves
1
 earnings  the parent interests equity 
  Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
1 May 2015   19,193 11,657 772 16,012 47,634 1,024 48,658
(Loss)/profit for the period  — — — (6,221) (6,221) 107 (6,114)
Other comprehensive expense  — — (116) — (116) — (116)
Total comprehensive  
(expense)/income  
for the period   — — (116) (6,221) (6,337) 107 (6,230)
Shares issued for cash  22 97 107 — — 204 — 204
Acquisition of  
non-controlling interest   — — — (23) (23) (20) (43)
Share options charge  3 — — — 228 228 — 228
Deferred tax on share options 20 — — — 186 186 — 186
Dividends paid to shareholders 26 — — — (291) (291) — (291)
Dividends paid to  
non-controlling interests   — — — — — (303) (303)
31 December 2015   19,290 11,764 656 9,891 41,601 808 42,409
Profit for the year   — — — 4,150 4,150 245 4,395
Other comprehensive income  — — 4,844 — 4,844 — 4,844
Total comprehensive  
income for the year   — — 4,844 4,150 8,994 245 9,239
Shares issued for cash  22 10 16 — — 26 — 26
Share premium reduction
2
  — (11,780) — 11,780 — — —
Convertible loan note   — — 634 — 634 — 634
Share options charge  3 — — — 652 652 — 652
Deferred tax on share options 20 — — — (321) (321) — (321)
Dividends paid to shareholders 26 — — — (292) (292) — (292)
Dividends paid to  
non-controlling interests   — — — — — (292) (292)
31 December 2016   19,300 — 6,134 25,860 51,294 761 52,055
1. Includes £3,667,000 (31 December 2015: £3,667,000) in the merger reserve; a debit balance of £1,478,000 (31 December 2015: £1,478,000)  
in the ESOP reserve; a convertible loan note reserve of £634,000 created during the year to 31 December 2016; and a gain of £3,311,000  
(31 December 2015: £1,533,000 loss) recognized in the translation reserve. Refer to note 23 for further details. 
2. On 8 June 2016, the Group announced the cancellation of the share premium account (the “Capital Reduction”) effective 9 June 2016  
following registration of the Court order confirming the Capital Reduction by the Registrar of Companies.
The notes on pages 48 to 79 are an integral part of these financial statements. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 31 December 2016 Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  47
         Eight month 
        Year ended period ended 
        31 December 31 December 
        2016 2015 
       Note £’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities   
Cash generated from operations      27 10,782 5,028
Finance expenses paid        (1,092) (601)
Finance income received        18 13
Income taxes paid        (166) (892)
Net cash generated from operating activities      9,542 3,548
Cash flows from investing activities   
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired     28 (4,431) (3,002)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment     11 (479) (502)
Purchase of intangible assets      10 (1,872) (826)
Net cash used in investing activities       (6,782) (4,330)
Cash flows from financing activities   
Proceeds from issue of share capital (net of issue costs)     26 205
Proceeds from bank borrowings      25 3,336 2,578
Repayment of bank borrowings      25 (6,411) (1,982)
Acquisition of interest in a subsidiary from non-controlling interests     — (1,105)
Dividends paid to shareholders      26 (292) (291)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests      (546) (195)
Capital repayment of finance leases       (4) (4)
Net cash flow used in financing activities      (3,891) (794)
Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts     (1,131) (1,576)
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdraft at beginning of year/period   15 6,364 7,884
Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents     (633) 56
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdraft at end of year/period   15 4,600 6,364
The notes on pages 48 to 79 form part of these financial statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
for the year ended 31 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
48 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
1. Accounting policies 
General information
Ebiquity plc (the ‘Company’) and its 
subsidiaries (together, the ‘Group’) provide 
independent data-driven insights to the 
global media and marketing community. 
The Group has 21 offices across 
14 countries.
The Company is a public limited 
company, which is listed on the London 
Stock Exchange’s AIM Market and is 
incorporated and domiciled in the UK. 
The address of its registered office 
is CityPoint, One Ropemaker Street, 
London EC2Y 9AW.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements 
have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting 
Standards, International Accounting 
Standards and IFRS IC Interpretations 
(collectively ‘IFRSs’) issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board 
(‘IASB’) as adopted by European Union 
(‘Adopted IFRSs’) and with those parts 
of the Companies Act 2006 applicable 
to companies preparing their financial 
statements under Adopted IFRSs. The 
consolidated financial statements have 
been prepared on a going concern basis.
The consolidated financial statements have 
been prepared under the historical cost 
convention, as modified by the revaluation 
of financial assets and financial liabilities 
(including derivative instruments) at fair 
value through profit or loss. 
The consolidated financial statements are 
presented in pounds sterling and rounded 
to the nearest thousand.
The principal accounting policies adopted 
in these consolidated financial statements 
are set out below. These policies have 
been consistently applied to all periods 
presented, unless otherwise stated.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2016
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements 
incorporate the financial statements of 
the Company and entities controlled by 
the Company (its subsidiaries). Control 
is achieved where the Company has the 
power to govern the financial and operating 
policies of an investee entity so as to 
obtain benefits from its activities. The 
results of each subsidiary are included from 
the date that control is transferred to the 
Group until the date that control ceases.
Where necessary, adjustments are made 
to the financial statements of subsidiaries 
to bring the accounting policies used 
in line with those used by the Group. 
All intra-group transactions, balances, 
income and expenses are eliminated 
on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests represent the 
portion of the results and net assets in 
subsidiaries that is not held by the Group.
Business combinations and goodwill
The Group applies the acquisition method 
to account for business combinations. The 
cost of the acquisition is measured at the 
aggregate of the fair values, at the date 
of exchange, of assets given, liabilities 
assumed, and equity instruments issued 
by the Group in exchange for control of 
the acquiree. The acquiree’s identifiable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
are recognized initially at their fair value 
at the acquisition date. Goodwill is initially 
measured at cost, being the excess of the 
aggregate of the consideration transferred 
over the fair value of net identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed. The 
determination of the fair values of acquired 
assets and liabilities is based on judgement 
and the Directors have 12 months from the 
date of the business combination to finalize 
the allocation of the purchase price.
Goodwill is allocated to each of the 
Group’s cash-generating units expected 
to benefit from the synergies of the 
combination. Following initial recognition, 
goodwill is measured at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill 
is reviewed for impairment at least annually 
or whenever there is evidence that it may 
be required. Any impairment is recognized 
immediately in the income statement and is 
not subsequently reversed.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of the 
Group’s interest in an associate being 
the excess of the cost of acquisition over 
the Group’s share of the fair values of the 
identifiable net assets of the associate, 
is included within the carrying amount 
of the investment. The non-controlling 
shareholders interest in the acquiree is 
initially measured at the non-controlling 
interest’s proportion of the net fair value 
of the assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities recognized.
Where transactions with non-controlling 
parties do not result in a change in control, 
the difference between the fair value of 
the consideration paid or received and 
the amount by which the non-controlling 
interest is adjusted, is recognized in equity.
Where the consideration for the 
acquisition includes a contingent deferred 
consideration arrangement, this is 
measured at fair value at the acquisition 
date. Any subsequent changes to the 
fair value of the contingent deferred 
consideration are adjusted against the 
cost of the acquisition if they occur within 
the measurement period and only if the 
changes relate to conditions existing at the 
acquisition date. Any subsequent changes 
to the fair value of the contingent deferred 
consideration after the measurement 
period are recognized in the income 
statement within administrative expenses 
as a highlighted item. The carrying value 
of contingent deferred consideration at 
the statement of financial position date 
represents management’s best estimate of 
the future payment at that date, based on 
historical results and future forecasts.
All costs directly attributable to the 
business combination are expensed as 
incurred and recorded in the income 
statement within highlighted items. Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  49
Investments in associates
An associate is an entity over which the 
Group is in a position to exercise significant 
influence and is neither a subsidiary nor 
joint venture. Significant influence is the 
power to participate in the financial and 
operating policy decisions of the investee 
but is not control or joint control over 
those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities 
of associates are incorporated in the 
consolidated financial statements 
using the equity method of accounting. 
Investments in associates are carried in 
the statement of financial position at cost 
as adjusted by post-acquisition changes 
in the Group’s share of the net assets of 
the associate, less any impairment in the 
value of individual investments. Losses 
of an associate in excess of the Group’s 
interest in that associate (which includes 
any long-term interests that, in substance, 
form part of the Group’s net investment in 
the associate) are recognized only to the 
extent that the Group has incurred legal or 
constructive obligations or made payments 
on behalf of the associate.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of 
the consideration received or receivable 
and represents amounts receivable for 
services provided in the normal course of 
business, net of discounts, VAT and other 
sales related taxes. Income is recognized 
evenly over the period of the contract for 
our Market Intelligence businesses, and in 
accordance with the stage of completion 
of the contract activity for our Media Value 
Measurement and Marketing Performance 
Optimization businesses. The stage of 
completion is determined relative to 
the total number of hours expected to 
complete the work or provision of services. 
Where recorded revenue exceeds amounts 
invoiced to clients, the excess is classified 
as accrued income and where recorded 
revenue is less than amounts invoiced 
to clients, the difference is classified as 
deferred income.
Where services are performed by an 
indeterminate number of acts over a 
specific period, revenue is recognized on a 
straight-line basis over the specific period 
unless there is evidence that some other 
method better represents the stage of 
completion.
If the outcome of a contract cannot be 
estimated reliably, the contract revenue 
is recognized to the extent of contract 
costs incurred that it is probable would 
be recoverable. Costs are recognized as 
an expense in the period in which they 
are incurred.
Finance income and expenses
Finance income and expense represents 
interest receivable and payable. Finance 
income and expense is recognized on an 
accruals basis, based on the interest rate 
applicable to each bank or loan account.
Foreign currencies
For the purposes of the consolidated 
financial statements, the results and 
financial position of each Group company 
are expressed in pounds sterling, which is 
the functional currency of the Company, 
and the presentation currency for the 
consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of 
the individual companies, transactions in 
currencies other than the entity’s functional 
currency (foreign currencies) are recorded 
at the rates of exchange prevailing on the 
dates of transactions. At each year end 
date, monetary assets and liabilities that 
are denominated in foreign currencies are 
retranslated at the rates prevailing on the 
year end date.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated 
financial statements, the assets and 
liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations 
are translated at exchange rates 
prevailing on the year end date. Income 
and expense items are translated at the 
average exchange rate for the period, 
which approximates to the rate applicable 
at the dates of the transactions. 
The exchange differences arising from 
the retranslation of the year end amounts 
of foreign subsidiaries and the difference 
on translation of the results of those 
subsidiaries into the presentational 
currency of the Group are recognized in 
the translation reserve. All other exchange 
differences are dealt with through the 
consolidated income statement.
Highlighted items
Highlighted items comprise non-cash 
charges and non-recurring items which 
are highlighted in the consolidated 
income statement as separate disclosure 
is considered by the Directors to be 
relevant in understanding the underlying 
performance of the business. The non-cash 
charges include share option charges and 
amortization of purchased intangibles. 
The non-recurring items include the costs 
associated with potential acquisitions 
(where formal discussion is undertaken), 
completed acquisitions and their 
subsequent integration into the Group, 
adjustments to the estimates of deferred 
consideration on acquired entities, asset 
impairment charges and other significant 
one-off items. Costs associated with 
ongoing market landscaping, acquisition 
identification and early stage discussions 
with acquisition targets are reported in 
underlying administrative expenses.
Taxation
The tax expense included in the 
consolidated income statement comprises 
current and deferred tax. Current tax is 
the expected tax payable on the taxable 
income for the period, using tax rates 
enacted or substantively enacted by the 
year end date. 
The Group is subject to corporate taxes 
in a number of different jurisdictions and 
judgement is required in determining the 
appropriate provision for transactions 
where the ultimate tax determination is 
uncertain. In such circumstances, the 
Group recognizes liabilities for anticipated 
taxes based on the best information 
available and where the anticipated liability 
is both probable and estimable. Where the 
final outcome of such matters differs from 
the amount recorded, any differences may 
impact the income tax and deferred tax 
provisions in the period in which the final 
determination is made.
Tax is recognized in the consolidated 
income statement except to the extent 
that it relates to items recognized directly 
in equity, in which case it is recognized 
in equity.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
50 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
1. Accounting policies continued
Taxation continued
Using the liability method, deferred tax 
is provided on all temporary differences 
between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and their tax bases, except 
for differences arising on:
• the initial recognition of goodwill;
• the initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction which is not 
a business combination and at the 
time of the transaction affects neither 
accounting or taxable profit; and
• investments in subsidiaries and jointly 
controlled entities where the Group is 
able to control the timing of the reversal 
of the difference and it is probable that 
the difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
Recognition of deferred tax assets is 
restricted to those instances where it 
is probable that taxable profit will be 
available against which the difference can 
be utilized. The recognition of deferred tax 
assets is reviewed at each year end date.
The amount of the asset or liability is 
determined using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the 
year end date and are expected to apply 
when the deferred tax liabilities/assets are 
settled/recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset 
when the Group has a legally enforceable 
right to offset current tax assets and 
liabilities and the deferred tax assets and 
liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same 
tax authority on either:
• the same taxable group company; or
• different group entities which intend 
either to settle current tax assets and 
liabilities on a net basis, or to realize 
the assets and settle the liabilities 
simultaneously, in each future period in 
which significant amounts of deferred 
tax assets or liabilities are expected to 
be settled or recovered.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 December 2016
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at 
cost less accumulated depreciation and 
any recognized impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off 
the cost of assets over their estimated 
useful economic lives. The rates applied 
are as follows:
Motor vehicles  25% per annum  
reducing balance
Fixtures, fittings 7% to 20% per annum  
and equipment  straight-line; or 
 25% per annum  
 reducing balance
Computer  25% to 40%  
equipment  straight-line
Short leasehold  Over the shorter 
land and buildings  of the life or the 
improvements estimated useful life  
 of the lease
Other intangible assets
Internally generated intangible assets  
– development expenditure
Internally generated intangible assets 
relate to bespoke computer software and 
technology developed by the Group’s 
internal software development team.
An internally generated intangible asset 
arising from the Group’s development 
expenditure is recognized only if all of the 
following conditions are met:
• it is technically feasible to develop the 
asset so that it will be available for use 
or sale;
• adequate resources are available to 
complete the development and to use 
or sell the asset;
• there is an intention to complete the 
asset for use or sale;
• the Group is able to use or sell the 
intangible asset;
• it is probable that the asset created will 
generate future economic benefits; and
• the development cost of the asset can 
be measured reliably.
Internally generated intangible assets are 
amortized on a straight-line basis over 
their useful lives. Amortization commences 
when the asset is available for use and 
useful lives range from one to five years. 
The amortization expense is included 
within administrative expenses. Where an 
internally generated intangible asset cannot 
be recognized, development expenditure is 
recognized as an expense in the period in 
which it is incurred.
Purchased intangible assets
Externally acquired intangible assets 
are initially recognized at cost and 
subsequently amortized on a straight-line 
basis over their useful economic lives, 
which vary from three to ten years. 
The amortization expense is included as a 
highlighted item within the administrative 
expenses line in the income statement. 
Intangible assets recognized on business 
combinations are recorded at fair value 
at the acquisition date using appropriate 
valuation techniques where they are 
separable from the acquired entity or give 
rise to other contractual/legal rights. The 
significant intangibles recognized by the 
Group are customer relationships which 
are amortized on a straight-line basis over 
a typical useful life of ten years.
Computer software
Purchased computer software intangible 
assets are amortized on a straight-line 
basis over their useful lives which vary from 
two to five years. Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  51
Impairment
Assets that have an indefinite useful life are 
not subject to amortization and are tested 
annually for impairment. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, 
goodwill is grouped at the lowest levels 
for which there are separately identifiable 
cash flows, known as cash-generating 
units. If the recoverable amount of the 
cash-generating unit is less than the 
carrying amount of the unit, the impairment 
loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying 
amount of any goodwill allocated to the 
unit and then to the other assets of the 
unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying 
amount of each asset in the unit.
Assets that are subject to amortization 
or depreciation are reviewed for 
impairment whenever events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
amount may not be recoverable. If any 
such condition exists, the recoverable 
amount of the asset is estimated in order 
to determine the extent, if any, of the 
impairment loss. Where the asset does not 
generate cash flows that are independent 
from other assets, estimates are made of 
the cash flows of the cash-generating unit 
to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair 
value, less costs to sell, and value in 
use. In assessing value in use, estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their 
present value using a pre-tax discount 
rate appropriate to the specific asset or 
cash-generating unit.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or 
cash-generating unit is estimated to be 
less than its carrying amount, the carrying 
value of the asset or cash-generating unit 
is reduced to its recoverable amount. 
Impairment losses are recognized 
immediately in highlighted items in the 
income statement. 
In respect of assets other than goodwill, 
an impairment loss is reversed if there 
has been a change in the estimates used 
to determine the recoverable amount. 
An impairment loss is reversed only to the 
extent that the asset’s carrying amount 
does not exceed the carrying amount 
that would have been determined, net 
of depreciation or amortization, if the 
impairment loss had been recognized. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash 
in hand and short-term deposits. Cash and 
cash equivalents and bank overdrafts are 
offset when there is a legally enforceable 
right to offset.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are 
recognized in the Group’s statement of 
financial position when the Group becomes 
a party to the contractual provisions of 
the instrument.
Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets 
as ‘loans and receivables’. Loans and 
receivables are non-derivative financial 
assets with fixed or determinable payments 
that are not quoted in an active market. 
They arise principally through the provision 
of goods and services to customers (trade 
receivables), but also incorporate other 
types of contractual monetary assets. 
They are initially recognized at fair value 
plus transaction costs that are directly 
attributable to their acquisition or issue, 
and are subsequently carried at amortized 
cost using the effective interest rate 
method, less provision for impairment.
Impairment provisions are recognized 
when there is objective evidence (such as 
significant financial difficulties on the part 
of the counterparty or default or significant 
delay in payment) that the Group will be 
unable to collect all of the amounts due, 
the amount of such a provision being 
the difference between the net carrying 
amount and the present value of the future 
expected cash flows associated with the 
impaired receivable. For trade receivables, 
which are reported net, such provisions are 
recorded in a separate allowance account 
with the loss being recognized within 
administrative expenses in the income 
statement. On confirmation that the trade 
receivable will not be collectable, the gross 
carrying value of the asset is written off 
against the associated provision.
Financial liabilities
Borrowings consisting of interest-bearing 
secured and unsecured loans and 
overdrafts are initially recognized at fair 
value net of directly attributable transaction 
costs incurred and subsequently 
measured at amortized cost using the 
effective interest method. The difference 
between the proceeds received net of 
transaction costs and the redemption 
amount is amortized over the period of 
the borrowings to which they relate. The 
revolving credit facility is considered to be 
a long term loan.
Trade and other payables are initially 
recognized at their nominal value which is 
usually the original invoiced amount. 
Interest rate swaps are carried at fair value 
with changes in fair value being reflected 
in the statement of comprehensive 
income, and are classified within other 
financial liabilities.
Leases 
Where substantially all of the risks and 
rewards incidental to ownership of a leased 
asset have been transferred to the Group 
(a ‘finance lease’), the asset is treated 
as if it had been purchased outright. 
The amount initially recognized as an 
asset is the lower of the fair value of the 
leased property and the present value of 
the minimum lease payments payable over 
the term of the lease. The corresponding 
lease commitment is shown as a liability. 
Lease payments are analyzed between 
capital and interest. The interest element is 
charged to the income statement over the 
period of the lease and is calculated so that 
it represents a constant proportion of the 
lease liability. The capital element reduces 
the balance owed to the lessor.
Where substantially all of the risks and 
rewards incidental to ownership are 
retained by the lessor (an ‘operating lease’), 
the total rentals payable under the lease 
are charged to the income statement 
on a straight-line basis over the lease 
term. The aggregate benefit of lease 
incentives is recognized as a reduction 
of the rental expense over the lease term 
on a straight-line basis. The land and 
buildings elements of property leases are 
considered separately for the purposes of 
lease classification. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
52 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
1. Accounting policies continued
Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial 
instruments to reduce its exposure 
to foreign exchange and interest rate 
movements. The Group does not hold or 
issue derivative financial instruments for 
financial trading purposes but derivatives 
that do not qualify for hedge accounting 
are accounted for at fair value through 
the income statement. Derivative financial 
instruments are initially recognized at fair 
value at the contract date and continue to 
be stated at fair value at the balance sheet 
date with gains and losses on revaluation 
being recognized immediately in the 
income statement.
Cash flow hedging is used to hedge 
against fluctuations in future cash flows 
on the Group’s debt funding due to 
movements in interest rates. When a 
cash flow hedge is employed and hedge 
accounting applied, the effective portion of 
the change in the fair value of the hedging 
instrument is recognized directly in equity 
(hedging reserve) until the gain or loss on 
the hedged item is realized. Any ineffective 
portion is always recognized in the 
income statement.
The fair value of derivatives is determined 
by reference to market values for 
similar instruments.
Share capital
Equity instruments issued by the Group are 
recorded at the amount of the proceeds 
received, net of direct issuance costs.
Employee Share Ownership Plan (‘ESOP’)
As the Company is deemed to have 
control of its ESOP trust, it is treated 
as a subsidiary and consolidated for 
the purposes of the Group financial 
statements. The ESOP’s assets (other 
than investments in the Company’s 
shares), liabilities, income and expenses 
are included on a line-by-line basis in the 
Group financial statements. The ESOP’s 
investment in the Company’s shares is 
deducted from shareholders’ equity in the 
Group statement of financial position as 
if they were treasury shares, except that 
profits on the sale of ESOP shares are not 
credited to the share premium account.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 December 2016
Share‑based payments
Where equity-settled share options are 
awarded to employees, the fair value of 
the options at the date of grant is charged 
to the income statement over the vesting 
period with a corresponding increase 
recognized in retained earnings. Fair 
value is measured using an appropriate 
valuation model. Non-market vesting 
conditions are taken into account by 
adjusting the number of equity investments 
expected to vest at each year end date 
so that, ultimately, the cumulative amount 
recognized over the vesting period is based 
on the number of options that eventually 
vest. A charge is made irrespective of 
whether the market vesting conditions are 
satisfied. The cumulative expense is not 
adjusted for failure to achieve a market 
vesting condition.
Where there are modifications to 
share-based payments that are beneficial 
to the employee then as well as continuing 
to recognize the original share-based 
payment charge, the incremental fair value 
of the modified share options as identified 
at the date of the modification is also 
charged to the income statement over 
the remaining vesting period. Where the 
Group cancels share options and identifies 
replacement options, this arrangement is 
also accounted for as a modification.
The grant by the Company of options over 
its equity instruments to the employees 
of subsidiary undertakings in the Group 
is treated as a capital contribution. 
The fair value of employee services 
received, measured by reference to the 
grant date fair value, is recognized over 
the vesting period as an increase to 
investment in subsidiary undertakings, 
with a corresponding credit to equity in 
the parent entity financial statements.
Provisions
Provisions, including provisions for onerous 
lease costs, are recognized when the 
Group has a present legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of past events, it is 
probable that an outflow of resources will 
be required to settle that obligation and 
the amount can be reliably estimated. 
Provisions are not recognized for future 
operating losses.
Provisions are measured at the Directors’ 
best estimate of the expenditure required 
to settle the obligation at the year-end date. 
If the effect of the time value of money 
is material, provisions are determined by 
discounting the expected future cash flows 
at a pre-tax rate which reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of 
money and, where appropriate, the risks 
specific to the obligations.
Retirement benefits
For defined contribution pension schemes, 
the Group pays contributions to privately 
administered pension plans on a voluntary 
basis. The Group has no further payment 
obligations once the contributions have 
been paid. Contributions are charged to 
the income statement in the year to which 
they relate.
Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s 
shareholders is recognized as a liability 
in the Group’s financial statements in the 
period in which the dividends are approved 
by the Company’s shareholders.
Critical accounting estimates 
and judgements
In preparing the consolidated financial 
statements, the Directors have made 
certain estimates and judgements relating 
to the reporting of results of operations 
and the financial position of the Group. 
Actual results may significantly differ 
from those estimates often as a result 
of the need to make assumptions about 
matters which are uncertain. The estimates 
and judgements discussed below are 
considered by the Directors to be those 
that have a critical accounting impact to 
the Group’s financial statements.
Revenue recognition
The Group is required to make an estimate 
of the project completion levels in respect 
of contracts which straddle the year end 
for revenue recognition purposes. This 
involves a level of judgement and therefore 
differences may arise between the actual 
and estimated result. Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  53
Carrying value of goodwill and 
other intangible assets
Impairment testing requires management 
to estimate the value in use of the 
cash-generating units to which goodwill 
and other intangible assets have been 
allocated. The value in use calculation 
requires estimation of future cash flows 
expected to arise from the cash-generating 
unit and the application of a suitable 
discount rate in order to calculate present 
value. The sensitivity around the selection 
of particular assumptions including 
growth forecasts and the pre-tax discount 
rate used in management’s cash flow 
projections could significantly affect 
the Group’s impairment evaluation and 
therefore the Group’s reported assets 
and results. Further details, including 
a sensitivity analysis, are included in 
notes 9 and 10 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
Contingent deferred consideration
The Group has recorded liabilities for 
deferred consideration on acquisitions 
made in the current and prior periods. The 
calculation of the deferred consideration 
liability requires judgements to be made 
regarding the forecast future performance 
of these businesses for the earn-out 
period. Any changes to the fair value of 
the contingent deferred consideration after 
the measurement period are recognized in 
the income statement within administrative 
expenses as a highlighted item.
Taxation
The Group is subject to income taxes 
in all the territories in which it operates, 
and judgement and estimates of future 
profitability are required to determine the 
Group’s deferred tax position. If the final 
tax outcome is different to that assumed, 
resulting changes will be reflected in the 
income statement, unless the tax relates to 
an item charged to equity in which case the 
changes in the tax estimates will also be 
reflected in equity. The Group believes that 
its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate 
for all open audit years based on its 
assessment of many factors including past 
experience and interpretations of tax law. 
This assessment relies on estimates and 
assumptions and may involve a series of 
complex judgements about future events. 
To the extent that the final tax outcome of 
these matters is different than the amounts 
recorded, such differences will impact 
income tax expense in the period in which 
such determination is made.
Provisions
The Group provides for certain costs of 
reorganisation that has occurred due 
to the Group’s acquisition and disposal 
activity. When the final amount payable 
is uncertain, these are classified as 
provisions. These provisions are based 
on the best estimates of management.
Adoption of new standards  
and interpretations
On 1 January 2016, the Group adopted 
the following amendments to IFRS. 
The accounting pronouncements, none 
of which is considered by the Group as 
significant on adoption, are:
• amendments to IAS 1 ‘Disclosure 
Initiative’. These amendments are 
as part of the IASB’s initiative to 
improve presentation and disclosure 
in financial reports;
• amendments to IFRS 11 ‘Accounting 
for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint 
Operations’. This amendment adds 
new guidance on how to account for 
the acquisition of an interest in a joint 
operation that constitutes a business;
• amendments to IAS 16 ‘Property, Plant 
and Equipment’ and IAS 38 ‘Intangible 
Assets’. This amendments provide 
clarification of acceptable methods of 
depreciation and amortization; and
• improvements to IFRS:  
2012–2014 cycle.
On 1 January 2017, the Group will adopt 
the following amendments which are 
effective for accounting periods on or after 
1 January 2017 and which have not yet 
been endorsed by the EU. Management 
is currently assessing the impact of these 
new pronouncements on the financial 
statements, which are not expected to 
be significant.
• amendments to IAS 12 ‘Recognition 
of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealized 
Losses’. This amends the recognition 
of deferred tax assets for unrealized 
losses; and
• amendments to IAS 7 ‘Disclosure 
Initiative’. These amendments are 
as part of the IASB’s initiative to 
improve presentation and disclosure 
in financial reports.
Certain new standards, amendments to 
new standards and interpretations have 
been published that are mandatory to the 
Group’s future accounting periods but have 
not been adopted early in these financial 
statements. These are set out below:
• IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts 
with Customers’ (effective on or 
after 1 January 2018). This standard 
establishes a single comprehensive 
framework for revenue recognition to 
determine when to recognize revenue 
and how much revenue to recognize. 
This standard replaces the previous 
revenue standards IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ 
and IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’. 
The Group will apply IFRS 15 from 
1January 2018;
• IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ (effective 
on or after 1 January 2018). This 
standard addresses the classification, 
measurement and derecognition of 
financial assets and financial liabilities 
and introduces new rules for hedge 
accounting. In July 2014, the IASB made 
further changes to the classification 
and measurement rules and also 
introduced a new impairment model. 
These latest amendments now complete 
the new financial instruments standard. 
The Group will apply IFRS 9 from 
1 January 2018; and
• IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ (effective on or 
after 1 January 2019). This standard 
replaces IAS 17 ‘Leases’ and sets 
out the principles for the recognition, 
measurement, presentation and 
disclosure of leases for both the lessee 
and the lessor. IFRS 16 eliminates the 
two lease classifications that IAS 17 has 
(operating and finance leases) for the 
lessee, and instead all leases will have 
the same classification. The Group will 
apply IFRS 9 from 1 January 2019.
Management will assess the impact on 
the Group of these standards prior to 
the effective date of implementation. 
Although the detailed impact has not yet 
been quantified, management expects 
that the adoption of IFRS 15 may have an 
impact on revenue recognition and related 
disclosures and the adoption of IFRS 16 
will impact the accounting for those leases 
currently classified as operating leases. 
The adoption of IFRS 9 is not expected to 
have a significant impact on the Group’s 
financial statements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
54 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
2. Segmental reporting
In accordance with IFRS 8 the Group’s operating segments are based on the reports reviewed by the Executive Directors that are used 
to make strategic decisions.
Certain operating segments have been aggregated to form three reportable segments, Media Value Measurement, Market Intelligence 
and Marketing Performance Optimization:
• Media Value Measurement includes our media benchmarking, financial compliance and associated services;
• Market Intelligence includes our advertising monitoring, reputation management and research/insight services; and
• Marketing Performance Optimization consists of our marketing effectiveness and multi-channel analytics services.
The Executive Directors are the Group’s chief operating decision-maker. They assess the performance of the operating segments 
based on operating profit before highlighted items. This measurement basis excludes the effects of non-recurring expenditure from 
the operating segments such as restructuring costs and purchased intangible amortization. The measure also excludes the effects of 
equity-settled share-based payments. Interest income and expenditure are not allocated to segments, as this type of activity is driven by 
the central treasury function, which manages the cash position of the Group.
The segment information provided to the Executive Directors for the reportable segments for the year ended 31 December 2016 is 
as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2016
       Marketing  
    Media Value Market Performance Reportable  
    Measurement Intelligence Optimization segments Unallocated Total 
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue    47,161 23,360 13,048 83,569 —  83,569
Operating profit/(loss) before highlighted items  12,124 3,902 3,739 19,765 (6,806) 12,959
Total assets    56,948  32,469 11,868 101,285 9,648 110,933
Other segment information      
Capital expenditure – property, plant and equipment  46 455 4 505 35 540
Capital expenditure – intangible assets   586 591 155 1,332 765 2,097
Capital expenditure – goodwill    464 — —  464 — 464 
Total    1,096 1,046 159 2,301 800 3,101
Eight month period ended 31 December 2015
       Marketing  
    Media Value Market Performance Reportable  
    Measurement Intelligence Optimization segments Unallocated Total 
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue    20,409 16,002 6,899 43,310 — 43,310
Operating (loss)/profit before highlighted items  (81) 2,070 1,874 3,863 (3,866) (3)
Total assets    53,011 29,398 10,640 93,049 13,618 106,667
Other segment information      
Capital expenditure – property, plant and equipment  26 — 12 38 512 550
Capital expenditure – intangible assets   77 — — 77 750 827
Total    103 — 12 115 1,262 1,377
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 December 2016 Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  55
A reconciliation of segment operating profit before highlighted items to total profit before tax is provided below:
         Eight month 
        Year ended period ended 
        31 December 31 December 
        2016 2015 
        £’000 £’000
Reportable segment operating profit before highlighted items     19,765 3,863
Unallocated costs
1
:  
Staff costs        (5,219) (3,281)
Property costs        (786) (260)
Exchange rate movements       (158) 31
Other administrative expenses       (643) (356)
Operating profit/(loss) before highlighted items      12,959 (3)
Highlighted items (note 3)       (5,202) (6,656)
Operating profit/(loss)        7,757 (6,659)
Net finance costs        (1,132) (800)
Share of profit of associates       — 13
Profit/(loss) before tax        6,625 (7,446)
1. Unallocated costs comprise central costs that are not considered attributable to the segments.
A reconciliation of segment total assets to total consolidated assets is provided below:
        31 December 31 December 
        2016 2015 
        £’000 £’000
Total assets for reportable segments      101,285 93,049
Unallocated amounts:  
Property, plant and equipment       1,900 2,278
Other intangible assets        1,517 2,853
Other receivables        1,015 2,892
Cash and cash equivalents       3,989 3,478
Deferred tax asset        1,227 2,113
Investments in associates       — 4
Total assets        110,933 106,667
The table below presents revenue and non-current assets by geographical location:
 Year ended Eight month period ended 
 31 December 2016 31 December 2015
        
      Revenue by  Revenue by  
      location of Non‑current location of Non-current 
      customers assets customers assets 
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
United Kingdom      22,627 46,617 13,142 46,955
Rest of Europe      31,586 9,378 14,786 7,957
North America      20,032 7,257 10,376 6,297
Rest of world      9,324 11,265 5,006 10,118
      83,569 74,517 43,310 71,327
Deferred tax assets      — 1,338 — 2,267
Total      83,569 75,855 43,310 73,594
No single customer (or group of related customers) contributes 10% or more of revenue. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
56 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
3. Highlighted items
Highlighted items comprise non-cash charges and non-recurring items which are highlighted in the income statement because separate 
disclosure is considered relevant in understanding the underlying performance of the business.
 Year ended  Eight month period ended 
 31 December 2016 31 December 2015
       
    Cash Non‑cash Total Cash Non-cash Total 
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Administrative expenses      
Recurring      
Share option (credit)/charge   (92) 652 560 203 228 431
Amortization of purchased intangibles   — 1,865 1,865 — 1,327 1,327
    (92) 2,517 2,425 203 1,555 1,758
Non‑recurring      
Acquisition and integration costs   2,777 — 2,777 533 — 533
Impairment charge    — — — — 4,365 4,365
    2,777 — 2,777 533 4,365 4,898
Total highlighted items before tax   2,685 2,517 5,202 736 5,920 6,656
Taxation credit    (252) (88) (340) (128) (628) (756)
Total highlighted items after tax   2,433 2,429 4,862 608 5,292 5,900
Amortization of purchased intangibles relates to acquisitions made in the current financial year of £26,000 and to acquisitions made in 
prior years of £1,839,000.
The share option cash credit of £92,000 arising during the year is in relation to national insurance contributions on share options not 
exercised. In addition, a non-cash IFRS 2 charge of £652,000 was also recorded.
Total acquisition and integration costs of £2,777,000 were recognized during the year. 
Acquisition costs totalling £1,996,000 primarily consists of £841,000 in relation to an earn-out extension agreed in March 2016 and 
associated to the Stratigent acquisition in 2013; deferred consideration adjustments of £575,000 resulting from foreign exchange 
differences net of the impact of discounting to present value; £295,000 of professional fees were incurred in relation to acquisitions; 
and £285,000 was recognized following the transparency work performed for the US Association of National Advertisers.
Integration costs totalling £781,000 primarily consists of severance costs of £568,000 arising from the restructure of senior management 
in Spain, Ireland and France; and fees of £251,000 in relation to the appointment of the new Group CEO. Other one-off charges 
recognized in highlighted items during the year include a credit of £66,000 following the write-off of certain dilapidation provisions 
and £28,000 of other integration costs.
Current tax arising on the highlighted items is included as a cash item, while deferred tax on highlighted items is included as a non-cash 
item. Refer to note 7 for more detail.
Deferred consideration adjustments, within acquisition and integration costs, are included as a cash item.
As at 31 December 2016, £1,197,000 of the £2,685,000 cash highlighted items had been settled. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 December 2016 Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  57
4. Operating profit/(loss)
Operating profit/(loss) is stated after charging/(crediting):
         Eight month 
        Year ended period ended 
        31 December 31 December 
        2016 2015 
        £’000 £’000
Operating lease rentals  
– other        90 43
– land and buildings        1,739 1,475
Depreciation and amortization (notes 10 and 11)      3,682 2,481
Impairment (notes 9 and 10)       — 3,902
Loss on disposal of fixed assets       11 18
Research costs – expensed       870 337
Foreign exchange (gain)/loss       (79) 16
Auditors’ remuneration
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Group’s auditors at costs as 
detailed below:
         Eight month 
        Year ended period ended 
        31 December 31 December 
        2016 2015 
        £’000 £’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the parent company  
and consolidated financial statements       97 84
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services:  
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation     96 112
– other audit-related assurance services      24 24
– other assurance services       10 —
– tax compliance services       9 —
        236 220
5. Employee information
The monthly average number of employees employed by the Group during the year, including Executive Directors, was as follows:
         Eight month 
        Year ended period ended 
        31 December 31 December 
        2016 2015 
        Number Number
Media Value Measurement       305 291
Market Intelligence        340 373
Marketing Performance Optimization       88 71
IT development and support       60 56
Administration        107 104
Directors        9 7
        909 902
At 31 December 2016, the total number of employees of the Group was 919 (31 December 2015: 926). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
58 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
5. Employee information continued
Staff costs for all employees, including Executive Directors, consist of:
         Eight month 
        Year ended period ended 
        31 December 31 December 
        2016 2015 
        £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries        41,571 23,968
Social security costs        3,502 2,839
Other pension costs        925 493
Share options charge (note 24)       652 228
        46,650 27,528
Directors’ remuneration
Total Directors’ remuneration was £1,474,000 including £426,000 to the highest paid Director (31 December 2015: £727,000 including 
£218,000 to the highest paid Director). Directors are eligible for cash bonuses as a percentage of base salary, dependent on individual and 
Company performance against established financial targets. No performance bonuses were paid during the year (31 December 2015: £nil).
No Directors were a member of a Company pension scheme as at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: none). Contributions totalling 
£28,000 (31 December 2015: £7,000) were made to Directors’ private pension schemes during the year including £14,000 to the highest 
paid Director (31 December 2015: £nil).
No Directors exercised share options during the year (31 December 2015: 150,000 share options were exercised with a gain of £92,000 
made on exercise). In the period to 31 December 2015, the highest paid Director exercised no share options.
During the year, 500,000 (31 December 2015: nil) share options were granted to Directors comprising 500,000 to the highest paid 
Director under the Group’s Executive Incentive Plan scheme. Vesting is subject to the satisfaction of certain performance criteria 
(see note 24 for further details).
Further details on Directors’ remuneration can be found in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 36 to 38.
6. Finance income and expenses
         Eight month 
        Year ended period ended 
        31 December 31 December 
        2016 2015 
        £’000 £’000
Finance income   
Bank interest        18 7
Other interest        — 6
Finance income        18 13
Finance expenses  
Bank loans and overdraft interest       (1,058) (752)
Loan fee amortization        (90) (60)
Finance lease interest        (2) (1)
Finance expenses        (1,150) (813)
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 December 2016 Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  59
7. Taxation charge/(credit)
 Year ended  Eight month period ended 
 31 December 2016 31 December 2015
       
    Before   Before   
    highlighted Highlighted  highlighted Highlighted  
    items items Total items items Total 
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
UK tax      
Current year/period    912 (187) 725 194 (128) 66
Adjustment in respect of prior year/period  (205) — (205) (236) — (236)
    707 (187) 520 (42) (128) (170)
Foreign tax      
Current year/period    1,409 (65) 1,344 248 — 248
Adjustment in respect of prior year/period  (94) — (94) (160) — (160)
    1,315 (65) 1,250 88 — 88
Total current tax    2,022 (252) 1,770 46 (128) (82)
Deferred tax      
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  
(note 20)    160 (88) 72 (622) (628) (1,250)
Adjustment in respect of prior year/period  388 — 388 — — —
Total tax charge/(credit)   2,570 (340) 2,230 (576) (756) (1,332)
The difference between tax as charged/(credited) in the financial statements and tax at the nominal rate is explained below:
         Eight month 
        Year ended period ended 
        31 December 31 December 
        2016 2015 
        £’000 £’000
Profit/(loss) before tax        6,625 (7,446)
Corporation tax at 20% (31 December 2015: 20%)      1,325 (1,489)
Non-deductible taxable expenses       265 943
Overseas tax rate differential       189 24
Overseas losses not recognized       66 832
Share options        319 —
Losses utilized not previously recognized      (7) (80)
Adjustment in respect of prior years       89 (396)
Effect of change in statutory tax rates       9 (265)
Deferred tax movement         224 (985)
Recognition of deferred tax not previously recognized     (249) —
Other        — 84
Total tax charge/(credit)       2,230 (1,332)
Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate to 19% (effective from 1 April 2017) and to 18% (effective 1 April 2020) were substantively 
enacted on 26 October 2015. Further reductions to 17% (effective 1 April 2020) were substantively enacted on 6 September 2016. 
As these changes have been substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date, their effects are included in these 
financial statements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
60 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
8. Earnings/(loss) per share
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
         Eight month 
        Year ended period ended 
        31 December 31 December 
        2016 2015 
        £’000 £’000
Earnings for the purpose of basic earnings per share being net profit/(loss)  
attributable to equity holders of the parent      4,150 (6,221)
Adjustments:  
Impact of highlighted items (net of tax)
1
       4,837 5,885
Earnings for the purpose of underlying earnings per share     8,987 (336)
Number of shares:  
Weighted average number of shares during the period  
– basic        77,186,127 76,976,240
– dilutive effect of share options       2,598,806 1,993,033
– diluted        79,784,933 78,969,273
Basic earnings/(loss) per share       5.38p (8.08)p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share       5.20p (8.08)p
Underlying basic earnings/(loss) per share      11.64p (0.44)p
Underlying diluted earnings/(loss) per share      11.26p (0.43)p
1. Highlighted items attributable to equity holders of the parent (see note 3), stated net of their total tax impact.
9. Goodwill
         £’000
Cost 
At 1 May 2015         58,096
Adjustments in respect of a pre-acquisition period       (177)
Foreign exchange differences        37
At 31 December 2015         57,956
Additions
1
         426
Foreign exchange differences        2,792
At 31 December 2016         61,174
Accumulated impairment 
At 1 May 2015         —
At 31 December 2015         (3,129)
Impairment         —
At 31 December 2016         (3,129)
Net book value 
At 31 December 2016         58,045
At 31 December 2015         54,827
1. £426,000 of goodwill was recognized following the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in the Group’s Irish media consultancy associate, 
Fairbrother Marsh Company Limited. Refer to note 28 for further details. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 December 2016 Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  61
Goodwill has been allocated to the following segments:
         Eight month 
        Year ended period ended 
        31 December 31 December 
        2016 2015 
        £’000 £’000
Media Value Measurement        28,778 26,886
Market Intelligence        22,360 21,904
Marketing Performance Optimization       6,907 6,037
        58,045 54,827
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be potentially impaired. 
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (‘CGUs’) in order to carry out impairment tests. The Group’s remaining 
carrying value of goodwill by CGU at 31 December was as follows: 
         Eight month 
        Year ended period ended 
        31 December 31 December 
        2016 2015 
Cash-generating unit   Reporting segment     £’000 £’000
Advertising UK/USA/International  Market Intelligence     19,114 19,114
Media UK and International
1
  Media Value Measurement    9,238 8,770
Stratigent (MCA)   Marketing Performance Optimization    5,229 4,359
China   Media Value Measurement    4,966 4,429
Media Germany   Media Value Measurement    4,319 4,297
Media Value Group   Media Value Measurement/Marketing Performance Optimization  3,035 2,624
FirmDecisions   Media Value Measurement    2,981 2,981
Media Australia   Media Value Measurement    2,506 2,115
Advertising Germany   Market Intelligence     2,333 2,016
Effectiveness   Marketing Performance Optimization    1,678 1,678
Advertising Australia   Market Intelligence     764 645
Media America   Media Value Measurement    604 604
Media France   Media Value Measurement    559 527
Media Italy   Media Value Measurement    382 330
Russia   Media Value Measurement    337 337
        58,045 54,827
1. At 31 December 2016, the balance included £426,000 of acquired goodwill recognized following the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in the 
Group’s Irish media consultancy associate, Fairbrother Marsh Company Limited. Refer to note 28 for further details.
The impairment test involves comparing the carrying value of the CGU to which the goodwill has been allocated to the recoverable 
amount. The recoverable amount of all CGUs has been determined based on value in use calculations.
Under IFRS, an impairment charge is required for goodwill when the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, defined as the 
higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. No impairment of goodwill was recognized in the year ended 31 December 2016 
(eight months ended 31 December 2015: £3,129,000).
Value in use calculations
The key assumptions used in management’s value in use calculations are budgeted operating profit, pre-tax discount rate and the 
long-term growth rate. The Directors prepare a three-year pre-tax cash flow forecast based on the following financial year’s budget as 
approved by the Board, with revenue and cost forecasts for the following two years adjusted by segment and geography. The forecast 
takes account of actual results from previous years combined with management expectations of market developments.
The Directors estimate discount rates using rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and  
risk specific to the CGUs. The three-year pre-tax cash flow forecasts have been discounted at between 7.2% and 8.7%  
(31 December 2015: between 8.2% and 9.7%). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
62 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
9. Goodwill continued
Cash flows beyond the three-year period are extrapolated at a rate of 2.25% (31 December 2015: 2.25%), which does not exceed the 
long-term average growth rate in any of the markets in which the Group operates.
The excess of the value in use to the goodwill carrying values for each CGU gives the level of headroom in each CGU. The estimated 
recoverable amounts of the Group’s operations in all CGUs significantly exceed their carrying values with the exception of China, 
where the headroom exceeds its carrying value by £1.8 million.
Sensitivity analysis
The Group’s calculations of value in use for its respective CGUs are sensitive to a number of key assumptions. Other than disclosed 
below, management does not consider a reasonably possible change in isolation, of any of the key assumptions to cause the carrying 
value of any CGU to exceed its value in use.
         China %
Budgeted operating profit        (21.7)
Pre-tax discount rate         1.6
Long-term growth rate         (1.9)
10. Other intangible assets
      Capitalized   Purchased Total 
      development Computer intangible intangible 
      costs software assets
1
 assets 
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost    
At 1 May 2015      2,997 2,194 23,259 28,450
Additions      652 175 — 827
Disposals      — (13) — (13)
Foreign exchange differences     (11) 27 40 56
At 31 December 2015      3,638 2,383 23,299 29,320
Additions      1,091 781 — 1,872
Acquisitions
2
      — — 225 225
Disposals      (453) (260) — (713)
Foreign exchange differences     68 147 1,414 1,629
At 31 December 2016      4,344 3,051 24,938 32,333
Amortization and impairment    
At 1 May 2015      (1,136) (1,120) (11,016) (13,272)
Charge for the period
3
      (194) (190) (1,327) (1,711)
Disposals      — 12 — 12
Impairment
4
      (214) — (559) (773)
Foreign exchange differences     — (22) (27) (49)
At 31 December 2015      (1,544) (1,320) (12,929) (15,793)
Charge for the year
3
      (256) (330) (1,865) (2,451)
Disposals      425 260 — 685
Foreign exchange differences     (1) (127) (612) (740)
At 31 December 2016      (1,376) (1,517) (15,406) (18,299)
Net book value    
At 31 December 2016      2,968 1,534 9,532 14,034
At 31 December 2015      2,094 1,063 10,370 13,527
1. Purchased intangible assets consist principally of customer relationships with a typical useful life of 10 years.
2. Customer relationships of £142,000 and a brand valuation of £83,000 were recognized during the year as part of the acquisition of Fairbrother Marsh 
Company Limited. Refer to note 28 for further details.
3. Amortization is charged within administrative expenses so as to write off the cost of the intangible assets over their estimated useful lives. 
The amortization of purchased intangible assets is included as a highlighted administrative expense.
4. No impairment charge is required for the year to 31 December 2016 following management’s review of the carrying value of other intangible 
assets. In the prior period, an impairment charge of £773,000 was recorded to fully write off the purchased intangible assets and related capitalized 
development costs of the Reputation business. 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 December 2016 Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  63
11. Property, plant and equipment
        Short  
      Fixtures,  leasehold land  
     Motor fittings and Computer and building  
     vehicles equipment
1
 equipment improvements Total 
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost     
At 1 May 2015     37 1,584 5,873 1,049 8,543
Additions     — 92 355 103 550
Disposals     — (201) (1,307) (2) (1,510)
Foreign exchange differences    1 15 21 — 37
At 31 December 2015     38 1,490 4,942 1,150 7,620
Reclassification
2
     — — — 384 384
Additions     — 104 398 28 530
Acquisitions     — —  10  — 10
Disposals     — (192) (454) (52) (698)
Foreign exchange differences    6 102 403 127 638
At 31 December 2016     44 1,504 5,299 1,637 8,484
Accumulated depreciation     
At 1 May 2015     (3) (821) (4,120) (405) (5,349)
Charge for the period     (3) (83) (527) (157) (770)
Disposals     — 161 1,307 2 1,470
Foreign exchange differences    — (10) (26) (7) (43)
At 31 December 2015     (6) (753) (3,366) (567) (4,692)
Reclassification
2
     — — — (384) (384)
Charge for the year     (5) (140) (826) (260) (1,231)
Disposals     — 192 454 52 698
Foreign exchange differences    (2) (64) (311) (60) (437)
At 31 December 2016     (13) (765) (4,049) (1,219) (6,046)
Net book value     
At 31 December 2016     31 739 1,250 418 2,438
At 31 December 2015     32 737 1,576 583 2,928
1. The Group holds assets under finance leases within fixtures, fittings and equipment with cost of £21,000 (31 December 2015: £21,000) and accumulated 
depreciation of £13,000 (31 December 2015: £8,000).
2. During the year, an amount of short leasehold land and buildings improvements previously included within the net book value of short leasehold land 
and building improvements and netted against depreciation, has been reclassified to cost. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
64 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
12. Subsidiaries
Details of the Company’s subsidiaries are set out below.
    Proportion of   
    nominal value of   
    issued ordinary Country of   Nature 
Subsidiary undertaking    shares held incorporation  of business
Adtrack Limited     100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
AMMO Limited      100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
Axiology Limited      100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
Barsby Rowe Limited      100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
BCMG Acquisitions Limited     100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
BCMG Limited      100%  UK   Holding company 
Billetts Consulting Limited     100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
Billetts International Limited     100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
Billetts Limited      100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
Billetts Marketing Investment Management Limited   100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
Billetts Marketing Sciences Limited     100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
Billetts Media Consulting Limited     100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
Brief Information Limited      100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
Checking Advertising Services Limited     100%  UK   Non-trading 
China Media (Shanghai) Management Consulting Company Limited
2
  100%
3
   China   Media consultancy 
China Media Consulting Group Limited    100%
3
  Hong Kong   Holding company 
Data Management Services Group Limited    100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
Digireels Limited UK      100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
Ebiquity Asia Pacific Limited     100%
3
  UK   Holding company 
Ebiquity Associates Limited
2
     100%  UK  Media monitoring and consultancy 
Ebiquity Germany GmbH
2
     94.03%
3
  Germany  Media monitoring and consultancy 
Ebiquity Holdings Inc.      100%  USA   Holding company 
Ebiquity Inc.
2
      100%
3
  USA  Media monitoring and consultancy  
       and reputation management 
Ebiquity Italia S.r.l.
2
     51%
3
  Italy   Media consultancy 
Ebiquity Pte. Limited
2
      100%
3
  Singapore   Media consultancy 
Ebiquity Pty Limited
2
      100%
3
  Australia Media monitoring and consultancy
Ebiquity Russia Limited
2
     50.1%
3
  UK   Media consultancy 
Ebiquity Russia OOO
2
      50.1%
3
  Russia   Media consultancy 
Ebiquity SAS
2
     80%
3
  France   Media consultancy 
Ebiquity US Financing Limited     100%  UK   Non-trading 
Ebiquity US Holdings Limited     100%
3
  UK   Holding company 
Ebiquity US Holdings LLC     100%
3
  USA   Holding company 
Echo Group Limited      100%  UK   Holding company 
Echo Research Limited
2
      100%
3
  UK   Reputation management 
Echo Research Pte Limited     100%  Singapore   Reputation management 
Efficiency Elements SL
2
      100%
3
  Spain   Marketing effectiveness 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 December 2016 Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  65
     Proportion of   
     nominal value of    
     issued ordinary Country of   Nature 
Subsidiary undertaking     shares held incorporation  of business
Fairbrother Lenz Eley Limited     100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
Fairbrother Marsh Company Limited
1
    100%
3
  Ireland  Media monitoring and consultancy 
Faulkner Group Pty Limited     100%
3
  Australia   Non-trading 
Firm Decisions ASJP Germany GmbH     100%
3
  Germany   Media consultancy 
Firm Decisions Group Limited     100%  UK   Holding company 
FirmDecisions ASJP LLC
2
     100%
3
  USA   Media consultancy 
FirmDecisions Pty Limited
2
     100%
3
  Australia   Media consultancy 
FirmDecisions Limited
2
      100%
3
  UK   Media consultancy 
FLE Holdings Limited      100%  UK   Holding company 
Fouberts Place Subsidiary No. 4 Limited    100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
Freshcorp Limited      100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
Media Value SL
2
      100%
3
  Spain   Media consultancy 
Mediaadvantage Consulting L.d.a
2
     100%
3
  Portugal   Media consultancy 
Nova Vision Europe S.A.      100%
3
  Belgium   Non-trading 
Prominent Pages Limited     100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
Shots Limited      100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
Stratigent LLC
2
      100%
3
  USA   Multi-channel analytics 
Telefoto Monitoring Services Limited     100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
The Billett Consultancy Limited     100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
The Communication Trading Company Limited    100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
The Press Advertising Register Limited    100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
The Register Group Limited     100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
Worldwide Media Management Limited    100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
Xtreme Information Limited     100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
Xtreme Information Services (Australia) Pty Limited    100%
3
  Australia  Non-trading 
Xtreme Information Services Limited     100%  UK  Holding company
Xtreme Information Services SPRL     100%
3
  Belgium   Non-trading 
Xtreme Information (USA) Limited     100%
3
  UK   Non-trading 
1. On 11 March 2016, the Group acquired the outstanding 50% interest in its Irish media consultancy associate, Fairbrother Marsh Company Limited. 
Refer to note 28 for further details.
2. Principal trading entity.
3. Shares held by an intermediate holding company.
13. Investment in associates
        31 December 31 December  
        2016 2015  
        £’000  £’000 
Aggregated amounts relating to associates   
Total assets         — 362 
Total liabilities        — (275) 
Revenues         — 365 
Profit         — 27 
Opening balance         45 32 
Acquisitions (note 28)         (45) — 
Group’s share of profit         — 13 
Net investment in associates        — 45 
During the year, the Group acquired the outstanding 50% ordinary shares of its associate, Fairbrother Marsh Company Limited 
(incorporated in Ireland). Refer to note 28 for further details. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
66 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
14. Trade and other receivables
        31 December  31 December  
        2016  2015  
        £’000  £’000 
Trade and other receivables due within one year   
Net trade receivables (note 25)        19,291 16,283 
Other receivables         845 1,104 
Prepayments         1,207 1,678 
Accrued income         7,073 5,253 
        28,416 24,318 
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables are reasonable approximations of their fair value.
15. Cash and cash equivalents
        31 December  31 December  
        2016  2015  
        £’000  £’000 
Cash and cash equivalents       6,662 8,755
The Group has certain legally enforceable rights of offset for cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts. Cash and cash equivalents 
earn interest at between 0% and 1.5%.
Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the cash flow statement:
        31 December  31 December  
        2016  2015  
        £’000  £’000 
Cash and cash equivalents       6,662 8,755
Bank overdrafts (note 18)        (2,062) (2,391)
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts      4,600 6,364
16. Trade and other payables
        31 December  31 December  
        2016  2015  
        £’000  £’000 
Trade payables        3,071 3,538
Other taxation and social security        2,281 2,302
Other payables        567 726
        5,919 6,566
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables are reasonable approximations of their fair value.
17. Accruals and deferred income
        31 December  31 December  
        2016  2015  
        £’000  £’000 
Accruals        4,827 4,663
Deferred income        7,063 7,677
        11,890 12,340
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 December 2016 Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  67
18. Financial liabilities
        31 December  31 December  
        2016  2015  
        £’000  £’000 
Current     
Bank overdraft         2,062 2,391 
Bank borrowings         2,410 2,410 
Finance lease liabilities         4 4 
Contingent deferred consideration        1,777 3,422 
        6,253 8,227 
Non‑current    
Bank borrowings         30,205 32,615 
Finance lease liabilities         5 9 
Contingent deferred consideration        238 1,431 
        30,448 34,055 
Total financial liabilities        36,701 42,282 
        Contingent  
     Bank  Bank Finance lease deferred  
     overdrafts borrowings liabilities consideration Total 
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 May 2015      1,411  34,291  17  8,999  44,718 
Additions      980  — — — 980 
Paid      — — (4)  (4,063)  (4,067) 
Charged to the income statement     — 60  — (82)  (22) 
Discounting charged to the income statement    — — — (148)  (148) 
Discounting charged to the statement of financial position   — — —  (49) (49)
Borrowings      — 2,578  —  —  2,578 
Repayments      — (1,982)  — — (1,982) 
Foreign exchange released to the income statement    — 78 — 198 276
Foreign exchange released to reserves    — — —  (2)  (2) 
At 31 December 2015      2,391  35,025  13  4,853  42,282 
Recognized on acquisition    — — — 557 557
Additions      (329) — — — (329)
Paid      — — (4) (5,110) (5,114)
Charged to the income statement     — 90 — 638 728
Discounting charged to the income statement    — — — 155 155
Discounting charged to the statement of financial position   — — — (39) (39)
Borrowings      — 3,336 — — 3,336
Repayments      — (6,410) — — (6,410)
Foreign exchange released to the income statement    — 574 — 808 1,382
Foreign exchange released to reserves    — — — 153 153
At 31 December 2016      2,062 32,615 9 2,015 36,701
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
68 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
18. Financial liabilities continued
A currency analysis for the bank borrowings is shown below:
        31 December  31 December  
        2016  2015  
        £’000  £’000 
Pounds sterling        32,615 32,096
Euros        — 2,929
Total bank borrowings        32,615 35,025
All bank borrowings are held jointly with Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland (‘RBS’). The committed facility, totalling £40,000,000, 
comprises a term loan of £10,000,000 (of which £3,750,000 remains outstanding at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: £6,250,000)), 
and a revolving credit facility (‘RCF’) of £30,000,000 (of which £29,000,000 was drawn down at 31 December 2016 
(31 December 2015: £29,000,000)). Both the term loan and the RCF have a maturity date of 2 July 2018. The £10,000,000 term  
loan is being repaid on a quarterly basis to maturity, and the drawn RCF and any further drawings under the RCF are repayable on 
maturity of the facility. The facility may be used for deferred consideration payments on past acquisitions, to fund future potential 
acquisitions, and for general working capital requirements.
Loan arrangement fees of £135,000 (31 December 2015: £225,000) are offset against the term loan, and are being amortized over the 
period of the loan.
The facility bears variable interest of LIBOR plus a margin of 2.50%. The margin rate is able to be lowered each quarter end depending 
on the Group’s net debt to EBITDA ratio.
The undrawn amount of the revolving credit facility is liable to a fee of 40% of the prevailing margin. The Group may elect to prepay all 
or part of the outstanding loan subject to a break fee, by giving five business days’ notice.
All amounts owing to the bank are guaranteed by way of fixed and floating charges over the current and future assets of the Group. 
As such, a composite guarantee has been given by all significant subsidiary companies in the UK, USA and Germany.
Contingent deferred consideration represents additional amounts that are expected to be payable for acquisitions made by the Group 
and is held at fair value at the statement of financial position date. All amounts are expected to be fully paid by August 2017.
All finance lease liabilities fall due within five years. The minimum lease payments and present value of the finance leases are as follows:
 Minimum lease payments
        31 December  31 December  
        2016  2015  
        £’000  £’000 
Amounts due:  
Within one year        6 6
Between one and five years       6 12
        12 18
Less: finance charges allocated to future periods      (3) (5)
Present value of lease obligations       9 13
The minimum lease payments approximate the present value of minimum lease payments.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 December 2016 Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  69
19. Provisions
       Onerous property   
       leases
1
 Dilapidations
2
 Total 
       £’000  £’000  £’000 
At 1 May 2015        55  551  606 
Utilisation of provision        (47)  —  (47) 
Unused amounts released to income statement      (1)  — (1) 
Increase in provision        —  17  17 
At 31 December 2015        7  568  575 
Utilisation of provision        (7) — (7)
Unused amounts released to income statement      — (175) (175)
Arising on acquisition       — 8 8
Increase in provision       — — —
Foreign exchange        — 1 1
At 31 December 2016        — 402 402
Current        — 9 9
Non-current        —  393  393 
1. The onerous property lease obligations in the prior period related to properties that the Group has vacated where there is a shortfall between the head 
lease costs and sub lease income, properties with excess vacant space and certain property leases, held in acquired companies upon acquisition, 
where lease payments are payable above a fair market rate. The provision was fully utilized by January 2016. 
2. The dilapidations provision relates to the expected costs of vacating various properties. The provision is expected to be fully utilized by December 2020.
20. Deferred tax
    Tangible Intangible Share-based Tax Other timing  
    assets assets payments losses differences Total 
    £’000  £’000  £’000  £’000  £’000  £’000 
At 1 April 2015     — (2,821)  1,337  — 71  (1,413) 
Credit/(charge) to income    — 577  46  631  (4)  1,250 
Credit to equity     — — 186  — — 186 
At 31 December 2015     — (2,244)  1,569  631  67  23 
Credit/(charge) to income    225 146 (188) (631) (13) (461)
Credit to equity     — — (321) — — (321)
Acquisitions    — (28) — — — (28)
At 31 December 2016     225 (2,126) 1,060 — 54 (787)
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balance (after offset) for 
financial reporting purposes:
        31 December  31 December  
        2016  2015  
        £’000  £’000 
Deferred tax assets – non-current       1,338 2,267
Deferred tax liabilities – non-current       (2,125) (2,244)
        (787) 23
At the period end, the Group had tax losses of £nil (31 December 2015: £3,154,000) available for offset against future profits. A deferred 
tax asset of £nil (31 December 2015: £631,000) has been recognized in respect of such losses.
The Group has unrecognized tax losses of £548,000 (31 December 2015: £1,060,000) and unrecognized deferred tax assets of £110,000 
(31 December 2015: £212,000) in relation to tax losses.
Deferred tax on unremitted earnings has not been recognized as management do not intend to pay dividends from jurisdictions where a 
tax charge would be incurred and dividends received are not taxed in the UK. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
70 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
21. Operating leases 
Lessee
The Group leases various offices under non-cancellable operating leases with the majority of these expiring within one to five years. 
The leases have varying terms, break clauses and renewal rights.
The Group has future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases which fall due as follows:
 31 December 2016 31 December 2015
        
      Land and  Land and  
      buildings Other buildings Other 
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Within one year       1,410 76 1,883  80
Between one and five years      3,055 202 5,763  220
After five years       7 — — —
       4,472 278 7,646  300 
Lessor
There is no minimum aggregate future rent receivable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December 2016 (2015: £nil).
22. Ordinary shares
         Nominal 
        Number  value 
        of shares £’000
At 1 May 2015 – ordinary shares of 25p       76,771,654  19,193 
Share options exercised         390,034  97 
At 31 December 2015 – ordinary shares of 25p       77,161,688  19,290 
Share options exercised        38,063 10
At 31 December 2016 – ordinary shares of 25p       77,199,751 19,300
Ordinary shares carry voting rights and are entitled to share in the profits of the Company (dividends). At the year end, 4,201,504 shares 
were held by the ESOP (31 December 2015: 4,201,504). The Company does not have a limited amount of authorized capital.
23. Reserves
Share premium 
The share premium reserve shows the amount subscribed for share capital in excess of the nominal value. On 8 June 2016, the Group 
announced the cancellation of the share premium account (the “Capital Reduction”) effective 9 June 2016 following registration of the 
Court order confirming the Capital Reduction by the Registrar of Companies.
Other reserves
Other reserves consists of the merger reserve, ESOP reserve, hedging reserve and translation reserve.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve arose on the issuance of shares at a premium on a group restructure, where the premium on issue qualified for 
merger relief. There has been no movement in the period.
Convertible loan note reserve
On 29 March 2016, the Group agreed to increase the total cap on consideration payable on the Stratigent LLC (‘Stratigent’) acquisition. 
The Group acquired Stratigent on 19 August 2013. Stratigent’s management held a 7% economic interest in Stratigent which was 
acquired by the Group for a total consideration to be determined by the financial performance of Stratigent over the three financial 
years ending 30 April 2016 and capped at $1.5 million. Stratigent’s financial performance over the first two financial years resulted 
in consideration of $1.1 million being paid to Stratigent’s management. In order to ensure that management remains incentivized to 
continue to drive and generate the financial performance achieved over the first two financial years, the Group agreed to increase the 
total cap on consideration payable to management. Accordingly, in March 2016, the cap on consideration was increased by an amount 
of $1.5 million, with any excess over and above the existing cap on consideration payable 25% in cash and 75% in new ordinary shares 
in Ebiquity plc (capped at 600,000 new shares). A convertible loan note reserve amounting to £634,000 was created in equity in respect 
of the convertible loan note representing 600,000 new shares in the Company.
ESOP reserve
The ESOP reserve represents the cost of own shares acquired in the Company by the Employee Benefit Trust (‘EBT’). The purpose of 
the EBT is to facilitate and encourage the ownership of shares by employees, by acquiring shares in the Company and distributing them 
in accordance with employee share schemes. The EBT may operate in conjunction with the Company’s existing share option schemes 
and other schemes that may apply from time to time.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 December 2016 Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  71
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve is used to record the effective portion of the movements in fair value of the Group’s financial instruments that 
qualify for hedge accounting and are deemed to be effective hedges.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve arises on the translation into sterling of the net assets of the Group’s foreign operations, offset by any changes 
in fair value of financial instruments used to hedge this exposure. At this time there are no hedges in place.
Retained earnings
The retained earnings reserve shows the cumulative net gains and losses recognized in the consolidated income statement. 
For detailed movements on each of the above reserves, refer to the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
24. Share‑based payments
The Group operates a number of equity-settled share incentive schemes used to award employees of the Group. A charge based on 
the fair value of the award on the grant date is taken to the consolidated income statement over the vesting period to recognize the 
cost of these. 
Options outstanding at 31 December 2016:
       Weighted 
       average 
      Exercise exercise 
   Life of  Exercise price price  
Name of share option scheme  option  period (pence)  (pence) Number
Executive Incentive Plan      
 – 27 January 2016   10 years  January 2016 – January 2026 25.0 25.0 500,000
Executive Incentive Plan        
– 12 May 2010    10 years  May 2011 – May 2020  35.0 35.0 4,200,000
Executive Share Option Plan     
 – 01 October 2015    10 years  May 2018 – October 2025 25.0 25.0 1,349,111
Executive Share Option Plan     
– 15 May 2014   10 years  May 2017– April 2024 25.0 25.0 1,892,500
Executive Share Option Plan       
– 17 January 2014    10 years  May 2016 – January 2024 25.0 25.0 375,459
Executive Share Option Plan       
 – 23 May 2013   10 years  May 2016 – May 2023  25.0 25.0 148,353
Executive Share Option Plan       
– 27 September 2012    10 years  September 2012 – September 2022 25.0 – 98.0 97.5 195,167
EMI and UCSOP Scheme   10 years   May 2004 – August 2021 nil – 72.0 38.3 903,196
        9,563,786
Executive Incentive Plan (‘EIP’)
This is a discretionary scheme for the Directors of the Company. Vesting of the options was subject to the satisfaction of performance 
criteria designed to achieve growth of the business while at the same time maintaining and enhancing underlying earnings per share 
over the period to 30 April 2013.
On 27 January 2016, 200,000 options with an exercise price of 25p each were awarded under the EIP to an Executive Director. 
100,000 of these options will vest after six months’ service and the remaining 100,000 options will vest after 12 months’ service, 
in each case subject to the Executive Director remaining in the employment of the Company. 
Also on 27 January 2016, an additional 300,000 options with an exercise price of 25p each were granted under the EIP to an Executive 
Director. These options will vest conditionally on the satisfaction of performance criteria relating to the growth of the Company’s diluted 
adjusted earnings per share (‘EPS’) as described below. 200,000 options (“tranche one”) will vest conditionally on the satisfaction of EPS 
growth for the financial year ending 31 December 2016 over the previous 12 month period ended 31 December 2015. 100,000 options 
(“tranche two”) will vest conditionally on the satisfaction of EPS growth for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 over the prior 
financial year. Any options from tranche one which do not vest will be rolled over into tranche two and will be capable of vesting along 
with the options granted as part of tranche two. 
EPS growth, over the relevant performance period for each tranche, of 10% or more will result in all of the options in that tranche 
vesting. EPS growth of 4% over the relevant performance period will vest one-fifth of the options in that tranche. None of the options in 
a tranche will vest if EPS growth over the relevant performance period is less than 4%. Three-fifths of the options in a tranche will vest 
if EPS growth over the relevant performance period is 8%. The options in a tranche will vest on a straight-line basis where EPS growth 
over the relevant performance period is between 4% and 8% or between 8% and 10%. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
72 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
24. Share‑based payments continued
Executive share option plan (‘ESOP’)
This is a discretionary scheme, comprised of an HMRC approved schedule and an unapproved schedule. The ESOP provides a lock-in 
incentive to Executive Directors and key management. Vesting of these options is subject to the satisfaction of certain performance 
criteria and typically around the rate of growth of diluted adjusted earnings per share over a three-year period. Rights to ESOP options 
lapse if the employee leaves the Company.
Options awarded in the 2015 and May 2014 grants vest based on a sliding scale of compound growth rates of between 4% and 10% 
whilst options awarded in the January 2014 and 2013 grants vest based on a sliding scale of compound growth rates of between 5% 
and 15%. In May 2014, a one-off award was made to an Executive Director in recognition of his continued service through to retirement. 
These options vest according to the rate of annual growth, in the range between 4% and 12%, in the total shareholder returns (‘TSR’) 
over a three-year period. The remaining options issued in the 2012 grant have no performance conditions attached.
No share options have been granted to any employees under the ESOP in the year ended 31 December 2016.
Enterprise management incentive scheme (‘EMI scheme’)
The EMI scheme is a discretionary share option scheme which provides that options with a value at the date of grant of up to £120,000, 
may be granted to employees. The EMI scheme provides a lock-in incentive to key management and is also utilized to attract key staff. 
Rights to EMI share options lapse if the employee leaves the Company. There are no further performance conditions.
No share options have been granted under this scheme since 13 April 2010 as the Group was, from that date, too large to qualify under 
the HMRC EMI scheme rules. 
Unapproved company share option plan (‘UCSOP’)
This is a discretionary scheme, which provides that options may be granted where employees were not eligible to join the EMI scheme. 
The UCSOP provides a lock-in incentive to key management. Rights to UCSOP options lapse if the employee leaves the Company.
No share options have been granted to any employees under the UCSOP in the year ended 31 December 2016.
Movements in outstanding ordinary share options:
 31 December 2016 31 December 2015
        
       Weighted  Weighted 
      Number average Number average 
      of share  exercise price of share  exercise price 
      options (pence) options (pence)
Outstanding at beginning of year/period     10,280,037 31.9 9,463,919  33.7 
Granted during the year/period     500,000 25.0 1,519,111  25.0 
Exercised during the year/period     (38,063) 69.6 (390,034)  46.4 
Forfeited during the year/period     (297,000) 29.1 (312,959)  35.3 
Performance criteria not expected to be met    (881,188) 25.0 — —
Outstanding at the end of the year/period     9,563,786 32.1 10,280,037  31.9 
Exercisable at the end of the year/period    6,236,286 35.9 5,367,537  38.2 
During the year, share options were granted with a weighted average fair value of 119.1p (31 December 2015: 121.8p). These fair values 
were calculated using the Black-Scholes model with the following inputs:
       31 December  31 December  
       2016  2015
Weighted average share price       143.4p 146.5p 
Exercise price        25p 25p 
Expected volatility
1
       17.4% 18.9% 
Vesting period        0.5 to 2 years  0 to 3 years 
Risk-free interest rates        0.18% to 0.35% 0% to 0.52% 
1. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of the Company over the period commensurate with the expected life of the options.
Options exercised in the period resulted in 38,063 shares (31 December 2015: 390,034 shares) being issued at a weighted average price 
of 69.6p each (31 December 2015: 46.4p). The weighted average share price on the dates of exercise for options exercised during the 
year was 126.5p (31 December 2015: 129.7p). 
The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 5.4 years  
(31 December 2015: 6.4 years), with a range of exercise prices being between 25.0p and 97.5p. 
The total credit in respect of share option schemes recognized in the consolidated income statement during the period amounted 
to £92,000 (31 December 2015: £203,000 charge).
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 December 2016 Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  73
25. Capital and financial risk management
General objectives, policies and processes
The overall objective of the Board is to set policies that seek to reduce risk as far as possible without unduly affecting the Group’s 
competitiveness and flexibility. The Board has overall responsibility for the determination of the Group’s risk management policies and, 
whilst retaining ultimate responsibility for them, it has delegated the authority for designing and operating the processes that ensure the 
effective implementation of the financial risk management objectives and policies, to the Group’s finance function. The Board receives 
monthly reports from the Group’s finance function through which it monitors the effectiveness of the processes put in place and the 
appropriateness of the policies it sets. Further details regarding these policies are set out below.
Capital and other reserves 
The Group considers its capital to comprise of its cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, ordinary share capital, share premium, 
convertible loan notes, non-controlling interests, reserves and accumulated retained earnings.
The Group’s objective when maintaining capital is to safeguard the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern so that it can continue 
to invest in the growth of the business and ultimately to provide an adequate return to its shareholders. The Directors believe the Group 
has sufficient capital to continue trading in the foreseeable future. 
The following table summarizes the capital of the Group:
        31 December  31 December  
        2016  2015  
        £’000  £’000 
Financial assets:  
Cash and cash equivalents       6,662 8,755
Financial liabilities held at amortized cost:  
Bank overdraft        (2,062) (2,391)
Bank borrowings        (32,615) (35,025)
Net debt        (28,015) (28,661)
Equity        (52,055) (42,409)
Capital        (80,070) (71,070)
Financial risk management
The Group is exposed to risks that arise from its use of financial instruments. The Group’s objectives, policies and processes for 
managing those risks and the methods used to measure them are described below. Further quantitative information in respect of these 
risks is presented throughout these financial statements.
There have been no substantive changes in the Group’s exposure to financial instrument risks, its objectives, policies and processes for 
managing those risks or the methods used to measure them from previous periods unless otherwise stated in this note.
The Group is exposed through its operations to a variety of financial risks: credit risk; market risk (including interest rate and currency 
risk); and liquidity risk.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or a counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations.
Trade receivables
The Group operates in an industry where most of its customers are reputable and well-established multinational or large national 
businesses. When the credit worthiness of a new customer is in doubt, credit limits and payment terms are established and authorized 
by the Territory Finance Director. The Group will suspend the services provided to customers who fail to meet the terms and conditions 
specified in their contract where it is deemed necessary.
There is no concentration of credit risk within the Group. The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented 
by the carrying values as at the year end.
The credit control function of the Group monitors outstanding debts of the Group. Debtor reports are reviewed and analyzed on a 
regular basis. Trade receivables are analyzed by the ageing and value of the debts. Customers with any overdue debts are contacted 
for payment and progress is tracked on a credit control report. Based on these procedures, management assessed the credit quality 
of those receivables that are neither past due nor impaired as low risk. There have been no significant changes to the composition of 
receivables counterparties within the Group that indicate this would change in the future.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables are reasonable approximations of their fair value. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
74 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
25. Capital and financial risk management continued
Credit risk continued
Financial assets past due but not impaired
The following is an analysis of the Group’s trade receivables identifying the totals of trade receivables which are past due but 
not impaired:
        Past due  Past due  
       Total + 30 days  + 60 days 
       £’000 £’000 £’000
At 31 December 2016       5,855 2,130 3,725
At 31 December 2015       4,865  1,825  3,040
The following is an analysis of the Group’s provision against trade receivables:
 31 December 2016 31 December 2015
       
    Gross   Carrying Gross   Carrying 
    value  Provision value value  Provision value 
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade receivables    19,491 (200) 19,291 16,472 (189) 16,283
The Group records impairment losses on its trade receivables separately from the gross amounts receivable. Impaired receivables are 
provided against based on expected recoverability. The movements on this allowance during the year are summarized below:
        31 December  31 December  
        2016  2015  
        £’000  £’000 
Opening balance        189 118
Increase in provision        138 132
Written off against provision       (15) (62)
Recovered amount reversed       (119) —
Foreign exchange        7 1
Closing balance        200 189
Market risk
Market risk arises from the Group’s use of interest bearing, tradable and foreign currency financial instruments. There is a risk that 
the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in interest rates (interest rate risk), foreign 
exchange rates (currency risk) or other market factors (other price risk).
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk from bank loans and a revolving credit facility.
To illustrate the Group’s exposure to interest rate risk, a 0.5% increase/decrease in the rate applied to the Group’s borrowings would 
have resulted in a post-tax movement of £139,000 (31 December 2015: £95,000).
Currency risk
The Group is exposed to currency risk on foreign currency trading and intercompany balances, and also on the foreign currency bank 
accounts which it holds. These risks are offset by the holding of certain foreign currency bank borrowings. The translation of the assets 
and liabilities of the Group’s overseas subsidiaries represents a risk to the Group’s equity balances.
The Group’s exposure to currency risk at the year end can be illustrated by the following:
 31 December 2016 31 December 2015
        
      
Increase   Increase   
      in profit Increase in   in profit Increase in  
      before tax
1
 equity
1
 before tax
1
 equity
1
 
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
10% strengthening of US dollar     59 4,342 123 4,119
10% strengthening of euro     465 1,530 104 1,257
10% strengthening of Australian dollar     (51) 964 (10) 469
1. An equal weakening of any currency would broadly have the opposite effect.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 December 2016 Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  75
The currency profile of the financial assets at 31 December 2016 is as follows:
 Cash and cash equivalents Gross trade receivables
        
      31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 
      2016 2015 2016 2015 
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Pounds sterling      1,937 3,267 5,091 5,229
US dollar      1,626 2,014 6,005 4,605
Euro      1,667 2,218 7,064 5,663
Australian dollar      438 444 749 642
Russian rouble      272 201 259 83
Singapore dollar      75 — 10 73
Chinese renminbi      647 611 291 134
New Zealand dollar      — — 22 43
      6,662 8,755 19,491 16,472
Other price risks
The Group does not have any material exposure to other price risks.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk arises from the Group’s management of working capital and the finance charges and principal repayments on its debt 
instruments, the risk being that the Group may not meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The liquidity risk of each group company is managed centrally by the Group. All surplus cash in the UK is held centrally to maximize 
the returns on deposits through economies of scale. The type of cash instrument used and its maturity date will depend on the Group’s 
forecast cash requirements. Throughout the year, the Group maintained a draw down facility with Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland 
(‘RBS’) (see note 18) to manage any short-term cash requirements. At 31 December 2016: £nil (31 December 2015: £nil) was undrawn. 
The facility expires in July 2018 at which point drawn down amounts will be repayable.
It is a condition of the borrowings that the Group pass various covenant tests on a quarterly basis and the Group finance team regularly 
monitors the Group forecasts to ensure they are not breached.
Categories of financial assets and liabilities
The following tables set out the categories of financial instruments held by the Group. All of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities 
are measured at amortized cost, except forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps, which are held as hedging derivatives.
Financial assets
        31 December  31 December  
        2016  2015  
        £’000  £’000 
Current financial assets  
Loans and receivables:   
Trade and other receivables
1
 (note 14)       20,136 17,387 
Cash and cash equivalents (note 15)       6,662 8,755 
Total financial assets        26,798 26,142 
1. Trade and other receivables includes net trade receivables and other receivables and excludes prepayments and accrued income. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
76 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
25. Capital and financial risk management continued
Financial liabilities
        31 December  31 December  
        2016  2015  
        £’000  £’000 
Current financial liabilities  
Other financial liabilities at amortized cost:  
Trade and other payables
1
       3,638 4,264
Accruals        4,827 4,663
Bank overdrafts        2,062 2,391
Finance lease liabilities        4 4
Loans and borrowings        2,410 2,410
Liabilities at fair value through profit and loss:   
Contingent deferred consideration       1,777 3,422
        14,718 17,154
Non‑current financial liabilities  
Other financial liabilities at amortized cost:  
Loans and borrowings        30,205 32,615
Finance lease liabilities        5 9
Liabilities at fair value through profit and loss:  
Contingent deferred consideration       238 1,431
        30,448 34,055
Total financial liabilities        45,166 51,209
1. Trade and other payables includes trade payables and other payables and excludes other taxation and social security and deferred income.
The following table illustrates the contractual maturity analysis of the Group’s financial liabilities:
       Within One to  
       one year  five years Total 
       £’000 £’000 £’000
At 31 December 2016   
Trade and other payables      3,638 — 3,638
Accruals       4,827 — 4,827
Finance lease liabilities       6 6 12
Bank loans and overdrafts      5,484 33,285 38,769
Contingent deferred consideration      1,777 238 2,015
Total financial liabilities       15,732 33,529 49,261
Less: finance charges allocated to future periods     (1,014) (3,081) (4,095)
Present value       14,718 30,448 45,166
At 31 December 2015   
Trade and other payables      4,264 — 4,264
Accruals       4,663 — 4,663
Finance lease liabilities       6 12 18
Bank loans and overdrafts      6,011 34,382 40,393
Contingent deferred consideration      3,422 1,431 4,853
Total financial liabilities       18,366 35,825 54,191
Less: finance charges allocated to future periods     (1,212) (1,770) (2,982)
Present value       17,154 34,055 51,209
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 December 2016 Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  77
Fair value measurement
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, 
grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable:
• Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
• Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable 
for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and
• Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not 
based on observable market data.
      Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 
      £’000  £’000  £’000  £’000 
At 31 December 2016    
Financial liabilities    
Contingent deferred consideration     — — 2,015 2,015
      — — 2,015 2,015
At 31 December 2015    
Financial liabilities    
Contingent deferred consideration     — — 4,853 4,853
      — — 4,853 4,853
Refer to note 18 for a reconciliation of movements during the year.
26. Dividends
        31 December  31 December  
        2016  2015  
        £’000  £’000 
Dividend in respect of the prior year       292 291 
Total dividend paid        292 291 
A dividend of £292,000 (0.4p per share) was paid during the current financial year (31 December 2015: £291,000). Dividends were paid 
to non-controlling interests as shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
27. Cash generated from operations
        31 December  31 December  
        2016  2015  
        £’000  £’000 
Profit/(loss) before taxation        6,625 (7,446) 
Adjustments for:    
Depreciation (note 11)         1,231 770 
Amortization (note 10)         2,451 1,711 
Impairment of goodwill         — 3,129 
Impairment of intangible assets        — 773 
Loss on disposal         33 18 
Unrealized foreign exchange loss        (107) (95) 
Share option charges (note 3)        652 228 
Finance income (note 6)         (18) (13) 
Finance expenses (note 6)        1,150 813 
Share of profit of associates (note 13)        — (13) 
Contingent deferred consideration revaluations       1,599 (32) 
        13,616 (157) 
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables       (3,968) 5,549 
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables       1,313 (333) 
Movement in provisions         (179) (31) 
Cash generated from operations        10,782 5,028  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
78 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
28. Acquisitions
Fairbrother Marsh Company Limited 
On 11 March 2016, the Group acquired the outstanding 50% interest in its Irish media consultancy associate, Fairbrother Marsh 
Company Limited (‘FMC’). The 50% interest in FMC was acquired for an initial cash consideration of €150,000 (£118,000). 
€643,000 (£500,000) in deferred consideration was recognized at acquisition however, the maximum total purchase consideration 
is up to €2,000,000 (£1,559,000), payable in cash, depending on the performance of the FMC business during the period ending 
31 December 2020. 
The fair value of the purchase consideration for the acquisition of FMC is as follows: 
         £’000
Cash         118
Net present value of contingent deferred consideration
1
      500
Total purchase consideration        618
1. The fair value of contingent deferred consideration payable is based on EBIT for the years ending 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2020 with stage 
payments each year from 2017 onwards based on two year averages. The potential range of future payments that Ebiquity plc could be required to 
make under the contingent consideration arrangement is between £nil and £1,441,000 and will be paid in cash. All contingent deferred consideration 
payments are expected to be paid by June 2021.
The carrying value and the provisional fair value of the net assets recognized at the date of acquisition are as follows: 
       Carrying Fair value  
       value adjustments
1
 Fair value  
       £’000 £’000 £’000
Customer relationships        — 142 142
Brands        — 83 83
Property, plant and equipment      10 — 10
Trade and other receivables      140 — 140
Cash and cash equivalents      162 — 162
Trade and other payables      (250) (27) (277)
Deferred tax liabilities       — (28) (28)
Net assets acquired       62 170 232
Fair value of 50% previously held equity interest
2
       (40)
Goodwill arising on acquisition
3
        426
Total purchase consideration        618
1. The fair value adjustments relate to the finalisation of the allocation of the purchase consideration accounting for intangible assets (customer 
relationships and brands), trade and other payables and deferred tax liabilities. The fair value of trade and other receivables includes trade receivables 
with a fair value and gross contractual value of £94,000. 
2. A loss of £5,000 was recognized and charged to the income statement on the disposal of the original 50% previously held equity interest in FMC.
3. The goodwill recognized of £426,000 is attributable to the assembled workforce, expected synergies and other intangible assets, which do not qualify for 
separate recognition. None of the goodwill arising from the acquisition is expected to be tax deductible.
FMC contributed £519,000 to revenue and £62,000 to profit before tax for the period between the date of acquisition and the year 
ended 31 December 2016. If the above transaction had been completed on 1 January 2016, management estimates Group revenue 
would have been £83,640,000 and Group operating profit before highlighted items would have been £12,922,000 during the financial 
year to 31 December 2016. 
Acquisition-related costs of £20,000 were charged to the Group’s financial statements as administrative expenses during the year ended 
31 December 2016. Refer to note 3 “highlighted items” for further details.
Fairbrother Iberica and Partners SL
On 15 December 2015, the Group acquired the remaining 35% in its subsidiary undertaking, Fairbrother Iberica and Partners SL, from 
the minority shareholder for cash consideration of €60,000 (£43,000). Subsequently, Fairbrother Iberica and Partners SL was liquidated 
and its business and assets were transferred to Media Value SL.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 December 2016 Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  79
29. Contingent liabilities
The Group is subject to claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business and provision is made where liabilities are 
considered likely to arise on the basis of current information and legal advice.
30. Related party transactions
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries (refer to note 12), its associates (refer to note 13), and key management 
personnel including Directors and Executive Committee members.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, or between subsidiaries, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note. Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.
Compensation of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Directors, who are considered to be the key management personnel of the Group, is set out in note 5. 
There were no post-employment or other long-term benefits other than contributions to private pension schemes.
Transactions with companies related to key management personnel
Revenue of £14,000 (31 December 2015: £nil) was recognized by the Group from Travelzoo Inc., who has a common director with 
the Company.
Costs of £1,500 (31 December 2015: £1,000) for a membership subscription were charged to the Company by the Quoted Companies 
Alliance, who has a common director with the Company.
Costs of £79,000 (31 December 2015: £35,000) for public relations consultancy were charged to the Company by Instinctif Partners Limited, 
who has a common director with the Company.
As at the year end, £16,000 (31 December 2015: £9,000) was owed to Instinctif Partners Limited and £nil (31 December 2015: £nil) was 
owed to the Quoted Companies Alliance.
Transactions with associates
On 11 March 2016, the Group acquired the outstanding 50% interest in its Irish media audit associate, Fairbrother Marsh Company 
Limited (‘FMC’). The 50% interest in FMC was acquired for an initial cash consideration of €150,000. The maximum total consideration 
is up to €2 million, payable in cash, depending on the performance of the FMC business during the period ending 31 December 2020. 
No revenue or costs from FMC have been treated as transactions with associates during the year as FMC is now accounted for as a 
100% subsidiary undertaking.
Revenue of £nil (31 December 2015: £21,000) was earned by Ebiquity Associates Limited from FMC during the period.
Costs of £nil (31 December 2015: £24,000) were charged to Ebiquity Associates Limited by FMC during the period.
As at the year end £nil (31 December 2015: £nil) was owed to or by any associate companies.
31. Events after the reporting period
There have been no events after the reporting period requiring disclosure. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
80 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
Report on the parent company 
financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Ebiquity plc’s parent 
company financial statements (the 
‘financial statements’):
• give a true and fair view of the state 
of the parent company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2016;
• have been properly prepared in 
accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice; and
• have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within 
the annual report, comprise:
• the Company statement of financial 
position as at 31 December 2016;
• the Company statement of changes in 
equity for the year then ended; and
• the notes to the financial statements, 
which include a summary of significant 
accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been 
presented elsewhere in the annual report, 
rather than in the notes to the financial 
statements. These are cross-referenced 
from the financial statements and are 
identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that 
has been applied in the preparation of the 
financial statements is United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards, comprising 
FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’, 
and applicable law (United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
to the members of Ebiquity plc
In applying the financial reporting 
framework, the Directors have made 
a number of subjective judgements, 
for example in respect of significant 
accounting estimates. In making such 
estimates, they have made assumptions 
and considered future events.
Opinions on other matters prescribed  
by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work 
undertaken in the course of the audit:
• the information given in the strategic 
report and the Directors’ report for the 
financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent 
with the financial statements; and
• the strategic report and the 
Directors’ report have been prepared 
in accordance with applicable 
legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and 
understanding of the parent company and 
its environment obtained in the course of the 
audit, we are required to report if we have 
identified any material misstatements in the 
strategic report and the Directors’ report. 
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Other matters on which we are 
required to report by exception
Adequacy of accounting records and 
information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit; 
or
• adequate accounting records have not 
been kept by the parent company, or 
returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited 
by us; or
• the financial statements are not in 
agreement with the accounting records 
and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising 
from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we 
are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are not 
made. We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility.
Responsibilities for the financial 
statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those  
of the Directors
As explained more fully in the statement 
of Directors’ responsibilities, set out on 
page 41, the Directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the financial statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’). 
Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, 
has been prepared for and only for the 
parent company’s members as a body 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no 
other purpose. We do not, in giving these 
opinions, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person 
to whom this report is shown or into whose 
hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing. Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  81
What an audit of financial  
statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance 
with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An audit involves 
obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements 
sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error. This includes an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the parent company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed;
• the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and
• the overall presentation of the financial 
statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas 
by assessing the Directors’ judgements 
against available evidence, forming our 
own judgements, and evaluating the 
disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using 
sampling and other auditing techniques, 
to the extent we consider necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw 
conclusions. We obtain audit evidence 
through testing the effectiveness of 
controls, substantive procedures or 
a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the annual 
report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited financial statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired 
by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report. 
With respect to the strategic report and 
Directors’ report, we consider whether 
those reports include the disclosures 
required by applicable legal requirements.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group 
financial statements of Ebiquity plc for the 
year ended 31 December 2016.
Simon O’Brien 
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and 
Statutory Auditors 
London
27 March 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
82 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
         Restated
1
        31 December  31 December  
        2016  2015  
       Note £’000  £’000 
Fixed assets   
Intangible assets       6 990 358
Property, plant and equipment       7 21 32
Investments in subsidiaries      8 74,890 74,288
        75,901 74,678
Current assets   
Trade and other receivables      9 15,290 12,352
Cash at bank and in hand       —  — 
        15,290 12,352
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year     10 (35,599) (28,670)
Net current liabilities        (20,309) (16,318)
Total assets less current liabilities       55,592 58,360
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year    11 (30,205) (32,615)
Net assets        25,387 25,745
Equity   
Ordinary shares       12 19,300 19,290
Share premium       13 — 11,764
Other reserves       13 (99) (733)
Retained earnings       13 6,186 (4,576)
Total shareholders’ funds       25,387 25,745
1. As at 31 December 2015, the balance of amounts owed to Group undertakings amounting to £22,352,000 has been reclassified to ‘falling due within one 
year’ from ‘falling due after more than one year’ to reflect that they were repayable on demand.
The notes on pages 84 to 90 are an integral part of the financial statements of the Company. The financial statements on pages 82 to 90 
were approved and authorized for issue by the Board of Directors on 27 March 2017 and were signed on its behalf by:
Michael Karg, PhD   Andrew Noble
Director     Director
COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
as at 31 December 2016  
Company number: 03967525 Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  83
     Share  Share  Other  Retained  
     capital premium  reserves earnings Total 
    Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 May 2015     19,193 11,657 (733) 2,071 32,188
Loss for the period     — — — (6,584) (6,584)
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the period   — — — — —
Total comprehensive loss for the period   — — — (6,584) (6,584)
Proceeds from shares issued   12 97 107 — — 204
Share-based payments charge   14 — — — (45) (45)
Capital contribution relating to share-based payments  — — — 273 273
Dividends to shareholders    — — — (291) (291)
At 31 December 2015     19,290 11,764 (733) (4,576) 25,745
Loss for the year     — — — (1,380) (1,380)
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year   — — — — —
Total comprehensive loss for the year   — — — (1,380) (1,380)
Proceeds from shares issued   12 10 16 — — 26
Share premium reduction
1
    — (11,780) — 11,780 —
Convertible loan note
2
     — — 634 — 634
Share-based payments credit   14 — — — 474 474
Capital contribution relating to share-based payments 8 — — — 180 180
Dividends to shareholders    — — — (292) (292)
At 31 December 2016     19,300 — (99) 6,186 25,387
1. On 8 June 2016, the Group announced the cancellation of the share premium account (the “Capital Reduction”) effective 9 June 2016 following 
registration of the Court order confirming the Capital Reduction by the Registrar of Companies.
2. A convertible loan note reserve of £634,000 was created during the year to 31 December 2016. Refer to note 13 for further details. 
The notes on pages 84 to 90 are an integral part of the financial statements of the Company.
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 31 December 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
84 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
1. General information
Ebiquity plc (the ‘Company’) acts as a 
holding company and is incorporated 
and domiciled in the UK. The address 
of its registered office is CityPoint, 
One Ropemaker Street, London EC2Y 9AW.
The financial statements of the Company 
represent the results for the year ended 
31 December 2016 whilst the comparatives 
represent the results for the eight months 
ended 31 December 2015. The change 
of year end was made to enable greater 
certainty of year end out-turn earlier in 
the Company’s financial year. 
The financial statements present 
information about the Company as an 
individual undertaking and not about 
its group.
2. Basis of preparation
The financial statements of the Company 
have been prepared in accordance 
with Financial Reporting Standard 101 
‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ 
(‘FRS 101’). The financial statements have 
been prepared on a going concern basis 
under the historical cost convention and in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006. 
The Company has taken advantage of the 
following disclosure exemptions under 
FRS 101:
a. the requirements of paragraphs 45(b) 
and 46-52 of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based 
Payment’ (details of the number of 
weighted-average exercise prices of 
share options, and how the fair value 
of goods and services received was 
determined);
b. the requirements of IFRS 7 ‘Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures’;
c. the requirements of paragraphs 91 to 99 
of IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ 
(disclosure of valuation techniques 
and inputs used for ‘Fair Value 
Measurement’ of assets and liabilities);
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2016
d. the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 
‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ 
to present comparative information in 
respect of:
i. paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1;
ii. paragraph 73(e) of IAS 16 ‘Property, 
Plant and Equipment’;
iii. paragraph 118(E) of IAS 38 
‘Intangible Assets’ (reconciliations 
between the carrying amount at the 
beginning and end of the period);
The following paragraphs of IAS 1 
‘Presentation of Financial Statements’:
i. 10D (statement of cash flows);
ii. 16 (statement of compliance with 
all IFRS);
iii. 38A (requirement for minimum of 
two primary statements, including 
cash flow statements);
iv. 38B-D (additional comparative 
information);
v. 111 (cash flow statement 
information); and
vi. 134–136 (capital management 
disclosures).
e. IAS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’;
f. paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 
‘Accounting Policies’, changes in 
accounting estimates and errors 
(requirement for the disclosure of 
information when an entity has not 
applied a new IFRS that has been issued 
but is not yet effective);
g. paragraph 17 of IAS 24 ‘Related 
Party Disclosures’ (key management 
compensation); and
h. the requirements in IAS 24 ‘Related 
Party Disclosures’ to disclose related 
party transactions entered into between 
two or more members of a group.
Summary of significant  
accounting policies
The principal accounting policies adopted 
are set out below. These policies have 
been consistently applied to all periods 
presented, unless otherwise stated.
Finance income and expenses
Finance income and expenses represents 
interest receivable and payable. Finance 
income and expense is recognized on an 
accruals basis, based on the interest rate 
applicable to each bank or loan account.
Foreign currency transactions
The results and financial position of the 
Company are expressed in pounds sterling, 
which is the functional currency of the 
Company and the presentation currency 
for the Company financial statements.
Trading transactions denominated in 
foreign currencies are translated into 
sterling at the exchange rate ruling 
when the transaction was entered into. 
Assets and liabilities expressed in foreign 
currencies are translated into sterling at 
rates of exchange ruling at the end of the 
financial period.
All transactions involving foreign exchange 
gains and losses are dealt with through the 
income statement as and when they arise.
Share‑based payments
The Company issues equity-settled 
share-based payments to its employees 
and employees of subsidiaries using the 
Company’s equity instruments. These are 
measured at fair value (excluding the effect 
of non-market-based vesting conditions) 
at the date of grant and expensed on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period, 
based on the Group’s estimate of shares 
that will eventually vest and adjusted for 
the effect of non-market-based vesting 
conditions. A corresponding credit is 
recorded in equity.
For share options without performance 
conditions, fair value is measured by use 
of the Black–Scholes Model. The expected 
life used in the model has been adjusted, 
based on management’s best estimates, 
for the effects of non-transferability, 
exercise restrictions, and behavioural 
considerations. Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  85
The grant by the Company of options over 
its equity instruments to the employees 
of subsidiary undertakings in the Group 
is treated as a capital contribution. 
The fair value of employee services 
received, measured by reference to the 
grant date fair value, is recognized over 
the vesting period as an increase to 
investment in subsidiary undertakings, 
with a corresponding credit to equity in 
the parent entity financial statements. 
Retirement benefits
For defined contribution pension schemes, 
the Company pays contributions to 
privately administered pension plans 
on a voluntary basis. The Company 
has no further payment obligations 
once the contributions have been 
paid. Contributions are charged to the 
income statement in the period to which 
they relate.
Dividend income
Dividend income is recognized when the 
right to receive payment is established.
Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s 
shareholders is recognized as a liability in 
the Company’s financial statements in the 
period in which the dividends are approved 
by the Company’s shareholders.
Intangible assets
Computer software
Purchased computer software intangible 
assets are amortized on a straight-line 
basis over their useful lives which vary 
from four to five years.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at 
cost less accumulated depreciation and 
any recognized impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off 
the cost of assets over their estimated 
useful lives and is recognized in the income 
statement within administrative expenses. 
The rates applied are as follows:
Fixtures, fittings  20% per annum 
and equipment straight-line
Computer   
equipment 25% straight-line
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are held at cost 
less accumulated impairment losses.
Where the purchase consideration for the 
acquisition of an interest in a subsidiary 
is contingent on one or more future 
events, the cost of investment includes 
a reasonable estimate of the fair value 
of the amounts of consideration that are 
expected to be payable in the future. 
The cost of investment and the contingent 
consideration liability is adjusted until the 
ultimate payable is known.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise 
cash in hand and short-term deposits. 
In the statement of financial position, bank 
overdrafts are shown within borrowings 
in current liabilities.
Share capital
Equity instruments issued by the Company 
are recorded at the amount of the proceeds 
received, net of direct issuance costs.
Deferred taxation
Recognition of deferred tax assets is 
restricted to those instances where it 
is probable that taxable profit will be 
available against which the difference can 
be utilized. The recognition of deferred tax 
assets is reviewed at each year end date.
The amount of the asset or liability is 
determined using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the 
year end date and are expected to apply 
when the deferred tax liabilities/assets are 
settled/recovered.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are 
recognized in the Company’s statement 
of financial position when the Company 
becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets
The Company classifies its financial assets 
as ‘loans and receivables’. Loans and 
receivables are non-derivative financial 
assets with fixed or determinable payments 
that are not quoted in an active market. 
They arise principally through the provision 
of goods and services to customers (trade 
receivables), but also incorporate other 
types of contractual monetary asset. 
They are initially recognized at fair value 
plus transaction costs that are directly 
attributable to their acquisition or issue, 
and are subsequently carried at amortized 
cost using the effective interest rate 
method, less provision for impairment.
Financial liabilities
Borrowings consisting of interest-bearing 
secured and unsecured loans and 
overdrafts are initially recognized at fair 
value net of directly attributable transaction 
costs incurred and subsequently 
measured at amortized cost using the 
effective interest method. The difference 
between the proceeds received net of 
transaction costs and the redemption 
amount is amortized over the period 
of the borrowings to which they relate. 
The revolving credit facility is considered 
to be a long-term loan.
Trade and other payables are initially 
recognized at their nominal value which 
is usually the original invoiced amount. 
Interest rate swaps are carried at fair value 
with changes in fair value being reflected in 
the statement of comprehensive income, 
and are classified within other financial 
liabilities. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
86 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
2. Basis of preparation continued
Derivative financial instruments
The Company uses derivative financial 
instruments to reduce its exposure 
to foreign exchange and interest rate 
movements. The Company does not hold 
or issue derivative financial instruments for 
financial trading purposes but derivatives 
that do not qualify for hedge accounting 
are accounted for at fair value through 
the income statement. Derivative financial 
instruments are initially recognized at fair 
value at the contract date and continue 
to be stated at fair value at the statement 
of financial position date with gains and 
losses on revaluation being recognized 
immediately in the income statement.
Cash flow hedging is used to hedge 
against fluctuations in future cash flows 
on the Company’s debt funding due to 
movements in interest rates. When a 
cash flow hedge is employed and hedge 
accounting applied, the effective portion of 
the change in the fair value of the hedging 
instrument is recognized directly in equity 
(hedging reserve) until the gain or loss on 
the hedged item is realized. Any ineffective 
portion is always recognized in the 
income statement.
The fair value of derivatives is determined 
by reference to market values for 
similar instruments.
Provisions
Provisions are recognized when the 
Company has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of past 
events, it is probable that an outflow of 
resources will be required to settle that 
obligation and the amount can be reliably 
estimated. Provisions are not recognized 
for future operating losses.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 December 2016
Provisions are measured at the Directors’ 
best estimate of the expenditure required 
to settle the obligation at the year end date. 
If the effect of the time value of money 
is material, provisions are determined by 
discounting the expected future cash flows 
at a pre-tax rate which reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of 
money and, where appropriate, the risks 
specific to the obligations.
Employee Share Ownership Plan (‘ESOP’)
The ESOP’s investment in the Company’s 
shares is deducted from shareholders’ 
equity in the statement of financial position 
as if they were treasury shares, except that 
profits on the sale of ESOP shares are not 
credited to the share premium account.
Critical accounting  
estimates and judgements 
In preparing the Company financial 
statements in conformity with FRS 101, 
the Directors are required to make certain 
estimates and judgements relating to the 
reported results of revenue and expenses 
during the period and the financial 
position of the Company at the reporting 
date. Actual results may differ from 
those estimates. 
Due to the nature of operations, the 
key area of judgement that has the 
most significant effect on the amounts 
recognized in the Company financial 
statements, is the review for impairment 
of the carrying value of investments 
in subsidiaries.
3. Company results for the year
The Company has taken advantage of the 
exemption allowed under section 408 of 
the Companies Act 2006 not to present its 
own income statement in these financial 
statements.
The movement in reserves of the Company 
includes a loss for the year of £1,380,000 
(31 December 2015: loss for the period of 
£6,584,000).
4. Operating loss
Auditors’ remuneration
Fees for the audit of the Company are 
£3,000 (31 December 2015: £3,000). 
Fees paid to the Company’s auditors for 
services other than the statutory audit of 
the Company are disclosed in note 4 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
Directors’ remuneration
Fees paid to the Company’s Directors are 
disclosed in note 5 to the consolidated 
financial statements. Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  87
5. Tax on loss on ordinary activities
         Eight month 
        Year ended period ended 
        31 December 31 December 
        2016 2015 
        £’000 £’000
The tax charge is made up as follows:   
Current tax        — —
        — —
Deferred tax  
Origination and reversal of timing differences      — —
Taxation on ordinary activities       — —
The tax assessment for the year differs to the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20% (31 December 2015: 20%). 
The differences are explained below:
         Eight month 
        Year ended period ended 
        31 December 31 December 
        2016 2015 
        £’000 £’000
Loss on ordinary activities before taxation      (1,380) (6,584)
Loss on ordinary activities at the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20%  
(31 December 2015: 20%)       (276) (1,317)
Effects of:  
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes      31 868
Capital allowances for year in excess of depreciation      (1) (11)
Additions to intangibles        41 —
Relieved to other group companies       205 308
Losses carried forward        — 152
Current tax charge for the year       — —
Deferred tax on unremitted earnings has not been recognized as management do not intend to pay dividends from jurisdictions where a 
tax charge would be incurred and dividends received are not taxed in the UK.
6. Intangible assets
        Computer   
        software Total 
        £’000 £’000
Cost  
At 1 January 2016        454 454
Additions        743 743
At 31 December 2016        1,197 1,197
Amortization  
At 1 January 2016        (96) (96)
Charge for the year        (111) (111)
At 31 December 2016        (207) (207)
Net book value  
At 31 December 2016        990 990
At 31 December 2015        358 358 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
88 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
7. Property, plant and equipment
       Fixtures,   
        fittings and Computer  
       equipment equipment Total 
       £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost   
At 1 January 2016       1 46 47
At 31 December 2016       1 46 47
Depreciation   
At 1 January 2016       — (15) (15)
Charge for the year       — (11) (11)
At 31 December 2016       — (26) (26)
Net book value   
At 31 December 2016       1 20 21
At 31 December 2015       1 31 32
8. Investments in subsidiaries
          £’000 
Cost and net book value 
At 31 December 2015         74,288
Additions
1
         422
Capital contributions relating to share-based payments      180
At 31 December 2016         74,890
1. Additions of £422,000 comprises an additional capital contribution in Ebiquity Holdings Inc.
The Company’s principal trading subsidiaries and associated undertakings are listed in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. 
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the remaining investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
9. Trade and other receivables
        31 December 31 December 
        2016 2015 
        £’000 £’000
Amounts owed by Group undertakings       14,989 12,034
Other receivables        6 8
Prepayments        295 310
        15,290 12,352
Included within the amounts owed by Group undertakings above is an amount which is unsecured, earns interest at 3% above 
EURIBOR, has no fixed date of repayment and is repayable on demand.
Also included within the amounts owed by Group undertakings above is an amount which is unsecured, earns interest at 2.65% above 
LIBOR, has no fixed date of repayment and is repayable on demand.
The residual amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, non-interest bearing, have no fixed date of repayment and are 
repayable on demand.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 December 2016 Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  89
10. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
         Restated
1
        31 December 31 December 
        2016 2015 
        £’000 £’000
Bank loans and overdrafts       4,472 4,800
Trade creditors        844 641
Other taxation and social security       34 12
Other creditors        20 1
Accruals        669 864
Amounts owed to Group undertakings
2
       29,560 22,352
        35,599 28,670
1. The balance of amounts owed to Group undertakings as at 31 December 2015 has been reclassified from amounts falling due after more than one year 
to reflect that they were repayable on demand.
2. Included within amounts owed to Group undertakings is an amount which is unsecured, incurs interest at 5.5% plus Bank of England base rate, has no 
fixed date of repayment and is repayable on demand. The residual amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, interest free, have no fixed date 
of repayment and are repayable on demand.
11. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
        31 December 31 December 
        2016 2015 
        £’000 £’000
Bank loans – between two and five years       30,205 32,615
        30,205 32,615
All bank borrowings are held jointly with Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland (‘RBS’). The committed facility, 
totalling £40,000,000, comprises a term loan of £10,000,000 (of which £3,750,000 remains outstanding at 31 December 2016 
(31 December 2015: £6,250,000)), and a revolving credit facility (‘RCF’) of £30,000,000, (of which £29,000,000 was drawn down 
at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: £29,000,000)). Both the term loan and the RCF have a maturity date of 2 July 2018. 
The £10,000,000 term loan is being repaid on a quarterly basis to maturity, and the drawn RCF and any further drawings under the 
RCF are repayable on maturity of the facility. The facility may be used for deferred consideration payments on past acquisitions, 
to fund future potential acquisitions, and for general working capital requirements.
Loan arrangement fees of £135,000 (31 December 2015: £225,000) are offset against the term loan, and are being amortized over the 
period of the loan.
The facility bears variable interest of LIBOR plus a margin of 2.50%. The margin rate is able to be lowered each quarter end depending 
on the Group’s net debt to EBITDA ratio.
The undrawn amount of the revolving credit facility is liable to a fee of 40% of the prevailing margin. The Group may elect to prepay all 
or part of the outstanding loan subject to a break fee, by giving five business days’ notice.
All amounts owing to the bank are guaranteed by way of fixed and floating charges over the current and future assets of the Group. 
As such, a composite guarantee has been given by all significant subsidiary companies in the UK, USA and Germany.
12. Ordinary shares
         Nominal 
        Number value 
        of shares £’000
Allotted, called up and fully paid  
At 30 April 2015 – ordinary shares of 25p      76,771,654 19,193
Share options exercised        390,034 97
At 31 December 2015 – ordinary shares of 25p      77,161,688 19,290
Share options exercised        38,063 10
At 31 December 2016 – ordinary shares of 25p      77,199,751 19,300
Ordinary shares carry voting rights which are entitled to share in the profits of the Company. During the period, the Company paid 
a dividend of 0.4p per share, a total of £292,000 (31 December 2015: 0.4p with a total of £291,000) to shareholders. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
90 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
for the year ended 31 December 2016
13. Reserves 
Share premium
The share premium reserve shows the amount subscribed for share capital in excess of the nominal value. On 8 June 2016, the 
Company announced the cancellation of the Company’s share premium account (the “Capital Reduction”) effective 9 June 2016 
following registration of the Court order confirming the Capital Reduction by the Registrar of Companies. 
Other reserves
Other reserves consists of the merger reserve and ESOP reserve.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve arose on the issuance of shares at a premium on a group restructure, where the premium on issue qualified for 
merger relief. There has been no movement in the year.
Convertible loan note reserve
On 29 March 2016, the Group agreed to increase the total cap on consideration payable on the Stratigent LLC (‘Stratigent’) 
acquisition. The Group acquired Stratigent on 19 August 2013. Stratigent’s management held a 7% economic interest in Stratigent 
which was acquired by the Group for a total consideration to be determined by the financial performance of Stratigent over the 
three financial years ending 30 April 2016 and capped at $1.5 million. Stratigent’s financial performance over the first two financial 
years resulted in consideration of $1.1 million being paid to Stratigent’s management. In order to ensure that management remains 
incentivized to continue to drive and generate the financial performance achieved over the first two financial years, the Group agreed 
to increase the total cap on consideration payable to management. Accordingly, in March 2016, the cap on consideration was 
increased by an amount of $1.5 million, with any excess over and above the existing cap on consideration payable 25% in cash and 
75% in new ordinary shares in Ebiquity plc (capped at 600,000 new shares). A convertible loan note reserve amounting to £634,000 
was created in equity in respect of the convertible loan note representing 600,000 new shares in the Company.
ESOP reserve
The ESOP reserve represents the cost of own shares acquired in the Company by the Employee Benefit Trust (‘EBT’). The 
purpose of the EBT is to facilitate and encourage the ownership of shares by employees, by acquiring shares in the Company and 
distributing them in accordance with employee share schemes. The EBT may operate in conjunction with the Company’s existing 
share option schemes and other schemes that may apply from time to time.
The ESOP trusts were created to award shares to certain employees at less than market value. The trusts in aggregate hold 
unallocated shares costing £1,471,000 (31 December 2015: £1,471,000) funded by the Company. The sponsoring company is 
responsible for the administration and maintenance of the trust. The number of shares held by the trust is 4,201,504 (31 December 
2015: 4,201,504), all of which are under option to the employees of the Group. As at the statement of financial position date, all of 
the shares in the ESOP had vested (31 December 2015: all had vested).
Retained earnings
The retained earnings reserve shows the cumulative net gains and losses recognized in the income statement. For detailed 
movements on each of the above reserves, refer to the statement of changes in equity.
14. Share‑based payments
Full disclosure of share-based payments is included in the consolidated financial statements (see note 24 to the consolidated 
financial statements).
15. Commitments
Capital commitments contracted but not provided for by the Company amount to £nil (31 December 2015: £nil). The Company has 
no operating lease commitments (31 December 2015: none).
16. Contingent liabilities
The Company is subject to claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business and provision is made where liabilities are 
considered likely to arise on the basis of current information and legal advice.
17. Related party transactions
Under FRS 101.8(k), the Company is exempt from the requirement to disclose transactions with entities that are part of the 
Ebiquity plc Group, or investees of the Group qualifying as related parties, as all of the Company’s voting rights are controlled within 
the Group. The Company has no other material related parties. Related party transactions are detailed in note 30 to the consolidated 
financial statements. 
Transactions with key management personnel 
FRS 101.8(j) exempts entities from the disclosures in respect of the compensation of key management personnel. Financial statements
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  91
Independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants  
and Statutory Auditors 
1 Embankment Place 
London WC2N 6RH
Nominated adviser and broker
Numis Securities Limited
The London Stock Exchange Building 
10 Paternoster Square 
London EC4M 7LT
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC
PO Box 82 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 7NH
ADVISERS
Country of incorporation
Ebiquity plc is registered and  
incorporated in England and Wales. 
Number of securities in issue
As of 27 March 2017, the Company’s 
issued share capital consists of 77,199,751 
ordinary shares of 25p each. The Company 
has no treasury shares. 
Details of any restrictions  
on the transfer of securities
There are no restrictions on any of the 
Company’s AIM securities. 
Securities not in public hands
As of 27 March 2017, the percentage of the 
Company’s issued share capital that is not 
in public hands is 23.26%.
Company registration 
Registered office
CityPoint  
One Ropemaker Street 
London EC2Y 9AW 
Company number 03967525
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
92 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
AI   the Group's Advertising Intelligence business
ANA   Association of National Advertisers
APAC  Asia Pacific
CAGR  compound annual growth rate
Capital  the cancellation of the 
Reduction share premium account
CGUs  cash-generating units
the Company  Ebiquity plc
Constant  calculated by taking current year  
currency  denominated results restated at 
(‘CC’)  last year’s foreign exchange rates
DLG   Direct Line Group
DMP   data measurement platform
DSP  demand-side platform
EBITDA   earnings before interest, tax,  
depreciation and amortization
EBT  Employee Benefit Trust
EIP   Executive Incentive Plan
EMI scheme  enterprise management incentive scheme
EPS   earnings per share
ESOP   Executive Share Option Plan
FMC   Fairbrother Marsh Company Limited
FRS 101   Financial Reporting Standard 101  
‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’
the Group  Ebiquity plc and its subsidiaries
Highlighted highlighted items comprise non-cash charges 
items    and non-recurring items which are highlighted 
in the income statement because separate 
disclosure is considered relevant in 
understanding the underlying performance  
of the business
IAB  Internet Advertising Bureau
IASB  International Accounting Standards Board
IFRS   International Financial Reporting Standards
IPA  Institute of Practitioners in Advertising
ISAs  International Standards on Auditing
ISBA   Incorporated Society of British Advertisers
KPIs  key performance indicators
LIBOR  London Interbank Offered Rate
Like‑for‑like prior year results are adjusted to include the 
(‘LFL’)  results of recent acquisitions as if they had  
  been owned for the same period in the  
  prior year
LTI  Long-Term Incentive
MCA   the Group’s Multi-Channel Analytics business
MGM  Manning Gottlieb Media
MI   Market Intelligence
MPO   Marketing Performance Optimisation
MVM   Media Value Measurement
Net debt   long-term borrowings, short-term borrowings 
less cash and cash equivalents
PwC   PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
QCA Code   Quoted Companies Alliance – Corporate 
Governance Code for Small and Mid-Size 
Quoted Companies 2013
RBS   Royal Bank of Scotland
RCF   revolving credit facility
Stratigent  Stratigent LLC
TSR   total shareholder returns
UCSOP  unapproved company share option plan
Underlying  underlying performance refers to the results  
performance  of operations before highlighted items
WFA   World Federation of Advertisers
GLOSSARY Designed and produced by
www.lyonsbennett.com Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
Ebiquity plc
CityPoint
One Ropemaker Street
London
EC2Y 9AW
www.ebiquity.com
