 F&C Asset Management plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 This Annual Report and Financial Statements may
contain certain “forward-looking statements” with
respect to certain of the Group’s plans and its
current goals and expectations relating to its
future financial condition, performance, results,
strategy and objectives. Statements containing
the words “believes”, “intends”, “expects”,
“plans”, “seeks” and “anticipates”, and words of
similar meaning, are forward-looking.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to
future events and circumstances which are
beyond the Group’s control including among
other things: UK domestic and global economic
and business conditions; market-related risks
such as fluctuations in market indices, interest
rates and exchange rates, and the performance
of financial markets generally; the policies and
actions of regulatory authorities; the impact of
competition, inflation and deflation; the timing,
impact and other uncertainties of future
acquisitions or combinations within relevant
industries; estimates of assets to be managed for
Strategic Partners or other clients in the future;
and the impact of changes in capital, solvency,
accounting standards, tax and other legislation
and regulations in the jurisdictions in which the
Group operates.
As a result, the Group’s actual future financial
condition, performance and results may differ
materially from the plans, goals, and expectations
set forth in the Group’s forward-looking
statements. F&C undertakes no obligation to
update the forward-looking statements contained
in this Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Nothing in this publication should be considered
as a profit forecast.
“BMO, BMO Financial” BMO Global Asset
Management (Europe) Limited (a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Bank of Montreal)
“F&C, FCAM, Group or Company” F&C Asset
Management plc and its subsidiaries
“FL, FL Group” Friends Life and its subsidiaries
“F&C GH” F&C Group (Holdings) Limited and its
subsidiaries
“F&C REIT” F&C REIT Asset Management LLP and
its subsidiaries
“REIT” REIT Property Asset Management LLP and
its subsidiaries
“Sherborne or the Sherborne Group” Sherborne
Investors (Guernsey) GP , LLC (Sherborne GP),
SIGA, LP (SIGA), Sherborne Investors (Guernsey) A
Limited, Sherborne Investors Management
(Guernsey) LLC and Sherborne Investors LP
“Thames River” or “TRC” Thames River Capital
Group Limited and its subsidiary companies or
limited liability partnerships (LLPs) which are
consolidated within the Group
“NCI” Non-controlling interests
Forward-looking statements Definitions
F&C Asset Management plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Our year in brief 01
Chairman’s Statement 02
Chief Executive’s Report 03
Strategic Report
This is F&C 06
Group Management 08
Our strategy 09
Managing principal risks and uncertainties 11
Our industry view 13
Our trading performance and outlook 14
Our financial performance 16
Our strategic approach and commitment to corporate
responsibility 20
Governance
Company Directors 22
Report of the Directors 23
Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance 26
Directors’ Remuneration Report 33
Annual Report on Remuneration 44
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 52
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report 53
Consolidated Income Statement 57
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 58
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 59
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 60
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 61
Accounting Policies 62
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 72
Five Year Record 137
Reconciliations of Statutory Results to Underlying Earnings 138
Company Balance Sheet 141
Company Accounting Policies 142
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 145
Shareholder Information
Notice to US Shareholders 154
Corporate Information 155 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 01
1.5p
Our year in brief
Net revenue
£241.2m
Group underlying pro;t before tax
£69.2m
Underlying earnings per share
8.8p
Total dividends per share
3.0p
Financial and Business Highlights
• Strong investment performance, with 80 per cent of assets
under management (AUM) outperforming objectives over
the one and three-year periods to 31 December 2013
• Underlying earnings per share (EPS) increased
25.7 per cent to 8.8p (2012: 7.0p)
• Consumer and Institutional net inflows of £1.3bn
(2012: net outflows £1.9bn)
• Cost reductions achieved in line with plan
• Underlying operating margin strengthened to 36.9 per cent
in 2013 (2012: 29.2 per cent)
• AUM of £82.1bn (31 December 2012: £95.2bn); £20.3bn of
Strategic Partner outflows during 2013
• Reduction in net debt to £76.0m (31 December 2012:
£97.3m)
Assets under management*
£82.1bn
2013
£95.2bn
2012
Underlying operating margin
#
36.9%
2013
29.2%
2012
Group underlying pro;t before tax
#
£69.2m
2013
£51.9m
2012
£10.2m
2013
£2.6m
2012
Underlying earnings per Ordinary Share
#
8.8p
2013
7.0p
2012
Total dividends per Ordinary Share
3.0p
2013
3.0p
2012
Basic earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share
#
2013
(0.1)p
2012
Net revenue
£241.2m
2013
£243.5m
2012
Statutory pro;t after tax
#
* As at the end of the reporting period
#
As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements
Calculations of key financial indicators are given in the ‘Reconciliations of Statutory Results to
Underlying Earnings’ on page 138 and the underlying operating costs are analysed on page 139.
Reconciliations between statutory profit/(loss) and underlying earnings and between basic
earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share and underlying earnings per Ordinary Share are given in
note 11. Corporate developments
This is my first statement as Chairman of your Company, having
assumed the role in August 2013 following Sherborne’s distribution
of shares and Edward Bramson’s departure from the Board. The
distribution of Sherborne’s 20 per cent holding in the Company to
their underlying investors not only increased the shareholdings of a
number of institutions who were already owners of the Company’s
shares, it also resulted in the widening of the Company’s
shareholder base through the introduction of a number of new
shareholders. We welcome both developments.
In 2013, your Company has made good progress towards its strategic
goals. Overall profitability has increased, our cost base continues to fall
and we have generated net inflows within our strategically important
Consumer and Institutional businesses. While the business remains
exposed to the future actions of our Strategic Partners, who
collectively accounted for 51.5 per cent of our year-end assets under
management (AUM) and 29 per cent of our 2013 net revenue, I believe
that the positive momentum we have created within the business was
a key factor in attracting the offer from BMO Global Asset
Management (Europe) Limited (BMO), (a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Bank of Montreal) announced on 28 January this year.
The proposed transaction with BMO, which the Board believes is in
the best interests of shareholders, clients and staff, represents an
important and positive development in your Company’s history, and
provides shareholders with an attractive premium against the
potential medium-term standalone prospects and valuation of your
Company. On 25 March 2014, shareholders approved the
acquisition. Completion of the acquisition, however, remains subject
to the satisfaction of certain regulatory and other conditions.
In 2008/9 the Company was in a prolonged offer period as a result
of Friends Provident’s strategic review. Shareholders may recall the
significant challenges that this presented to client and staff retention,
as well as limiting our ability to attract new funds flows. I am
therefore pleased to report that we have received an overwhelmingly
positive reaction from our clients, employees and other stakeholders
to this transaction. This means that to date we have seen limited
impact from the announcement. The Board is focused on ensuring
the risk to the business from any further prolonged period of
corporate uncertainty is minimised.
2013 results and dividend
Underlying earnings per share (EPS) rose 25.7 per cent to 8.8 pence
with underlying profit after tax rising from £37.1 million in 2012 to
£49.0 million in 2013. On a statutory reporting basis, which includes
exceptional and non-cash items, the Group made a profit after tax
of £10.2 million, compared to a profit after tax of £2.6 million in
2012. Basic EPS therefore also rose from a loss of 0.1 pence to
earnings of 1.5 pence. Further details of the improved profitability
are set out in Richard Wilson’s Chief Executive Report,
accompanying this statement.
In the 28 January 2014 announcement, we declared an ordinary
course dividend of 2.0 pence per share for the year ended
31 December 2013, payable on 20 May 2014 (or earlier if the cash
consideration pursuant to the intended transaction with BMO is
dispatched to shareholders ahead of that date) to shareholders
on the register at 4 April 2014. This brings full-year dividends to
3.0 pence per share, which is the same as that paid in respect
of 2012.
Board changes
As highlighted in last year’s Annual Report, Ian Brindle and Jeff
Medlock retired from the Board on conclusion of the Annual General
Meeting held on 10 May 2013. Since that date we have welcomed
two new Directors to the Board, Charlie Porter and Ruth Sack.
Charlie was formerly Chief Executive of Thames River Capital and
therefore joined the Board as a non-independent Non-executive
Director. Ruth is a partner in The Alliance coaching partnership and
joined the Board as an Independent Non-executive Director. Both
Charlie and Ruth have made significant contributions to Board
discussions and are important additions to the Board.
It is with great sadness that we record the death of Alain Grisay.
Alain had been with F&C from 2001 until his retirement in 2012, and
had been the Company’s Chief Executive since 2006. Alain’s
contribution to F&C, not least steering the Company through the
financial crisis in 2008 and the demerger of F&C from Friends
Provident in 2009, was very significant. He was a visionary executive
and business leader with the utmost integrity and someone who
was always concerned about fairness and equality for employees.
Alain will be sadly missed by all of us who had the privilege of both
knowing him and of working together. Our thoughts are with his
family and friends.
Summary
2013 has been an eventful year for your Company and one in which
we have made good progress. The improved profitability reflected in
the Financial Statements demonstrates the focus your Board, the
management team and all staff have had on developing the
business in recent years. It also illustrates the focus we have on
meeting or exceeding the expectations of our clients, without whom
we would have no business. Our corporate values, placing clients’
interests at the centre of all we do, will continue to remain of
paramount importance to us in the future.
My thanks go to our management and staff for their efforts throughout
the year that have enabled us to report the improvement in our results.
Kieran Poynter
Chairman
9 April 2014
Chairman’s Statement
02 | CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT | Summary and outlook
2013 was a positive year for the Group, as we delivered progress in
line with the strategic objectives set. Our investment performance was
strong, we launched a number of new products in areas of growing
client demand, our cost base reduced in line with the targets we
previously set out and, importantly, net fund flows in our Consumer
and Institutional business improved substantially.
However, the Group faces significant headwinds in the short term as
our Strategic Partner assets decline and the growth from our
Consumer and Institutional business, which is starting to emerge,
takes time to develop. In 2013 some £20 billion of Strategic Partner
assets were withdrawn as their contracts matured. The combined
annualised revenue loss associated with these assets and related fee
changes, including F&C REIT, is some £35.5 million, of which
£11.3 million is reflected in the 2013 results given the timing of
withdrawals during the year. Whilst Consumer and Institutional net
inflows were some £1.3 billion during 2013, as described later in this
report, the annualised net revenue increase from these inflows will be
modest. In contrast to 2012 and 2013, there will be no further
material cost reductions to compensate for the full-year revenue
impact in 2014 of the Strategic Partner withdrawals in 2013. The
Group remains on track to deliver the remaining cost savings
associated with the original cost-reduction programme. However, the
increased importance of and focus on asset growth and new revenue
generation from Consumer and Institutional will require investment in
our sales and distribution functions, as well as ensuring that we retain
the investment talent required to offer our clients the investment
performance and solutions they require.
Irrespective of these financial challenges, F&C will continue to strive to
deliver what our clients expect in terms of investment performance
and client service. It is this that will build F&C’s franchise and enable
the Company to achieve its ambitious plans for growth.
Business flows and revenues
The Group incurred overall net outflows of £19.0 billion during the
year, comprising some £20.3 billion of Strategic Partner outflows and
£1.3 billion of Consumer and Institutional net inflows. The Strategic
Partner outflows predominantly reflect the maturity and changing
nature of the contractual relationships with these parties, while the
Consumer and Institutional inflows demonstrate the growing
momentum in this area of our business. The level of Strategic Partner
outflows during 2013 was anticipated, but the annualised loss of
revenue associated with them remains significant and is estimated at
approximately £24.3 million with some £8.0 million of this impact
recognised in 2013. In addition, contractual terms were renegotiated
with a major institutional client of F&C REIT, and as a result of this the
revenues from that client will reduce on an annualised basis by
£8.5 million, of which some £2.8 million is reflected in the 2013 results.
Third-Party Institutional gross sales were strong during 2013, with
£5.1 billion of new mandates funded, an increase of some £2.2 billion
over the prior year. Although outflows from the institutional business
were £0.3 billion higher than 2012, our net flow position improved
considerably, with net inflows of £1.2 billion (2012: net outflows of
£0.7 billion). This encouraging result is indicative of our much
improved position with investment consultants, where our credentials
in areas such as fixed income and Liability Driven Investments (LDI)
have gained strong recognition. Our Consumer business also had a
good year, generating net inflows of £519 million (2012: net outflows
of £40 million).
While the combined Consumer and Institutional business achieved
net inflows of some £1.3 billion during 2013, the revenue margin on
the gross inflows was lower than that on outflows, and accordingly,
the annualised net revenue increase associated with these inflows will
be modest. This is driven by two factors. Firstly, the Consumer and
Institutional business incorporates a range of clients with very different
fee characteristics and secondly, as we start to win larger institutional
mandates, with strong absolute revenues, these are often at lower fee
margins than the smaller mandates we were previously gaining.
Results
Net revenue for the year was £241.2 million (2012: £243.5 million).
Within this overall figure, revenue from Strategic Partners fell £10.8
million, whilst revenues from the Consumer and Institutional business
increased by £8.5 million, as a result of the combination of fund flows
described above, together with market and exchange movements in
our asset base and changes in revenue yields.
Underlying operating costs, excluding amortisation of intangible
assets and exceptional items, were £152.4 million (2012: £172.2
million). Core operating expenses declined by £19.3 million during the
year, whilst distributions to the individual members of the Thames
River LLPs declined by £0.5 million. The reduction in core operating
expenses reflects the ongoing recognition of savings resulting from
the implementation of actions from our strategic review process in
2011 and 2012, and we remain on track to generate the original
cumulative savings target of £48.8 million.
The Group also incurred a number of exceptional and non-recurring
costs which totalled £11.2 million (2012: a net cost of £10.4 million)
and are excluded from underlying results. These represent the final
costs associated with our back and middle office outsourcing, the
remaining one-off expenses of implementing our cost-reduction
programme, the costs associated with the Thames River retention
plan and commutation agreements, and the movement in the F&C
REIT put option liability.
Group underlying operating profit increased from £71.1 million in 2012
to £89.0 million in 2013. After net interest expense, tax and a
deduction for the share of the Group’s profit attributable to the non-
controlling interests in F&C REIT, this resulted in underlying earnings
per share for the year of 8.8 pence (2012: 7.0 pence) attributable to
shareholders.
On a statutory basis, which includes non-recurring and other
exceptional items, the Group reported a profit after tax of £10.2 million
for 2013 (2012: £2.6 million).
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 03
Chief Executive’s Report The Group closed the year with £182.0 million of shareholders’ cash
reserves and net debt reduced to £76.0 million (2012: £97.3 million).
A significant proportion of the shareholders’ cash reserves are held in
our regulated subsidiaries against their capital requirements.
Gross debt of some £258 million (2012: £258 million) comprises
£116 million of subordinated loan notes and £142 million of senior
loan notes, neither of which include any financial covenants.
Business review
During 2013 the Group focused on its financial objectives of delivering
the planned cost savings associated with the strategic review and
improving cashflow generation, while working to retain Strategic
Partner assets, executing Consumer and Institutional short-term sales
and growth plans, and developing product and marketing plans for
the medium term.
As demonstrated by the financial information above, the Group has
continued to make good progress with the cost-reduction
programme initiated in 2011 and remains on schedule to achieve its
previously announced target. F&C did not repurchase any further debt
in 2013 as a combination of rising prices and illiquidity made this less
attractive. The reduction in net debt is attributable to improved
cashflow generation.
F&C’s Consumer and Institutional fund flows show that we are making
progress in winning new clients, whilst outflows from Strategic
Partners in 2013 reflect what we announced during the year and are
consistent with the maturing of the specific contracts. We continue to
work closely with all our Strategic Partners to explore opportunities to
extend our relationships beyond their initial contractual periods.
The long-term contract with Achmea expired during the year and they
withdrew some £10 billion of “own risk” assets at maturity. We have
renegotiated commercial terms for circa £6 billion of the remaining
own risk assets, which are now under contract until November 2015.
In addition we manage a further £7.4 billion of Achmea assets.
During 2013, we also amended our contractual arrangements with
Friends First, our Irish strategic partner, allowing them to withdraw
certain assets in return for revised contractual arrangements on
remaining assets. Whilst this resulted in a loss of circa £1.1 billion in
assets and £1.0 million in annualised revenues, we have been able to
re-align F&C’s cost base in Ireland and have extended some of the
remaining contracts to Q4 2018. As at 31 December 2013, we
managed £1.5 billion on behalf of Friends First.
The long-term contract with the Millennium BCP group expired in
2011 and, whilst we continue to manage a range of asset classes on
their behalf, during 2013 they terminated mandates for approximately
£260 million of property assets with £1.5 million of associated
annualised revenues, placing them under the management of an
in-house subsidiary. As at 31 December 2013, we managed
£11.2 billion on behalf of Millennium BCP .
During 2013, Friends Life withdrew £6.0 billion of fixed income assets
and transferred them to their in-house manager. At 31 December
2013, we managed £16.2 billion on behalf of Friends Life. On
18 March 2014, Friends Life announced that they have selected a
new investment manager in respect of £12.2 billion assets and that
they will transfer a further £2.3 billion of fixed income assets to their
in-house asset manager. We anticipate that these assets will be
withdrawn by the end of 2014.
Turning to our Investment Trusts, we are pleased to report that 8 out
of 12 trusts issued shares during 2013, with a total value in excess of
£100 million. It is also encouraging to note that we have about
172,000 customers in the F&C Investment Trust savings plans. These
plans now have close to £2 billion under management, up from
£1.5 billion a year ago, and we are seeing consistent monthly inflows
to Investment Trusts through our savings plans.
The UK Retail market continues to experience major change. Whilst it
appears that the full effects of RDR (Retail Distribution Review) will not
be seen and understood in the market for some time, we continue to
believe that our Multi-Manager and Lifestyle product ranges leave us
well placed to benefit from emerging trends in the UK retail market
place, and we will focus on continuing to improve our position in this
market. New business in 2013 supported this positioning with
£0.4 billion of gross inflows into these funds and £2.1 billion of gross
flows across all Retail funds.
Our Third-Party Institutional business continues to make progress,
with gross inflows increasing from £2.9 billion in 2012 to £5.1 billion in
2013. Importantly, a significant proportion of our inflows continue to
be generated from “long duration” products, such as LDI and
Property, which should have a long period under management. As we
look forward, we aim to maintain and grow the gross inflows from this
business, widen the product range generating gross inflows and
continue to reduce the level of gross outflows. To achieve these goals
we plan to increase our distribution resources focused on this market
during 2014.
Our distribution ambitions will only be met if we have strong
investment performance, and during 2013 our fixed income, equities
and property capabilities all performed well. Relative returns were
particularly good in fixed income; this is encouraging as it is a core
asset class for insurance portfolios and, increasingly, for defined
benefit pension schemes. On a three-year annualised asset-weighted
basis, 90 per cent of our fixed income portfolios outperformed their
respective benchmarks. On the same basis, 70 per cent of our equity
portfolios outperformed, with our European equity performance being
particularly strong. Indeed the European Equity SICAV Fund ranked in
the 1st percentile of its peer group of over 1,300 funds for the three-
year period to 31 December 2013. 77 per cent of our property assets
are above benchmarks over the three-year period. The Company
received a number of prestigious awards for investment performance
and services to clients during the year.
04 | CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT | In 2013 we have continued to re-organise our investment capabilities,
investing where necessary, in order to provide the investment
solutions that are being demanded of us by our clients. As the
objectives of our clients change, so F&C must evolve to meet those
requirements. F&C has been at the forefront of innovation in the
industry for many years and it is our aspiration to ensure that this
remains the case.
Recommended acquisition of the Group by
BMO Global Asset Management
On 28 January 2014 we announced that agreement had been
reached on the terms of a recommended cash acquisition by which
the entire ordinary share capital of F&C will be acquired by BMO
Global Asset Management (Europe) Limited. The Board believes that
the proposed acquisition will give us the opportunity to accelerate our
growth plans for the business, with the support of a financially strong
and ambitious parent. On 25 March 2014 shareholders approved the
resolutions necessary to support the acquisition. Completion of the
acquisition, however, remains subject to a number of regulatory and
other conditions.
Richard Wilson
Chief Executive Officer
9 April 2014
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 05 06 | STRATEGIC REPORT | This is F&C
F&C is a leading asset management company providing investment solutions across a range of
asset classes and strategies.
We invest globally. However, the majority of our assets are sourced from, and all our assets are
managed from, Europe. Our clients are insurance companies, Institutional, Retail and
Wholesale investors, representing over three million individuals – for whom we managed
£82.1 billion at 31 December 2013.
This is F&C
2013 Key Awards
LIPPER
FUND AWARDS 2013
AUSTRIA
LIPPER
FUND AWARDS 2013
EUROPE
LIPPER
FUND AWARDS 2013
FRANCE
LIPPER
FUND AWARDS 2013
GERMANY
LIPPER
FUND AWARDS 2014
UNITED KINGDOM
LIPPER
FUND AWARDS 2013
SPAIN
LIPPER
FUND AWARDS 2013
NETHERLANDS
Strategic Report
Pages 6 to 21 of the Strategic Report set out an overview of F&C, our strategy and the
principal risks to the strategy. They also illustrate the areas of key focus in 2014. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 07
What we do
At F&C, asset management is all we do. We
are dedicated to achieving the best possible
results for our investors, be they return,
volatility, liability or solutions driven.
By focusing on the needs of our clients we
have continued to create investment
solutions that are relevant, innovative and
address objectives that reflect market
opportunities.
Rich in heritage and relevant
for today
We are a forward-looking organisation but
one with a rich heritage. We trace our origins
to the groundbreaking launch of the first-ever
listed pooled investment fund, the Foreign &
Colonial Investment Trust, in 1868. It is an
investment portfolio we are proud to continue
to manage almost a century and a half later,
evidence that our clients have trusted us to
deliver for them across a range of investment
cycles. Our client base today consists of a
broad range of Institutional and Retail
investors including insurance companies,
pension schemes, sovereign wealth funds,
private wealth managers, fund of funds,
family offices and financial advisors.
Our culture
Our objective is simple: to create
value by delivering first quartile
performance in everything our
clients expect from us.
• Clients: we put our clients first, adding
value and building relationships.
• Accountability: for performance in
delivering, and indeed exceeding, all of
our clients’ objectives.
• Innovation: constantly challenging and
improving the way we do things for the
benefit of our clients and ourselves.
• Respect: integrity and trust form the
cornerstone of all our activities.
Our approach to investment
An entrepreneurial culture provides our
investment teams with autonomy and
ownership of their investment process. Fund
managers are fully accountable for
performance, and their interests are aligned
with those of our clients. Our teams are
organised to provide the breadth and depth
of investment resource required to deliver
the range of investment solutions demanded
by our clients. Our approach is built on four
core capabilities:
Investment Solutions – by working closely
with our clients we have developed tailored
products and services to meet their current
and evolving needs:
• Liability Driven Investment tailored to
specific client requirements.
• Balanced, fiduciary, multi-asset and
multi-manager solutions across
traditional and alternative asset classes.
• Responsible investment and
engagement solutions focused on the
environmental, social and governance
issues faced by companies and
institutional investors.
Equities – our fundamental research,
bottom-up stock selection and conviction
portfolios produce a range of equity solutions
for accessing global, European and emerging
equity markets.
Fixed Income – our teams deliver a range
of products across the fixed income
spectrum, including sovereign and emerging
market debt, investment grade and high-
yield corporate bonds and convertibles.
Property – our property teams provide
access to commercial property from direct
bricks and mortar to listed real-estate
securities.
Responsible investments
We seek to deliver strong investment
performance through active management.
However, as a shareholder representative,
we engage with the companies in which we
invest, aiming to enhance and protect long-
term shareholder value. Our approach is to
have constructive dialogue with companies.
We cast votes on shareholder resolutions
globally, and disclose this to our clients on
our website.
Principal risks and
uncertainties (see pages11 and 12)
In addition to the “normal” risks facing the
business relating to the market, interest rates
and foreign currency, the Board has identified
the following as the principal risks and
uncertainties facing the business:
• Effective execution of strategy
• Uncertain economic outlook
• Investment performance
• Loss of key employees
• Breach of client or portfolio limits
• Regulation
• Loss of key clients
• Reliance on third parties
• Business continuity and
information technology
• Counterparty credit exposure
• Scottish independence referendum
INNOVATION
RESPECT
ACCOUNTABILITY
CLIENTS
FIRST
AWARDS 2013
F&C Global Convertible Bond A EUR
F&C Management Limited
Best Fund over
5 Years
Bond Convertibles Global
AWARDS FOR EXCELLENCE
Lars Asplund
Managing Director, Lipper
LIPPER FUND AWARDS 2013
Europe
AWARDS FOR EXCELLENCE
Ranjit Tinaikar
Managing Director, Asset Management
Lars Asplund
Managing Director, Lipper
F&C European Small Cap A EUR
F&C Management Limited
Best Fund over
3 Years
Equity Europe Small and Mid Caps
LIPPER FUND AWARDS 2014
UK Messrs Wilson and Logan are the Executive Directors of the
Company.
The Executive Directors, together with the individuals listed above,
form the Group Management team (Group Management). Group
Management is accountable and responsible for implementing Board
strategy, proposing development of new elements of strategy and for
the day-to-day running of the business. In addition to overseeing the
implementation of the strategy, Group Management regularly reviews
business issues and matters not reserved for the Board as a whole.
Group Management has reserved lists to assist it in carrying
out its functions.
Examples of matters reserved for Group Management as delegated
authorities from the Board include:
• The approval of day-to-day business issues linked to strategy or
the annual budget.
• The launch of new products.
• The approval of contractual commitments.
• The approval of expenditure and the management of any issue
that could have a potential legal or reputational impact on the
Group.
Group Management
08 | STRATEGIC REPORT | This is F&C and Group Management
3 3
4 4
5 5
Richard Wilson
Chief Executive Officer
Benjamin Apfel
Head of Legal
Peter Cole
Head of HR
Nick Criticos
Chief Executive, F&C REIT
Steve Ilott
Co-Head of Investment
David Logan
Chief Financial Officer
Mandy Mannix
Head of Client Management
Hugh Moir
Head of Operations & IT
CEO of Thames River LLP
Nigel Parry
Head of Compliance
Martin Smith
Head of Product Management
Marrack Tonkin
Head of Investment Trusts & Group
Company Secretary
Richard Watts
Co-Head of Investment
Assets Under Management by Client Category
as at 31 December
Assets Under Management by Asset Class
as at 31 December
2012 2013
£bn £bn
Strategic Partners 58.5 42.3
Third-Party Institutional 24.4 26.1
Investment Trusts 6.0 6.7
Retail 5.0 6.1
Wholesale 1.3 0.9
2012 2013
£bn £bn
Fixed Interest 56.3 40.9
Equities 25.7 28.3
Property 7.5 7.3
Liquidity 4.5 4.6
Alternative Investments 1.2 1.0
1 1
2 2
2013
£82.1bn
2012
£95.2bn
2
1
3
4
5
1
2
3
4
5
2013
£82.1bn
2012
£95.2bn
2
1
3
4
5
1
2
3
4 5 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 09
Our strategy
The Group’s strategic focus in 2013 has been on the following:
• Delivery of strong investment performance;
• Growing assets under management and revenues within our Consumer and Institutional business
by generating new flows into existing products and launching new products into areas of client
demand where we have the capability to deliver a differentiated offering;
• Retaining Strategic Partner assets, where it is commercial for us to do so, and maximising client
retention within our Consumer and Institutional business; and
• Continuing to deliver the planned cost savings associated with the strategic review, improving
cashflow generation and reducing net debt.
Investment performance
2013 key points
• 90 per cent of fixed income assets were ahead of agreed index
benchmarks or targets over three years as at year end
• 70 per cent of equity assets were ahead of agreed index
benchmarks or targets over three years as at the year end
• 77 per cent of IPD monitored property portfolios were ahead of
benchmark over three years as at the year end
2014 Priorities
• To continue to focus on meeting or exceeding the performance
objectives set by our clients
• Improve investment performance in areas of weaker relative
performance, e.g. emerging equities
Key performance indicators
Average percentage of Fixed Income assets above index benchmark
or peer group on an asset-weighted basis
% (3 years)
90 2013
90 2012
87 2011
Average percentage of Equity assets above index benchmark or peer
group on an asset-weighted basis
% (3 years)
70 2013
50 2012
64 2011
Average percentage of Property assets above index benchmark or
peer group on an asset-weighted basis
% (3 years)
77 2013
78 2012
98 2011
Investment performance
Performance fees earned
£m
11.6 2013
9.5 2012
11.8 2011
Grow new assets under management within our
Consumer & Institutional business
2013 key points
• Generated £1.3 billion of Consumer and Institutional net inflows
• Good progress with institutional investment consultants, with
74 product buy ratings achieved by the end of the year
• Generated £5.1 billion of Third-Party Institutional gross sales,
with a further pipeline of £0.7 billion in institutional mandates
awaiting funding
• 100 new institutional clients added during the year
• Launched 4 new products into the Consumer business
• Two thirds of our Investment Trusts issued shares during the year
raising in excess of £100m in new assets
2014 Priorities
• Continued focus within the Consumer business on our
Multi-Manager and Lifestyle product ranges
• Key institutional products include emerging market debt,
equity-linked bond funds, liability driven investments and
real estate
• Restructure our distribution resource to maximise new
business growth opportunities
• Increase our distribution resource within the Institutional
business
• Grow gross inflows into the business and widen the product
range where opportunities are identified Key performance indicators
Gross Third-Party Institutional new business*
£bn
5.1 2013
2.9 2012
4.4 2011
Net inflows/(outflows) in Consumer business*
£bn
0.5 2013
(0.1) 2012
0.1 2011
Net inflows/(outflows) from Consumer & Institutional business*
£bn
1.3 2013
(1.9) 2012
0 2011
* 2011 comparative figures have been restated to reflect the revised classification of assets
under management with effect from 1 January 2012.
Retaining Strategic Partner assets and
maximising client retention within our Consumer
and Institutional businesses
2013 key points
• £20.3 billion of Strategic Partner outflows reflecting the maturity
and changing nature of contractual relationships with these
parties
• Revised contractual arrangements signed with Friends First in
Ireland over the remaining £1.5 billion of assets managed on
their behalf
• Revised commercial terms agreed with Achmea on £6 billion of
remaining “own risk” assets
• Continued management of £11.2 billion of assets for Millennium
BCP in Portugal
• Revised contractual terms agreed with a major Institutional client
of F&C REIT
• Net inflows within both our Consumer and Institutional
businesses
2014 Priorities
• Continued focus on the retention of Consumer and Institutional
business
• Develop and implement client specific account plans for key
Institutional clients
• Retention of existing Strategic Partners where it is commercial to
do so
Key performance indicators
Average basis points earned on assets under management*
24.9 2013
23.9 2012
24.4 2011
*Excluding performance fees.
Delivery of the planned cost savings, improving
cash flow and reducing net debt
2013 key points
• Core operating costs reduced by a further £19.3 million in 2013
(2012 reduction £23.2m)
#
. See page 139
• The cost reduction/realignment programme remains on target to
deliver £48.8 million of annualised cost savings
• Operating margin increased to 36.9% (2012: 29.2%)
• Net debt reduced to £76.0m (2012: £97.3m)
2014 Priorities
• Further reduction in net debt
• Continued focus on managing the cost base
Key performance indicators
Underlying operating margin
#
%
36.9 2013
29.2 2012
24.4 2011
Net debt
†
£m
76.0 2013
97.3 2012
77.8 2011
†
Excluding Policyholder cash.
#
2012 – as restated for the adaption of IAS 19 Employee benefits (revised), as disclosed
in note 1.
10 | STRATEGIC REPORT | Our strategy ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 11
Managing principal risks and uncertainties
The Directors are committed to a strong control environment throughout the Group. F&C has a culture
that emphasises the importance of rigorous disciplines and procedures to safeguard the interests of our
clients and other key stakeholders.
Effective execution of strategy
Key Risk The success of the Group depends upon the successful
formulation, articulation and execution of its strategy and the ability
to adapt to changes in the business environment to ensure it
remains competitive. Growth in Third-Party Institutional and
Consumer AUM and, more critically, revenues, is key to the
successful delivery of strategy. Poor execution may lead to a lack of
growth and competitiveness as well as reduced profitability.
Mitigation The Group has the articulated objective of achieving
competitive scale in areas of strategic focus through consistent
investment in products, channels and human resources. The Group
has sought to ensure that its product development, distribution and
investment processes are aligned, positioning it to deliver a
competitive product offering in areas of key focus. Clearly-defined
distribution targets allow management to monitor progress in AUM
and revenue growth.
Uncertain economic outlook
Key Risk The UK and global macroeconomic outlook remains
uncertain. Client investment preferences, and the Group’s AUM and
revenues, may be impacted by underlying economic and market
conditions. In addition, a substantial proportion of the Group’s
revenues are denominated in Euros. Adverse market conditions in
one or more asset classes or changes in economic factors may lead
to a reduction in AUM and/or revenues. In addition, actual or
perceived changes in market or economic outlook may lead clients
to alter their allocations to particular products or asset classes.
Mitigation The Group offers competitive products across a wide
range of asset classes, including equity, fixed income, property and
multi-asset, limiting its exposure to the impact of market volatility in
any one market or asset class. Further, a number of the Group’s
investment-solutions products are much longer term in nature, and
their performance and marketability is less impacted by short-term
market volatility. The Board periodically considers hedging the
Group’s Euro-denominated cashflows.
Investment performance
Key Risk The delivery of strong investment performance depends
upon the successful management of client portfolios against targets,
benchmarks and/or peer groups. Failure to meet these objectives
could lead to outflows, may impact the Group’s ability to win new
mandates or assets and may potentially expose the Group to
greater risk of mandate or regulatory breach.
Mitigation Fund managers are responsible for interpreting and
effectively managing performance and risk associated with
investment ideas/strategies. The Group operates an independent
Investment Risk Oversight team which monitors and challenges
risks within client portfolios and provides appropriate management
information. A Performance and Risk Review Committee for each
individual area meets regularly (normally monthly) to ensure an
appropriate level of oversight is applied to investment performance
and risk. A key role of the heads of F&C’s investment functions is to
monitor the fund performance achieved by our investment
professionals. Where it is considered necessary, actions are taken to
change process or personnel with a view to attaining top quartile
performance.
Loss of key employees
Key Risk The success of the Group depends on the support of its
employees in key areas including investment, distribution, marketing
and product development. Over the last two years, the Group has
rationalised its business and headcount in line with its strategic
goals and ambitions. The loss of key employees may prevent the
Group from winning new business or meeting its strategic goals,
and may lead to client outflows and the loss of key mandates.
Mitigation The Group’s compensation model targets the retention
of key employees. All employees receive an annual appraisal which
reviews their performance against clearly-defined objectives with the
aim of encouraging strong performance. Reliance on key individuals
is mitigated by the Group’s team-based approach to investment
management. Moreover, we seek to reduce our dependence on key
staff through the recruitment of suitably-skilled individuals and by
ensuring succession plans are in place for senior roles to provide
emergency or immediate coverage.
Breach of client or portfolio limits
Key Risk Many of the Group’s investment mandates include
specific limits, restrictions and/or exclusions on the construction or
content of portfolios agreed with the client. In addition, certain
pooled fund products may be subject to specific regulatory or fiscal
limits, restrictions and/or exclusions. Any breach of client mandate
may render the Group liable to pay financial compensation.
Mitigation A Group-wide database is utilised to record all
mandate-related rules. Fund managers provide the Group’s first line
of defence in ensuring that funds are managed within mandate.
In addition, the risk team conducts a regular review of mandate
compliance.
Regulation
Key Risk The UK, European and global regulatory environments
are evolving rapidly. The expectations of financial regulators are
changing and regulated groups must embed regulatory compliance
in their business models to an even greater extent than previously
required. Regulation has become, in many areas, more complex and
onerous, and regulated entities are faced with shorter timelines to
interpret and implement new regulation. There is substantial
complexity from overlapping regulatory directives. Regulatory
change may lead to consolidation in the marketplace, the launch of
new products, withdrawal or commoditisation of existing products and increased reliance on specialist third-party service providers as
asset managers increasingly focus on core activities of investment
management, client servicing and distribution.
Mitigation The Group Compliance team ensures that key
regulatory changes are identified at the earliest opportunity. Their
impact is then assessed to allow practical guidance on the proper
application and interpretation of any changes to be provided to all
relevant business areas. Related business change is supervised
through the Group’s change management process and oversight
provided through the Group Management Committee and Audit and
Compliance Committee.
Loss of key clients
Key Risk The Group’s revenues are derived from the assets it
manages and the relationships it has with its clients. Historically, the
Group derived a significant portion of its revenues from a small
group of Strategic Partner clients, with whom it had long-term
contractual relationships. These long-term relationships have either
reached, or are shortly due to reach, maturity and there is an
ongoing risk that these clients either withdraw significant AUM or
terminate their relationship.
Mitigation The Group acknowledges the revenue contribution
made by its Strategic Partner clients, and will seek to retain these
relationships where it is viable and economically appropriate to do
so; our focus is on investment performance, strong relationship
management and understanding the evolving needs and
expectations of these clients to maximise asset retention. However,
the Group’s strategy recognises the concentration risk to these
clients and seeks to mitigate it through the growth of third-party
Consumer and Institutional revenues and the identification of
potential further cost reductions which may be implemented in the
event of Strategic Partner revenue loss.
Reliance on third parties
Key Risk In pursuing a strategy with a focus on competitive scale,
the use of outsourced service providers benefits the Group by
providing cost-effective access to an industry-competitive
operating platform. The Group’s key outsource partners are State
Street Corporation (State Street) and International Financial Data
Services (IFDS). State Street provides a range of back and middle
office, fund accounting and transfer agency services and IFDS
provides an administrative service for certain Retail and Investment
Trust savings products.
Mitigation The Group conducted an extensive selection and due
diligence exercise prior to selecting State Street and IFDS as
outsource providers and entering into the related contractual
arrangements. The Group led this process using an internal project
team, supported by external legal and consultancy advisors. Since
the implementation of the contracts, the Group has established a
Supplier and Change Management team to oversee and monitor
third-party service delivery and ensure there is appropriate oversight
and effective resolution of issues. Arrangements are in place to
ensure that both State Street and IFDS are incentivised to provide
the level of service that is required. The Supplier and Change
Management team holds regular service review meetings with State
Street and IFDS as part of the ongoing governance arrangements.
Business continuity and information technology
Key Risk The Group’s success is dependent on access to a robust
IT infrastructure and appropriate IT systems. The Group is exposed
to the risk that its infrastructure and systems are unable to meet the
demands of client, regulatory and/or technology change.
Mitigation The Group has a short and medium-term IT plan with
clear objectives to meet mandatory change requirements, deliver
further integration of systems and enhance the agility of the Group.
The Group maintains and periodically tests its business continuity
arrangements.
Counterparty credit exposure
Key Risk The Group is exposed to credit risk and the risk of failure
in respect of counterparties used to hold corporate cash on deposit.
Mitigation The Group adopts a low-risk approach to treasury
management in respect of its capital. The treasury policy permits
placement of Group capital only with approved counterparties and
sets out quantum and duration limits. The Group Counterparty
Credit Committee meets on a regular basis (normally monthly) to
ensure an appropriate level of oversight is applied to counterparty
credit risk and to set and review appropriate counterparties and
exposure limits.
Scottish independence referendum
Key risk The Group’s ultimate holding company is a Scottish-
registered company and a number of subsidiary companies and
clients are registered in Scotland. The impending Scottish
Referendum creates a level of uncertainty and its outcome may have
adverse financial or other consequences for the Group.
Mitigation The Group considers that, should the vote be in favour
of independence, there will be a transitional period during which
there will be an opportunity to assess the new situation and take any
appropriate action.
12 | STRATEGIC REPORT | Managing principal risks and uncertainties ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 13
The outlook for the asset management industry remains positive.
Continued changes to the structure of pension provision have
supported demand and provided impetus for ongoing innovation in
products. Increasing personal wealth in the emerging economies
provides a new pool of assets to manage, creating scope for growth
in the industry.
With a growing number of pension schemes (of all sizes) actively
seeking specialist investment expertise as they re-orientate
themselves from a primary focus on return generation to de-risking
and immunisation of future liabilities, demand for liability driven
strategies remains strong. The asset management industry has
responded to this demand with a raft of increasingly sophisticated
and innovative offerings. More broadly, asset managers are
increasingly providing options for those seeking sources of return
outside core assets with multi-asset, emerging market debt and
diversified alternatives increasingly prevalent alongside more
traditional products.
As open defined benefit (DB) pension schemes become increasingly
scarce the defined contribution (DC) pensions market continues to
grow rapidly. Government initiatives have triggered greater inflows
into DC pension products and raised public awareness of the
importance of long-term pension planning. Since October 2012 UK
companies have been legally obliged to auto-enrol employees
between the ages of 22 and the state pension age and earning more
than £8,105 into a pension scheme and make a minimum
contribution on their behalf. According to the Pension Regulator, by
the end of 2013, around 2.6 million employees had been
automatically enrolled into an appropriate pension scheme. The
National Employment Savings Trust (NEST) provides an option for
individuals with no access to a company pension scheme.
Responsible investment is now firmly on the mainstream investor
agenda, with a growing consensus that consideration of
environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues can enhance
investment analysis and underpin long-term returns. The UN
Principles for Responsible Investment, to which F&C was a founder
member, are proving to be an important driver in many markets, with
membership growing and a new reporting framework in place which
requires institutions to be more transparent about their compliance. A
major emerging trend is the growth in demand for meaningful ESG
integration – the assessment of ESG issues within mainstream
investment processes. The aim of integration is to build a better
understanding of how issues such as corporate governance, climate
change and labour standards management may impact long-term
company performance.
Within the Retail and Wholesale markets the Retail Distribution
Review (RDR) was noticeable in its impact during the first half of
2013. Asset flows from advisers and wealth managers were lower
than normal as many advisory firms were focused on adapting their
business models to meet the new regulatory environment. Advisers
are no longer able to receive payment from product providers for any
new recommendations made to clients, and this means the cost of
the adviser’s fee has transferred from the product provider directly to
the client. Greater transparency of costs and charges has, in turn, led
to a reduction in product and fund charges as cost becomes an
increasingly important differentiator between products and asset
managers. It is encouraging to note that Retail fund flows from
advisers picked up in the second half of the year as both
advisers and clients showed signs of adjusting to the new
regulatory environment.
A further impact of RDR is the sharp increase in the number of
consumers choosing to make their own investment decisions. More
banks announced changes to their advice propositions in 2013,
further reducing availability of advice, particularly for those with lower
levels of assets. We expect significant Retail market disturbance to
continue, if not increase, up to the Financial Conduct Authority’s
(FCA) sunset clause for pre-RDR trail commission in 2016. This has
come to the fore in the first quarter of 2014 with the recent flurry of
revised ‘clean’ pricing structures across the self-directed market,
ahead of the April 2014 deadline for new business. This presents a
significant opportunity for well-positioned asset managers with
straightforward consumer products designed for, and capable of
delivering cost effectively to, the mass lower net worth market.
2013 was a positive year for the Investment Trust sector. Investment
performance has, in the main, been encouraging especially relative to
comparable open-ended offerings. Discounts across the industry
have narrowed to their lowest level for many years, IPOs and
secondary issues are up on 2012 and share buy-backs have
fallen-off significantly. Demand for Investment Trusts from wealth
managers has been strong, encouraged by another good year in
equity markets. There is early evidence that RDR is creating some
additional demand for Investment Trusts from the intermediary sector
and a number of IFA platforms have been active buyers of trusts,
albeit from a low base. Equally interesting is the more significant
growth in Investment Trust assets under administration on direct-to-
consumer platforms; clearly one outcome of RDR has been a rise in
the number of individuals choosing to self-manage their investments
rather than rely on advice. We are still far from seeing the full effects
of RDR on the Investment Trust sector and there is more for the
sector to do to ensure advisers fully understand the intricacies of
Investment Trusts.
As noted above, product pricing in the UK Retail sector has
increasingly come under scrutiny, and this trend is extending to the
Wholesale and Institutional channel, partly as investors increased
their scrutiny of fund charges during the period of lower investment
returns that commenced with the financial crisis in 2008, and partly
as a result of the increasing availability of lower-cost passive products
in many areas of the market. Increased regulatory focus in this area is
likely to ensure that this increased scrutiny is a continuing theme.
Regulatory change is another key feature of the market, with the FCA
rightly ensuring that market participants focus appropriately on the
interests of their clients. Whilst client focus has always been at the
centre of the Group’s core values, over the last year we have taken
the opportunity to reinforce this through training and communication
and have reviewed our governance policies and processes in a
number of key areas, including our product governance and
oversight arrangements for fair treatment of customers.
Our industry view Our trading performance and outlook
Introduction
F&C provides asset management services to two groups of clients,
which we classify as Strategic Partners and Consumer and
Institutional clients. Our proposition for Consumer and Institutional
investors comprises a wide range of investment products and funds,
sold to third-party Retail, Wholesale and Institutional clients.
Strategic Partners represent a small group of insurance clients for
whom we have historically managed assets under longer-term
contractual arrangements. As these contractual relationships reach
maturity, our focus is on the retention of those clients and assets
which we can manage on a profitable basis aligned with our
investment processes and priorities for our Consumer and
Institutional business. Key factors in maximising Strategic Partner
retention include a relevant, competitively priced product offering
which delivers appropriate investment performance and strong client
service and relationship management. Strategic Partner
relationships are generally of much greater size than our average
customer relationships, whether measured by AUM or revenues.
Given the nature of the business managed for our Strategic
Partners, we anticipate that, as a number of the underlying
insurance products provided by Strategic Partners move towards
maturity, the assets managed for these clients will decline.
Accordingly, in order for the Group to win new AUM and revenues,
we are heavily dependent on the Consumer and Institutional
channel, and our marketing, sales and product development efforts
are therefore biased towards this area of our business.
Strategic Partner business
Our Strategic Partners comprise: Millennium BCP (Portugal),
Achmea (The Netherlands), Friends First (Ireland) and Friends Life
(UK). The assets managed for these entities principally comprise
insurance funds but also include certain sub-advised mutual funds
and pension scheme assets. We provide Strategic Partners with
portfolio management in multi-asset and single-asset class
mandates and a range of investment solutions, such as liability-
hedging strategies and shareholder engagement programmes.
These are long-standing relationships, which originally provided us
with exclusivity to manage the assets of these partners for a
minimum period of time. However, the maturity of the original
contracts has resulted in a number of changes to the AUM,
revenues and the nature of the relationships with these key
clients. The AUM for Strategic Partners were £42.3 billion at
31 December 2013 (2012: £58.5 billion), or approximately 52 per
cent (2012: 61 per cent) of total AUM. However, as a result of the
lower fee margin on these mandates, Strategic Partners generated
approximately 29 per cent of 2013 revenues (2012: 33 per cent).
The exclusivity period with Millennium BCP ended in 2012. At
31 December 2013, we continued to manage approximately £11.2
billion on behalf of Millennium BCP (2012: £11.4 billion), which
principally represents the funds associated with the BCP Ageas
insurance joint venture. Net outflows during the year were
approximately £1.3 billion, with the majority of these outflows
representing the maturity of fixed life, unit-linked insurance policies,
although approximately £260 million of outflows arose from the
termination of property asset management mandates during Q4
2013, which Millennium BCP determined to manage internally. The
annualised revenue associated with these property mandates is
approximately £1.5 million.
The Achmea long-term contract expired in October 2013 and at that
date Achmea withdrew some £10 billion of “own risk” assets.
Principally as a result of that withdrawal, assets managed on behalf
of Achmea fell from £22.8 billion at 31 December 2012 to £13.4
billion at 31 December 2013, with the assets managed at
31 December 2013 representing a combination of remaining own
risk assets, Retail funds and insured institutional pension schemes.
The withdrawal of own risk assets during 2013, together with
renegotiated fee rates for the remaining own risk assets, will result in
an annualised reduction in all revenues from Achmea of
approximately £15.7 million.
Whilst the Friends First long-term contract extended to 2015, we
agreed to amend our commercial arrangements with Friends First
during Q3 2013. In particular, we allowed Friends First to terminate
certain own risk mandates in advance of their contractual maturity,
as this permitted us to restructure our Irish operation and
consequently reduce the Group’s cost base. Friends First AUM
declined from £2.4 billion at 31 December 2012 to £1.5 billion at
31 December 2013, principally as a result of the reduction in own
risk assets. This withdrawal reduced our annualised revenues from
Friends First by approximately £1 million.
Friends Life AUM at 31 December 2013 were approximately
£16.2 billion (2012: £21.9 billion). The Friends Life long-term
contract is due to expire during 2014. However, on 18 March 2014
F&C was informed by Friends Life that they have selected a new
investment manager in respect of £12.2 billion of multi-asset and
equity mandates currently managed by F&C and that they intend to
transfer a further £2.3 billion of sterling fixed income assets to
Friends Life Investments, their in-house asset manager. The Group
has received notice of termination or an indication to serve notice in
respect of these assets and anticipates that they will be withdrawn
by the end of the year.
Consumer and Institutional
F&C is a leading provider of services to third-party investors, which
we broadly categorise as either Third-Party Institutional business, or
Consumer business, and which comprise open-end Retail funds
and Investment Trusts. As set out above, the Consumer and
Institutional business is the Group’s key driver for growth and it is
therefore pleasing to note that Consumer and Institutional AUM have
grown from £36.7 billion in 2012 to £39.8 billion in 2013 and that
the Consumer and Institutional business generated net inflows of
£1.3 billion during 2013.
The Third-Party Institutional business includes a range of solutions-
led products, principally aimed at assisting clients to immunise their
liabilities, together with a range of return-seeking products across
14 | STRATEGIC REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 15
asset classes: equity, property, fixed income and multi-asset. Our
largest Institutional client base is defined benefit pension schemes
and our largest markets for Third-Party Institutional business are The
Netherlands, the UK and Germany. Institutional AUM were £26.1
billion at 31 December 2013 (2012: £24.4 billion) representing 32
per cent (2012: 26 per cent) of our total AUM and some 30 per cent
of 2013 net revenues. Mandates in the institutional asset
management industry are predominantly intermediated through firms
of investment consultants who advise pension schemes on manager
selection and asset allocation. In recent years F&C has achieved a
much improved position with investment consultants, and this
resulted in gross institutional inflows of £5.1 billion in 2013 (2012:
£2.9 billion). Gross institutional outflows of £4.0 billion were slightly
greater than the prior year (2012: £3.7 billion). However, primarily as
a result of the growth in inflows, net flows improved from an outflow
of £0.7 billion in 2012 to a net inflow of £1.2 billion in 2013.
Additionally, at 31 December 2013 the Group had a further pipeline
of institutional new business that had been won, but had not yet
funded, net of notified withdrawals, of some £0.7 billion. We believe
our institutional business is well positioned for growth, with strong
investment track records, significant scale and consultant support in
a number of core capabilities. As we look forward, we see significant
opportunities to grow our institutional AUM and revenues,
particularly from further growth in our liability-matching products
and, in the medium term, multi-asset products.
The Group also offers a wide range of collective investment vehicles
which are distributed into the Retail and Wholesale markets,
principally through Independent Financial Advisers, discretionary
wealth managers and other Wholesale channels such as banks and
platforms. These products comprise closed-end listed investment
companies/Investment Trusts and both UK and offshore-domiciled
open-ended mutual funds. We classify these products and channels
as consumer business. Some of these vehicles are managed by
F&C staff and others by teams operating through the Thames River
LLPs. It is important to distinguish between these, as the allocation
of revenues and profits differs significantly. Where a fund is managed
by a Thames River team, the revenues earned from that fund, net of
the direct costs of managing the fund, and certain allocated costs,
are shared between the senior investment professionals in the
investment team and the Group under a predetermined profit-share
formula. This typically results in the senior investment professionals
receiving around 50 per cent of the relevant profits. Where a fund is
managed by F&C staff, the relevant investment managers are
generally remunerated by a combination of salary plus a
discretionary bonus.
During 2013, the total assets managed in fund products and
Investment Trusts increased by £1.4 billion to £13.7 billion at
31 December 2013. However, within this net growth, AUM
attributable to Thames River Wholesale funds fell by some
£0.4 billion whilst AUM attributable to funds managed by F&C teams
grew by some £1.8 billion. Net inflows came from products such as
Global Convertibles, Emerging Market Debt and Multi-Manager,
whilst outflows were biased towards products such as Global Bond
and Global Credit.
We anticipate that our Retail sales will be biased towards Multi-
Manager products in 2014, whilst we believe that our strong
European equities performance positions us well for flows in both
the Retail and Wholesale channels. Our financial performance
16 | STRATEGIC REPORT |
Strategic and market backdrop
The Group conducted a thorough review of strategy in 2011 and the
resulting objectives are summarised on page9 of these Financial
Statements. The review of strategy acknowledged that, as historical
Strategic Partner contracts came to maturity, there was a significant
risk of repatriation of assets by those clients. It sought to address
this risk through a combination of active management of the Group’s
cost base, to ensure that the Group remained financially robust
should a significant withdrawal of Strategic Partner assets and a
related decline in revenues occur, and through targeting accelerated
growth in the Consumer and Institutional channel, to provide new
sources of revenue. It also sought to improve cashflow generation,
to reduce the Group’s net indebtedness and, in turn, its net
interest expense.
The Group is a manager of assets in equity, fixed income and
currency markets and its revenues are affected by movements in
key variables within these markets. Equity market levels and fixed
income market levels impact our AUM and, consequently, our
revenues; at the end of 2013 approximately 50 per cent of our
assets were invested in fixed income securities, and a further 34 per
cent in equities. In 2013 we earned approximately 41 per cent of our
revenues in Euros, primarily in respect of assets managed by our
Dutch and Portuguese subsidiaries, and our reported revenues are
impacted by the exchange rates used to translate these amounts to
Sterling. Depending on the nature of our products and mandates,
revenues may be determined by reference to daily, monthly or
quarterly AUM levels.
Equity markets posted strong returns over 2013; the FTSE 100
opened at 5898; it increased significantly to 6840 in May before
subsequently falling to 6029 on 24 June 2013 and recovering
strongly to close the year at 6749. The average FTSE 100 level over
2013 was 6472. Fixed Income markets posted lower levels of return
during 2013 as investors increased their allocations to risk assets.
For example, the Barclays Euro Aggregate Index, a broad fixed
income index, opened the year at 159.5 and closed the year at
167.2, an increase of some 4.8 per cent.
Presentation of financial results
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) require our
Financial Statements to consolidate the results of our Managed
Pension Funds (MPF) business on a line-by-line basis, impacting the
presentation of both our Income Statement and Statement of
Financial Position. Our MPF business provided certain clients with
asset management services inside an insurance product wrapper;
however, as MPF was not an area of strategic focus for the Group
and AUM within MPF had declined substantially over the last few
years, a project was initiated in 2012 to offer clients the opportunity
to transfer their funds to either pooled funds managed by F&C, or to
an alternative provider. As a result, the financial investments,
investment contract liabilities and cash attributable to policyholders
of MPF have reduced to de minimis amounts by 31 December 2013
and the remaining balances were redeemed during Q1 2014.
Net revenue
Net revenue for the year was £241.2 million (2012: £243.5 million).
This included £11.6 million (2012: £9.5 million) of performance fee
income. Performance fee income was earned from a variety of fund
and client types, with our property Investment Trusts making the
most significant contributions; the TR Property Trust earned a
performance fee of £3.1 million, whilst the F&C Commercial Property
Trust contributed performance fees of £2.6 million.
Our revenue mix reflects the changing nature of our business, and
as Strategic Partner AUM declines, the associated revenue fell by
some £10.8 million during the year. By contrast, Consumer and
Institutional revenues increased by £8.5 million.
The reduction in Strategic Partner revenues reflects the reduction in
AUM. Strategic Partner AUM at the start of 2013 was £58.5 billion,
some £5.2 billion, or approximately 8 per cent, lower than at the
start of the previous year, with this reduction reflected in opening
revenues. In addition, over the course of 2013, Strategic Partner
assets declined by a further £16.2 billion, to end the year at £42.3
billion. The reduction during the year included withdrawals of £6.0
billion of fixed income assets by Friends Life in June 2013 and £10
billion of own risk fixed income assets by Achmea in October 2013,
together with ongoing withdrawals, partially offset by market growth
and foreign exchange gains of £4.1 billion. Our average fee rate
earned on Strategic Partner assets in 2013 was 13 basis points,
being consistent with the rate earned in 2012. This rate is expected
to fall due to the impact of lower fee rates associated with the
retained Achmea own risk assets.
The growth in Consumer and Institutional revenues principally
reflects greater AUM, together with increased performance fees.
Consumer and Institutional AUM opened 2013 at £36.7 billion,
broadly in line with prior year opening assets. However, over the
course of 2013, net inflows of £1.3 billion, together with market
growth and foreign exchange movements of £1.8 billion, resulted in
AUM increasing to £39.8 billion by the end of the year. Our average
fee rate was 43 basis points in both 2012 and 2013.
Consumer and Institutional fund flows represent a key performance
indicator (KPI) used by the Board and management to assess the
progress of the business. As noted above, Consumer and
Institutional net inflows during 2013 were positive, at £1.3 billion.
However, the annualised revenues from these net flows were
modest as the inflows carried an average revenue margin of 39
basis points, whilst the average revenue margin on outflows was
approximately 45 basis points. In addition, during Q3 2013 a
significant property asset management contract expired and, whilst
the asset management activities were successfully retained, the
related revenues reduced by approximately £2.8 million in 2013 and
will reduce by a further £5.7 million in 2014. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 17
Revenue margin
Our revenue margin excluding performance fees, measured as our
net management fee income divided by average AUM, increased
from 23.9 basis points in 2012, to 24.9 basis points in 2013. The
increase principally reflects the significant outflows of Strategic
Partner assets, which carry a fee margin of approximately 50 per
cent of the Group’s average revenue margin.
Operating expenses
The Group’s underlying operating expenses, excluding foreign
exchange gains and losses, amortisation of intangible assets and
exceptional items, were £152.4 million in 2013, a reduction of some
£19.8 million, or 11.5 per cent, over prior year levels. Over the last
two years, underlying operating expenses have reduced by some
£49.7 million, as the Group successfully achieved its goal of
reducing its cost base to provide financial flexibility as Strategic
Partner AUM and revenues decline. A summary comparison of
underlying operating expenses for 2013 and 2012 is given on
page 139.
The 2013 reduction comprises two elements. Firstly, core operating
expenses fell from £160.6 million in the prior year to £141.3 million in
2013, a reduction of £19.3 million. This reflects the implementation
of the cost reductions outlined in the Group’s strategic review and
we remain on track to generate cumulative cost savings in line with
the original target of £48.8 million, although certain of these savings
may be used to fund selective investment in key growth areas of the
Group’s business. Secondly, distributions to the individual members
of the Thames River Limited Partnerships fell from £11.6 million in
2012 to £11.1 million in 2013, reflecting reduced management fees
from the Thames River Wholesale funds, partially offset by the
distributions associated with the increased performance fees
generated by the TR Property Trust. The Group’s largest cost
remains personnel cost and during the year, headcount, on a full-
time equivalent basis, fell by some 65 to 658 at 31 December 2013.
During 2012, we incurred exceptional employment, premises and
outsourcing expenses of £12.8 million and one of our goals for 2013
was to reduce these costs and the related cashflows significantly.
This has been successfully achieved, with comparable 2013
exceptional expenses of £4.3 million of which some £2.6 million was
incurred during the first half of the year. These exceptional costs are
excluded from our underlying results and are set out in more detail in
note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
As noted above, we continued to implement the cost-reduction
programme which we announced as part of 2011’s strategic review.
The majority of these cost savings were realised through headcount
reductions and during 2013 exceptional employment-related costs
of £2.4 million have been recognised in respect of termination and
benefits payments; these represent the one-off cost incurred to
generate the annualised savings. We do not anticipate any further
exceptional expenses associated with the implementation of the
strategic review in 2014 or beyond.
During the first half of 2013, we incurred a further £1.6 million of
project management, implementation and consultancy costs
completing the transfer of our back and middle office functions to
State Street’s long-term strategic platform. This represented the final
phase of our outsourcing project which commenced in 2011 and
accordingly the exceptional expenditure ended at this point.
Operating margin
The Group’s underlying operating margin for 2013 was 36.9 per
cent compared to 29.2 per cent in 2012.
Operating margin is measured as underlying operating profit as a
percentage of net revenue. For this purpose, adjusted operating
profit represents operating profit before the impact of exceptional
items but after deducting variable compensation payable to
members of Thames River partnerships.
The successful implementation of the cost-reduction programme
has been a key contributor to the improvement in operating margin,
with 2013 cost reductions adding approximately 8.2 per cent.
Operating margin represents one of management’s key performance
indicators. However, as a result of the reduction in annualised
revenues from Strategic Partners, highlighted in our trading outlook,
together with the limited scope for further cost savings before such
reductions have potentially adverse consequences on the growth
prospects of the business, it is likely that, in the short term,
operating margin will reduce from its 2013 levels.
Foreign exchange gains and losses
As indicated earlier in this review, the Group’s results are sensitive to
foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Translational gains and losses on
revenues and expenses are reflected within the Sterling equivalent of
those revenues and expenses; however, the Group also incurs
exchange gains and losses on the retranslation of assets and
liabilities held in foreign currency. During the year these gains
amounted to £0.4 million (2012: losses of £2.0 million). Such gains
and losses are excluded from underlying earnings as they do not
reflect the ongoing profitability of the business.
On a constant-currency basis, had 2013 results been recognised at
the same average Euro/Sterling exchange rate as 2012, the
underlying operating profit would have been some £3.3 million lower
than reported. This equates to an underlying earnings per share
impact of approximately 0.5p.
Financing revenue and expenses
The Group’s finance revenue fell to £2.3 million (2012: £3.9 million),
principally as a result of gains on debt repurchases arising in 2012;
as there were no debt repurchases during 2013, no such gains
were recognised.
Our finance costs fell by £1.0 million to £22.1 million, primarily as a
result of reduced interest of £0.9 million on our senior and
subordinated loan notes, as a consequence of the aforementioned
debt repurchases in 2012. Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets
Under IFRS, when an acquisition is made, there is a requirement to
recognise separately the fair value attributed to intangible assets, in
our case, management contracts. The excess of consideration over
the fair value of net assets acquired represents the business value
and infrastructure and is recognised as goodwill.
Management contracts are separated by client category and are
amortised over their estimated useful lives. Where an indicator of
impairment occurs, such as greater than anticipated fund losses, we
are required to review the carrying value of these contracts.
During 2013, F&C REIT, the Group’s property asset management
business, renegotiated and renewed the contract with one of its
major clients. As previously noted, this resulted in a reduction in
revenues of £2.8 million in 2013 and a further £5.7 million in 2014.
This was viewed as an indicator of impairment and accordingly a
full impairment review of the related intangible asset was
conducted, resulting in recognition of an impairment loss of
£1.4 million and a reassessment of the remaining life of the
unamortised asset. Our total amortisation and impairment
cost in respect of investment management contracts for 2013
was £42.7 million (2012: £42.5 million); this cost is excluded from
underling earnings.
We are also required to conduct an annual impairment review of the
carrying value of goodwill. This review demonstrated that there was
no impairment and hence no requirement to write-down goodwill.
Thames River acquisition
The Group continues to incur various acquisition-related expenses
arising from the acquisition of the Thames River group; in line with
the treatment adopted in previous years, these amounts have also
been classified as exceptional and excluded from the measurement
of underlying earnings.
Firstly, at the time of acquisition in 2010, the Group established a
Management Retention Plan (MRP) to retain and incentivise certain
key individuals within Thames River. Some 21.7 million F&C shares,
with a value of £15 million at date of grant, were originally awarded
under this plan. The value of these share awards was treated as an
expense and charged to the Income Statement over the vesting
period. The MRP vested in August 2013 and some 19.2 million F&C
shares were issued to meet our commitments under the Plan. The
cost of the Plan recognised in the eight months to 1 September
2013 was £1.2 million.
Secondly, at the time of the acquisition, the Group entered into
agreements (the Commutation Arrangements) with the Individual
Members of the Thames River Limited Partnerships. Under the
Commutation Arrangements, the Group agreed, under certain
circumstances, to purchase part of the Individual Members’ profit
share in the partnerships by issuing F&C shares in consideration. As
the Commutation Arrangements can only be exercised by members
who are still actively involved in the Thames River business and
those members must continue in the business for a further two
years in order to receive the full amount of their consideration, IFRS
requires the estimated value of the shares which may be issued
under the Commutation Arrangements to be treated as an expense,
recognised between the date of award and the expiry of the period
in which the member must remain in the business. The
Commutation Arrangements can be split into two parts.
Under the first commutation, an investment team which had positive
fund flows in the 12 months prior to the commutation date could
require the Group to purchase a proportion of their profit share. This
commutation option was exercisable in H1 2012 and under these
arrangements, the Group purchased approximately £1.4 million of
profit entitlement, in return for the issuance of 10.7 million shares, of
which 5.35 million vested immediately and the remaining 5.35 million
vest in April 2014.
Under the second commutation, the Group could, if it wished,
acquire profit share from each or any investment team. The
maximum amount of profit share which could be acquired through
the first and second commutation is typically 20 per cent of the
profit share of each investment team. The second commutation was
exercisable in September 2013 and the Group did not exercise its
rights; it did, however, agree with one investment team to extend the
exercise date to April 2014. An accounting cost of £1.7 million has
been recognised in the 2013 Financial Statements in respect of the
remaining commutation option. On 4 April 2014, F&C exercised its
remaining commutation option. Details are given in note 42(d) to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
The aggregate commutation expense of £2.7 million therefore
reflects the charge of £1.0 million for those commutation options
which have been exercised and a charge of £1.7 million for the
remaining option which has been assumed to be exercised.
F&C REIT
Our non-controlling interest partners in F&C REIT, the Group’s
property asset manager, currently own 30 per cent of the business.
In certain circumstances, they can require F&C to purchase their
interests at future dates and a liability for this potential obligation is
included in our Financial Statements. As this option is required to be
carried at its exercise value, it is revalued each year, with any
revaluation gain or loss reflected in the Income Statement. During
2013, an upward revaluation resulted in a charge of £3.0 million
being included in the 2013 Income Statement. This expense is
excluded from underlying earnings.
Underlying earnings
The Board utilises underlying earnings per share as one of its key
metrics in assessing financial performance. The reconciliation
between underlying earnings and statutory earnings is provided in
note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and is
summarised on page 82. Underlying earnings per share for the year
ended 31 December 2013 were 8.8p (2012: 7.0p). The year-on-year
growth reflects an increase of £11.9 million in underlying profits
attributable to shareholders, partially offset by an increase of 5.0 per
18 | STRATEGIC REPORT | Our &nancial performance ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 19
cent in the average number of ordinary shares outstanding during
the year, primarily reflecting shares issued to meet our commitments
to employees under incentive and retention plans.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 1.0 pence per share was paid during the year
and on 28 January 2014 the Board declared a second interim
dividend of 2.0 pence per share, in lieu of a final dividend, resulting
in a total dividend for the year of 3.0 pence per share for 2013. The
second interim dividend will be payable no later than 20 May 2014.
Cash resources
The Group has gross debt of some £258.0 million (2012: £258.0
million), comprising £116.0 million of subordinated loan notes and
£142.0 million of senior loan notes. Neither the subordinated loan
notes nor the senior loan notes include any financial covenants.
Whilst the Group has a stated intention to reduce gross debt, in light
of prevailing prices and market conditions during 2013, no
subordinated loan notes or senior loan notes were purchased for
cancellation. The Group did, however, meet its objective of
improving cash flow and reducing net indebtedness. During 2013,
Group cash resources attributable to shareholders increased by
£21.3 million, to £182.0 million at 31 December 2013. A significant
portion of cash is held in our regulated subsidiaries against their
regulatory capital requirements. As asset management is a cash-
generative business, we should not require significant cash for
working capital purposes beyond our regulatory capital
requirements.
Our borrowings carry fixed rates of interest. The subordinated loan
notes currently bear interest at 6.75 per cent and the senior loan
notes carry a fixed 9.0 per cent interest rate. Our cash deposits earn
interest based on bank deposit rates. We use multiple
counterparties for our cash deposits, which are approved by the
Group’s Credit and Counterparty Approval Committee. The
maximum amount that can be held with a single counterparty is
£25.0 million. CR commitment
The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of
governance and corporate citizenship. We recognise that, in
addition to our responsibilities to clients and shareholders, we also
have responsibilities to employees, suppliers, the environment, the
companies in which we invest and the wider community in which
we operate.
CR strategy
The Group has two overarching, strategic CR ambitions:
• To enable our clients to respond effectively to changing
dynamics in the world economy, through our products and
through influencing companies to improve business
performance.
• To ensure that we meet the highest practicable standards of
corporate responsibility in our own operations.
We have defined four key categories supporting our strategic
ambitions: Marketplace, Environment, Workplace and human rights
and Community.
We are committed to monitoring and reporting on progress against
the targets set within each category, both internally (on a quarterly
basis) and externally (at least annually). F&C’s CR policies are guided
by a number of broadly-accepted international standards and
benchmarks. Wherever practicable, we seek external validation of
our progress and publish these results.
F&C considers the following key external measures to validate our
relative CR performance.
External validation
2012 Existing 2014
position position target
BITC Corporate Platinum Platinum N/A*
Responsibility Index status status
EIRIS/FTSE4Good Inclusion Inclusion Inclusion
UN Global Inclusion Inclusion Inclusion
Compact CCP
Carbon Disclosure Member Member Member
Project
Principles for Founding Founding Founding
Responsible signatory signatory signatory
Investment
* Having reached Platinum status in the previous two years, the Company
elected not to participate in the BITC Corporate Responsibility Index for 2014.
F&C identifies its key stakeholders as clients, shareholders,
employees, suppliers, government and non-government
organisations, the wider community, other asset management
companies and companies in which we invest. We engage widely
with stakeholder groups, through regular dialogue tailored to meet
the requirements of each stakeholder group.
CR categories supporting strategic ambitions
F&C has established key performance indicators (KPIs) for each of
the CR categories outlined below, details of which can be found in
the Corporate Responsibility section of the Group’s website. A
summary of our objectives in each area is set out below.
Marketplace
F&C will use the influence of its clients’ assets to engage with
companies on all relevant CR matters where this will improve
business performance. F&C set the goal of achieving at least 285
milestones (being an instance in which a company improves its
policies, procedures or practices following engagement and where
F&C’s participation has been a major factor) in 2013.
F&C will issue voting instructions in line with its Corporate
Governance Operational Guidelines on 100 per cent of global
resolutions for which it is mandated on behalf of clients and will
publish its voting history. F&C will contact 100 per cent of
companies following an abstention or vote against management.
Environment
F&C has assessed that the Group’s largest environmental impact is
the carbon we emit from energy usage in our offices and through
business travel. Details of these CO2 emissions, expressed in
tonnes and tonnes by employee are set out below. Further details of
the Group’s emissions, dating back to 2006, are contained in the
Company’s Corporate Responsibility Reports published on the
Company’s website. F&C is targeting carbon neutrality internally and
is committed to helping our clients and suppliers cut carbon
emissions. Over the next three years F&C will obtain 100 per cent of
its energy usage from renewable sources, where such markets exist.
CO2 emissions
Co2 emissions (tonnes per
Category (tonnes)* employee)*
Emissions from gas and electricity
1
323 0.49
Emissions from business travel 949 1.47
* Emissions of CO2 arising from office usage of gas and electricity have been
calculated using conversion rates from ClimateCare.
1
Includes emissions from air conditioning refrigerant gas loss.
F&C will source 100 per cent of its paper from chlorine-free recycled
supplies, reduce waste to landfill by 20 per cent and increase its
own recycling by 20 per cent.
F&C, through its marketplace engagement activity, will widen its
influence to the companies in which it invests.
Workplace and human rights
F&C is committed to ensuring good practices in managing its own
workplace and human rights issues.
F&C always seeks to employ the best person for each job and does
not discriminate on grounds of gender, race, ethnicity, religion,
sexual orientation, age or physical disability. F&C will educate 100
per cent of employees on the importance of recognising and
embracing diversity in the workplace and the community as a whole.
20 | STRATEGIC REPORT |
Our strategic approach and commitment
to corporate responsibility (CR) ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 21
Community
F&C offers financial support and, wherever practicable, offers
employees time off work to support charitable activities.
In 2014 F&C is targeting 365 staff days of community volunteering
by employees.
F&C targets 15 per cent of employees participating in the Give As
You Earn scheme and will match employee contributions up to a set
monthly level.
Examples of our 2013 community or charity events
61 members of staff participated in the JPMorgan Chase
Corporate Challenge, held in Battersea Park, London, raising
funds for Barnardos.
In 2013, 14 members of staff participated in the BiTC’s Community
Games initiative which formed part of their annual “Give & Gain”
event.
4 members of staff in the London office participated in the London
Marathon, raising funds for a variety of charitable causes.
More than 20 members of staff based in the UK volunteered for a
variety of events held by the Group’s Charity of the Year, Brainwave.
How is CR implemented by F&C
The Board is ultimately responsible for CR within the Group.
Development of F&C’s policies on CR and their implementation
throughout the Group are co-ordinated by the CR Committee,
chaired by David Logan.
Strategic Report summary
The Strategic Report on pages 6 to 21 of this document has been
approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Richard Wilson David Logan
9 April 2014 9 April 2014
Details of the Group’s employees, equal opportunities and gender diversity within the workplace is set out on page 24.
CR key performance indicators
Category KPI/statistic 2013 performance 2014 targets
Marketplace Number of resolutions voted on during the year 100% 100%
Proportion of companies contacted following an abstention
or vote against management 100% 100%
Environment Carbon neutrality Full Full
Reduction in paper consumption 5% 5%
Workplace Diversity or Compliance training (staff coverage) 100% 100%
Community Staff participation in Give As You Earn 10% 15%
Employees participating in charitable events and charitable fundraising 356 475
Staff volunteering for community projects 31 staff days 365 staff days Non-executive Directors
1 Kieran Poynter
‡
Chairman
Mr Poynter joined the Board in June 2009 and
was appointed Chairman in August 2013. Prior
to his appointment, Mr Poynter was chairman
and senior partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP having spent 37 years with the firm. He is a
director of Nomura International plc,
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA
and British American Tobacco plc.
2 Keith Bedell-Pearce CBE
‡
*
†O
Senior Independent Director
Mr Bedell-Pearce, a solicitor, joined the Board
in December 2002. Until December 2001,
Mr Bedell-Pearce was an executive director of
Prudential plc with over 30 years experience in
the financial services industry. He is currently
chairman of 4D Data Centres Ltd and a member
of the Council of the University of Warwick.
3 Charlie Porter
Mr Porter joined the Board in October 2013.
Prior to his appointment, Mr Porter was
responsible for the F&C Group’s Retail and
Wholesale business, including Investment
Trusts. Mr Porter founded Thames River Capital
in 1998 after leaving Baring Asset Management
and successfully developed and managed the
company until its acquisition by F&C in
September 2010.
4 Keith Jones
‡
*
O
Independent Director
Mr Jones joined the Board in November 2011.
Mr Jones is a former chief executive officer of
Morley Fund Management, former CEO of NPI
Investments and a past chairman of the
Investment Committee of the Association of
Non-executive Directors
British Insurers. He currently holds non-
executive positions at Just Retirement Holdings
Ltd, Espirito Santo Investment Bank and Aon
Hewitt, and advisory positions at Lloyds Bank
and Permira LLP .
5 Ruth Sack
Independent Director
Ms Sack joined the Board in October 2013. She
has been Executive Coach with The Alliance,
which she founded, for 10 years. Before that,
Ms Sack spent 20 years in financial services,
creating successful businesses in New York and
London. Her last investment banking role was
helping Schroders rebuild their equity business.
6 Derham O’Neill*
†
Independent Director
Mr O’Neill joined the Board in February 2011.
Prior to his appointment, Mr O’Neill was a senior
partner of Clifford Chance LLP . He was formerly
the chairman of Scotty Group plc and Schroder
Asian Property Managers Limited (Bermuda)
and a non-executive director of Cedar plc,
Georgica plc and Schroder Venture Managers
Limited (Bermuda).
7 Keith Percy
‡†O
Independent Director
Mr Percy joined the Board in November 2011. Mr
Percy was most recently executive chairman and
chief executive officer of Société Générale Asset
Management UK and was previously chief
executive of Morgan Grenfell Asset Management.
He is Chairman of Brunner Investment Trust plc
and a Director of Standard Life Equity Income
Trust plc, Henderson Smaller Companies Trust
plc, JP Morgan Japanese Investment Trust plc
and formerly a director of The Childrens Mutual.
Executive Directors
8 Richard Wilson
Chief Executive
Mr Wilson joined the Board in December 2012
and became Chief Executive on 1 January
2013. He joined F&C in 2004 and held a
number of senior positions within F&C prior to
joining the Board. Mr Wilson has 24 years
experience in the fund management industry.
Prior to F&C he was head of international
equities at Gartmore and managing director,
global equities at Deutsche Asset Management.
He started his fund management career at
HSBC as a fund manager.
9 David Logan
Chief Financial Officer
Mr Logan joined the Board on 31 July 2006.
Prior to his appointment, Mr Logan spent
17 years in the accounting profession, including
4 years as a partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP
and 3 years as a partner at Andersen.
‡
Member of the Nomination Committee
* Member of the Remuneration Committee
†
Member of the Audit & Compliance Committee
O
Member of the Risk Committee
Company Directors
22 | GOVERNANCE |
12 3 4 5
67
8
9 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 23
Report of the Directors
Results, business review and dividend
The Group’s results for the year ended 31 December 2013 are
shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 57. A
Strategic Report for the year ended 31 December 2013 and future
developments are covered on pages 6 to 21. This report, together
with the Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance on pages 26
to 32, forms part of the Report of the Directors.
The Group profit for the year, after tax, amounted to £10.2 million.
On 28 January 2014, the Directors announced a second interim
dividend for 2013 of 2.0 pence per share, amounting to £11.8
million, resulting in a total of 3.0 pence and £17.6 million for the year.
The second interim dividend will be paid on 20 May 2014 (or earlier
if the consideration for the proposed transaction with BMO is
dispatched ahead of that date) to ordinary shareholders whose
names are on the register on 4 April 2014. No liability for the
proposed dividend has been recognised as at 31 December 2013,
in accordance with IFRS.
Principal activity and status
The Group’s business is asset management. Details of the progress
of the business during the year and of future prospects are
contained in the Chief Executive’s Report and the Strategic Report
on pages 3 to 21.
The Company is registered as a Public Limited Company in terms of
the Companies Act 2006 and is currently a constituent of the FTSE
250 Index. The Company is registered in Scotland, registered
number SC73508, and is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Details of the principal entities within the Group are contained in
note 37 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. There are also
three branch offices in the Group outside the UK, in Germany,
Luxembourg and Ireland.
Significant agreements
F&C is party to the following significant contracts that take effect,
alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company:
Achmea Group
There is one material Investment Management Agreement (the
Agreement) in place with a company within the Achmea Group since
October 2004 in relation to which, in the event of a change of control
whereby a third party acquires a controlling interest in F&C, immediate
termination is possible. The discretionary portfolio management of all
assets covered by this Agreement is due to transfer back to the
Achmea Group at the latest by the end of the second quarter of 2014.
The other three material Investment Management Agreements
previously in place with the Achmea Group, which incorporated the
same provision with regard to change of control as the Agreement,
have all been terminated and replaced by agreements that contain no
provisions at all with regard to change of control.
Millenniumbcp Ageas Group (Ageas)
There are three asset management contracts in place with insurance
companies that form part of Ageas for which the notice period for
termination is between twelve and twenty-four months depending
on the date notice is served by the relevant entity. However, the
termination notice period is reduced to twelve months in the event
of a major corporate action occurring that affects F&C.
Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust Plc
The Investment Management Agreement in place with Foreign &
Colonial Investment Trust Plc can be terminated by the trust on a
minimum of six months’ notice expiring at the end of any calendar
month. In the event that there is a change of control in F&C (as
defined in Section 1124 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010), then the
Investment Trust is entitled to terminate the agreement on not
less than three months’ notice to expire at the end of any
calendar month.
F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
The Investment Management Agreement in place with F&C
Commercial Property Trust Limited can be terminated by the
Investment Trust on not less than six months’ notice. Early
termination can be undertaken by the Investment Trust, but only
subject to the payment of compensation to F&C based on revenue
stream. Immediate termination is possible by the Investment Trust in
the event that there is a change of control in F&C (as defined in
Section 1124 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010) to which its Board
has not consented.
F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
The F&C REIT Asset Management LLP (the LLP) Limited Liability
Partnership Agreement, dated 21 July 2008, is between F&C, the
two individual members and a separate company controlled by
discretionary trusts.
Where there is a change of control of F&C, F&C can elect to change
the arrangements for voting at LLP members’ meetings such that
F&C’s interests are represented by one vote and the REIT parties’
aggregate interests are represented by one vote. If F&C does not so
elect, then F&C may be required to offer to sell its interests in the
LLP to the other members of the LLP at a price determined by an
independent valuer.
Property, plant and equipment
Details of changes in property, plant and equipment are disclosed in
note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. At 31 December
2013, there were no significant differences between the net book
and market values of property, plant and equipment.
Environmental impact
Details of the Company’s carbon emissions from energy usage and
business travel are contained on page 20.
Financial instruments
Details of financial instruments are disclosed in notes 15 and 18 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements. The financial risk
management objectives and policies of the Group are contained in
note 35 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Share capital and Directors’ interests (Audited)
As at 31 December 2013 the Company had 581,035,337 ordinary
shares in issue with each ordinary share entitled to one vote.
During 2013 the Company issued 6,671,248 ordinary shares in
respect of vested awards or options under the Company’s long-term
incentive schemes. The Company also issued 19,183,301 ordinary
shares to satisfy Management Retention Plans.
Details of shares under option at 31 December 2013 are shown on
page 150. The Directors who held office at the year end and their
interests (together with those of their connected persons) in the
share capital of the Company are shown below:
Ordinary Shares 31 Dec 2013** 31 Dec 2012**
Kieran Poynter Beneficial 30,000 30,000
Keith Bedell-Pearce Beneficial 51,285 51,285
Keith Jones Beneficial Nil Nil
David Logan Beneficial 324,231 98,336
Non-Beneficial* 64,176 64,176
Derham O’Neill Beneficial Nil Nil
Keith Percy Beneficial Nil Nil
Charlie Porter Beneficial 100,000 100,000
Ruth Sack Beneficial Nil Nil
Richard Wilson Beneficial 588,476 211,792
* David Logan is a Director of F&C Group ESOP Trustee Limited, a
company incorporated in 1995 to operate a discretionary employee
benefit trust to encourage and facilitate the acquisition and holding of
shares in the Company by employees.
** Or date of appointment as Director if later.
Since the year end, the following Directors’ dealings (and those of their
connected persons) in the Company’s shares have taken place:
• Messrs Logan and Wilson subscribe for £125 worth of shares each month
under the Company’s Share Incentive Plan, details of which are set out on
page 35
Directors’ and officers’ liability
The Group maintains insurance cover in respect of Directors’ and
officers’ liability.
The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity in accordance with
the Company’s Articles of Association at article 166 which is a
qualifying third-party indemnity provision as defined in the
Companies Act 2006.
Charitable and political contributions
During the year, the Group made contributions to charity of
£113,000 (2012: £133,000). No political donations or contributions
were made during the year (2012: £nil). Further details on the criteria
for charitable giving are contained on the Company’s website.
Payment policy and practice
It is the Group’s policy to ensure settlement of suppliers’ accounts in
accordance with the stated terms. In certain circumstances,
settlement terms are agreed prior to any business taking place. It is
our policy to abide by those terms.
Substantial interests in share capital
The Company has been informed of the following substantial
interests, above 3 per cent as at 9 April 2014:
Ordinary
Shares Percentage
Elliott Capital Advisors, L.P . 120,930,645 20.6
Aviva 70,367,809 12.0
Standard Life 59,193,192 10.1
Jupiter 23,178,282 3.9
Sarasin & Partners LLP 21,159,478 3.6
Dimensional Fund Advisors 19,701,925 3.4
Employees and gender diversity
At 1 March 2014, there were 597 full-time employees and 66 part-
time employees within the Group (1 March 2013: 649 full-time
employees and 75 part-time employees).
At 1 March 2014 33% of our full time employees were female and
67% were male. 11% of the Company’s Directors were female and
89% were male. 8% of the Group Management team were female
and 92% were male. 20% of senior managers across the business
were female and 80% were male. Further details of employee
diversity, dating back to 2006, are contained in the Company’s
Corporate Responsibility Reports published on the Company’s
website.
Disabled employees
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment
from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be
adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Group’s policy
wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under
normal terms and conditions and to provide training, career
development and promotion to disabled employees wherever
possible.
Employee involvement
During the year, the policy of providing employees with information
about the Group has been continued through internal presentations
by the Executive Directors and Group Management and the internal
publication of relevant information. Wherever appropriate,
employees are consulted to ensure that their views are taken into
account before decisions are taken which are likely to affect their
interests.
Equal opportunities
The Group aims to provide equal opportunities for all, without
discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, marital status, age,
sex, sexual orientation or disability. We recruit and promote those
best suited for the job. The Group respects the dignity of individuals
and their beliefs. The Group does not tolerate any sexual, racial,
physical or mental harassment of staff in the workplace.
24 | GOVERNANCE | Report of the Directors ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 25
Share incentive schemes
During the year, employees participated directly in the business
through a number of Employee Share Schemes, details of which are
included within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 33 to
43 or the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages
107 to 115.
Recommended acquisition of the Group by BMO
Global Asset Management
On 28 January 2014, the Company announced that agreement had
been reached on the terms of a recommended cash acquisition by
which the entire ordinary share capital of F&C will be acquired by
BMO Global Asset Management (Europe) Limited. On 25 March
2014 shareholders approved the resolutions necessary to support
the acquisition. Completion of the acquisition, however, remains
subject to a number of regulatory and other conditions.
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The Company will hold its AGM in June 2014.
Details of all resolutions being put to shareholders will be set out in
the Notice of Annual General Meeting that will be sent to
shareholders in early June.
Board changes
On 10 May 2013, Messrs Brindle and Medlock retired from the
Board on conclusion of the Annual General Meeting. On 22 August
2013, Edward Bramson resigned from the Board. On 4 October
2013, Ruth Sack joined the Board as an independent Non-executive
Director. On 15 October 2013, Charlie Porter joined the Board as a
Non-executive Director.
Information relating to the Directors is set out on page 22.
Auditor
Following their intention to gradually wind down the activity in their
registered firm, KPMG Audit Plc, KPMG have proposed that an
alternative entity, KPMG LLP , become the Company's auditor.
KPMG have advised that the change is purely administrative and
that there will be no adverse impact on investors' interests as
a result.
Accordingly, KPMG have notified the Company that KPMG Audit Plc
is not seeking reappointment and have provided a statutory
statement of circumstances upon ceasing to hold office pursuant to
Section 519 of the Companies Act 2006. In accordance with section
520 of the 2006 Act, a copy of this statement is enclosed with the
Report and Accounts. The Board has decided to put KPMG LLP
forward to be appointed as auditor and a resolution concerning its
appointment will be put to the forthcoming AGM of the Company.
There is no impact on the terms in which the auditor will be retained.
Details of the auditor’s remuneration is provided in note 5(c) to the
Consolidated Financial Statements and further detail on how the
Board ensures the independence of the auditor is detailed on
page32 within the Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance.
Adequacy of the information provided to the auditor
The Directors who held office at the date of approving this Directors’
Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no
relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is
unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he is obliged
to take as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is
aware of that information.
By order of the Board,
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
9 April 2014 Directors’ Report on Corporate
Governance
The Group is committed to, and strives for, best practice in
corporate governance. The Board is accountable to the Group’s
shareholders for good corporate governance. This statement
describes how the principles of corporate governance set out in
section one of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued in May
2010 (the Code) and updated by the FRC in September 2012 (the
New Code) have been applied.
Statement of compliance
The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the year
ended 31 December 2013 and up to the date hereof, applied the
principles and met the requirements of the Code and the New Code
without exception.
Going concern
The Code requires Directors to report, under the terms set out in the
relevant guidelines to the Code, on the appropriateness of adopting
the going concern basis in preparing Financial Statements.
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to
affect its future development, performance and position are set out
in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 21. The financial position of
the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the
Strategic Report on pages 16 to 19. In addition, note 35 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements includes the Group’s objectives,
policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk
management objectives; details of its financial instruments and
hedging activities; and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with
long-term contracts with a number of clients across different
geographic areas and industries. After making enquiries, the
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the
Group have adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and
Financial Statements.
The Board
The Board of Directors currently comprises the Chairman, two
Executive Directors and six Non-executive Directors, five of whom
the Board has identified as Independent Directors. Charlie Porter, a
former employee of the Group, does not meet the criteria of
independence as set out in the accepted guidance.
Whilst Mr Bedell-Pearce, the Company’s Senior Independent
Director, does not, by virtue of his tenure, strictly meet all of the
independence tests set out in Code provision B.1.1, the Board
consider that he continues to display all the characteristics expected
of an independent Non-executive Director. The Board believe that
Mr Bedell-Pearce’s independence is demonstrated through his
actions and judgements during Board discussions and debates.
The biographies of the Directors appear on page 22. These
demonstrate a range of experience, skills and personal standing
sufficient to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy,
performance, resources and standards of conduct which are vital to
the success of the Group. All Directors have access to the advice
and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for
ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable
rules and regulations are complied with. The Board meets formally
on a regular basis and is responsible for approving the Group’s
objectives and policies. The Board focuses mainly on strategy;
investment and financial performance; the Group’s control
environment; and executive management and Board succession. To
enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive
appropriate and timely information ensuring that they are properly
briefed on issues for consideration in advance of meetings. In
addition, all Directors have access to senior management and can
request, either during meetings or at other appropriate times, further
explanation or written papers on matters as they see fit.
The Board has a detailed list of matters specifically reserved to it –
the ‘Board Reserved List’. This is contained in ‘The Directors’
Guide’, a training and reference document issued to all Directors on
appointment and updated as appropriate. The Board Reserved List
is reviewed annually and clearly sets out what authority is delegated
from the Board to Board Committees and to management. This
ensures that matters of significance are overseen and reviewed by
the Board prior to implementation. Examples of matters reserved for
the Board as set out in the Board Reserved List are the approval of:
the Group strategy; the annual budget; the composition and terms
of reference of any of the Board Committees; the high-level
organisational structure; and the review of the effectiveness of the
Group’s system of internal control.
The composition of the Board is reviewed annually.
The Board committees
The Board has established a number of standing committees to
facilitate the smooth transaction of business within the Group.
The terms of reference of each Board Committee, outlining its
authority and duties, are reviewed and approved annually by the
Board, published on the Company’s website and are available on
written request from the Company Secretary. The terms of
reference of each of the Board Committees provide the authority to
take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the
Company’s expense.
Statement of diversity policy
The Group recognises the value of a diverse workforce and aims to
attract and retain the best people from the widest pool of talent,
experience and perspectives, drawn from all sections of society. We
believe that differences in gender, background, perspective,
expertise and culture are an asset to the Company.
The diversity of the Board is intended to be improved when new
appointments are made as a result of Director rotation. As a result,
the Company’s succession planning process has been revised to
include the Company’s commitment to improved diversity (including
gender diversity).
Details of the gender diversity of the Group’s employees is set out
on page 24.
26 | GOVERNANCE | ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 27
(A) Statement of the Nomination Committee
Purpose and Terms of Reference
The Committee leads the process, and makes recommendations to
the Board, for all new Board appointments and the appointment of
Non-executive Directors to any Board Committee. It is responsible
for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on
the Board and ensuring that a formal, rigorous and transparent
appointment process exists.
Membership
The Committee is chaired by Kieran Poynter. The Committee
comprises the Chairman of the Company and three independent
Non-executive Directors.
Members of the Nomination Committee
Kieran Poynter, Keith Bedell-Pearce, Keith Jones and Keith Percy.
Activities and work of the Committee
During 2013, the Committee, with the assistance of external search
consultants, led the process for the selection of an Independent
Non-executive Director and on 10 June 2013 the Board approved
the appointment of Ruth Sack.
As an integral part of its succession planning, the Committee
reviews the balance and composition of the Board including the
number of Directors serving thereon.
On an annual basis the Committee reviews the terms and conditions
of appointment of Non-executive Directors set out in the standard
letter of appointment to ensure that they continue to meet the
requirements of the Code. This standard letter of appointment can
be inspected during normal working hours at the Company’s
registered office by contacting the Company Secretary. The
Committee considers, on an annual basis, the time required of Non-
executive Directors for the fulfilment of their duties and assesses the
contribution of the Directors, their independence and their suitability
for re-election prior to an appropriate resolution being put to
shareholders. Under the Company’s Articles of Association, all
Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first
opportunity after their appointment and to re-election at least every
three years. However, in line with the Code, all of the Directors are
subject to annual re-election by Shareholders.
For the Board
Kieran Poynter
Chairman, Nomination Committee
9 April 2014
(B) Statement of the Audit & Compliance Committee
Purpose and Terms of Reference
The Committee scrutinises the processes and controls surrounding
the production of the Group’s Financial Statements and oversees,
monitors and evaluates the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
audit and compliance functions.
Membership
The Committee is chaired by Keith Bedell-Pearce. The Committee
comprises solely Independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Committee
has recent and relevant financial experience, a position that should
continue throughout 2014.
Members of the Audit & Compliance Committee
Keith Bedell-Pearce, Derham O’Neill and Keith Percy.
Activities and work of the Committee
The Committee normally discharges its responsibilities, as allocated
by its terms of reference, within a schedule of four meetings per
annum. Two meetings are held early in the year: one to deal with
matters of governance (for example, compliance with the Code, the
Financial Services and Markets Act, monitoring and reviewing the
Internal Audit and Compliance departments, and monitoring and
reviewing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the
external audit process); and the other to consider the integrity of the
year-end Financial Statements and any formal announcements
relating to the Company’s and the Group’s financial performance,
including any significant financial reporting judgements. A similar
process is adopted at the interim reporting stage, and a final meeting
takes place late in the year to consider relevant year-end matters. On
an annual basis the Committee considers and makes a
recommendation to the Board as to the appointment, re-appointment
or removal of the external auditors and approves their remuneration
and terms of engagement. Other meetings of the Committee are
called at the request of the Chairman to consider ad hoc control
issues that may emerge during the year as well as other matters that
the Board has asked the Committee to consider or investigate. At
each meeting held, the Committee receives a number of written and
oral reports from management and a number of other parties, notably
from the internal audit, compliance and finance functions and from the
Group’s external auditor.
Two of the members of this Committee serve on the Risk
Committee. The overlap in membership between the committees
ensures that a consistent approach is taken to risk assurance
across the Group.
In discharging its duties in relation to assessing the overall control
environment of the Group, the Committee considers and approves a
number of Audit and Assurance Facility (AAF) Reports issued by the
Company to clients and consultants. These reports, reported on by
KPMG, describe the key controls in place within the business
relating to the investment management activities, client servicing,
operations and IT infrastructure. All 2013 AAF Reports issued by the
Company received an unqualified audit opinion from KPMG. The Audit & Compliance Committee has reviewed the content of this
year’s Annual Report & Financial Statements and has advised the
Board that, in its view, the document is fair, balanced and
understandable and contains the information required for
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model
and strategy.
Significant accounting matters
During the year the Committee focussed in particular on the
following key accounting matters and areas of judgement contained
within or impacting these Financial Statements:
1. Intangible assets
There are two components of intangible assets; goodwill and
investment management contracts.
Goodwill
The carrying value of goodwill in the Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position as at 31 December 2013 is £611.9 million. This
goodwill has arisen as a result of a number of business acquisitions
over previous years. In accordance with IFRS, goodwill is not
amortised but is tested for impairment annually or, earlier if an
indicator of impairment is identified, using a value in use model. The
Committee critically reviews the key assumptions associated with,
and inputs to, the value in use model. These include factors such as
the discount rate, the initial revenue and costs, subsequent growth in
revenue and costs and duration of cashflows. The Committee also, in
conjunction with Executive Management, monitors business
developments for indicators of potential impairment. At 31 December
2013 no impairment arose as the value in use was in excess of the
carrying value of goodwill.
Investment management contracts
Intangible assets in respect of management contracts are carried at
a net book value of £43.1m in the 31 December 2013 Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position. The value of these contracts initially
arose from historical mergers and acquisitions. However, unlike
goodwill, they are amortised over their estimated useful lives and are
also subject to an impairment review if an indicator of impairment
arises. The Committee reviews key business developments to
identify whether any changes should be regarded as indicators of
impairment. They also assess the remaining lives associated with
investment management contracts for reasonableness and the
inputs into the value in use model used to determine any impairment
loss. One indicator of impairment arose during 2013, being the
renegotiation of the contract with one of F&C REIT’s major clients
and subsequent reduction in associated revenues. Following a full
impairment review and a reassessment of the remaining lives of the
contracts, an impairment loss of some £1.4 million was recognised
on the F&C REIT intangible asset management contracts. In
considering the nature of the revised contractual relationship with
that client, the Committee also supported management’s
assessment that the estimated useful life had been extended by
approximately two years as a result of the renegotiation.
Details of the impairment reviews undertaken, both in respect of
goodwill and management contracts, and the value of intangible
assets are included in note 14 of the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
2. Share-based payments
The Group’s Remuneration arrangements comprise a mixture of
cash payments and awards in F&C shares and funds managed by
F&C. The awards in shares and funds comprise a mix of deferred
and restricted awards which vest over periods of between one and
four years from the date of award. The vesting of deferred awards is
based only on future service; restricted awards vest based on a
combination of future service and achievement of performance
targets, such as total shareholder return, growth in earnings per
share, investment performance or the value of net new AUM gained
by the Group. The Committee examined the vesting percentages
adopted for each performance target and considered whether they
were appropriate, in light of past experience and management
forecasts.
Details of all share awards are set out in note 26 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, including the assumed vesting levels of
restricted share awards.
3. F&C REIT put optionliability
The non-controlling interest (NCI) partners in F&C REIT have, under
certain circumstances, the right to require the Group to acquire their
interests in F&C REIT, and a liability is included in the Group’s
Statement of Financial Position for the related obligation. An external
valuation is performed each year to determine the fair value of the
F&C REIT business and hence the value of the put option liability.
The Committee considers the independence and professional skills
of the external valuer each year and reviews and considers their
methodology and resultant valuation to ensure it is appropriately
reflected in the Financial Statements.
Details of the rights assigned to the NCI partners of F&C REIT are
set out in note 28.
4. Revenue recognition – performance fees
The Group’s revenue principally comprises management fee income,
generally calculated as a percentage of assets under management
at periodic billing dates. However, a small proportion of income is
generated from performance fees, based on the absolute
investment performance of a client’s assets, or their relative
performance compared to a hurdle or benchmark, over a defined
period. Where the performance period is not coterminous with the
Group’s financial reporting period, the performance fees recognised
must be estimated and such estimates are inherently subjective. The
Committee has critically reviewed the assumptions adopted in
calculating accrued but uncrystallised performance fees at the
financial reporting date. Total performance fees recognised in 2013
are £11.6 million (2012: £9.5 million).
5. Recoverability of F&C REIT receivables
As at 31 December 2013, the Group had a significant balance, of
£13.3 million outstanding from one client, which was beyond its due
date. The Committee reviewed the expected payment schedule for
this amount, together with the related agreements with the client.
The Committee also considered the value of the collateral held by
the Group in respect of this receivable, and subsequently
determined that no impairment provision was required at the
financial reporting date in respect of this balance.
Details of the collateral held are given on page 125.
28 | GOVERNANCE | Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 29
Audit tender
The UK Corporate Governance Code has introduced new
recommendations setting out that audits should be subject to
tender at least once every ten years.
KPMG has been the Group’s auditor since 2006. Details of how the
Committee assesses the performance, effectiveness and
independence of the auditor are set out on page 32. The Committee
has agreed to conduct an audit tender process during 2016 to
coincide with mandatory rotation of the current lead audit partner.
For the Board
Keith Bedell-Pearce
Chairman, Audit & Compliance Committee
9 April 2014
(C) Statement of the Risk Committee
Purpose and Terms of Reference
The Committee was established in March 2012 to provide the Board
with assurance that the processes and controls exist to facilitate
reporting on the Group’s risk management activities, including those
related to Social, Environmental and Ethical matters, internal control
and adherence to policies and procedures. The Committee is also
responsible for reviewing and recommending to the Board for
approval, the Group’s Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment
Process (ICAAP) and for ensuring the Company fulfils its regulatory
obligations under the Capital Requirements Directive.
Membership
The Committee is chaired by Keith Percy. The Committee comprises
solely independent Non-executive Directors.
Members of the Risk Committee
Keith Percy, Keith Bedell-Pearce and Keith Jones.
Activities and work of the Committee
The Committee normally discharges its responsibilities, as allocated
by its terms of reference, within a schedule of four meetings a year.
Quarterly meetings of the Committee are held to assess detailed risk
reports and review any relevant updates to the Group’s ICAAP
report. The Committee also reviews and monitors the adequacy and
effectiveness of the process for the identification, assessment,
mitigation, monitoring and management of all risks with particular
emphasis on the key risks faced by the Group, and performs
reviews of any special investigation reports relating to fraud or major
breakdowns in internal controls or major errors and omissions.
For the Board
Keith Percy
Chairman, Risk Committee
9 April 2014 Attendance at meetings
The following table identifies the number of Board and formal
committee meetings held in 2013 and the attendance record of the
individual Directors as members of committees of the Board. In
addition to the scheduled meetings detailed below a number of ad
hoc Directors’ meetings, sub-committees of the Board and Board
Committees were held.
Non-
executive
Director
meetings
without Audit &
management Compliance Risk Remuneration Nomination
Board present Committee Committee Committee Committee
Number of
meetings held
2013/(2012) 7(7) 2(2) 4(4) 5(3) 4(5) 2(2)
Kieran Poynter*72 3 3 1 2
Edward Bramson
(1)
52 – – – 1
Keith Bedell-Pearce*7 2 4 1 4 2
Ian Brindle
(2)
22 – – – –
Keith Jones*7 2 3 5 4 1
David Logan 7– – – – –
Jeff Medlock
(2)
22 2 1 2 –
Derham O’Neill*7 2 4 – 3 –
Keith Percy*7 2 1 5 2 1
Charlie Porter
(3)
5– – – – –
Ruth Sack
(4)
4– – – – –
Richard Wilson 7– – – – –
* Changes to the membership of the Nomination, Audit & Compliance, Risk
and Remuneration Committees took place in August 2013. These changes
explain the attendance statistics of Messrs Poynter, Bedell-Pearce, Jones,
O’Neill and Percy.
1
Retired from the Board in August 2013.
2
Retired from the Board in May 2013.
3
Appointed to the Board in October 2013, attended Board meetings from
May 2013.
4
Appointed to the Board in October 2013, attended Board meetings from
June 2013.
Board roles
Chairman
The Chairman of the Company is Kieran Poynter. As Chairman,
Kieran is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring the
effective running and management of the Board. The role profile of
the Chairman includes the following specific responsibilities:
• Ensuring that the Board agenda for each meeting takes account
of the issues and concerns of each Board member and that
members of the Board receive accurate, timely and clear
information on the Company and related matters to enable them
to monitor the Group’s performance and take sound decisions;
• Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and
ensuring that the Board develops an understanding of the views
of major investors;
• Ensuring that, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, a
formal induction and development process, including any
relevant internal and external training, exists for all Directors and
the Board as a whole with a view to enhancing the Board’s
effectiveness; and
• Ensuring constructive relations between Executive and
Non-executive Directors and an effective contribution from
all Directors.
The performance of the Chairman is reviewed annually by the
Non-executive Directors in a meeting chaired by the Senior
Independent Director.
Chief Executive
The Chief Executive of the Company is Richard Wilson. As Chief
Executive, Richard is responsible for overseeing the implementation of
the strategy as set by the Board, providing strategic vision and
executive leadership to all the Group’s business activities, and
ensuring the effective running of the business and the Group
Management.
Non-executive Directors
Messrs Bedell-Pearce, Jones, O’Neill, Percy, Porter and Ms Sack
are the Company’s Non-executive Directors. As Non-executive
Directors they are responsible for: promoting entrepreneurial
leadership and the highest standards of governance within a
framework of prudent and effective controls; constructively
challenging and helping develop strategic proposals; ensuring that
the Group has in place the necessary resources to meet its strategic
objectives; reviewing management performance; determining
appropriate levels of Executive Director remuneration (Remuneration
Committee members); taking a prime role in appointing, and where
necessary removing, Executive Directors; setting the Company’s
values and standards to ensure its obligations to its stakeholders are
understood and met; and reviewing communication with
shareholders.
Board evaluation and professional development
A comprehensive and rigorous evaluation of the performance of the
Board, its principal committees and all Directors was conducted in
the first quarter of 2013. Each Director was interviewed by the
Executive Chairman to extract their views on the perceived
operation and effectiveness of the Board and the Board
Committees. The results of this process were presented to the
Board in March 2013. All recommendations made as a result of this
exercise were accepted by the Board and the Board has committed
to addressing all matters raised.
The Board also set itself objectives early in 2013 and assessed its
performance against these objectives throughout the year.
The Company has a full and formal induction process for all new
appointments to the Board. The Chairman, in consultation with the
Company Secretary and individual Directors, is responsible for
assessing the professional development needs of each Director. The
induction process and ongoing professional development is
facilitated by the Company Secretary who, in consultation with the
30 | GOVERNANCE | Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 31
individual Director, identifies the most appropriate method of
ensuring professional development. The Company Secretary also
assists in organising attendance at internal or external courses to
develop familiarity with the Company’s business operations.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
From 1 October 2008, Directors have a statutory duty to avoid a
situation in which they have or can have an interest that conflicts or
possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company. A Director
will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has been
authorised in accordance with the Articles of Association by the
other Directors.
Board succession planning
The Nomination Committee has a succession plan for the Board’s
Non-executive Directors. The plan was shaped by a skills profile,
projected and expected normal retirements, and the Company’s
commitment to corporate governance best practice. The plan is
approved annually by the Board.
Relations with shareholders
The Board as a whole acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring
satisfactory dialogue with shareholders and that communications
are given high priority. The Company welcomes the views of
shareholders and, where practicable, enters into dialogue with
institutional shareholders based on the need for mutual
understanding of objectives. The Company’s Chief Executive and
Chief Financial Officer regularly meet the largest institutional
shareholders and Company analysts following the announcement of
the year-end and interim results; the Senior Independent Director
and all other Non-executive Directors have the opportunity to attend
these meetings. The Annual General Meeting of the Company
provides a forum, both formal and informal, for investors to meet
and discuss issues with Directors and senior management of
the Company.
At its Annual General Meeting, the Company complies with the
provision of the Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the
separation of resolutions and the attendance of the Committee
Chairmen. The results of the votes cast at the Annual General
Meeting are posted on the Company’s website.
At the time of the announcement of the proposed transaction with
BMO, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer met
with a number of the Company’s largest shareholders. The feedback
from these meetings was circulated to the Board. Unattributable
feedback from a number of the Company’s shareholders, facilitated
by the Company’s brokers, is also presented to the Board following
management’s year-end and interim results presentations.
Electronic communications
Copies of the 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements, other
corporate publications, press releases and announcements are
available on the Company’s website. Shareholders are encouraged
to take advantage of the provisions allowing the Company to
communicate electronically.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a regular basis.
Management’s role is to implement and operate the Board policies
on risk and risk management. The system of internal control is
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and
not absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
The Company, as required by the Financial Conduct Authority
Listing Rules, complied with the Code provisions on internal control
for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The procedures that the Directors have established are designed to
provide effective control within the Group and accord with the
Internal Control Guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council
(FRC). Such procedures have been in place throughout the year and
up to 9 April 2014, the date of approval of the Annual Report and
Financial Statements. A high-level overview of the ongoing process
for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks including
social, environmental and ethical issues is detailed below. This
process is regularly reviewed by the Board to ensure it complies with
the FRC’s Guidance.
Control environment
The Group is committed to the highest standards of business
conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all areas of
the business. The Group has in place appropriate procedures for the
reporting and resolution of activities that do not meet the required
standards of business conduct.
The Group has an appropriate organisational structure for planning,
executing, controlling and monitoring business operations in order
to achieve its objectives. The structure is designed to provide clear
responsibilities and a control framework for key areas of the
Group’s business.
Operational responsibility rests with the Chief Executive and is
devolved through a documented executive structure with clearly
delegated and appropriate levels of authority. Members of Group
Management are, therefore, accountable for the operation of the
systems of internal controls within the Group’s business.
Business risks
The identification of major business risks is carried out by the Board
in conjunction with management and procedures to control these
risks, where possible, are reviewed and agreed.
Quarterly reports are prepared by each area of the business,
covering all key locations. These quarterly reports include issues of
material business risk which are discussed in detail by the Group
Management which includes both Executive Directors. All significant
items identified are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
The key risks facing the Group at the year end and the mitigating
actions assigned to these risks are detailed in the Strategic Report
on pages 11 and 12. Monitoring and corrective action
The Company has a formal compliance function which, in addition
to providing regulatory advice to the business, has undertaken
compliance monitoring and performed a number of regulatory
inspections in 2013. A separate internal audit department
conducted regular monitoring of various business areas in line with a
plan agreed annually with the Audit & Compliance Committee. Any
issues of significance are brought to the attention of the Board by
the internal audit, risk & compliance departments and through the
regular reporting process. Planned corrective actions are
independently monitored for timely completion and reviewed by the
Audit & Compliance Committee.
The Audit & Compliance Committee and the Risk Committee
reviews the effectiveness of the operation of the risk, compliance
and internal audit departments at least twice each year.
Independence of the auditor
The Board has in place rigorous systems for ensuring the
independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Group’s auditor
and has satisfied itself that during the year no aspect of its work was
impaired on these grounds. In maintaining a clear perception of
independence and balancing that with the best interests of the
Group, the Board has a clear policy that it follows when considering
the award of non-audit work to the Group’s auditor. The policy
which applied during 2013 is detailed below.
The Company does not impose an automatic ban on the Group’s
auditor undertaking non-audit work. The Group’s aim is always to
have any non-audit work involving accountancy firms carried out in a
manner that affords value for money while taking into account
relevant ethical guidance. The firm must not be in a position of
conflict in respect of the work in question and must have the skill,
competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best interests
of the Group.
The auditor of the Company is permitted to perform non-audit work
in areas where, in the opinion of the Audit & Compliance Committee,
it is appropriate for it to do so and there are no actual or perceived
independence issues.
The Chairman of the Audit & Compliance Committee is authorised
to approve the use of the auditor for non-audit work provided that
the cost does not exceed £50,000 and the aggregate value does
not exceed the audit fee for the financial year in question. In other
circumstances, the approval of the Audit & Compliance Committee
is required.
The performance, independence, competence and cost of the
auditor are reviewed annually by the Audit & Compliance
Committee. In conducting this review the Audit & Compliance
Committee assess the quality of staff, the strength of lead partners
at key locations, the expertise, the resources and the quality of
written and oral presentations made by KPMG. When the
Committee considers it appropriate, the provision of audit services
will be formally market-tested through a tender process involving
those audit firms judged competent to meet the needs of the Group.
The frequency of this market-testing will depend on the views of the
Audit & Compliance Committee, on the needs of the Group and on
prevailing leading practice. It is expected that in future this will take
place at least once in any ten-year period.
During the year a number of accountancy firms, all of whom are
independent of KPMG, the external auditor, provided non-audit
related services to the Group. Details of fees paid to these firms
during 2013 are disclosed in note 5(c) on page 76 of the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Future developments
The Board believes that the controls in place during 2013 have been
appropriate to the needs of the Group. Nevertheless, it is committed
to the highest standards of governance and business conduct and
will ensure that those controls continue to develop in line with the
requirements of the FCA and leading practice.
Statement Regarding Annual Report and
Financial Statements
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial
Statements, taken as a whole are fair, balanced and
understandable, providing the information necessary for
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business
model and strategy.
By order of the Board,
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
9 April 2014
32 | GOVERNANCE | Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 33
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Introduction from the Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee
I am pleased to present the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the
year ended 31 December 2013.
As shareholders will be aware, F&C is required to comply with the
new regulations governing disclosure of Directors’ remuneration and
this report has been prepared in accordance with these
requirements.
The Group continues to take a team-based approach to investment
management and to the management of the business as a whole.
This is reflected in our Remuneration Policy which is applied
consistently to Executive Directors, investment professionals and all
employees.
High level summary of events and accomplishments
• 2013 has been another significant year for the Group.
• This has been the first full year with our new CEO leading the
Group.
• The new Chairman of the Board was appointed on 22 August
2013.
• The corporate strategy outlined in 2011 and 2012 has
continued to be implemented.
• There has been substantial progress in repositioning the
business for long-term growth.
Remuneration Committee activity during 2013
• The Remuneration Policy has been reviewed to ensure it
continues to be fit for purpose.
• Policy revisions have been approved and implemented taking
into account future regulatory changes.
• Following shareholder consultation the Committee has
approved and implemented a broader base of long-term
performance measures for awards in 2013.
• The Committee has agreed to reintroduce deferrals of cash
bonus awards. The policy was last applied in 2009.
• We have taken account of shareholder feedback and
implemented a cap on the potential cash bonus payable to
Executive Directors.
• The Committee has agreed with management that future dilutive
LTRP awards will not exceed 1% of issued share capital per
annum.
Our shareholders’ views are appreciated and as in previous years,
the Committee believes it is important to provide shareholders with
the opportunity to comment on all aspects of our Remuneration
policy and approach.
We welcome any further comments and hope that you will support
the 2013 Report at this year’s AGM.
Keith Bedell-Pearce
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
9 April 2014
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
Introduction
The Remuneration Committee determines and recommends to the
Board the Group’s Policy on the remuneration of the Chairman,
Directors and members of senior management including employees
designated as Code staff under the FCAs Remuneration Code.
It is an objective of the F&C Group to provide total compensation to
its employees that is warranted by corporate, business unit and
individual performance.
The Remuneration Policy defines the means by which F&C will
achieve this objective. The Policy will facilitate the achievement of
business goals and reinforce our corporate values.
Key Principles
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy is based on the following key
principles:
a) Remuneration is structured to enable the Group to motivate,
retain and attract the talent required to achieve its goals;
b) Remuneration policies, procedures and practices are consistent
with, and promote, sound and effective risk management and
avoid incentivising risk-taking that exceeds the approved risk
appetite of F&C;
c) Remuneration components are structured to ensure alignment
with the business strategy, objectives, values and long-term
interests of F&C;
d) Remuneration is comparable to market competitors, whilst
being consistent with and promoting the achievement of fair
outcomes for all customers;
e) The Policy is applied consistently to F&C employees across the
Group; and
f) Total variable remuneration should, in general, reflect the
financial performance of the Group.
Policy and approach
The Committee has designed a Remuneration Policy that balances
these factors, taking account of prevailing best practice, investor
expectations and the level of remuneration and pay awards made
generally to employees of the Group.
The Group takes a total compensation approach in applying its
Policy which is consistent for employees at all levels. The Board
believes that shareholders’ interests are best served by containing
fixed costs and emphasising the proportion of total compensation
that is directly performance-related and thus aligned with
shareholders’ interests. As such the Committee does not seek to
apply fixed ratios between fixed and variable pay. The Committee
also does not prescribe a fixed ratio of total compensation between
different levels of employees as this may inhibit the Group’s ability to
recruit talented individuals and to reward strong performance. Total
compensation will comprise basic salary, employee benefits,
pension provision, discretionary annual bonus and awards under the
LTRP share incentive scheme. A range of benchmark data is used to determine appropriate total
compensation based on comparable asset management
businesses. Relevant market data is also used for each geographic
location.
The Committee monitors the extent to which the Policy meets its
objectives to motivate, engage, retain and attract employees. The
CEO reports to the Committee on how the Policy is viewed by
employees and whether it continues to meet its objectives.
Compliance with FCA Remuneration Code
The Remuneration Committee reviews its policies at least annually to
ensure they meet all of the requirements under the FCA
Remuneration Code as applicable to F&C.
The Head of Compliance is involved in the review of policy and
practice to ensure there is an appropriate risk and compliance link to
the Remuneration Policy.
The Remuneration Policy in detail
This section of the report sets out in detail the Policy for Executive
and Non-executive Directors which shareholders are asked to
approve at the AGM in 2014. The Committee intends that the Policy
will come into effect from the financial year starting 1 January 2015.
For the 2014 financial year, the remuneration of the Directors will be
consistent with the Policy.
Details of the Policy are set out in the table below.
34 | GOVERNANCE | Directors’ Remuneration Report
Total Compensation Policy Table – Executive Directors
Element and Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary
To recognise the individual’s level
of responsibility, skills and
experience.
To provide a competitive base
reward.
Base salaries are reviewed
annually with reference to salary
levels for similar roles and
incumbents at relevant sector
comparators (e.g. financial
services companies and FTSE-
listed companies of similar size
and complexity) to individual
contribution to performance, and
to the experience of each
Executive.
The Committee reviews base
salaries annually and determines
whether it is appropriate to
recommend any increase.
To avoid an overly prescriptive
approach to salary
management, no maximum
salary is set under the Policy.
However, it is anticipated that
aggregate salary increases will
not exceed an equivalent of 5%
p.a. over the term of this Policy.
The Committee has the
discretion in exceptional
circumstances to make
appropriate upward adjustments
to salary levels to ensure they
remain competitive. (This may
include, but not be limited to,a
material change in the scope,
size and complexity of the role).
None ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 35
Element and Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
An all-employee share scheme
to encourage the ownership of
shares in F&C.
An HMRC-approved scheme
where employees (including
Executive Directors) may save
up to the monthly limit set by
HMRC from time to time.
Savings are capped at the
individual monthly limit set by
HMRC from time to time.
None
Benefits
To provide non-cash benefits
which are competitive in the
market in which the Executive
Director is employed.
Executive Directors receive
benefits including vacation and
insured benefits, including death
in service, private medical and
income protection.
Executive Directors can make a
personal choice up to a
maximum value and may
purchase additional benefits
from their salary to reflect
personal circumstances and
preferences.
It is anticipated that the cost of
benefits provided to Executive
Directors will not exceed 10% of
salary per annum over the
period of this Policy.
The Committee retains the
discretion to approve a higher
cost in exceptional
circumstances (e.g. relocation)
or in circumstances where
factors outside the Group’s
control have changed materially
(e.g. increases in insurance
premiums).
None
Pension
To provide an opportunity for
Executive Directors to build up
income on retirement.
F&C seeks to ensure that its
pension policy is in line with its
business strategy, objectives,
values and long-term interests. It
operates a number of pension
plans, of which only Defined
Contribution plans are open to
new employees. In the UK the
Defined Benefit plan was closed
to new members in 2002. No
Executive Director is a member
of a Group Defined Benefit
scheme.
Pension payments are based on
basic salary. No other cash
payments or benefits are
pensionable.
Executive Directors may
supplement the Group’s
contributions with their own.
The level of pension
contributions is consistent for
employees and Executive
Directors.
Executive Directors receive
contributions equal to 13% of
pensionable salary.
None Element and Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Discretionary annual bonus
Executive Directors are
responsible for providing the
leadership to ensure that the
Group meets its annual goals.
The annual bonus is designed to
incentivise and reward strong
performance against financial and
corporate targets, thus delivering
value to shareholders, consistent
with the implementation of the
strategic plan.
Executive Directors participate in
an annual discretionary bonus
pool, the size and allocation of
which is approved by the
Committee.
The annual bonus pool is
determined by the following
factors:
• the financial performance of
the Group;
• motivation and retention of
key employees;
• practice of market
competitors; and
• appropriate balance
between fixed and variable
pay.
The Executive Directors’
allocation from the pool is based
on the achievement of corporate
targets as assessed at the end
of each business year.
At least 25% of the cash bonus
above £100,000 is deferred into
F&C shares and/or F&C funds
for 3 years subject to continued
employment.
Performance Adjustment
provisions are outlined on
page 37.
The Group has a single incentive
pool from which the annual
bonuses for all employees
including Executive Directors are
paid.
For Executive Directors, the
annual bonus provides for
awards of between 0% and
500% of base salary.
If the deferred element of the
cash bonus is invested in F&C
shares a cash award equal to
the aggregate value of
reinvested dividends declared
over the vesting period will be
paid to the participant on
release.
The assessment of
performance is based on
achievement of the Group’s
KPIs for the year. The measures
will typically include:
• Investment Performance
• Profitability
• Fund flows
• Treating Customers Fairly
provisions
• New business targets
• Risk Management goals
• Compliance with
Regulatory Standards.
The Committee has discretion
to adjust the performance
measures and weightings to
ensure that they continue to be
linked to the delivery of the
Group’s strategy, although
typically weightings for each
performance category account
for up to 40% of the overall
bonus.
The level of performance
required under each measure is
calibrated with reference to
F&C’s internal targets and
financial budgets.
The achievements of respective
executives are based on the
value of their contribution and
performance during the year as
measured by the annual
assessment.
The Committee will determine
the overall outcome based on
achievement of the targets and
the Committee’s assessment of
Group and individual
performance.
Further details of the measures,
weightings and targets
applicable for a given period are
provided in the Annual Report
on Remuneration.
36 | GOVERNANCE | Directors’ Remuneration Report ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 37
Element and Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Vesting of LTRP awards is
subject to continued
employment and Group
performance measured with
reference to:
• Underlying earnings per
share (EPS) growth;
• Relative Total Shareholder
Return (TSR);
• Relative investment
performance; and
• Net new business targets.
It is the Committee’s current
intention to apply equal
weightings to each
performance measure.
These may vary at the
discretion of the Committee
cycle-to-cycle in a range of up
to 50%, to reflect strategic
priorities.
Further details are provided in
the table below.
Awards are determined by the
Committee with reference to
Group performance, market
competitiveness (assessed on a
total compensation basis using
independent market total
compensation data), and
individual performance.
The Committee does not link the
value of LTRP awards explicitly
to a multiple of base salary,
believing that making such
linkage provides an incentive to
increase base salaries, and
therefore fixed costs, which is
contrary to shareholders’
interests.
However, it is anticipated that
annual awards under the LTRP
to an Executive Director will not
exceed 750% of salary except in
exceptional circumstances.
A cash award equal to the
aggregate value of reinvested
dividends declared over the
vesting period will be paid to the
participant on release of LTRP
shares.
The LTRP is a discretionary
contingent share award scheme
providing for annual awards of
restricted shares.
LTRP shares vest after 4 years,
subject to both continued
employment and to the
achievement of long-term
corporate performance targets.
The Remuneration Committee
retains the discretion to amend
or remove a Performance Target
in exceptional circumstances to
ensure it remains reasonable.
Any revised Performance Target
will provide a fairer measure of
performance and will not be
materially more difficult or easy
to satisfy.
Performance Adjustment
provisions are outlined below
this table.
Long-Term
Remuneration Plan
(LTRP)
This Plan is designed to
emphasise the requirement for
sustained long-term
performance that supports the
creation of shareholder value.
It is intended to provide both an
incentive to achieve longer-term
performance and retention
value.
The Plan ensures that Executive
Directors have an alignment of
long-term interest with
shareholders in the future
performance of the Group.
Performance Adjustment provisions
Cash bonus and LTRP awards may, at any time prior to payment or
vesting, be reduced at the discretion of the F&C Group
Remuneration Committee in the following circumstances:
(i) there is misconduct or material error; or
(ii) the F&C Group suffers material decline in financial performance;
or
(iii) the F&C Group is the subject of any material failure in risk
management or material increase in risk profile.
Performance Conditions - details
The size and allocation of the discretionary cash bonus pool and the
long-term pool are recommended by the Committee to the Board
for approval.
The calculation of these bonus pools is linked to the financial
performance of the Group. The performance measures which are
used to determine the allocation of these pools are also linked to the
Group’s strategic objectives and priorities.
The performance measures applied to LTRP awards (as shown
below) are reviewed annually to ensure they remain aligned with
shareholder interests. The Remuneration Committee believes these
performance measures to be appropriate and stretching. However,
the Committee reserves the discretion to change the measures if
warranted by specific circumstances which are not currently
anticipated. The Committee will ensure that any revised measures
will be no easier or difficult to achieve.
Awards made under the LTRP have a performance period of four
years aligned with the respective financial years, and a minimum
vesting period of four years. 38 | GOVERNANCE | Directors’ Remuneration Report
Performance Measures Applied to LTRP Awards
Proportion of Award Performance Condition Details
Below median 0% vesting
Median 25% vesting
Upper quartile or more 100% vesting
Straight-line vesting applies between
25% and 100%.
The Committee reviews the
comparator group against which
TSR performance is measured from
time to time to ensure it remains
appropriate.
Relative Total Shareholder
Return (TSR)
25%
Below RPI +3% p.a. 0% vesting
RPI +3% p.a. 25% vesting
RPI + 11% or more p.a. 100% vesting
Straight-line vesting applies between
25% and 100%.
Underlying earnings per
Share (EPS)
25%
EPS-based awards
100%
RPI +11%
or more p.a.
Vesting, %
EPS outcome
25%
RPI +3% p.a.
TSR-based awards
100%
75
th
percentile
Vesting, %
F&C’s 4-year TSR rank
25%
Median Performance Measures Applied to LTRP Awards
Proportion of Award Performance Condition Details
25% of target 0% vesting
125% of target or more 100% vesting
Straight-line vesting applies between
25% and 125%.
Net new business
25%
Less than 42% of
outperformance 0% vesting
For 42% of outperformance 0% vesting
At 75% of outperformance 100% vesting
Straight-line vesting applies between
42% and 75%.
Relative investment
performance
(The investment performance
condition is based on the revenue-
weighted outperformance of
assets compared against the
respective benchmarks.)
25%
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 39
Investment Performance-based awards
100%
0%
42% 75%
Vesting, %
Proportion of outperformance against
approved objective
25%
50%
Net New Business-based awards
100%
75%
0%
25% 100% 125%
Vesting, %
Achievement of Board approved target Notes to the policy table
Payments from previous awards
The Group will honour any commitment entered into, and Executive
Directors will be eligible to receive payment from any award made,
prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy
detailed in this report.
Performance conditions for LTRP awards granted in 2012 differ to
those in the Policy table above, being based solely on EPS
performance in 2015. For further details see page 110 of the
Annual Report.
In 2011 Richard Wilson received an LTRP award when he was a
member of the Executive Committee but was not an Executive
Director. At that time the F&C policy was to award a combination of
deferred and restricted LTRP awards to Executive Committee
members other than Executive Directors. The deferred LTRP award
was subject to continued employment only. The restricted LTRP
award was subject to the achievement of performance conditions
and continued employment. The restricted LTRP award made in
2011 will vest in May 2014. The deferred LTRP award vested in
March 2014.
Richard Wilson is entitled to receive further LTRP awards, all of
which are subject to the achievement of pre-determined
performance conditions.
Performance measure selection and approach to target
setting
The performance measures used to determine the annual bonus
plan are selected annually to reflect the Group’s main KPIs for the
year which capture both financial and non-financial priorities.
For LTRP awards granted in 2012, the performance condition was
linked solely to EPS for the year ended 31 December 2015 to
reinforce the required turn-around in the Group’s long-term
profitability following the restructuring of the business initiated in
2011. The Committee reviewed the LTRP performance measures
during 2013 to ensure that they are fully aligned with Group strategy
and with shareholders’ interests. As a result of this review the
Committee has determined that for awards made in 2013 the LTRP
vesting will be based on four equally-weighted performance
measures (EPS, TSR, Net New Business and Investment
Performance) over 4 years. These measures were selected as they
are considered by the Committee to be the most relevant in
capturing the critical elements of performance which reinforce value
creation for shareholders.
Performance targets applicable to the annual cash bonus are
reviewed annually as are long-term targets applicable to LTRP
awards. Targets are determined to ensure the Group continues to
meet its strategic objectives. Performance targets are set to be
stretching but achievable, with regard to the particular strategic
priorities and economic environment in a given year.
Remuneration Policy for other employees
F&C’s approach to annual salaries is consistent across the Group
and includes reference to appropriate market comparators and
taking into account the level of experience, responsibility and scope
of the role.
All employees are eligible to be considered for a discretionary annual
bonus award. Any award is based on the same principles which
apply to Executive Directors. Opportunities and specific
performance conditions vary by business function and level of
responsibility.
Executive Directors and other key employees are eligible to
participate in the LTRP . Performance conditions are consistent for all
participants, while award sizes will vary in order to ensure
competitive total compensation and to reflect relative contribution
and responsibility.
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the Group’s SIP
scheme on the same terms.
Pay-for-performance: scenario analysis
The Group operates a Total Compensation Policy. A significant
proportion of total compensation is awarded to Executive Directors
in the form of performance related variable pay. Actual awards to the
Executive Directors are determined by reference to the performance
of the Group relative to targets.
The scenario chart below shows both the minimum (fixed)
remuneration and provides an indication of the total remuneration for
a year of strong performance based on the year ending
31 December 2013. The Committee has not determined an
appropriate long-term award to be confirmed in 2014. For the
purposes of the scenario analysis below the long-term award is
based on the accounting value of the award made in 2013.
40 | GOVERNANCE | Directors’ Remuneration Report
£0
£1,000
£2,000
£3,000
£401,000 £401,000
£726,667
£363,333
Minimum (Fixed) Actual
£317,000 £317,000
£279,028
£139,514
Minimum (Fixed) Actual
£1,000,000
£375,000
£000
Richard Wilson David Logan
Notes:
Minimum (Fixed) = salary + taxable benefits + pension
Actual fixed pay + cash bonus +deferred cash award + LTRP restricted award ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 41
Approach to recruitment remuneration
When hiring or appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of all the existing components of remuneration, as follows:
Maximum annual
Component Approach grant value
Base salary
As stated in the
Remuneration Policy
table, LTRP awards have
no formal cap. However
it is the expectation that
the annual grant value
would not exceed 750%
of salary for a new hire.
New appointees will be granted awards under the LTRP on the same terms as
other executives, as described in the Policy table.
LTRP
500% of salary The annual bonus described in the Policy table will apply to new appointees
and pro-rated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year. Targets for
the individual element will be tailored to reflect the expected level of
contribution.
Performance-related
annual bonus
New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits which may include (but are
not limited to) vacation, death in service, private medical and income
protection. New appointees will also be eligible to participate in all-employee
share schemes.
Benefits
SIP
Appropriate market
comparators
New appointees will receive pension contributions or an equivalent cash
supplement in line with existing executives.
Pension
The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant
market data, experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and their
current basic salary. Where new appointees have initial basic salaries set below
market, any shortfall may be managed with phased increases over a period of
two to three years subject to their development in the role.
In determining appropriate remuneration, the Committee will take
into consideration all relevant factors (including quantum, nature of
remuneration and the jurisdiction from which the candidate was
recruited) to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of
both F&C and its shareholders. The Committee may make an award
in respect of a new appointment to ‘buy out’ incentive arrangements
forfeited on leaving a previous employer, i.e. over and above the
approach outlined in the table above. In doing so, the Committee
will consider relevant factors including any performance conditions
attached to these awards and the likelihood of those conditions
being met. The Committee may also use the flexibility afforded to it
under Listing Rule 9.4.2 R if appropriate to make a share-based
award under a structure not captured in the Policy table.
Internal promotion
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal
promotion, the Committee will be consistent with the Policy for
external appointees detailed above. Where an individual has
contractual commitments made prior to his promotion to Executive
Director level, the Group will continue to honour these
arrangements.
Non-executive Directors
In the case of hiring or appointing a new Non-executive Director, the
Committee will utilise the Policy as set out in the table on page 43. A
base fee in line with the prevailing fee schedule would be payable for
Board membership, with additional fees payable for acting as Senior
Independent Director or as Chairman of any of the Board’s
Committees. Service contracts and exit payment policy
Provisions for
compensation on early
termination based on
the payments due
Date of service (salary and benefits)
Executive contract in lieu of notice
Richard Wilson 4 December 2012 £395,000
David Logan 31 July 2006 £310,000
Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for
early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee. In
accordance with general market practice, each of the Executive
Directors has a service contract with the Group for a rolling period of
12 months. Such contracts contain no specific provision for
compensation for loss of office. Executive Director service contracts
are available to view at the Group’s registered office.
The Group’s Policy on termination payments is to consider the
circumstances on an individual basis, taking into account the
relevant contractual terms of the individual, the circumstances of the
termination and any applicable duty to mitigate. The table below
summarises how the awards under the annual bonus and LTRP are
typically treated in specific circumstances. Note that the LTRP Plan
Rules prescribe the treatment of awards in the event that the
Director should leave the Group.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the discretion to take into
account exceptional circumstances in determining the appropriate
application of this policy. If the Committee does make any variation,
the rationale will be fully explained to shareholders.
42 | GOVERNANCE| Directors’ Remuneration Report
Reason for leaving Timing of vesting Calculation of vesting / payment
Annual bonus
Bad leaver (e.g. resignation) No entitlement Not applicable
Good leaver (e.g. retirement, On cessation of Entitlement to a cash bonus will be based on an assessment of performance
redundancy, ill-health) employment relative to targets as set at the beginning of the plan year. Any such bonus
will be determined by reference to the individual contribution and to the
period of time served during the year.
Change in Control Dependent on circumstances Entitlement to annual bonus payments will be a function of the timing of the
change in control and will be a matter for agreement between the parties.
This will take into account an assessment of performance relative to targets.
LTRP
Bad leaver (e.g. resignation) Awards lapse Not applicable
Good leaver (e.g. retirement, Original vesting date The Committee determines whether and to what extent outstanding awards
redundancy, ill-health) vest based on the extent to which performance conditions have been
achieved and the proportion of the vesting period worked. The determination
of vesting will be made as soon as reasonably practical following the end of
the performance period.
Change in Control Original vesting date The performance period is measured up to the date of Change in Control.
This determines the proportion of the award to vest. The awards will vest on
the original vesting date.
Non-executive Directors
All Non-executive Directors have a letter of appointment. Non-
executive Directors must submit to re-election on an annual basis
and are not eligible for bonuses or participation in savings-related
share schemes or share incentive schemes. Non-executive Directors
are not eligible to join any of the Group’s pension schemes. No
pension contributions are made on their behalf and no Non-
executive Director receives a salary from the Group. The
remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is determined by the
Board as a whole within the limits stipulated in the Group’s Articles
of Association. All fees are reviewed annually.
Non-executive Directors have a 1-month notice period.
The Board approves the Chairman’s annual remuneration. The
Board as a whole determines the fees for Non-executive Directors,
the Senior Independent Director supplement and the additional fees
payable for membership and chairing of Board Committees.
Non-executive Director Date of Appointment
K Bedell-Pearce 10 May 2013
C Porter 15 October 2013
K Jones 10 May 2013
R Sack 4 October 2013
D O’Neill 10 May 2013
K Percy 10 May 2013
K Poynter 10 May 2013 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 43
Details of the Policy on fees paid to Non-executive Directors are set out in the table below:
Function Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Fee levels are reviewed annually
with any adjustments taking
effect from 1 January each year.
The Board approves the
Chairman’s annual remuneration.
The Board as a whole
determines the fees for Non-
executive Directors, the Senior
Independent Director
supplement and the additional
fees payable for membership
and chairing of Board
Committees. Additional fees are
payable for acting as Senior
Independent Director and as
Chairman of any of the Board’s
Committees (Audit,
Remuneration and Nomination).
Fee levels are benchmarked
against sector comparators and
FTSE-listed companies of similar
size and complexity. Time
commitment and responsibility
are taken into account when
reviewing fee levels.
None Non-executive Director fee
increases are applied in line with
the outcome of the annual fee
review. Fees for the year ended
31 December 2013 are set out
in the Annual Report on
Remuneration on pages 46
and 47.
To avoid setting expectations, no
maximum fee is set under the
Policy. Non-executive fee
increases are applied taking into
account the outcome of the
review. The maximum aggregate
annual fee for all Directors
provided in the Group’s Articles
of Association is £600,000.
To attract and retain Non-
executive Directors of the
highest calibre with broad
commercial and other
experience relevant to the
Group.
External appointments
With the approval of the Board in each case, and subject to the
overriding requirements of the Group, Executive Directors may
accept external appointments as Non-executive Directors of other
companies and retain any fees received. Currently no Executive
Director holds any external appointments.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group
As a matter of sound employee relations practice, the management
team closely monitors the views and concerns of all employees. This
includes feedback about the Remuneration Policy and its
application. This information is provided to the Committee on a
periodic basis during the year. As such, the Committee does not
consult formally with employees over the effectiveness and
appropriateness of the Executive Director Remuneration Policy and
framework.
The Group seeks to promote and maintain good relationships with
employee representative bodies – including trade unions and works
councils – as part of its employee engagement strategy, and
consults on matters affecting employees and business performance
as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in
which the Group operates.
Consideration of shareholder views
The Committee takes into account shareholder views received in
relation to the Annual General Meeting each year and guidance from
shareholder representative bodies more broadly. The Committee
considers shareholder feedback an important input when
formulating Remuneration Policy and regularly reviews F&C’s
Remuneration Policy against the guidelines of key institutional
shareholders and their representative bodies.
Following feedback from shareholders, the Committee has
introduced a cap on annual bonuses and re-introduced an element
of mandatory bonus deferral. The Committee will continue to
monitor trends and developments in corporate governance and
market practice to ensure the structure of the executive
remuneration remains appropriate, and will consult with
shareholders before any significant changes are made to the Policy
or the measures used to assess performance. Annual Report on Remuneration
Remuneration Committee membership in 2013
The Committee has been established by the Board to:
• Recommend to the Board the Group’s policy on Directors’
remuneration;
• Ensure that the Executive Directors and senior employees are
fairly rewarded and that a significant proportion of Executive
Directors’ remuneration is linked to the Group’s corporate, and
their individual, performance;
• Demonstrate to shareholders that the remuneration of Executive
Directors and senior employees of the Group is determined by a
committee of Board members which has no personal interest in
the level of remuneration of the Group’s Executive Directors or
senior employees and who will pay due regard to the interests of
shareholders and to the financial and commercial health of the
Group; and
• Ensure that full consideration has been given to Section D and
Schedule A of the UK Corporate Governance Code’s best
practice provisions as annexed to the Listing Rules.
The Committee’s terms of reference are set out on the Company’s
website. As of 31 December 2013, the Committee comprised three
independent Non-executive Directors:
• Keith Bedell-Pearce (Committee Chairman)
• Derham O’Neill
• Keith Jones
Jeff Medlock retired from the Board and the Committee in May
2013. Kieran Poynter served as a member of the Committee until
August 2013 when he was appointed as Chairman of the Board. In
addition, certain executives, including the Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer and Group Head of Human Resources, are,
from time to time, invited to attend meetings of the Committee. No
individuals are involved in decisions relating to their own
remuneration. The Committee met four times during the year and
details of members’ attendance at meetings are provided in the
Corporate Governance section on page 30.
Advisers
The Committee received advice from Kepler Associates during the
year on general remuneration strategy, senior executive pay
benchmarking and on the Company’s bonus and LTRP structures.
Kepler Associates was appointed by the Committee in 2007 as its
independent adviser and provided no other services to the
Company during the year. The Committee are satsfied that Kepler
remains independent of the Company and that the advice provided is
impartial and objective. Kepler is a founding member and signatory
of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, details of
which can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com.
Total fees for the provision of remuneration services in 2013 were
£48,475 on the basis of time and expenses.
During the year the Committee also received independent
remuneration research undertaken by McLagan & Partners (£20,000
fees paid in 2013), Deloitte (£5,000) and Pricewaterhouse Coopers
(£18,000), leading firms of executive remuneration consultants, to
assess comparability of the Group’s remuneration policies to market
practice.
Summary of shareholder voting at the 2013 AGM
The following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the
2012 Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM:
Total number % of
of votes votes cast
For (including discretionary) 338,320,731 93%
Against 26,138,003 7%
Total votes cast (excluding
withheld votes) 364,458,734
Votes withheld 87,175,077
Total votes cast (including
withheld votes) 451,633,811
F&C’s 15 largest shareholders together with the ABI and ISS were
consulted on proposed changes to LTRP performance conditions
and dilution limits for 2013. The proposed changes were for LTRP
performance measures to revert from the single Earnings per Share
(EPS) measure applied to 2012 awards to the four measures (EPS,
Total Shareholder Return (TSR), Net New Business and Investment
Performance) used for 2010 and 2011. The Board re-affirmed the
performance period as 4 years having been increased from 3 years
in the previous year. The Committee also proposed a temporary
increase in the dilution limit for LTRP awards from 10 per cent to 15
per cent of the Company’s share capital.
Shareholders were generally supportive on the basis that, while the
proposal was to raise the aggregate dilution limit, the Company has
undertaken that any new dilutive awards will be no greater than 1
per cent of share capital per year so that the dilutive capacity will
progressively reduce to less than 10 per cent over future years.
44 | GOVERNANCE | ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 45
Single total figure of remuneration (audited)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2013
and the prior year:
Richard Wilson
1
David Logan
2013 2012 2013 2012
£ £ £ £
Salary 350,000 25,000 275,000 275,000
Taxable benefits
2
2,132 167 853 801
Pension benefits
3
48,750 3,125 41,250 41,250
Annual Cash Bonus
4
726,667 67,000 279,028 325,000
Deferred Bonus
4,5
363,333 N/A 139,514 N/A
Long-term incentives 160,337
6
N/A
7
447,189
6
484,884
7
Total 1,651,219 95,292 1,182,834 1,126,935
1
Richard Wilson was appointed Chief Executive on 3 December 2012.
2
Taxable benefits consist of private medical insurance (it excludes the cost of vacation entitlement).
3
During the year Richard Wilson and David Logan each participated in a Money Purchase Pension Scheme. The Company contributed £48,750 and £41,250
respectively in 2013 (2012: £3,125 and £41,250 respectively).
4
These awards are based on actual performance relative to the measures shown in the Annual Bonus Performance Measures table.
5
In April 2014, the Deferred Bonus will be deferred into F&C funds for 3 years. The entitlement to receive the deferred award on vesting is subject to continued
employment.
6
The value of the 2011 LTRP award is based on performance for the period from 2011 to 2013 inclusive (see page 47 for details) including the value of accrued
dividends. The TSR element of the 2011 LTRP award will be measured on the vesting date (May 2014). However as the TSR measure has been substantially
completed by the end of 2013 it has therefore been included in the valuation of the single figure for 2013. The TSR component is calculated as the number of
shares vesting multiplied by the average three month share price to 31 December 2013. This average is £0.94. The actual value will be based on the share price
as at the vesting date (May 2014) and will be included in the 2014 Remuneration Report. Richard Wilson’s 2011 awards were for the period before he was an
Executive Director.
7
The value of the 2010 LTRP award is based on performance to the end of the 2012 financial year and includes the value of accrued dividends. The 2010 LTRP
award was based on four equally weighted measures of performance: EPS growth, relative TSR, net new business targets and relative investment performance.
Annual Bonus Performance Measures
The measures below are the basis for determining the 2013 annual bonus.
Area Performance Measure Performance achieved * Comments
Corporate Performance
Focus on revenue growth and new
business
 
Revenue growth achieved from
specialist areas for new business.
Net Consumer and Institutional new
business + £1.3 billion.
Performance fees earned £11.6 million
(2012 £9.5 million).
Core operating costs reduced by a
further £19.3 million.
Operating margin increased to 36.9%.
  
Create greater flexibility in our cost
base
90% of fixed income assets were
above benchmark over three years.
70% of equity assets were above
benchmark over three years.
77% of property portfolios were above
benchmark over three years.
100 new institutional clients added
during the year.
  
Investment performance and asset
growth in core investment capabilities 46 | GOVERNANCE | Annual Report on Remuneration
Annual Bonus Performance Measures continued
Area Performance Measure Performance achieved * Comments
Strategic Objectives
Summary
2013 was a positive year for the Group which made important progress in line with the strategic objectives.
• Our investment performance was strong.
• We launched a number of new products in areas of growing client demand.
• Our cost base reduced in line with the targets we previously set out.
• Importantly net fund flows in our Consumer and Institutional business improved substantially.
* Key:
 Above target
 Around target
 Between threshold and target
Below threshold
Single total figure of remuneration for Non-executive Directors (audited)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-executive Director for the year ended 31 December
2013 and the prior year:
Thames River
Base fee Committee fees SID fee Advisory Councils Total
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
£ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £
E Bramson* 96,370 150,000 – – – – – – 96,370 150,000
K Bedell-Pearce 60,000 60,000 17,000 13,000 15,000 15,000 20,000 20,000 112,000 108,000
I Brindle 21,612 60,000 – – – – – – 21,612 60,000
K Jones 60,000 60,000 – – – – – – 60,000 60,000
J Medlock 21,612 60,000 – – – – – – 21,612 60,000
D O’Neill 60,000 60,000 – – – – – – 60,000 60,000
K Percy 60,000 60,000 12,500 10,000 – – – – 72,500 70,000
K Poynter 82,500 60,000 10,712 12,500 – – 20,000 20,000 113,212 92,500
C Porter 38,548 – – – – – – – 38,548 –
R Sack 34,000 – – – – – – – 34,000 –
Total 534,642 570,000 40,212 35,500 15,000 15,000 40,000 40,000 629,854 660,500
* The figures shown for Mr Bramson in 2012 and 2013 reflect the remuneration paid to him in his capacity as Chairman of the Company. Mr Bramson did not
receive any additional remuneration in either 2012 or 2013 for serving as an Executive Director of the Company.

Achievement of targets as determined
by the Board
 
Net debt reduced to £76.0 million
(2012 £97.3 million).
The Group focused on its financial
objectives of delivering the planned
cost savings associated with the
strategic review and improving cash
flow generation.
The Group has worked to retain
Strategic Partner assets, execute
Consumer and Institutional short-term
sales and growth plans and develop
product and marketing plans for the
medium term.
Profitability
  
Underlying EPS increased by 25.7% to
8.8p (2012 7.0p)
Group underlying profit before tax
increased by 33%. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 47
With effect from 1 January 2013, the Chairman of the Board, who
chairs the Nomination Committee, receives an annual all-inclusive
fee of £150,000 per annum and the basic fee payable to each Non-
Executive is £60,000 per annum. An additional fee of £12,500 per
annum is paid to the Chairman of each of the Board Committees.
The fee paid for being Senior Independent Director (SID) is £15,000
per annum. A fee of £20,000 was paid to members of the Thames
River Advisory Councils.
Incentive outcomes for the year ended
31 December 2013
Performance-related annual bonus in respect of 2013
performance
The 2013 annual bonus recognises the contribution of the Executive
Directors in achieving the Company’s results. The assessment of
their contribution is determined by applying the Annual Bonus
Performance Measures set out in the table on pages45 and 46 as
well as personal performance. The weighting for each factor is
determined as appropriate for the business each year and in respect
of the role and responsibilities of the individual.
In summary, outcomes against the performance measures have
improved over the previous year and are in line with 2013 expectations
for value delivered to clients and shareholders. The Directors are
committed to a strong control environment throughout the Group. F&C
has a culture that emphasises the importance of rigorous disciplines
and procedures to safeguard the interests of our clients and other key
stakeholders. This high standard of risk and compliance has been
maintained throughout the year. Details of performance measures are
shown under the Single Total Figure of Remuneration.
The bonus policy provides for awards of between 0 per cent and
500 per cent of salary. The size and allocation of the annual
discretionary bonus pool is recommended by the Remuneration
Committee to the Board for approval.
Overall bonus outcomes
On the basis of the performance delivered by the Executive
Directors in 2013 as above, the bonus awards were as follows:
Cash Deferred* Total
Director £000 £000 £000
Richard Wilson 727 363 1,090
David Logan 279 140 419
* Deferred bonus awards vest, subject to good/bad leaver provisions, in May
2017.
2011 LTRP award vesting in 2014
Awards were granted under the LTRP in May 2011. Vesting of the awards was dependent on four equally-weighted measures over a three-year
performance period; EPS, TSR ranking versus FTSE 250 financial services companies, net new business and investment performance. Further
details, including vesting schedules and performance against each of the metrics is provided in the table below:
Performance
Measure period ends Weighting Targets Vest %
1
Elements with performance period ending during the 2013 financial year
The performance period for the EPS, Net New Business and Relative Investment Performance elements of the 2011 LTRP award ends on 31 December 2013,
with vesting on the third anniversary of the date of grant (May 2014).
2
Elements with performance period ending during the 2014 financial year
The performance period for the TSR element of the 2011 LTRP award ends in May 2014, with vesting on the third anniversary of the date of grant (May 2014).
For information only this element has been measured up to 31 December 2013.
Indicative % vesting 50%
2
Relative investment
performance
1
31 December 2013 25%
• 0% vesting for less than 42% of funds
outperforming benchmark
• 0% vesting for 42% of funds outperforming
benchmark
• 100% vesting at 75% of funds outperforming
benchmark or more
Straight-line vesting between these points
Estimated
Vesting =
100%
EPS
1
31 December
2013
25%
Not met
Vesting =
0%
•0% vesting for 25% of target
• 100% vesting for 125% of target or more
Straight-line vesting between these points
25%
31 December
2013
Net new business
1
Not Met (as
at 31.12.13)
Vesting =
0%
•0% vesting below median
• 25% vesting for median
• 100% vesting for upper quartile or more
Straight-line vesting between these points
25% 4 May 2014
TSR versus FTSE 250
financial services
companies
2
Fully met
Vesting =
100%
•0% vesting below RPI+3% p.a.
• 25% vesting for RPI+3% p.a.
• 100% vesting for RPI+11% p.a. or more
Straight-line vesting between these points 48 | GOVERNANCE | Annual Report on Remuneration
The actual value at vesting of this element will be disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration. Indicative vesting is as follows:
Interests Assumed Estimated
Executive Director Interests held Vesting % vesting Date vesting market price value*
Richard Wilson 300,105 50% 150,052 4 May 2014 94.4p £141,649
David Logan 837,001 50% 418,500 4 May 2014 94.4p £395,064
*Excluding cumulative re-invested dividends.
In line with regulations, the value disclosed above and in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 45 captures the full number of
interests vesting. As the market price on the date of vesting is unknown at the time of reporting, the value is estimated using the average
market value over the last quarter of 2013 of £0.94. The actual value at vesting will be disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration.
LTRP awarded in 2013 vesting in 2017(audited)
In May 2013, Executive Directors were granted awards under the LTRP as detailed in the table below. The four-year performance period over
which performance will be measured began on 1 January 2013 and will end on 31 December 2016 for all measures (i.e. the TSR performance
period is now aligned with the financial year). Each Executive Director’s award is eligible to vest on the fourth anniversary of the date of grant
(i.e. 13 May 2017).
Shares over which Market price at
Executive Director Date of grant awards granted date of award Face value
Richard Wilson 13 May 2013 2,105,263 95.0p £2,000,000
David Logan 13 May 2013 789,473 95.0p £750,000
Vesting of the 2013 LTRP award is dependent on four equally-weighted measures; EPS, TSR ranking versus FTSE All-Share financial services
companies, net new business and investment performance. Investment performance is revenue weighted to reflect the strategic objective to
secure higher-fee assets and vests 25 per cent in relation to trailing 1-year performance (over 2016) and 75 per cent to trailing 3-year
performance (i.e. 2014-2016). Details of the vesting schedules are provided below:
Measure Weighting Targets
•0% vesting for less than 42% of funds outperforming benchmark
•0% vesting for 42% of funds outperforming benchmark
• 100% vesting at 75% of funds outperforming benchmark
or more
Straight-line vesting between these points
25%
Relative investment
performance
•0% vesting for 25% of target.
• 100% vesting for 125% of target or more
Straight-line vesting between these points
25% Net new business
•0% vesting below median
• 25% vesting for median
• 100% vesting for upper quartile or more
Straight-line vesting between these points
25%
TSR versus FTSE All-Share
financial services
companies
•0% vesting below 8.2p
• 25% vesting for 8.2p
• 100% vesting for 13.7p or more
Straight-line vesting between these points
25% EPS Exit payments made in the year (audited)
No exit payments were made to any person who has served as a
Director during the year, or in any previous year.
Payments to past directors (audited)
Alain Grisay – Restricted LTRP award vested May 2013
Alain Grisay retired from the Group in September 2013 and received
the following LTRP award in accordance with the Rules of the Plan:
No of shares vesting 1,013,805
Vesting share price 96.85p
Value of shares on vesting £981,870
Value of dividends £118,252
Total – shares & dividends £1,100,122
Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2014
Base salary
The level of base salary is determined on an individual basis. The
Committee takes account of:
• advice received from the Committee’s independent advisors
on salary levels for similar roles in selected comparable
organisations;
• individual performance and experience; and
• salary movements for employees across the Group.
The Committee approved the following base salaries with effect from
1 July 2014:
Base Base
Executive salary salary Percentage
Director 2013 - 2014 2014 - 2015 increase
Richard Wilson £350,000 £350,000 0%
David Logan £275,000 £275,000 0%
Salary increases averaging 4 per cent across the Group were
awarded as part of the annual compensation review. New salaries
will be with effect from 1 July 2014.
Pension
Executive Directors will continue to receive a pension contribution
under the Money Purchase Pension Scheme equal to 13 per cent
of salary.
Performance-related annual bonus
The Committee has approved that the annual bonus opportunity in
2014 for Executive Directors, will be capped at 500 per cent of salary.
Performance bonuses will be based on similar criteria to those in
2013 and which are of primary importance to shareholders. The
Executive Directors will each receive a material proportion of their
annual bonus by way of a deferred award.
Performance measures are summarised below. The proposed target
levels of achievement have been set to be challenging.
Area Performance Measure
Corporate Performance • Profitability measured as:
– relative to 2013
– relative to targets set by the Board
– in the context of expectations and
market conditions
• Fund Flows (gross and net) measured
as:
– relative to 2013
– relative to targets set by the Board
• Consultant buy ratings
• Group control environment.
• Client retention
– Fully implement measures for
‘Treating Customers Fairly’
• New business fee margins
Investment Performance • Investment Performance measured as:
– percentage of assets above index
benchmark or peer group on an
asset-weighted basis
This is for fixed income, equity and
property assets
Strategic Objectives Growth objectives as determined by the
Board
Personal Performance Individual objectives appropriately
weighted in respect of the above criteria
LTRP
No LTRP awards are expected to be granted in 2014.
Chairman and Non-executive Director Fees
Chairman and Non-executive Director fee levels for 2014 will be
reviewed prior to the 2014 AGM. Any changes will take effect from
1 January 2014.
Percentage change in CEO remuneration: 2012 to 2013
During 2012, Alain Grisay retired as CEO and Richard Wilson was
appointed to the role.
Alain Grisay remained as CEO until May 2012. Edward Bramson
had executive responsibility as the Executive Chairman of the Group
between May 2012 and December 2012. Richard Wilson was
appointed as CEO in December 2012.
The data in the table below is based on CEO remuneration costs in
2012 for Alain Grisay on a full year basis. Edward Bramson did not
receive any additional remuneration during 2012 for his Executive
role.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 49 50 | GOVERNANCE | Annual Report on Remuneration
Average for
% Change in: Chief Executive all employees
Base salary No change + 4%
Benefits No change No change
Cash bonus (excluding 2013
deferred cash element) -9% -8%
Relative importance of spend on pay
The following table shows the year-on-year movement in the total
remuneration of employees and members of limited liability
partnerships (excluding exceptional costs) compared with the
ordinary dividends paid or payable for each year.
2013 2012 %
£m £m Change
Employee and member
benefits expense 92.4 110.5 -16.4
Dividends paid or payable
on Ordinary Shares 17.6 16.3 +8.0
Profit/(loss) after tax attributable
to Ordinary Shareholders 8.5 (0.3) N/A
Comparison of Company performance
The graph below compares the performance of the Company with a
notional investment made up of shares of the group of companies
from which the FTSE 250 financial companies index of companies is
calculated. The graph is based on TSR for each period (assuming all
dividends are reinvested) over the five year period from 1 January
2009 to 31 December 2013. The FTSE 250 financial companies
index has been chosen as the comparator index as it is the index
that includes the Company and is considered the most appropriate
benchmark. The table below details the Chief Executive’s “single
figure” remuneration over the same period.
TSR performance compared to FTSE 250 Financial
Companies Index
For the five financial periods ending 31 December
The following table shows the total remuneration of the CEO for the
financial years shown in the TSR graph above. As there has been no
cap on the annual bonus or long-term incentive awards historically
(with the exception of the annual bonus in 2013 for which an
individual cap was introduced), a per cent of maximum is not shown
for those years.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
CEO single figure
of remuneration
(£000) 2,419 1,168 1,183 2,015 1,651
Short-term
incentive award
rates against
maximum
opportunity N/A N/A N/A N/A 62%
1
Long-term incentive
award rates against
maximum opportunity N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
2
Note:
1
The short-term incentive award includes the annual cash bonus
and the deferred cash bonus paid in 2014 in respect of 2013.
2
The long-term incentive award was made to Richard Wilson prior
to his appointment as an Executive Director.
FCAM FTSE Financials Source:Datastream
29 Dec
2008
31 Dec
2009
31 Dec
2010
31 Dec
2011
31 Dec
2012
30 Dec
2013
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 51
Directors’ interests (audited)
A table setting out the beneficial interests of the Directors and their
families in the share capital of the Company as at 31 December
2013 is set out on page 24. Details of unvested awards over
ordinary shares are set out below.
Unvested Unvested and
and not subject subject to
to performance performance
conditions as at conditions as at
31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2013
D Logan – 3,119,011
R Wilson 384,697 5,390,442
K Bedell-Pearce ––
K Jones ––
D O’Neill ––
K Percy ––
K Poynter ––
C Porter ––
R Sack ––
By order of the Board,
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
9 April 2014 52 | GOVERNANCE |
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and
the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements in accordance
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Consolidated and
Company Financial Statements for each financial year. Under that
law they are required to prepare the Consolidated Financial
Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have
elected to prepare the Company Financial Statements in
accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial
Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their
profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Consolidated
and Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
• for the Consolidated Financial Statements, state whether they
have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by
the EU;
• for the Company Financial Statements, state whether applicable
UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any
material departures disclosed and explained in the Company
Financial Statements; and
• prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its
Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They
have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably
open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent
and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also
responsible for preparing the Strategic Report, the Directors’
Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance
Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and
dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in
other jurisdictions.
Responsibility Statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation
taken as a whole; and
• the Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Report and
Strategic Report include a fair review of the development and
performance of the business and the position of the issuer and
the undertakings in the consolidation taken as a whole, together
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that
they face.
• the Annual Report and the Financial Statements, taken as a
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provides the
information necessary for Shareholders to assess the
Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
Kieran Poynter
Chairman
9 April 2014
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 53
Independent Auditor’s Report
to the members of F&C Asset Management plc only
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1 Our opinion on the financial statements is
unmodified
We have audited the Financial Statements of F&C Asset Management
plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 57 to
136 and 141 to 153. In our opinion:
• the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state
of the Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at
31 December 2013 and of the Group’s profit for the year
then ended;
• the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as
adopted by the European Union;
• the parent Company Financial Statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards; and
• the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as
regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Financial Statements
the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our
audit were as follows:
Goodwill (£611.9m) per note 14
Refer to page 28 (Audit and Compliance Committee Report), pages
65 and 66 (accounting policy) and pages 84 to 87 (financial
disclosures)
• The Risk – There is a risk that the carrying value of goodwill is
impaired. An impairment assessment of goodwill is carried out
annually, or where there is an indication of impairment, using a
value in use model in each of the three cash-generating units
(CGUs). Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting
and discounting future cash flows, which are the basis of the
assessment of recoverability, this is one of the key areas of
judgment of the audit.
• Our Response – In this area our audit procedures included,
among others, testing the Group’s controls around the
preparation of the budget, upon which the discounted cashflow
model is based, to assess the adequacy of controls around the
process and the reasonableness of assumptions. We used our
own valuation specialist to assist us in evaluating the
assumptions and methodologies used by the Group, in
particular those relating to the inputs into the discounted
cashflow model. We compared the Group’s assumptions to
externally derived data such as industry growth rates and risk-
adjusted discount rates applied in the market. We also
compared these to our own assessments in relation to key
inputs such as projected economic growth, cost inflation and
discount rates, and applied various sensitivities, including those
described in note 14, as well as performing a break even
analysis on key assumptions. We compared the sum of the
value in use calculations to the market capitalisation of the
Group to assess whether the projected cash flows are
supported by market prices. The Other Financial Liabilities
section below considers the consistency of the calculation of
value in use for testing the carrying value of goodwill in the F&C
REIT CGU with that of its fair value for the liability valuation.
During this process we considered the impact of the
consolidated value in use against the parent Company
investment in subsidiary value. We also assessed whether the
Group’s disclosures regarding the sensitivity of the outcome of
the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions
properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Management Contract Intangible Assets (£43.1m) per
note 14
Refer to page 28 (Audit and Compliance Committee Report), page 66
(accounting policy) and pages 84 to 87 (financial disclosures)
• The Risk – There is a risk that the value attached to
management contracts is materially misstated due to the
inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting assets under
management and implied fee rates.
• Our Response – In this area, our audit procedures included,
among others, identifying business activities and any relevant
events in the year against the Group’s assessment for indicators
of impairment of the management contract assets. We
assessed the impairment indicators calculated through a
comparison of annualised revenue on assets under
management outflows against the annual amortisation charge.
We also tested the application of the Group’s amortisation
policy, including comparing the historical accuracy of the current
useful lives of existing finite life intangible assets. Where an
indicator of impairment was identified, we critically assessed the
Group’s assumptions around projected cash flows and the other
assumptions as appropriate. We assessed whether the Group’s
disclosures around finite life assets, changes in amortisation and
impairment were adequate.
Valuation of Other Financial Liabilities (£36.8m) per note 28
Refer to page 28 (Audit and Compliance Committee Report), page 67
(accounting policy) and page 116 (financial disclosures)
• The Risk – As detailed in the summary of significant accounting
policies, the F&C REIT put option liabilities represent the fair
value of the options to purchase the 30% interest in F&C REIT
currently held by the non-controlling interest partners in this
business. The value of the liability as at 31 December 2013 was
£36.8m (see note 28). The potential value of this non-controlling
interest is held in Other Financial Liabilities in the Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position and revalued on a fair value
basis annually. Changes in the value of the non-controlling
interest are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
There is a risk that the underlying assumptions used to calculate 54 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Independent Auditor’s Report
the fair value of the subsidiary are not appropriate and could
materially misstate the value of the liability. Due to inherent
uncertainties in the subsidiary’s future performance, projected
cash flows and applicable discount rate, this is a key focus area
of the audit.
• Our Response – In this area, our audit procedures included,
among others, an assessment of the key inputs and
assumptions used in the third party valuation and the method of
calculation. We compared the Group’s assumptions to
externally derived data such as industry growth rates, risk-
adjusted discount rates applied in the market as well as our own
assessments in relation to key inputs. We used our own
valuation specialist to help challenge the key assumptions and
method of valuation used by the third party. We identified and
evaluated the difference between the fair value of F&C REIT
produced by the third-party valuer and the value in use
calculation produced for the purpose of assessing whether the
value of goodwill relating to the F&C REIT CGU was impaired
considering the consistency of the assumptions made for the
two different valuation bases. We assessed the disclosure
around the other financial liability, agreeing any assumptions
disclosed to the underlying fair value model.
Performance Fees (including transaction fees) (£11.6m)
Refer to page 28 (Audit and Compliance Committee Report, page 64
(accounting policy) and page 75 (financial disclosures)
• The Risk – There is a risk that management applies inaccurate
assumptions when determining revenue to be recognised in
relation to performance fees, resulting in a material
misstatement.
• Our Response – Our audit procedures included, among others,
identifying performance fees that have been accrued and do not
crystallise until a future date, and assessing management’s
analysis of potential future performance. This included assessing
the reasonableness of each of the assumptions and external
market benchmarks, as well as the historical accuracy of similar
judgments. For amounts that crystallised during the period we
assessed the calculation and compared it to the underlying
agreement, as well as agreeing amounts to bank statements.
Risk of recoverability relating to trade receivables
balance (£13.3m)
Refer to page 28 (Audit and Compliance Committee Report, page 67
(accounting policy) and page 125 (financial disclosures)
• The Risk – There is a significant specific risk around recovery of
£13.3m currently recognised in the Group’s Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position. The £13.3m from a client in the
property segment, is past its due date and has not been
impaired. Collateral is held in the form of UK and overseas
properties to the value of £52.5m. The realisation of certain of
these properties is expected to be the source of repayment of
the debtor.
• Our Response – Our audit procedures included, among others,
considering the appropriateness of the absence of a provision
recorded against the trade receivable balance, inspecting the
underlying documentation covering enforceability, legal title, the
valuation and the potential timing of realisation of assets held in
overseas jurisdictions as collateral. The signed payment
schedule agreed by management was also inspected. Finally,
we considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in
relation to the recoverability of trade receivables and credit risk.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of
the scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole was
set at £4.9m. This has been calculated with reference to a
benchmark of Group revenue (of which it represents 2%) which we
consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of
the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit and Compliance Committee to report all
corrected and uncorrected misstatements identified through our
audit work with a value in excess of £245,000 that have an impact
on profit, in addition to other audit misstatements that we believe
warrant reporting on qualitative grounds. Audits for Group reporting
purposes were performed by component auditors. The key
reporting components were: The Netherlands and Portugal and by
the Group audit team in the United Kingdom. These Group
procedures covered 98.6% of total Group revenue and 99.4% of
total Group assets. The segment disclosures in note 2 set out the
individual significance of a specific country.
The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key
reporting components of the Group were all performed to materiality
levels set by, or agreed with, the Group audit team. These materiality
levels were set individually for each component and ranged from
£0.4m to £3.6m.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in these
locations. These instructions covered the significant audit areas that
should be covered by these audits (which included the relevant risks
of material misstatement detailed above) and set out the information
required to be reported back to the Group audit team. The Group
audit team visited the following locations: the UK, The Netherlands
and Portugal. Telephone meetings were also held with the auditors
at these locations.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion:
• The part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 2006;
• The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’
Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements
are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements; and ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 55
• The information given in the Corporate Governance Statement
set out on pages 26 to 32 with respect to internal control and
risk management systems in relation to financial reporting
processes and share capital structures is consistent with the
Group Financial Statements.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters
on which we are required to report by exception
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if,
based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have
identified other information in the annual report that contains a
material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the Financial
Statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise
misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if:
• we have identified material inconsistencies between the
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors’
statement that they consider that the Annual Report and
Financial Statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced and
understandable and provides the information necessary for
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business
model and strategy; or
• the Statement of the Audit and Compliance Committee does
not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the
Audit and Compliance Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,
in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law
are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit; or
• a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by
the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the Directors’ statement, set out on page 26, in relation to going
concern; and
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page26
relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of
the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our
review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
set out on page 52, the directors are responsible for the preparation
of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a
true and fair view. A description of the scope of an audit of Financial
Statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website
at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely to
the Company’s members as a body and is subject to important
explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities,
published on our website at
www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated
into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an
understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have
undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Jonathan Mills (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
EH1 2EG
Edinburgh
9 April 2014 56 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS |
Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2013
These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS).
The Company Financial Statements of F&C Asset Management plc, given on pages 141 to 153 have been prepared
in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP). ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 57
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2013
2012
2013 (as restated*)
Notes £m £m
Revenue
Investment management fees 3 252.5 252.6
Other income 3 5.0 4.8
Total revenue 3 257.5 257.4
Fee and commission expenses 3 (16.3) (13.9)
Net revenue 3 241.2 243.5
Net gains and investment income on unit-linked assets 4 6.5 40.6
Movement in fair value of unit-linked liabilities (6.3) (40.8)
Operating expenses
Operating expenses 5(b) (140.9) (162.6)
Distributions to members of LLPs 6 (11.1) (11.6)
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets – management contracts 14 (42.7) (42.5)
Other exceptional operating expenses 7(a) (8.2) (21.9)
Total operating expenses 5(a) (202.9) (238.6)
Operating profit 38.5 4.7
Finance revenue 8 2.3 3.9
Finance costs 9 (22.1) (23.1)
F&C REIT put option fair value (loss)/gain 7(b) (3.0) 11.5
Profit/(loss) before tax 15.7 (3.0)
Tax – Shareholders (5.5) 5.4
Tax – Policyholders – 0.2
Tax (expense)/income 10 (5.5) 5.6
Profit for the year 10.2 2.6
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 8.5 (0.3)
Non-controlling interests 1.7 2.9
Profit for the year 10.2 2.6
Basic earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share 11 1.52p (0.06p)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share 11 1.43p (0.06p)
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
£m £m
Memo – dividends paid 12 16.7 15.8
Memo – second interim dividend declared but not paid 12 11.8 –
Memo – dividends proposed 12 – 10.9
The accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements form an integral part of these Financial Statements. 58 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS |
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 December 2013
2012
2013 (as restated*)
Notes £m £m
Profit for the year 10.2 2.6
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension arrangements 25(d) 3.6 (8.5)
Tax (expense)/income on net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension arrangements (0.8) 1.7
Corporation Tax rate change (0.2) (0.3)
Items which may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Foreign exchange movements on translation of foreign operations 2.3 (2.6)
Gains on revaluation of available for sale financial investments 15 0.4 0.7
Realised gains on available for sale financial investments recycled to the Income Statement 15 (1.4) (1.1)
Tax income on available for sale financial investments 10(a) 0.2 0.1
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 4.1 (10.0)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 14.3 (7.4)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 12.6 (10.3)
Non-controlling interests 1.7 2.9
14.3 (7.4)
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 1 Presentation of Items in Other Comprehensive Income (amendments) and for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits
(revised), as disclosed in note 1.
The accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements form an integral part of these Financial Statements. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 59
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
Notes £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 13 5.5 7.1
Intangible assets:
– Goodwill 14 611.9 611.9
– Management contracts 14 43.1 84.5
– Software and licences 14 8.7 7.8
14 663.7 704.2
Financial investments 15 0.3 1.3
Deferred acquisition costs 16 2.0 3.3
Deferred tax assets 17(a) 18.2 28.6
Trade and other receivables 20 10.7 0.4
Total non-current assets 700.4 744.9
Current assets
Financial investments 18(a)(i) 3.0 138.2
Stock of units and shares 18(a)(ii) 1.3 0.3
Deferred acquisition costs 16 1.5 2.0
Trade and other receivables 20 99.6 87.2
Current tax receivable 0.2 1.0
Cash and cash equivalents:
– Shareholders 21 182.0 160.7
– Policyholders 21 0.9 4.5
21 182.9 165.2
Total current assets 288.5 393.9
Total assets 988.9 1,138.8
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 22 257.5 257.4
Other payables 23 5.0 3.3
Provisions 24 3.7 5.1
Pension deficit 25 17.5 24.1
Employee benefits 4.4 5.0
Deferred income 27 4.3 5.6
Other financial liabilities 28 33.0 30.0
Deferred tax liabilities 17(a) 8.9 19.7
Total non-current liabilities 334.3 350.2
Current liabilities
Investment contract liabilities 29 0.1 136.9
Trade and other payables 23 68.5 53.2
Provisions 24 5.2 8.3
Employee benefits 18.5 24.7
Liabilities to members of LLPs 2.2 4.0
Deferred income 27 2.2 2.7
Other financial liabilities 28 3.8 3.8
Current tax payable 10.5 8.8
Total current liabilities 111.0 242.4
Total liabilities 445.3 592.6
Equity
Ordinary Share capital 30 0.6 0.6
Share premium account 31 58.9 58.9
Capital redemption reserve 31 0.8 0.8
Merger reserve 31 315.8 336.8
Other reserves 31 (24.2) (25.7)
Retained earnings 31 182.9 162.7
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 534.8 534.1
Non-controlling interests 31 8.8 12.1
Total equity 543.6 546.2
Total liabilities and equity 988.9 1,138.8
The Consolidated Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 9 April 2014.
They were signed on its behalf by:
Kieran Poynter Richard Wilson
Chairman Chief Executive
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
as at 31 December 2013
The accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements form an integral part of these Financial Statements. 60 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS |
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
Foreign
Ordinary Share Capital currency Non-
Share premium redemption Merger translation Fair value Acquisition Retained controlling Total
capital account reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2012 0.5 51.8 0.8 359.7 42.1 1.1 (66.0) 154.3 12.5 556.8
(Loss)/profit for the year (as restated*) –– ––– –– (0.3) 2.9 2.6
Other comprehensive
expense (as restated*) –– –– (2.6) (0.3) – (7.1) – (10.0)
Total comprehensive
(expense)/income –– –– (2.6) (0.3) – (7.4) 2.9 (7.4)
Transactions with owners:
Share capital allotted in respect of
TRC Commutation arrangements 0.1 7.1 –– ––– (7.2) ––
Purchase of own shares –– ––– –– (0.1) – (0.1)
Realised element of merger reserve
to offset amortisation of
intangible assets –– – (22.9) –– – 22.9 ––
Share-based payment charges
credited to equity –– ––– –– 13.4 – 13.4
Tax credit in respect of share-
based payments –– ––– –– 0.6 – 0.6
Adjustment to consideration for
non-controlling interests in
F&C Partners LLP –– ––– –– 2.8 – 2.8
Tax associated with adjustment to
consideration for non-controlling
interests in F&C Partners LLP –– ––– –– (0.8) – (0.8)
Final 2011 dividend paid –– ––– –– (10.4) – (10.4)
Interim 2012 dividend paid –– ––– –– (5.4) – (5.4)
Distributions to non-controlling
interests –– ––– ––– (3.3) (3.3)
Balance at 31 December 2012 0.6 58.9 0.8 336.8 39.5 0.8 (66.0) 162.7 12.1 546.2
Profit for the year –– ––– –– 8.5 1.7 10.2
Other comprehensive
income/(expense) –– –– 2.3 (0.8) – 2.6 – 4.1
Total comprehensive
income/(expense) –––– 2.3 (0.8) – 11.1 1.7 14.3
Transactions with owners:
Purchase of own shares –– ––– –– (1.6) – (1.6)
Realised element of merger reserve
to offset amortisation of
intangible assets –– – (21.0) –– – 21.0 ––
Share-based payment charges
credited to equity –– ––– –– 6.9 – 6.9
Tax charge in respect of
share-based payments –– ––– –– (0.5) – (0.5)
Final 2012 dividend paid –– ––– –– (10.9) – (10.9)
Interim 2013 dividend paid –– ––– –– (5.8) – (5.8)
Distributions to non-controlling
interests –– ––– ––– (5.0) (5.0)
Balance at 31 December 2013 0.6 58.9 0.8 315.8 41.8 – (66.0) 182.9 8.8 543.6
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
The total of foreign currency translation reserve, fair value reserve and acquisition reserve constitutes ‘Other reserves’ as disclosed in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and amounts to a debit of £24.2m at 31 December 2013 (31 December 2012: £25.7m debit).
Cumulative defined benefit pension scheme actuarial losses (as disclosed in note 25(d)) recognised as at 31 December 2013 are £35.9m and
are included in retained earnings (31 December 2012: £39.5m – as restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as
disclosed in note 1).
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2013
The accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements form an integral part of these Financial Statements. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 61
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31 December 2013
2012
2013 (as restated*)
Notes £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Operating profit 38.5 4.7
Adjustments for non-cash items 32(a) 54.0 61.4
Changes in working capital and provisions 32(a) (27.5) (54.5)
Cash inflows from operating activities
#
65.0 11.6
Income tax paid (5.2) (6.5)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 59.8 5.1
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (0.9) (3.6)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1
Purchase of software and licences (2.6) (5.8)
Payments to acquire investments (0.1) (0.1)
Proceeds from disposal of investments 1.3 3.3
Investment income – interest and dividends 2.0 2.0
Consideration payment for the acquisition of F&C GH
†
– (0.7)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (0.2) (4.8)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid on Loan Notes (20.6) (21.6)
Other interest paid (0.3) (0.3)
Equity dividends paid 12 (16.7) (15.8)
Distributions to non-controlling interests (5.0) (3.3)
Purchase of own shares (1.6) (0.1)
Repayment of Guaranteed Loan Notes 2016 – (8.0)
Repayment of Subordinated Loan Notes 2016/2026 – (7.6)
Payments in respect of debt arrangements – (0.2)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (44.2) (56.9)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 15.4 (56.6)
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 2.3 (3.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 165.2 225.0
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 21 182.9 165.2
Cash and cash equivalents
Shareholders 21 182.0 160.7
Policyholders 21 0.9 4.5
21 182.9 165.2
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
#
Cash inflows from operating activities includes investments and disinvestments relating to unit-linked assets attributable to policyholders in the Group’s insurance
company. These activities can result in significant fluctuations in “cash flows from operating activities”.
†
Final consideration settlement in respect of the acquisition of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited in 2004.
Non-cash transactions
During 2013, a total of 25,854,549 (2012: 12,377,307) Ordinary Shares were issued, at par value, in respect of settlement of share-based
payment awards.
During 2012, a total of 10,684,692 Ordinary Shares were issued in respect of TRC Initial and Deferred Commutation consideration. The fair
value of these shares was £7.2m.
The accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Basis of preparation and statement of compliance
These are the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C Asset
Management plc and its subsidiaries (the Group) which have been
prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the
European Union (EU adopted IFRS), and those parts of the
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under
adopted IFRS. These Consolidated Financial Statements are
presented in millions of pounds Sterling, rounded to one decimal
point, except where otherwise indicated.
Certain figures reported in the 2012 Financial Statements have been
reclassified within these Financial Statements for consistency with
the presentation applied within these Financial Statements. These
changes are presentational in nature and do not change the
previously reported financial results for the year ended 31 December
2012 nor the aggregate assets and liabilities at that date.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to
affect its future development, performance and position are set out
in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 21. The financial position of
the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are also described in
the Strategic Report. In addition, note 35 to the Financial
Statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes
for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives;
and details of its financial instruments and its exposure to credit risk,
liquidity risk and market risks.
The Group has considerable financial resources and benefits from a
broad client base across different geographic areas and industries.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing these Financial
Statements.
New or revised standards
The following IFRS standards, amendments and revisions, which are
relevant to F&C’s reporting have been adopted in the current
reporting period. The details, and their impact, are considered below.
IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive
Income – Amendments to IAS 1
The Group has adopted this amendment which has resulted in a
prior period adjustment changing the grouping of items presented in
Other Comprehensive Income (OCI). Items which may be
reclassified (or recycled) to profit or loss in the future are now
presented separately from items that could not be reclassified. The
amendments do not change the nature of items that are recognised
in OCI, nor do they impact the determination of whether items in
OCI are reclassified through profit or loss in future periods.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
IFRS 13 provides a single source of guidance on how to measure
fair value under IFRS. It does not change when an entity is required
to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure
the fair value under IFRS when fair value is required or permitted,
while also requiring additional disclosures. The Group has
reassessed its policies for measuring fair value and the valuation
inputs, and theapplication of IFRS 13 has not materially impacted
the fair value measurements carried out by the Group. Additional
disclosures on fair value measurements are disclosed in note 19.
The fair value hierarchy is also disclosed in note 19.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised)
The Group has applied IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised)
retrospectively in the current period. There were no adjustments
required to the earliest comparative Statement of Financial Position
(1 January 2012), but a prior period adjustment has been made to
the Income Statement in the year ended 31 December 2012. Details
of the impact of the prior period adjustment are disclosed in note 1.
The main changes of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised) which
impact the Group are:
• The interest cost and expected return on plan assets (previously
disclosed within finance costs and finance revenue respectively)
used in the previous version of IAS 19 have been replaced with
a single net-interest amount (disclosed within finance costs)
under IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), which is calculated
by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or
asset at the start of each accounting period. The change affects
the difference between actual and expected returns on plan
assets, which is recognised in full within OCI as part of re-
measurement;
• The classification of plan administration costs and income taxes
associated with the plans are measured in either the Income
Statement or OCI depending on their nature;
• The requirement for more extensive pension disclosures, as
shown in note 25; and
• Termination benefits are recognised only when the offer cannot
be withdrawn, or when the related restructuring costs are
recognised as a provision.
The revisions to the standards below, which were effective during
the year ended 31 December 2013, did not have any impact on the
accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group:
(a) Amendments to IFRS:
Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets
and Financial Liabilities.
(b) Improvements to IFRS (2009 – 2011 cycle):
IAS 16 Improvement – Property, Plant and Equipment.
IAS 32 Improvement – Financial Instruments: Presentation.
62 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS |
Accounting Policies ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 63
Parent Company Financial Statements
The parent Company has continued to present individual Financial
Statements prepared on a UK GAAP basis as permitted by section
395(1) of the Companies Act 2006, adopting the exemption of
omitting the Profit and Loss Account and related notes conferred by
section 408 of that Act. The Company Financial Statements,
together with their respective accounting policies and notes, are
presented on pages 141 to 153.
Accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements
The preparation of the Financial Statements necessitates the use of
estimates, assumptions and judgements. These estimates,
assumptions and judgements affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, contingent assets and contingent liabilities at the reporting
date as well as the reported income and expenses for the year.
While estimates are based on management’s best knowledge and
judgement using information and financial data available to them,
the actual outcome may differ from these estimates.
The key sources of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements in
applying accounting policies are disclosed, where appropriate, in the
following notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements:
(a) Impairment testing of intangible assets
The projected revenue growth, projected operating cost growth
and discount rates applied to cash flow projections, as
disclosed in note 14.
(b) Pension assumptions
The mortality assumptions, discount rates, rates of salary
increases and inflation increases, as disclosed in note 25.
(c) Provisions
Onerous contract provisions for premises are subject to
uncertainties over time, including market rent reviews and break
options within the lease arrangements. Details are disclosed in
note 24.
(d) F&C REIT put option liabilities
The fair value of the F&C REIT put option liabilities is based
upon an external valuation of the F&C REIT business. By its
nature, the valuation is subject to a significant number of
assumptions and judgements and could differ from any price
ultimately agreed between the parties if the put options were
exercised. Details of the key valuation assumptions used are
outlined in note 19.
(e) Share-based payments
The share-based payment expense in respect of the LTRP
(restricted share awards) is based on expected vesting
percentages, as disclosed in note 26(a)(ii). The share-based
payment expense in respect of the TRC Commutation
arrangements, as detailed in notes 7(a)(i) and 26(f), is dependent
upon whether the remaining call option is exercised and, if
exercised, the expense will vary according to a number of
factors, including the level of earnings of the respective
Investment Teams.
(f) Deferred tax assets
The quantum of deferred tax assets recognised, as detailed in
note 17, is based upon assumptions as to the future profitability
of the underlying companies to which they relate.
(g) F&C REIT receivable
The recoverability of a significant debtor in respect of property
asset management fees, as detailed in note 36(a)(ii), has been
assessed by the Board, together with the fair value of the
collateral which has been obtained over the debtor.
(h) Performance fee recognition
Income generated from performance fees is based on the
absolute investment performance of a client’s assets, or their
relative performance compared to a hurdle or benchmark, over
a defined period. Where the performance period is not
coterminous with the Group’s financial reporting period, the
performance fees recognised must be estimated and such
estimates are inherently subjective.
Summary of significant accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have been applied
consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of the
Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended
31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012.
(a) Consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has the
power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating
policies so as to obtain benefits from their activities. Subsidiaries
follow accounting policies consistent with those of the Group,
unless there is a requirement for the subsidiary to follow a
different accounting treatment, in which case consolidation
adjustments are made to align the treatment of such
subsidiaries within the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The subsidiaries have coterminous reporting periods, with
three exceptions.
The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the assets,
liabilities, results and cash flows of the Company and its
subsidiaries. Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and
losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group
transactions are eliminated in preparing the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
Non-controlling interests (NCI) represent the portion of profit or
loss and net assets in subsidiaries not held by the Group and
are presented separately in the Consolidated Income Statement
(Income Statement) and within equity in the Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position (Statement of Financial Position),
separately from parent shareholders’ equity.
(ii) Business combinations
IFRS 3 (Revised) (relating to Business Combinations from
1 January 2010)
A business combination is the bringing together of separate
entities or businesses into one reporting entity. The result is that
one entity, the acquirer, obtains control of one or more entities or
businesses. The acquisition date is the date on which the
acquirer obtains control of the acquiree.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the
assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or
assumed at the date of exchange. Identifiable assets and
liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in a
business combination are measured initially at their fair values at 64 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies
the acquisition date. The excess of the consideration transferred
for the acquisition, plus any NCI, over the fair value of the
Group’s share of identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as
goodwill. Acquisition-related expenses are expensed in the
Income Statement.
(b) Foreign currencies
The Group’s presentational currency is Sterling. Each entity in
the Group determines its own functional currency, and amounts
included in the financial statements of each entity are measured
in that functional currency.
(i) Foreign currency translation
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the
functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated at the
exchange rate ruling at the reporting date, and any exchange
differences arising are taken to the Income Statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities, other than intangible assets
arising on the acquisition of foreign operations, (measured at
historical cost in a foreign currency), are translated using the
exchange rate at the date of transaction and are not
subsequently restated. Non-monetary assets and liabilities
stated at fair value in a foreign currency are translated at the
exchange rate at the date the fair value was determined. When
fair value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected in the
Income Statement, the corresponding exchange movements
are also recognised in the Income Statement. Similarly, when fair
value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected directly in
equity, the corresponding exchange movements (except any
relating to available for sale monetary assets) are also
recognised directly in equity.
(ii) Foreign operations
The functional currency of foreign operations is predominantly
the Euro.
The assets and liabilities of, or relating to, foreign operations are
translated into Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the
reporting date. The revenues and expenses of foreign
operations are translated to Sterling at foreign exchange rates
approximating to the rates ruling at the dates of the
transactions. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation
of foreign operations into Sterling, including related intangible
assets, are recognised directly in the Group’s Foreign Currency
Translation Reserve (FCTR), which is a separate component of
equity, and reported in the Statement of Comprehensive
Income. These exchange differences are recognised as income
or expenses in the period in which the foreign operations are
disposed of.
(c) Revenue recognition
Management fees, investment advisory fees and other revenue
generated from the Group’s asset management activities are
recognised in the Income Statement over the period which
these investment management services are provided, regardless
of when the payment is due.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration
received or receivable, taking into account the contractually
defined terms of payment and excluding any taxes.
Initial fees received in advance, arising on open-ended funds,
are taken to the Statement of Financial Position and released to
the Income Statement over the period of the asset management
service. The Group enters into standard contractual terms for all
investors. Therefore, the period of provision of asset
management services is estimated based upon the Group’s
experience of the average holding periods of investors. The
average holding period is reassessed on an annual basis.
The Group is entitled to earn performance fees from a number
of clients if the actual investment performance of clients’ assets
exceeds defined benchmarks by an agreed level of
outperformance, generally in a set time period. Performance
fees are recognised when the quantum of the fee can be
estimated reliably, which is when the performance period ends
when this occurs on or before the reporting date, or where there
is a period of less than six months remaining to the end of the
performance period and there is evidence at the reporting date
which suggests that the current performance will be sustainable.
Performance fees include property related transaction fees
which can crystalise on the acquisition or disposal of properties
managed on behalf of clients.
(d) Leases
All leases entered into by the Group are operating leases, being
leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and
rewards of ownership of the leased asset. Rentals paid under
operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a
straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease incentives are
recognised by the Group as a reduction in the rental expense,
allocated on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Accounting policy “(s) Provisions” discusses the recognition of
provisions on onerous property leases when the leased space
has ceased to be occupied by the Group.
The Group has a review process for accepting new contracts
which identifies whether any arrangements contain a lease
obligation.
(e) Fee and commission expenses
Fee and commission expenses comprise two main elements –
costs associated with gaining new asset management contracts
and subsequent commission paid to agents. The costs
associated with gaining contracts are deferred and amortised
over the estimated term of the contracts (in line with the
treatment of the associated initial fees received), while the
subsequent renewal commission paid to agents is expensed as
the services are provided.
(f) Exceptional income and costs
Where the Group incurs significant non-recurring expenditure or
earns significant non-recurring income in respect of items that
arise outwith the Group’s normal business activities and which
are sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure, then
such items are disclosed in the Income Statement as
exceptional items, either separately or collectively, depending on
their nature. (g) Finance revenue
Finance revenue comprises interest, dividends, investment
income and net fair value gains through the Income Statement
in respect of shareholder investments. Dividend income is
recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Interest income is recognised in the Income Statement on an
effective interest rate basis as it accrues.
(h) Finance costs
Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings, net
interest on defined benefit pension obligations, amortisation of
loan issue costs and facility fees, unwinding of discount on
provisions and net fair value losses through the Income
Statement in respect of shareholder investments. Borrowing
costs are recognised in the Income Statement on an effective
interest rate basis.
(i) Income tax
The income tax expense or income disclosed on the face of the
Income Statement represents the aggregate of current tax and
the movement in deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the
Income Statement for the period, except to the extent that it is
attributable to a gain or loss that is recognised directly in the
Statement of Comprehensive Income or equity. In such cases
the gain or loss shown in equity is stated separately from the
attributable income tax, which is also recognised directly
in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable to, or receivable from,
the taxation authorities on the taxable profit or loss for the
period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the
reporting date, and includes any adjustment to tax payable in
respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on
differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities
in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax basis
used in the computation of taxable profit or loss, accounted for
using the reporting date liability method.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to
apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset
realised, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively
enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to
the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised,
except:
• where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial
recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a
transaction that is not a business combination that at the
time of the transaction affects neither the accounting nor
taxable profit or loss; or
• in respect of taxable or deductible temporary differences
associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates,
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences
can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each
reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all
or part of the asset to be recovered.
Any income tax expense or income in respect of taxable gains
or losses attributable to policyholders falls to be borne by or to
the benefit of the Group’s unit-linked policyholders. As a result,
the Directors consider it appropriate to differentiate on the face
of the Income Statement between tax attributable to
policyholders and tax attributable to shareholders.
(j) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment is capitalised on
initial recognition. Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised
when it is probable that there will be future economic benefits
associated with the expenditure which can be measured reliably.
All other expenditure is recognised in the Income Statement as
an expense as incurred.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated so as to write off
the cost of assets, using the straight-line method, with the
exception of motor vehicles, over their estimated useful lives,
as follows:
Leasehold improvements – over 10 years (or lease term if
shorter)
Computer equipment – over 3 years
Office furniture & equipment – over 3-5 years
Motor vehicles – 25% reducing balance
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is recognised as
an expense in the Income Statement.
The carrying value of assets and their useful lives are reviewed
at each reporting date. If an indication of impairment exists, the
assets are written down to their recoverable amount and the
impairment is charged to the Income Statement in the period in
which it arises.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon
disposal or when no further future economic benefits are
expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition
of the asset (calculated as the fair value less costs to sell) is
included in the Income Statement in the year the asset
is derecognised.
(k) Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
Goodwill arising from a business combination is initially
measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business
combination over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Following
initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any
accumulated impairment losses.
Business combinations arising after 31 December 2009 are
accounted for under IFRS 3 (Revised) Business Combinations.
Where the initial amount of goodwill can only be determined on
a provisional basis at the end of the financial reporting period,
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 65 adjustments are made to the amount of goodwill up to twelve
months from the date of acquisition to the extent that they relate
to revisions to the quantum of net assets acquired. Any
adjustment to the initial consideration, including amounts which
are conditional upon performance criteria, are recognised in the
Income Statement in the period in which the subsequent
change arises.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value may be impaired.
(ii) Investment management contracts
Investment management contracts acquired separately are
measured on initial recognition at cost.
The measurement of investment management contracts
acquired in a business combination is recognised at fair value at
the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible
assets are carried at initial fair value less accumulated
amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of investment management contracts are finite
and such contracts are amortised on a straight-line basis over
their estimated useful lives or average contractual term, with
amortisation being charged to the Income Statement. Details of
estimated useful lives are shown in note 14.
(iii) Software and licences
This comprises both internally generated software and acquired
licences. Separately purchased software and licences have a
finite life and are shown at cost less accumulated amortisation
and any accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is
charged to the Income Statement in equal annual instalments,
based on the following useful economic lives:
Software – 3-7 years
Licences –3 years
Subsequent expenditure on capitalised software and licences is
expensed as incurred.
(l) Impairment of intangible assets
At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there is an
indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication
exists, or when annual impairment testing is required, the Group
makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An
asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-
generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use,
and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does
not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those
from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying
amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset
is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable
amount. Any impairment arising is recognised in the Income
Statement. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash
flows are discounted to their present value using a discount rate
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
money and the risks specific to the asset.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a
business combination is allocated to a cash-generating unit that
is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Each unit to which the goodwill is so allocated represents the
lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored
for internal management purposes.
Where intangible assets form part of a cash-generating unit and
part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the
intangible assets associated with the operation disposed of are
included in the carrying amount of the operation when
determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
(m) Financial instruments
Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as financial
assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables
or available for sale financial assets.
Financial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus directly
attributable transaction costs, where investments are not
classified as fair value through profit or loss.
The fair value of instruments that are actively traded in organised
financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market
bid prices (mid price for OEICs) at the close of business on the
reporting date. For investments where there is no active market,
fair value is determined using valuation methodologies, as
described below.
Financial instruments are classified into the categories described
below:
(i) Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss
include investments that are held for trading purposes or
that have been specifically designated as at ‘fair value
through profit or loss’. They are carried in the Statement of
Financial Position at fair value and movements in fair value
are taken to the Income Statement in the period in which
they arise. Interest and dividend income on these financial
instruments is recognised separately in finance revenue.
The Group has adopted “trade date” accounting for
purchases or sales of financial assets under a contract
whose terms require delivery of the asset within the time
frame established in the marketplace concerned.
Accordingly, such financial instruments are recognised on
the date the Group commits to the purchase of the
investments, and are derecognised on the date it commits
to their sale.
The Group has adopted the fair value option in IAS 39,
which enables the liabilities in respect of the Group’s unit-
linked investment contracts to be matched to the fair value
of the related assets which are solely attributable to the
investment contract policyholders, thus reflecting the
contractual entitlement of the policyholders. Differences in
fair values are taken to the Income Statement.
(ii) Available for sale financial assets are also carried at fair
value in the Statement of Financial Position. All financial
assets where the Group has a passive interest are classified
as available for sale. In respect of unquoted instruments, or
where the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair
value is established by using recognised valuation
methodologies, in accordance with International Private
Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines. Where
insufficient information exists to produce a valuation then
the price of recent investments is used. Alternative
methodologies include using: recent arm’s length market
66 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies transactions; reference to the current market value of
another instrument which is substantially the same; or
discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
For unquoted investments in early stage enterprises and
enterprises with revenues but without significant profits or
significant positive cash flows, fair value is determined using
the “price of a recent investment” method. Repayments are
treated as reductions to carrying value. After an appropriate
period, an assessment is made as to whether the
circumstances of the investment have changed such that
another valuation methodology is appropriate, and whether
there is any evidence of deterioration or strong defensible
evidence of an increase in value. In the absence of these
indicators, fair value is determined to be that reported at the
previous reporting date.
Unquoted investments with revenues, maintainable profits
and/or maintainable cash flows are valued by deriving an
Enterprise Value of the underlying business.
Movements in fair value, other than impairment losses and
foreign exchange movements on monetary assets, are
taken to the fair value reserve in equity until derecognition of
the asset, at which time the cumulative amount in this
reserve is recognised in the Income Statement.
(iii) Loans and receivables are measured on initial recognition at
fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs
incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and
receivables are measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest rate method. Gains and losses are
recognised in the Income Statement when loans and
receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as
through the amortisation process.
(iv) Other financial liabilities include the NCI put options which
are recognised at fair value through profit or loss.
The NCI put options, over equity in majority-owned
subsidiaries, are recognised at fair value at the reporting
date. Upon initial recognition the fair value of the put option
is debited to equity. Subsequent movements to the fair
value are reflected in the Income Statement. Fair value is the
amount at which a derivative could be exchanged in a
transaction at the reporting date between willing parties.
The remaining financial liabilities are recognised at amortised
cost using the effective interest rate after initial recognition.
Expenses incurred in respect of raising capital on interest-
bearing loans and borrowings are amortised over the term
of the loan on an effective interest rate basis. These
expenses are offset against the loan amount.
Carried interest entitlement
The Group has a number of investments which provide it with
carried interest entitlement, which is typically linked to the
investment performance of the underlying funds exceeding
long-term hurdle rates. In a number of instances a share of such
‘carry’ falls to the benefit of the individual members.
These carried interest investments are classified as fair value
through profit or loss and any amounts payable to individual
members are included within member distributions in the
Income Statement and classified as a liability.
Separately, where the Group holds carried interest investments
which are not linked to investment vehicles managed by the
Group, then such investments are classified as available for sale.
Financial assets and liabilities
Derecognition of financial assets
A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset,
is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the
asset have expired.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the
liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Renegotiation of the terms of financial assets
Where financial assets past due have been renegotiated, the
Group classifies these assets in accordance with the revised
terms and conditions.
Impairment of financial assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether a financial
asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans
and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the
amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the
asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated
future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s original
effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is
reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the
Income Statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss
decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an
event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the
previously recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any
subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the
Income Statement to the extent that the carrying value of the
asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Available for sale financial assets
If an available for sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising
the difference between its cost (net of any principal payment
and amortisation) and its current fair value, less any impairment
loss previously recognised in the Income Statement, is
transferred from equity to the Income Statement. Reversals in
respect of equity instruments classified as available for sale are
not recognised in the Income Statement. Reversals of
impairment losses on debt instruments are taken through the
Income Statement if the increase in fair value of the instrument
can be objectively related to an event occurring after the
impairment loss was recognised in the Income Statement.
(n) Fair value measurement
The Group measures financial instruments and non-financial
assets at fair value at each balance sheet date. The fair values
of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are
disclosed in note 15.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants at the measurement date. The fair value
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 67 measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction
to sell the asset or transfer the liability is conducted in either:
• The principal market for the asset or liability; or
• In the absence of a principal market, the most
advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The fair value of an asset or liability is measured using the
assumption that market participants would use when pricing the
asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their
economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into
account a market participant’s ability to generate economic
benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use capacity
or by selling it to another market participant that would use the
asset in its highest and best use capacity.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the
circumstances and for which sufficient data is available to
measure fair value, maximising the use of observable inputs and
minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or
disclosed in the Financial Statements are categorised within the
fair value hierarchy, described below, and based on the lowest
level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as
a whole:
• Level 1 – Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active
markets for identical assets or liabilities;
• Level 2 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level
input that is significant to the fair value measurement is
directly or indirectly observable;
• Level 3 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level
input that is significant to the fair value measurement
is unobservable.
External valuers are involved in the valuation of the F&C REIT
put option and the carried interest elements in certain private
equity funds.
Carried interest investments are valued in accordance with the
underlying property or private equity valuations and the
underlying Partnership Agreements.
(o) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits
held at call with banks, and other short-term, highly liquid
investments in money-market instruments with original maturity
dates of three months or less.
(p) Investment contracts
The Group used to sell unit-linked pension investment contracts
through its insurance entity, F&C Managed Pension Funds
Limited (MPF). These unit-linked contracts involved both the
transfer of a financial instrument and the provision of investment
management services. The financial instrument component is
classified as a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss.
The financial liability is measured using a valuation technique
based on the carrying value of the assets and liabilities that are
held to back the contract.
Unit-linked policyholder assets held by MPF and related
policyholder liabilities are carried at fair value, with changes in
fair value taken to profit or loss.
Amounts received from and paid to investors under these
contracts are accounted for as deposits received or paid, and
therefore not recorded in the Income Statement. At the reporting
date the value of these contracts is stated at an amount equal
to the fair value of the net assets held to match the contractual
obligations.
(q) Employee and member benefits
(i) Short-term employee benefits
Short-term employee benefits are employee benefits (other than
termination benefits) that are expected to be settled wholly
before twelve months after the end of the annual reporting
period in which the employees render the related services.
Short-term compensated absences are recognised, in the case
of accumulating compensated absences, when the employees
render service that increases their entitlement to future
compensated absences or, in the case of non-accumulating
compensated absences, when the absences occur.
(ii) Profit-sharing and bonus payments
Profit share and bonus entitlements are recognised when there
is a present legal or constructive obligation to make such
payments as a result of past events and a reliable estimate of
the obligation can be made.
(iii) Profit entitlement of members of Limited Liability
Partnerships
Where a member of a Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) has an
automatic entitlement to distributions of partnership profits in
respect of their services, an expense (distributions to members
of LLPs) and a liability (liabilities to members of LLPs) are
recognised as their services are rendered during an
accounting period.
(iv) Pension obligations
Defined benefit schemes
The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension
arrangements. These schemes provide benefits based on final
pensionable salary.
The pension liability recognised in the Statement of Financial
Position is the present obligation of the employer, which is the
estimated present value of future benefits that employees have
earned in return for their services in the current and prior years,
less the value of the plan assets in the schemes. The discount
rate applied to the employees’ benefits is the appropriate
corporate bond yield at the reporting date which has a maturity
date similar to the terms of the Group’s obligations. A qualified
actuary performs the calculation annually using the projected
unit credit method.
The defined benefit pension costs in the Income Statement are
analysed into:
• current service cost, which is the actuarially calculated
present value of the benefits earned by the active
employees in each period.These are recognised in the
Income Statement;
68 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies • past service costs, which relate to employee service in prior
periods, and arise as a result of the introduction of, or
improvement to, retirement benefits in the current period.
These are recognised in the Income Statement on a
straight-line basis over the period in which the increase in
benefits vests;
• settlements or curtailments recognised in the Income
Statement to the extent that they are not allowed for in the
actuarial assumptions. Gains or losses on settlements or
curtailments are recognised at the date on which there is a
demonstrable commitment to making a significant reduction
in the number of employees covered by the plan, or an
amendment to the terms of the plan; and
• the net interest on the net defined benefit liability/(asset).
This represents the change during the period in the net
defined benefit liability/(asset) that arises from the passage
of time. This net interest expense is recognised in finance
costs.
The actuarial gains and losses, which arise from any new
valuation and from updating the previous actuarial valuation to
reflect conditions at the reporting date, are taken in full to the
Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period.
Defined contribution schemes
Contributions made to these schemes are charged to the
Income Statement as they become payable, in accordance with
the rules of the scheme.
(v) Other long-term employee benefits
Other long-term employee benefits are recognised at the
discounted present value of the obligation at the reporting date.
The benefit is determined using actuarial techniques to estimate
the amount of benefit employees have earned for their services
at the reporting date.
(vi) Termination benefits
Termination benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense
when the Group is committed to the termination of employment
before the normal retirement date. Termination benefits are
recognised only when the offer cannot be withdrawn, or when
the related restructuring costs are recognised as a provision.
(r) Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of share scheme arrangements
which require to be accounted for as share-based payments.
All grants of shares, share options or other share-based
instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 have
been recognised as an expense. Where applicable, the fair
values of share-based payment awards are measured using a
valuation model applicable to the terms of the awards (Black
Scholes, Binomial or Monte Carlo simulation). The fair value is
measured by an independent external valuer at the date the
award is granted and the expense is spread over the period
during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to
exercise the awards, known as the vesting period. Where
options exist for awards to vest on more than one date, the
expense is initially spread over the period to the earliest possible
vesting date. The cumulative expense recognised in the Income
Statement is equal to the estimated fair value of the award
multiplied by the number of awards expected to vest. Vesting of
awards typically depends upon meeting continued employment
and/or defined performance criteria such as underlying EPS
targets, net new business, investment performance or share
price return targets.
The fair value of share-based payment awards, where it is not
considered possible to estimate reliably the fair value of these
awards at the grant date, is determined by measurement of the
equity instruments at intrinsic value. The intrinsic value is spread
over the vesting period.
Vesting of equity-settled employee share awards depends upon
meeting market-related and/or non-market related performance
conditions. The type of vesting criteria affects the calculation of
the expense charged to the Income Statement and subsequent
adjustments, as follows:
(i) Non-market related conditions are performance criteria not
directly linked to Company share price targets, such as EPS
targets and/or continued employment. The probability of
meeting non-market conditions is incorporated into the
expense charge via the estimate of the number of awards
expected to vest. The total cumulative expense is
reassessed at each reporting date and is ultimately adjusted
to reflect the actual number of awards which vest.
Therefore, if no awards vest, no cumulative expense charge
is ultimately recognised.
(ii) Market-related conditions are performance criteria linked to
Company share price targets. The probability of meeting
market conditions is incorporated into the calculation of the
fair value of the award. Should the market-based
performance conditions not ultimately be met, no “true-
up/down” adjustment is made to reflect this. Therefore, an
expense charge is made whether market-based awards
ultimately vest or not.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment makes a distinction between
awards settled in equity and those settled in cash. Equity-settled
awards are charged to the Income Statement with a
corresponding credit to equity. They are not subsequently re-
measured, except where calculated at intrinsic value.
Cash-settled awards are charged to the Income Statement with
a corresponding credit to liabilities. The estimated fair value of
cash-settled awards is re-measured at each reporting date until
the payments are ultimately settled.
Awards to employees treated as good leavers vest immediately
and the remaining full expense of the awards is charged to the
Income Statement at that time. Good leavers include retirees
and involuntary redundancies.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as
additional share dilution in the computation of diluted EPS.
(s) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the Statement of Financial Position
when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result
of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic
benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 69 material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected
future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market
assessments of the time value of money and, where
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. No provision is
established where a reliable estimate of the obligation cannot
be made.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be
recovered from external parties, the recovery is recognised
as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is
virtually certain.
Where the Group has obligations under property leases and
where the space has ceased to be used for the purposes of the
business, full provision is made for future net outstanding
liabilities under such leases after taking into account the effect of
any expected sub-letting arrangements.
(t) Share capital
When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial
liability of the Company or Group is presented as a liability in the
Statement of Financial Position, measured initially at fair value,
net of transaction costs and thereafter at amortised cost until
extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The remainder of the issue proceeds is allocated to the equity
component and included in shareholders’ equity, net of
transaction costs.
Ordinary Share capital
When Ordinary Shares are repurchased, the amounts of
consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, are
recognised in the own share reserve included within retained
earnings and are classified as deductions in equity. The
Company’s dealings in its own shares are reflected through
equity.
Dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised on the date
of payment, or if subject to approval, the date approved by
the shareholders.
(u) Accounting for Employee Benefit Trusts (EBTs)
The Group has several EBTs which own shares in the Company
and other investments to enable it to satisfy future settlements
of share-based awards and other employee benefits. The assets
of the EBTs, which relate to unvested awards, are consolidated
into the Group’s results, with these own shares included within
retained earnings at cost. Consideration received for such
shares is also recognised in retained earnings. No gain or loss is
recognised in the performance statements on the purchase,
sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares. Other investments
held by EBTs are recognised as assets at fair value in the
Statement of Financial Position.
70 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies
(v) New standards and interpretations not applied
The International Accounting Standards Board has issued the following standards, relevant to the Group, which have not yet been applied
or have an effective date after the date of these Financial Statements:
Effective for
accounting periods
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS) beginning on or after
Endorsed by the European Union and available for early adoption:
Improvements to IFRS 10, IFRS 11
and IFRS 12 (June 2012) Transition Guidance 1 January 2013
Improvements to IFRSs
(2009 – 2011) (May 2012) Improvements to IFRS 1, IAS 1, IAS 16, IAS 32 and IAS 34 1 January 2013
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12
and IAS 27 Investment Entities 1 January 2014
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2014
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2014
IAS 27 (revised) Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2014
IAS 28 (revised) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2014
IAS 32 (Amendment) Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2014
Not yet endorsed by the European Union:
IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies 1 January 2014
IAS 19 Amendment Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions 1 July 2014
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 – 2012 Cycle (Issued 12 December 2013) 1 July 2014
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011 – 2013 Cycle (Issued 12 December 2013) 1 July 2014
Amendments to IFRS 7 and IFRS 9 Mandatory Effective Date and Transition Disclosure 1 January 2015
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1 January 2016
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and subsequent amendments 1 January 2018 Impact of new accounting standards
The list of new and revised standards , which are effective for
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, which could
affect the Group, are as follows:
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements
IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities
IAS 27 (revised) Separate Financial Statements
IAS 28 (revised) Investments in Associates
IFRS 10 defines the principle of control and establishes control
as the basis for consolidation. A company is required to
consolidate an investee when an investor is exposed, or has
rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee
and has the ability to affect these returns through its power over
the investee. IFRS10 does not impact how to consolidate, but
rather when to consolidate, an entity.
IFRS 11 defines joint control and requires an entity that is a
party to a joint arrangement to determine the type of joint
arrangement in which it is involved by assessing its rights and
obligations and to account for those rights and obligations in
accordance with that type of joint arrangement.
A joint arrangement is classified as either a joint operation or a
joint venture. A joint operation is where the parties have rights to
the assets and obligations for the liabilities of the arrangement.
A joint venture, which can only apply where there is a separate
vehicle, applies where the parties have rights to the net assets
of the arrangement.
IFRS 12 requires an entity to disclose information about:
(a) the significant judgements and assumptions it has made in
determining the nature of its interest in another entity or
arrangement, and in determining the type of joint
arrangement in which it has an interest; and
(b) its interests in:
(i) subsidiaries;
(ii) joint arrangements and associates; and
(iii) structured entities that are not controlled by the entities.
IAS 27 (revised) and IAS 28 (revised) are largely changes as a
consequence of the new IFRS 10, 11 and 12 standards.
The assessment of these standards is ongoing. It is anticipated
that IFRS 12 will result in significant disclosures around
unconsolidated structured entities.
Other standards effective beyond 2014, which will impact the
Group include:
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and subsequent amendments
The Group is assessing the impact of the other new and revised
standards to be implemented in 2014 and beyond. The Group
intends to adopt the standards in the reporting period in which
they become effective.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 71 72 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS |
1. Prior period restatement
With effect from 1 January 2013, the Group has adopted IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised) in respect of accounting for defined benefit
pension obligations. This has resulted in a prior period adjustment for the year ended 31 December 2012. There was no adjustment to the
opening Statement of Financial Position at 31 December 2011.
The main change is that ‘expected returns on plan assets’ are no longer recognised in profit or loss. Expected returns are replaced by
recording interest income or expense in profit or loss, which is calculated using the discount rate used to measure the pension obligation.
The impact of the prior period adjustment on the 2012 Income Statement, and the impact on the 2013 Income Statement from the adoption of
IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), is shown below:
2013 2012*
£m £m
Operating expenses (0.1) (0.1)
Finance revenue (12.1) (10.7)
Finance costs 11.0 10.3
Tax income 0.3 0.1
Decrease in profit for the year, after adopting IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised) (0.9) (0.4)
* Compared with the originally reported profit.
There is a movement through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) which is equal and opposite to the movement in the Income Statement.
Hence there is no overall change in the net assets of the Group from the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised) and, therefore, there is
no adjustment to the Statement of Financial Position at 31 December 2012.
The Group has also adopted IAS 1 Presentation of Items in Other Comprehensive Income – Amendments to IAS 1 for the year beginning
1 January 2013. This amendment has changed the grouping of how items are presented in OCI. ‘Items which may be subsequently
reclassified (or recycled) to profit or loss’ in the future are now presented separately from ‘items that will never be subsequently reclassified’.
The amendments do not change the nature of items that are recognised in OCI, nor do they impact the determination of whether items in OCI
are subsequently reclassified through profit or loss in future periods.
The impact of the prior period adjustment on earnings per share is disclosed in note 11.
2. Operating segments
From a management perspective, the Group has three operating units and therefore presents three operating segments for segment reporting
purposes:
• F&C;
• F&C REIT; and
• Thames River Capital (TRC).
While there are different sources of revenue and distinct distribution channels operating across segments, and assets under management can
be categorised by client type and asset class, the Directors do not consider these to constitute separate operating segments within the
meaning of IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
Management monitors the results of its three operating segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation
and performance assessment.
Segment revenue, operating expenses, finance revenue and profit/(loss) for the year include transactions between operating segments, which
are eliminated on consolidation. The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those of the Group.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 73
2. Operating segments continued
(a) Operating segments’ financial information
F&C F&C REIT TRC Total
2012 2012
2013 (as restated*) 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 (as restated*)
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
External clients 193.5 187.0 36.6 38.4 27.4 32.0 257.5 257.4
Inter-segment revenue 0.6 0.7 – – 1.5 1.5 2.1 2.2
Segment revenue 194.1 187.7 36.6 38.4 28.9 33.5 259.6 259.6
Fee and commission expenses (11.6) (11.1) (2.5) (2.2) (2.2) (0.6) (16.3) (13.9)
Net gains and investment income
on unit-linked assets 6.5 40.6 – – – – 6.5 40.6
Movement in fair value of
unit-linked liabilities (6.3) (40.8) – – – – (6.3) (40.8)
Operating expenses
Operating expenses (110.9) (128.7) (17.5) (16.5) (21.3) (27.6) (149.7) (172.8)
Amortisation, depreciation
and impairment (28.5) (28.4) (12.4) (11.0) (6.2) (6.7) (47.1) (46.1)
Other exceptional operating expenses (5.3) (11.6) – – (2.9) (10.3) (8.2) (21.9)
Total operating expenses (144.7) (168.7) (29.9) (27.5) (30.4) (44.6) (205.0) (240.8)
Operating profit/(loss) 38.0 7.7 4.2 8.7 (3.7) (11.7) 38.5 4.7
Finance revenue 13.1 9.6 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 13.4 9.9
Finance costs (22.0) (23.0) – – (0.1) (1.0) (22.1) (24.0)
F&C REIT put option fair value (loss)/gain (3.0) 11.5 – – – – (3.0) 11.5
Tax (expense)/income (5.3) 4.4 (0.3) (0.8) 0.1 2.0 (5.5) 5.6
Profit/(loss) for the year 20.8 10.2 4.1 8.0 (3.6) (10.5) 21.3 7.7
Segment assets 775.5 898.9 186.3 197.2 45.0 55.5 1,006.8 1,151.6
Segment liabilities (418.4) (544.1) (16.8) (19.2) (10.5) (18.0) (445.7) (581.3)
Other information
Expenditure on non-current assets 3.5 8.8 0.3 0.5 – 0.3 3.8 9.6
Non-cash expenses/(income) other than
amortisation, depreciation and impairment 8.0 (4.8) 1.0 0.2 4.4 7.0 13.4 2.4
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
Revenues from two external clients each represented 10% or more of the Group’s total revenues in the prior year.
In the year ended 31 December 2013 the Group had no single client contributing as much as 10% of total revenues for the year, but the
revenues for the largest clients which did so in the comparative period have been disclosed for information purposes.
2013 2012
Client £m £m Segments
Largest* 25.7 26.8 F&C; F&C REIT
Second largest* 23.3 26.9 F&C; F&C REIT
* In 2013. 74 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
2. Operating segments continued
(b) Reconciliations to Group Financial Statements
2012
2013 (as restated*)
£m £m
Total revenue
Total revenue for reportable segments 259.6 259.6
Elimination of inter-segment revenue (2.1) (2.2)
Group revenue 257.5 257.4
Operating expenses
Total operating expenses for reportable segments (205.0) (240.8)
Elimination of inter-segment expenses 2.1 2.2
Group operating expenses (202.9) (238.6)
Finance revenue
Total finance revenue for reportable segments 13.4 9.9
Adjustment for inter-segment finance revenue (11.1) (6.0)
Group finance revenue 2.3 3.9
Finance costs
Total finance costs for reportable segments (22.1) (24.0)
Elimination of inter-segment finance costs – 0.9
Group finance costs (22.1) (23.1)
Profit for the year
Total profit for reportable segments 21.3 7.7
Adjustment for inter-segment profit distributions (11.1) (5.1)
Group profit for the year 10.2 2.6
Assets
Total assets for reportable segments 1,006.8 1,151.6
Elimination of inter-segment assets (17.9) (12.8)
Group assets 988.9 1,138.8
Liabilities
Total liabilities for reportable segments (445.7) (581.3)
Elimination of inter-segment liabilities 17.9 12.8
Unallocated defined benefit pension liabilities (17.5) (24.1)
Group liabilities (445.3) (592.6)
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
The reportable segments’ totals for all other line items reported in the table at note 2(a) are the same as those for the Group, with no
reconciling differences. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 75
2. Operating segments continued
(c) Geographical information
2013 2012
Revenue by location of clients £m £m
United Kingdom 111.1 105.4
Continental Europe* 133.2 132.3
Rest of the World 13.2 19.7
Group total 257.5 257.4
2013 2012
Non-current assets by domicile
†
£m £m
United Kingdom 38.4 60.2
Continental Europe* 14.2 28.6
Rest of the World 4.7 10.6
57.3 99.4
Unallocated 611.9 611.9
Group total 669.2 711.3
* Continental Europe is defined as the European Economic Area.
†
Excluding financial investments, other receivables, deferred acquisition costs and deferred tax assets.
3. Net revenue
2013 2012
£m £m
Base management fees 240.9 243.1
Performance-related management fees 11.6 9.5
Total investment management fees 252.5 252.6
Other income 5.0 4.8
Total revenue 257.5 257.4
Renewal commission on open-ended investment products (10.9) (8.0)
Other selling expenses (5.4) (5.9)
Fee and commission expenses (16.3) (13.9)
Net revenue 241.2 243.5
Other income in 2013 includes £1.1m (2012: £2.0m) of compensation in respect of the withdrawal of Strategic Partner assets.
4. Net gains and investment income on unit-linked assets
2013 2012
Notes £m £m
Interest income on financial instruments attributable to policyholders 8 0.1 6.3
Dividend income – 6.8
Movement in fair values of unit-linked assets 6.4 27.5
Net gains and investment income on unit-linked assets 29 6.5 40.6
Note 18(a)(i)(1) gives further background to the unit-linked assets held by the Group.
5. Expenses
(a) Total operating expenses
Total operating expenses, including exceptional costs, can be summarised into the following categories:
2012
2013 (as restated*)
£m £m
Employee and member benefits and related expenses
†
104.1 131.7
Premises expenses 9.5 10.7
Communication and information technology expenses 13.6 15.1
Third-party administration expenses 11.7 11.0
Promotional and client servicing expenses 4.0 5.1
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expenses 47.1 46.1
Other expenses 12.9 18.9
Total operating expenses 202.9 238.6
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
†
This includes £5.4m (2012: £5.4m) of employment-related expenses, which are not employee benefit expenses and are therefore excluded from the table in note 6. 5. Expenses continued
(b) Operating expenses
Operating expenses include the following:
2013 2012
Notes £m £m
Depreciation of owned tangible property, plant and equipment 13 2.7 3.0
Amortisation of software and licences 14 1.7 0.6
Auditor’s remuneration 5(c) 1.2 1.2
Operating lease rentals – land and buildings (head leases) 9.7 10.3
Operating lease rentals – vehicles 0.3 0.4
Operating lease rentals – other* 3.8 2.7
Rentals receivable – operating leases (sub-leases) (2.9) (3.6)
Loss on disposal of intangible assets (software and licences) 0.1 –
(Gain)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.1) 0.9
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses (0.4) 2.0
* Stated net of amounts receivable from brokers under Commission Sharing Arrangements.
Sub-lease rentals of £2.9m (2012: £3.6m) were received during the year, of which £2.9m (2012: £3.3m) relates to guaranteed payments and
£nil (2012: £0.3m) relates to contingent payments.
All amounts included within operating lease and sub-lease rental payments represent minimum lease payments.
(c) Auditor’s remuneration
Fees paid to the Group’s auditor are summarised as follows:
2013 2012
Group auditor – KPMG £m £m
Annual audit fees 0.2 0.2
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor for the audit of the Group and
Company’s annual Financial Statements 0.2 0.2
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.6
Total audit fees of the Group 0.8 0.8
Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1
Other assurance services 0.2 0.2
Other non-audit services 0.1 0.1
Total auditor’s remuneration 1.2 1.2
The Group’s policy on the award of non-audit services to accountancy firms is outlined in the Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance on
page 32.
Fees to other accountancy firms
During the year the fees paid by F&C to other accountancy firms for non-audit services were as follows:
2013 2012
£m £m
Deloitte 0.3 0.1
PricewaterhouseCoopers 0.1 0.4
0.4 0.5
Fees paid by investment funds and client portfolios
In addition to the above, the following fees were paid by OEICs, unit trusts or other client funds for services provided directly to them, for which
a Group company is the Authorised Corporate Director, Manager or is responsible for the selection of the respective service provider:
2013 2012
£m £m
KPMG 0.6 0.5
PricewaterhouseCoopers 0.5 0.4
76 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 6. Employee and member benefit expenses
Total employee benefit expenses, including remuneration of the Directors and expenses relating to LLP members, were:
2012
2013 (as restated*)
Notes £m £m
Short-term employee and member benefits:
Salaries and related benefits 48.6 54.9
Bonus 13.1 15.5
Wages and salaries 61.7 70.4
Distributions to members of LLPs
†
11.1 12.2
Social Security costs 7.9 11.4
80.7 94.0
Post-employment benefits:
Defined contribution pension expense 25(h) 3.6 4.1
Defined benefit pension expense 25(d) 2.1 2.7
5.7 6.8
Total of wages and salaries, Social Security costs and post-employment benefits 86.4 100.8
Other long-term employee benefits 0.4 0.1
Termination benefits 2.5 3.9
Share-based payment expense 26 9.4 21.5
Total employee and member benefits expenses 98.7 126.3
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
†
Includes £nil (31 December 2012: £0.6m) of exceptional employment expenses as included in note 7(a)(ii).
The above table includes £6.3m (2012: £15.8m) of exceptional expenses.
The monthly average number of employees and members (including Executive Directors) of the Group during 2013 was 725 (2012: 852).
F&C Asset Management plc had no employees during either year.
7. Exceptional income and expenditure
(a) Other exceptional operating expenses
The Group has classified the following operating expenses as exceptional:
2013 2012
Notes £m £m
TRC Commutation expenses (i) 2.7 1.6
Exceptional employment expenses (ii) 2.4 8.2
Exceptional outsourcing expenses (iii) 1.6 3.3
TRC Management Retention Plan expense (iv) 1.2 6.2
Exceptional premises expenses (v) 0.3 1.3
F&C Partners litigation expense (vi) – 1.3
8.2 21.9
(i) TRC Commutation expenses
The Divisional Members of TRC Investment Teams entered into put and call options at the time of the TRC acquisition, which, if exercised,
would typically transfer up to 20% of their entitlement to management fee profits to the F&C Group. Under IFRS, the share element of the
consideration payable under these Commutation arrangements requires to be accounted for as a share-based payment.
The expense of £2.7m recognised in 2013 comprises a £1.0m charge for the Investment Teams where options have been exercised and a
further charge of £1.7m for the remaining call option which was expected to be exercised by F&C in April 2014.
Given the capital nature of these arrangements, the Directors consider it appropriate to treat the total Commutation expense as exceptional in
nature and exclude it from the measurement of underlying earnings for each financial year.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 77 78 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
7. Exceptional income and expenditure continued
(ii) Exceptional employment expenses
During the year ended 31 December 2013 a further £2.4m (2012: £8.2m) of non-recurring redundancy and related staff costs were incurred in
order to achieve the staff cost savings identified as part of the strategic review.
The Directors consider these non-recurring employment expenses to be exceptional in nature and have therefore excluded them from the
measurement of underlying earnings.
(iii) Exceptional outsourcing expenses
During 2013, a further £1.2m of advisory and consultancy costs were incurred in completing the project to outsource certain of the Group’s
back and middle office investment operations to State Street. In addition, £0.4m of non-recurring costs were incurred as part of implementing
strategic changes.
The Directors consider these project costs to be exceptional in nature, and have therefore excluded this expense from the measurement of
underlying earnings for each financial year.
(iv) TRC Management Retention Plan expense
As a condition of the acquisition of TRC, the Group established a Management Retention Plan (MRP) to retain and incentivise certain TRC
personnel. The MRP expense (including NIC) recognised in the Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2013 is £1.2m (2012:
£6.2m). Details of this share-based payment arrangement are given in note 26(d).
Given the quantum and nature of this award, the Directors consider it appropriate to treat the associated expense as exceptional and exclude
it from the measurement of underlying earnings for each financial year.
(v) Exceptional premises expenses
As part of the Group’s cost-saving initiatives, several actions have been taken in respect of a number of premises to reduce the recurring level
of property costs. A net cost of £0.3m has been incurred during 2013 (2012: a net cost of £1.3m), comprising restructuring costs of £0.7m
offset by a £0.4m release of excess onerous property provisions recognised in previous periods, following the successful reassignment and
termination of lease arrangements.
(vi) F&C Partners litigation expense
The F&C Partners litigation was settled in 2012, resulting in a net expense of £1.3m being recognised in the Income Statement for that year.
Details of the movement in the associated provision during 2012 are given in note 24.
Given the nature of this expense and the quantum of costs previously incurred, the Directors considered it appropriate to treat this expense as
exceptional in nature and excluded it from the measurement of underlying earnings for 2012.
(b) F&C REIT put option fair value loss/(gain)
2013 2012
£m £m
F&C REIT put option fair value loss/(gain) 3.0 (11.5)
The fair value of the F&C REIT put option liability, as disclosed in note 28, reflects the value of the portion of the F&C REIT business which is
currently owned by the non-controlling interest partners and which is the subject of options. The £3.0m increase in the fair value of the option
liability during 2013 has been recognised as a loss in the Income Statement (2012: gain of £11.5m).
The Directors consider the put option liability movements to be of a capital nature, and have therefore excluded the associated loss or gain
from the measurement of underlying earnings for each financial year. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 79
8. Finance revenue
2012
2013 (as restated*)
£m £m
Loans and receivables:
Bank interest receivable 0.4 0.8
Other interest receivable 0.2 0.2
Designated as fair value through profit or loss:
Gain on fair value of investments 0.3 0.7
Gain on redemption of bonds – 1.1
Designated as available for sale:
Investment income receivable 1.4 1.1
Total finance revenue 2.3 3.9
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
2013 2012
Note £m £m
Summary of total interest income:
Bank interest receivable 0.4 0.8
Other interest receivable 0.2 0.2
Interest income on financial instruments attributable to policyholders 4 0.1 6.3
Total interest income 0.7 7.3
9. Finance costs
2012
2013 (as restated*)
Note £m £m
Interest expense on financial liabilities recognised at cost
using the effective interest rate method:
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 7.8 8.4
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 12.8 13.1
Bank charges and other interest payable 0.3 0.3
Total interest expense 20.9 21.8
Other finance costs:
Amortisation of loan note issue costs and facility fees 0.3 0.3
Unwinding of discount on onerous provisions – 0.3
Net interest cost on pension obligations 25(d) 0.9 0.7
Total finance costs 22.1 23.1
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
10. Income tax
(a) Analysis of tax expense/(income) in the year
The major components of tax expense/(income) recognised in the Income Statement are:
2012
2013 (as restated*)
£m £m
Current income tax:
UK 0.9 0.7
Foreign 5.7 5.3
Adjustments in respect of previous years 0.8 (1.9)
Deferred income tax:
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences (1.6) (10.9)
Adjustments in respect of previous years (1.4) 1.3
Adjustments in respect of Corporation Tax rate change 1.1 (0.1)
Tax expense/(income) reported in the Income Statement 5.5 (5.6)
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1. 80 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
10. Income tax continued
The major components of tax expense/(income) recognised in the Statement of Changes in Equity are:
2012
2013 (as restated*)
Deferred and current income tax related to items charged or credited directly to equity: £m £m
Fair value movements on available for sale financial investments (0.2) (0.1)
Net actuarial movements on defined benefit pension arrangements 0.8 (2.0)
Other pension plan movements – 0.3
Adjustments in respect of Corporation Tax rate change 0.2 0.3
Tax expense/(income) recognised directly in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 0.8 (1.5)
Tax associated with purchase of NCI in F&C Partners LLP – 0.8
Share-based payments 0.5 (0.6)
Tax expense/(income) recognised directly in the Statement of Changes in Equity 1.3 (1.3)
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown in note 17.
(b) Factors affecting the tax expense/(income) for the year
A reconciliation between the actual tax expense/(income) and the accounting profit/(loss) multiplied by the Group’s domestic tax rate for the
years ended 31 December 2013 and 2012 is as follows:
2012
2013 (as restated*)
£m £m
Profit/(loss) before tax 15.7 (3.0)
At the Group’s statutory income tax rate of 23.25% (2012: 24.5%) 3.6 (0.7)
Adjustments in respect of previous years (0.6) (0.6)
Disallowed expenses 1.4 0.8
Non-taxable income (0.8) (3.6)
Foreign tax at different rates 0.6 0.3
Movement in unrecognised loss position 0.2 (0.1)
Disallowed distributions to LLP members 2.6 3.0
Non-taxable income attributable to LLP members (2.6) (3.0)
Share-based payments – (1.6)
Corporation Tax rate change 1.1 (0.1)
Tax expense/(income) reported in the Income Statement 5.5 (5.6)
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
(c) Effective rate of tax and factors affecting future tax charges
The current Corporation Tax rate of 23% became effective from 1 April 2013, leading to a statutory UK Corporation Tax rate of 23.25% for
2013 for the Group.
A 3% reduction in the UK Corporation Tax rate was substantively enacted during the year to take effect in 2014 and 2015. The effect of these
tax rate changes enacted has been to decrease the net deferred tax assets of the Group by £1.3m, comprising a £1.1m charge through the
Income Statement and a £0.2m charge to equity reflecting the deferred tax that is expected to reverse through equity.
The 3% reduction in the UK Corporation Tax rate will lead to a Group statutory Corporation Tax rate of 21.50% for 2014 and 20.25% for 2015.
No additional rate changes have been substantively enacted since the reporting date. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 81
11. Earnings per share
Basic earnings/(loss) per share amounts are calculated by dividing the earnings/(loss) for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the
parent by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share amounts are calculated by dividing the earnings/(loss) for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the
parent by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares
that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential Ordinary Shares into Ordinary Shares at the reporting date.
In the opinion of the Directors the ‘underlying earnings’, as quantified in the ‘Reconciliation of earnings/(loss)’ table below, more accurately
reflect the underlying earnings performance of the Group.
The impact of the prior period adjustment for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as explained in note 1, on the 2012
profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent and on the basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per share is as follows:
2012
Profit/(loss) attributable to
equity holders of the parent
Gross Tax Net Basic EPS Diluted EPS
£m £m £m pp
As originally reported (5.1) 5.2 0.1 0.01 0.01
Prior period adjustment (0.5) 0.1 (0.4) (0.07) (0.07)
As restated (5.6) 5.3 (0.3) (0.06) (0.06)
2012
2013 (as restated*)
Reconciliation of earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share p p
Basic earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share 1.52 (0.06)
Amortisation and impairment of intangibles 5.25 5.25
TRC Commutation expenses 0.48 0.30
Exceptional employment expenses 0.32 1.13
Exceptional outsourcing expenses 0.22 0.47
TRC Management Retention Plan expense 0.11 1.02
Exceptional premises expenses 0.06 0.21
F&C Partners litigation expense – 0.19
F&C REIT put option fair value loss/(gain) 0.54 (2.16)
Deferred Tax – Corporation Tax rate change 0.34 0.36
Underlying earnings per Ordinary Share 8.84 6.71
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses included within underlying earnings per share (0.06) 0.28
Underlying earnings per Ordinary Share excluding foreign exchange gains and losses 8.78 6.99
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
2012
2013 (as restated*)
p p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share
†
1.43 (0.06)
Diluted underlying earnings per Ordinary Share 8.27 6.03
Diluted underlying earnings per Ordinary Share excluding foreign exchange gains and losses 8.22 6.28
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
†
Where the Group has incurred a basic loss per Ordinary Share, no dilution arises despite the ‘dilutive potential weighted average number of Ordinary Shares’
being greater than the ‘weighted average number of Ordinary Shares used to determine the basic loss per share’. As a result, the reported basic and diluted
loss per Ordinary Share are the same in 2012.
All amounts disclosed in the table above are stated net of any attributable tax, as presented in the following ‘Reconciliation of earnings/(loss)’ table. 82 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
11. Earnings per share continued
The following tables disclose the earnings/(loss) and share capital data used in the earnings/(loss) per share calculations:
2012
2013 (as restated*)
Gross Tax Net Gross Tax Net
Reconciliation of earnings/(loss) £m £m £m £m £m £m
Earnings/(loss) attributable to ordinary equity
holders of the parent for basic earnings/(loss)
per share 14.3 (5.8) 8.5 (5.6) 5.3 (0.3)
Amortisation and impairment of intangibles
(1)
39.1 (9.8) 29.3 39.3 (11.4) 27.9
TRC Commutation expenses 2.7 – 2.7 1.6 – 1.6
Exceptional employment expenses 2.4 (0.6) 1.8 8.2 (2.2) 6.0
Exceptional outsourcing expenses 1.6 (0.4) 1.2 3.3 (0.8) 2.5
TRC Management Retention Plan expense 1.2 (0.6) 0.6 6.2 (0.8) 5.4
Exceptional premises expenses 0.3 – 0.3 1.3 (0.2) 1.1
F&C Partners litigation expense ––– 1.3 (0.3) 1.0
F&C REIT put option fair value loss/(gain) 3.0 – 3.0 (11.5) – (11.5)
Deferred Tax – Corporation Tax rate change
(2)
– 1.9 1.9 – 1.9 1.9
Underlying earnings attributable to ordinary
equity holders of the parent 64.6 (15.3) 49.3 44.1 (8.5) 35.6
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses included
within underlying earnings (0.4) 0.1 (0.3) 2.0 (0.5) 1.5
Underlying earnings attributable to ordinary
equity holders of the parent excluding
foreign exchange gains and losses 64.2 (15.2) 49.0 46.1 (9.0) 37.1
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
(1)
Excludes £2.6m (2012: £2.2m) of amortisation and impairment of intangibles (net of tax) which is attributable to NCI. The tax amount includes the related
deferred tax movement associated with the Corporation Tax rate change.
(2)
Excludes £0.8m credit associated with intangible assets.
2013 2012
Share capital No. No.
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares
(3)
557,459,389 530,962,557
Weighted average dilutive potential Ordinary Shares exercisable:
The Long-Term Remuneration Plan awards 18,028,114 31,802,958
TRC Management Retention Plan awards 12,366,873 19,045,652
TRC Commutation arrangements 7,892,493 6,606,750
Purchased Equity Plan awards 121,761 543,416
The Executive Director Remuneration Plan awards – 1,126,146
Deferred Share Awards – 188,288
Dilutive potential weighted average number of Ordinary Shares 595,868,630 590,275,767
(3)
Excludes own shares held by Nominees/Employee Benefit Trusts.
In the period between the reporting date and the approval of the Consolidated Financial Statements, 9,922,333 share awards (2012: 155,356)
vested which were satisfied by the utilisation of 2,171,826 (2012: 155,356) own shares held by an Employee Benefit Trust and by the issue of
7,750,507 Ordinary Shares. No shares (2012: 201,369) have been distributed from holdings in a nominee capacity in respect of TRC
Commutations since the reporting date. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 83
11. Earnings per share continued
Potential future dilution
The following share-based payment arrangements could potentially dilute basic earnings per share in the future, but were not included in the
above calculation of diluted earnings per share because they were either anti-dilutive for the years presented or had not met the relevant
performance criteria at the reporting date:
• Long-Term Remuneration Plan (Restricted Awards)
Details of the estimated vesting percentages used for accounting purposes are disclosed in note 26(a)(ii).
• F&C REIT variable NCI SBP
This earn-out arrangement gives the F&C REIT NCI partners the opportunity to increase their ownership of F&C REIT from 30% to 40%
before 31 December 2014. At 31 December 2013, the Directors do not expect any of the ownership percentage to transfer. Any transfer
would potentially dilute the profits attributable to the equity holders of the parent. However, the principle of this incentive arrangement is
that the incremental profits which would become attributable to NCI as a result of achieving the performance criteria are funded from the
increased level of absolute profits generated by F&C REIT for the year in which vesting arises, rather than diluting the current level of profits
attributable to equity holders of the parent. There can be no guarantee that, subsequent to vesting, the higher level of profits which met the
vesting criteria would be sustainable. Details of this arrangement are disclosed in note 26(b).
• TRC Management Incentive Plan
Details of this plan are disclosed in note 26(e).
• 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme
At 31 December 2013 all options outstanding have vested. These options have an exercise price of 240.83p and are anti-dilutive as the
option prices are above the average share price for the year. Details of this Scheme are disclosed in note 26(i).
12. Ordinary dividends
2013 2012
Declared and paid during the year £m £m
Final dividend for 2012: 2.0p (2011: 2.0p) 10.9 10.4
Interim dividend for 2013: 1.0p (2012: 1.0p) 5.8 5.4
16.7 15.8
Second interim dividend for 2013: 2.0p (2012: nil) 11.8 n/a
Proposed for approval at the Annual General Meeting
Final dividend for 2013: nil (2012: 2.0p) n/a 10.9
On 28 January 2014, the Board declared a second interim dividend of 2.0p per share for the year ended 31 December 2013, payable on
20 May 2014 (or earlier if the cash consideration pursuant to the proposed transaction with BMO is dispatched ahead of that date) to
shareholders on the register at 4 April 2014. This brings full-year dividends for 2013 to 3.0p per share, which is the same as that paid in
respect of 2012.
The entitlement of Employee Benefit Trusts to receive dividends (on some of their holdings of F&C shares) has been waived by the Trustees.
This has resulted in the following dividends being waived:
Shares £m
2013 Dividends
2012 Final 11,092,217 0.2
2013 Interim 2,255,659 –
2012 Dividends
2011 Final 10,079,379 0.2
2012 Interim 8,990,080 0.1 84 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
13. Property, plant and equipment
Office
Leasehold Computer furniture and Motor
improvements equipment equipment vehicles Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 January 2012 13.3 10.0 2.9 1.0 27.2
Additions 1.1 2.1 0.1 0.4 3.7
Disposals (7.1) (1.9) (1.1) (0.3) (10.4)
At 31 December 2012 7.3 10.2 1.9 1.1 20.5
Additions 0.3 0.6 0.1 0.1 1.1
Disposals (0.2) (1.5) (0.1) (0.1) (1.9)
At 31 December 2013 7.4 9.3 1.9 1.1 19.7
Depreciation and impairment:
At 1 January 2012 9.3 8.0 2.1 0.4 19.8
Depreciation charge for the year 1.3 1.3 0.2 0.2 3.0
Disposals (6.2) (1.9) (1.1) (0.2) (9.4)
At 31 December 2012 4.4 7.4 1.2 0.4 13.4
Depreciation charge for the year 0.8 1.5 0.2 0.2 2.7
Disposals (0.2) (1.5) (0.1) (0.1) (1.9)
At 31 December 2013 5.0 7.4 1.3 0.5 14.2
Net book values:
At 31 December 2011 4.0 2.0 0.8 0.6 7.4
At 31 December 2012 2.9 2.8 0.7 0.7 7.1
At 31 December 2013 2.4 1.9 0.6 0.6 5.5
There are no restrictions on the Group’s title to the above assets and none are pledged as security for liabilities.
The cost of fully depreciated property, plant and equipment which is still in use at 31 December 2013 is £9.3m (31 December 2012: £5.9m).
14. Goodwill and other intangible assets
Investment
management Software
Goodwill contracts and licences Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 January 2012 611.9 703.5 7.9 1,323.3
Additions –– 5.9 5.9
Disposals –– (1.2) (1.2)
Foreign exchange losses – (1.6) – (1.6)
At 31 December 2012 611.9 701.9 12.6 1,326.4
Additions –– 2.7 2.7
Disposals –– (0.3) (0.3)
Foreign exchange gains – 1.3 – 1.3
At 31 December 2013 611.9 703.2 15.0 1,330.1
Amortisation and impairment:
At 1 January 2012 – 574.9 5.4 580.3
Amortisation charge for the year – 42.5 0.6 43.1
Disposals –– (1.2) (1.2)
At 31 December 2012 – 617.4 4.8 622.2
Amortisation charge for the year – 41.3 1.7 43.0
Impairment charge – 1.4 – 1.4
Disposals –– (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 December 2013 – 660.1 6.3 666.4
Net book values:
At 31 December 2011 611.9 128.6 2.5 743.0
At 31 December 2012 611.9 84.5 7.8 704.2
At 31 December 2013 611.9 43.1 8.7 663.7
Software and licences additions consists of £2.2m (2012: £5.7m) of internally generated software and £0.5m (2012: £0.2m) of acquired licences.
The cost of software and licences where amortisation has not yet commenced at 31 December 2013 is £0.7m (31 December 2012: £5.9m). ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 85
14. Goodwill and other intangible assets continued
Goodwill
Goodwill has arisen from various business combinations and, reflecting the Group’s reportable operating segments disclosed in note 2, is
represented by three cash-generating units (CGUs), as follows:
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
F&C 467.2 467.2
F&C REIT 127.9 127.9
Thames River Capital 16.8 16.8
611.9 611.9
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually at individual CGU level, or when indicators of potential impairment are identified.
The carrying value of goodwill attributable to each CGU was tested for impairment as at 31 December 2013, as described below; to date,
none of the CGUs has suffered any impairment of goodwill.
Investment management contracts (management contracts)
Management contracts predominantly relate to contracts arising from business acquisitions.
Management contracts are amortised over their expected useful lives and are tested for impairment only when indicators of potential
impairment are identified. Such an indicator was identified in 2013 in the REIT property contracts and, as a result of the impairment review
undertaken, an impairment charge of £1.4m has been recognised in the year, and a change made to the relevant asset’s estimated useful life,
which is reflected in the table below. Further details are disclosed later in this note.
The foreign exchange gains recognised in the year arise from the relative strengthening of the Euro over the course of 2013, increasing the
value of Euro-denominated contracts, primarily F&C insurance contracts, in Sterling terms.
The categories of management contracts, their carrying amounts at the year end, remaining amortisation periods and estimated useful lives are
as follows:
31 December 2013 31 December 2012
Remaining Estimated Remaining Estimated
Net book amortisation useful Net book amortisation useful
values period life values period life
£m (years) (years) £m (years) (years)
F&C OEICs/RSAI* retail contracts 0.8 0 – 0.78 10 1.9 0 – 1.78 10
F&C insurance contracts 11.6 0.78 10 25.8 1.78 10
F&C institutional contracts 1.3 0.78 10 3.0 1.78 10
F&C investment trust contracts 5.4 2.5 10 7.5 3.5 10
F&C advisory and sub-advisory contracts 3.9 0.78 10 8.8 1.78 10
Private equity fund of funds 0.7 11 20 0.8 12 20
REIT property contracts 15.6 3.5 8.83 27.1 2.67 7
Thames River Capital contracts 3.8 0.67 4 9.6 1.67 4
43.1 84.5
* Royal Sun Alliance Insurance (RSAI).
Impairment testing of goodwill
The recoverable amount of the CGUs has been determined on their value in use (including terminal value) at each respective testing date for
2012 and 2013. The value in use is calculated by discounting the cash flow projections based on the latest annual financial budget, and
management’s forecasts. A Euro/Sterling exchange rate of€1.17/£1, which was assumed for the purposes of the 2014 budget (2013 budget:
€1.23/£1), has been kept constant for determining future cash flows. A long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows, reflecting
the nature of the Group’s business and the Board’s current view that there is no reason to believe that the CGUs will not continue in operation
in perpetuity.
The key assumptions adopted in these calculations for each operating segment are as follows:
31 December 2013 31 December 2012
F&C F&C REIT TRC F&C F&C REIT TRC
Discount rate 7.95% 7.95% 9.95% 9.15% 9.15% 11.15%
Long-term market growth rate 5.45% 4.30% 6.05% 5.35% 4.45% 5.65%
Inflation rate* 4.20% 4.20% 4.20% 3.80% 3.80% 3.80%
* The costs included in year one of the projections reflect those included in the budget for the respective year. 86 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
14. Goodwill and other intangible assets continued
The discount rate is based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital to estimate a market relevant rate, calculated as at the year end,
and takes into account the relative risks associated with the Group’s various revenue streams included in the respective operating segments.
The same discount rate has been applied to the F&C and F&C REIT CGUs, reflecting the fact that the Board considers that the risk profiles are
similar across those segments, with a degree of commonality in their client base. Indeed, were it not for the distinct internal governance
arrangements and separate management structures in place, the F&C REIT business would form part of a larger F&C CGU. The discount rates
disclosed above are the post-tax rates which have been applied in the projections; the pre-tax discount rates are 9.40% and 11.75% for
F&C/F&C REIT and TRC respectively (2012: 11.10% and 13.40% respectively). All discount rates shown subsequently within this note are
stated after tax.
Revenues are based on the budget for each operating segment, and management’s net business flow forecasts for the subsequent four years.
Thereafter, revenues have been grown in line with the Group’s long-term view of market growth, consistent with that experienced historically, in
the long-term, across the markets in which assets are invested. The different rates reflect the composite mix of assets held in each operating
segment for each period. Net new business revenues are included at the levels assumed in the 2014 budget and management’s forecasts up
to 2018 with no further net new business included thereafter. Additional costs associated with the increased revenues have been included in
the projections, primarily to reflect variable remuneration costs.
Projected operating costs for the first year are driven by the budgeted profit margins for each operating segment for 2014. Thereafter, both
existing budgeted costs and, as noted above, further costs added associated with net new business revenue forecasts have been grown at
inflation rates to accord with anticipated future salary and other cost increases.
Values in use are compared to the carrying values of goodwill, attributable management contracts and other intangible assets (net of
associated deferred tax provisions), and property, plant and equipment in order to ascertain whether any impairment exists.
As this annual impairment review of goodwill indicated surpluses in all segments, no impairment has been recognised in the year in respect of
goodwill (2012: £nil).
The key assumptions noted in the above table are those to which the calculated values in use are most sensitive.
In order to assess the sensitivity of the key assumptions on the carrying values of goodwill, an analysis was conducted to ascertain the change
that would be required to derive values in use which approximated to the carrying values of goodwill, and beyond which impairment would
arise.
The absolute levels, on a standalone basis, of the key assumptions which most closely resulted in a match in the values in use to the carrying
values of goodwill were as follows:
31 December 2013 31 December 2012
F&C F&C REIT TRC F&C F&C REIT TRC
Discount rate 20.01% 11.49% 39.10% 18.28% 11.37% 28.81%
Long-term market growth rate 0.81% 1.33% (8.91%) 1.01% 2.16% (2.37%)
Inflation rate 7.92% 6.93% 12.75% 7.75% 6.21% 9.74%
Per cent achievement of new business targets 0.00% 24.90% <0.00% <0.00% 30.93% <0.00%
Impairment testing of intangible assets with finite lives
During 2013, the Umbrella Agreement with Trafalgar Overseas Limited (Trafalgar) was renegotiated and renewed. This agreement, signed on
the acquisition of REIT in 2008, entitled F&C REIT to a fixed annual fee of £8.5m per annum for five years from September 2008, which will no
longer be payable. The loss of this revenue was considered to be an indicator of potential impairment of the REIT management contracts
intangible asset. In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, a full impairment review of this asset was undertaken as at 31 December
2013. The review has resulted in the following impairment loss being recognised in the year:
31 December 2013 31 December 2012
F&C F&C REIT TRC F&C F&C REIT TRC
£m £m £m £m £m £m
REIT property contracts – 1.4 – –––
No indicators of potential impairment existed in 2012 and therefore no impairment reviews of management contracts were undertaken in
respect of that year.
The recoverable amount of the asset has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash flow projections based on the latest
annual financial budget, and management’s forecasts for the period of the revised estimated useful life. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 87
14. Goodwill and other intangible assets continued
The original estimate of the useful life of the intangible asset was seven years from the date of acquisition on 1 September 2008. The useful life
of the related management contracts has been reassessed. Following consideration of the developments with Trafalgar in 2013, which
included the negotiation of a renewed Umbrella Agreement, the contractual arrangements and typical lifespans of relevant underlying portfolios,
and other relevant factors, management assessed the estimated useful life of the asset to be 3½ years from 31 December 2013.
The revised useful life represents a change in accounting estimate and reduces the annual rate of amortisation from 1 January 2014 over the
remaining life of the asset. The annual amortisation charge will decrease by £4.9m compared to the charge had the impaired asset continued
to be amortised over its original estimated useful life.
Accumulated impairment losses on management contracts at the year end are as follows:
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
CGU £m £m
F&C 218.3 218.3
F&C REIT 1.4 –
Thames River Capital – –
219.7 218.3
15. Financial investments
The following assets are designated as available for sale:
2013 2012
Unquoted investments £m £m
At 1 January 1.3 1.7
Fair value gains in the year 0.4 0.7
Realised fair value gains transferred to the Income Statement (1.4) (1.1)
At 31 December 0.3 1.3
Unquoted investments include the Group’s direct investment, co-investments and certain carried interest entitlements in private equity limited
partnerships. The investments have no fixed maturity date or coupon rate. Details of the fair value measurement are disclosed in note 19.
16. Deferred acquisition costs
2013 2012
£m £m
At 1 January 5.3 7.1
Costs deferred in the year 0.2 0.6
Amortisation in the year (2.0) (2.4)
At 31 December 3.5 5.3
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Split as follows:
Non-current assets 2.0 3.3
Current assets 1.5 2.0
3.5 5.3
Deferred acquisition costs represent the commission paid to gain new asset inflows into open-ended funds. These costs are amortised over
the expected terms of the contracts, in line with the initial fees received from investors, as disclosed in note 27. 88 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
17. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
(a) Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
31 December 2013 31 December 2012
Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Employee benefits* 4.8 – 4.8 6.8 – 6.8
Share-based payments 7.2 – 7.2 12.2 – 12.2
Unused tax losses 2.8 – 2.8 6.6 – 6.6
Property, plant and equipment 2.4 – 2.4 1.7 – 1.7
Receivables, payables and provisions 1.0 – 1.0 1.3 – 1.3
Intangible assets – management contracts – (8.9) (8.9) – (19.4) (19.4)
Unrealised fair value gains on available for sale assets ––– – (0.3) (0.3)
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 18.2 (8.9) 9.3 28.6 (19.7) 8.9
* Includes £4.0m (31 December 2012: £5.7m) relating to deferred tax on defined benefit pension deficit.
Based on Board-approved budgets and forecasts, the Directors believe that it is appropriate to recognise deferred tax assets at the reporting
date because it is considered probable that there will be suitable future taxable profits from which the underlying temporary differences can
be deducted.
(b) Movement in temporary differences during the year
1 January Recognised Recognised Revaluation 31 December
2013 in income in equity in year 2013
£m £m £m £m £m
Employee benefits 6.8 (1.0) (1.0) – 4.8
Share-based payments 12.2 (4.5) (0.5) – 7.2
Unused tax losses 6.6 (3.8) –– 2.8
Property, plant and equipment 1.7 0.7 –– 2.4
Receivables, payables and provisions 1.3 (0.3) –– 1.0
Intangible assets – management contracts (19.4) 10.8 – (0.3) (8.9)
Unrealised fair value gains on available for sale assets (0.3) – 0.2 0.1 –
8.9 1.9 (1.3) (0.2) 9.3
1 January Recognised Recognised Revaluation 31 December
2012 in income in equity in year 2012
(as restated*) (as restated*)
£m £m £m £m £m
Employee benefits 6.9 (1.3) 1.3 (0.1) 6.8
Share-based payments 11.1 0.6 0.6 (0.1) 12.2
Unused tax losses 5.5 – 1.1 – 6.6
Property, plant and equipment 2.7 (1.0) –– 1.7
Receivables, payables and provisions 2.1 (0.9) – 0.1 1.3
Intangible assets – management contracts (32.1) 12.3 – 0.4 (19.4)
Unrealised fair value gains on available for sale assets (0.3) – 0.1 (0.1) (0.3)
(4.1) 9.7 3.1 0.2 8.9
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as dislosed in note 1.
(c) Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
At 31 December 2013 the Group has unrecognised tax losses of £0.7m (31 December 2012: £0.3m) that are available for offset against future
taxable profits of the companies in which the losses arose. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as they
cannot be used to offset taxable profits elsewhere in the Group, and they have arisen in companies that have not reported taxable profits for
some time.
18. Financial instruments
(a) Analysis of assets and liabilities at the reporting date
Financial investments held in relation to the activities of the Group’s insurance subsidiary have been classified as fair value through profit or loss
within current assets.
Stocks of units and shares are held in relation to fund management activities and are classified as held for trading within current assets.
Financial investments included within non-current assets are classified as available for sale and are carried at fair value (or at amortised cost if
fair value cannot be measured reliably). Other loans and receivables included within non-current assets are carried at amortised cost. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 89
18. Financial instruments continued
(i) Designated as fair value through profit or loss
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
Notes £m £m
Financial investments in respect of unit-linked contracts 18(a)(i)(1) – 134.2
Other financial investments 18(a)(i)(2) 3.0 4.0
3.0 138.2
(1) Financial investments in respect of unit-linked contracts
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Equity securities:
OEICs and unit trusts – 104.9
Listed – 21.9
Total equity securities – 126.8
Debt and fixed income securities:
Participation in pooled investments – 7.4
Total debt and fixed income securities – 7.4
Total unit-linked financial investments designated as fair value through profit or loss – 134.2
Financial instruments relating to unit-linked contracts
The Group’s insurance subsidiary, F&C Managed Pension Funds Limited, provided unit-linked pension wrappers. From F&C’s perspective, the
risks and rewards of managing these assets were the same as other assets under management, as the financial risks and rewards attributable
to the assets invested fell to be borne by, or to the benefit of, the Group’s clients. Hence, while a number of financial instruments were
recognised in the Statement of Financial Position in respect of this subsidiary, the key risk to the Group was the impact on the level of
management fees which were earned from this entity and which were directly affected by the underlying value of policyholder assets.
Following a decision in 2012 to close the managed pension fund product, almost all client assets had been withdrawn by 31 December 2013,
with the majority of these being reinvested within other F&C products. As a result, there are no investments in respect of unit-linked contracts
and limited unit-linked assets and policyholder cash as at 31 December 2013.
The amounts included in the Statement of Financial Position in respect of assets and liabilities held within unit-linked funds are as follows:
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments – 134.2
Loans and receivables:
Deferred acquisition costs – 0.1
Trade and other receivables 0.1 0.3
Cash and cash equivalents* – 2.3
Total unit-linked assets less liabilities 0.1 136.9
* Excludes £0.9m of non-linked policyholders’ cash (31 December 2012: £2.2m).
These unit-linked assets are matched by the associated investment contract liabilities disclosed in note 29. 90 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
18. Financial instruments continued
(2) Other financial investments
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
NIC hedge 2.6 2.5
Mutual funds 0.2 0.3
Corporate bonds 0.1 –
Carried Interest investments 0.1 –
TRC Employee Benefit Trust assets – 1.2
3.0 4.0
The ‘NIC hedge’ represents an investment in equities and other assets made via an Employee Benefit Trust for the purpose of funding future
national insurance contributions (NIC) on legacy employee share plans. The provision for the NIC liability is separately recognised.
‘Mutual funds’ represents investments in mainly fixed interest funds.
‘Corporate bonds’ represents an investment in Portugese corporate bonds.
‘Carried Interest investments’ represents investments in property and private equity funds which entitle FCAM to a share of future profits upon
exceeding a performance hurdle.
‘TRC Employee Benefit Trust assets’ represented investments held by an Employee Benefit Trust in TRC funds for the purpose of settlement of
TRC bonus awards. The associated employee benefit liability has now been settled.
(ii) Designated as held for trading
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Stock of units and shares 1.3 0.3
The Group holds a stock of units and shares in respect of its OEIC and unit trust operations. This stock of units and shares is commonly
referred to as the ‘Manager’s Box’. The Group’s stock of units and shares is valued using quoted prices in active markets. The Group is
therefore exposed to market value movements in the value of these assets.
(iii) Designated as loans and receivables
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 182.9 165.2
Trade and other receivables:
Trade debtors 33.7 32.0
Accrued income 34.2 30.6
OEIC and unit trust debtors 32.3 10.6
Other debtors 2.9 5.2
Amounts owed by TRC related party entities 0.9 0.7
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities – 0.1
286.9 244.4 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 91
19. Fair value measurement
(i) Fair value hierarchy
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by category of valuation technique:
Level 1: Quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or
indirectly.
Level 3: Techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market
data.
Fair value measurement
The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Group’s assets and liabilities. There have been no transfers between
the Level 1, 2 and 3 hierarchy during 2012 or 2013.
Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy as at 31 December 2013:
Fair value measurement using
Quoted prices Significant Significant
in active observable unobservable 31 December
markets inputs inputs 2013
(Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total
Assets measured at fair value £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other financial investments 0.1 2.8 0.1 3.0
Classified as held for trading:
Stock of units and shares 1.3 – – 1.3
Available for sale financial assets:
Unquoted investments – 0.1 0.1 0.2
1.4 2.9 0.2 4.5
Assets not measured at fair value
Available for sale financial assets:
Unquoted investments –– 0.1 0.1
Financial liabilities measured at fair value
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
F&C REIT put options –– (36.8) (36.8)
Investment contract liabilities – (0.1) – (0.1)
– (0.1) (36.8) (36.9)
Financial liabilities not measured at fair value
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – (257.5) – (257.5)
Included within the unquoted financial investments at 31 December 2013 are £0.1m (31 December 2012: £0.1m) of equity instruments
measured at the price of recent investments. The fair value of these investments cannot be measured reliably as the Group does not have
access to the underlying information to produce fair value valuations for these investments. These investments consist of loans and carried
interest in private equity limited partnerships. These investments are managed by external fund managers and the Group obtains income when
the investments are realised. The Group intends to hold these investments until all the private equity investments are realised. In 2013, the
Group received £0.2m (2012: £0.4m) in respect of the investments held at cost. 92 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
19. Fair value measurement continued
Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy as at 31 December 2012:
Fair value measurement using
Quoted prices Significant Significant
in active observable unobservable 31 December
markets inputs inputs 2012
(Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total
Assets measured at fair value £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments in respect of unit-linked contracts 125.7 8.5 – 134.2
Other financial investments 0.9 3.1 – 4.0
Classified as held for trading:
Stock of units and shares 0.3 –– 0.3
Available for sale financial assets:
Unquoted investments – 0.1 1.1 1.2
126.9 11.7 1.1 139.7
Assets not measured at fair value
Available for sale financial investments:
Unquoted investments –– 0.1 0.1
Financial liabilities measured at fair value
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
F&C REIT put options –– (33.8) (33.8)
Investment contract liabilities – (136.9) – (136.9)
– (136.9) (33.8) (170.7)
Financial liabilities not measured at fair value
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – (257.4) – (257.4)
Fair values of assets and liabilities
The above tables disclose the financial instruments which are measured at fair value and those which are not.
The Level 1 assets are quoted prices in active markets. These are listed funds or equities and assets with daily quoted prices.
The Level 2 assets are generally funds which are either pooled liquidity funds, offshore mutual funds or funds not quoted on a daily basis. The
investment contract liabilities are derived from the valuation of unit-linked assets. The interest-bearing loans and borrowings are measured at
amortised cost.
The Level 3 assets are valuations of direct and carried interest holdings in private equity and property funds. The F&C REIT put option liabilities
(as detailed in note 28) are externally valued at each reporting date by a valuation of the F&C REIT business using the techniques detailed
below.
In the Directors’ opinion, there is no discernable difference between the carrying amount and fair values of cash and short-term deposits, trade
receivables and payables, and other current liabilities, due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
Valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value
The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments:
Listed securities and stock of units and shares
The fair value of listed investments is based on quoted bid market prices at the reporting date without any deduction for transaction costs. The
fair value of the stock of units and shares is based on the daily market prices at the reporting date.
Unquoted investments
The fair value of the unquoted investments has been estimated using International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines or
property valuation techniques and in accordance with the underlying limited partnership agreements.
The Directors believe that the estimated fair values resulting from the valuation technique applied to unquoted shares which are recorded in the
Statement of Financial Position, and the related realised fair value gains recorded in the Income Statement, are reasonable and the most
appropriate at the reporting date. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 93
19. Fair value measurement continued
Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated future cash flows are based on management’s best estimates and the discount
rate is a market-related rate for a similar instrument at the reporting date. Where other pricing models are used, inputs are based on market-
related data at the reporting date.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
The fair value of the Subordinated Notes and Guaranteed Loan Notes is based on a quoted market price at the reporting date.
Put options
The fair value is based on an external valuation of the F&C REIT business, as detailed in note 28.
Valuation techniques, inputs and assumptions used in measuring fair values
The following tables show the valuation techniques used in measuring Level 2 and Level 3 fair values, as well as the significant unobservable
inputs used.
Financial instruments measured at fair value
Inter-relationship
between significant
unobservable inputs
and fair value
Type Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs measurements
The estimated fair value
of the put option would
increase/(decrease) if the:
• Annual revenue
growth/decline were
higher or lower;
• EBITDA margin were
higher or lower;
• Risk-adjusted
discount rate were
lower or higher.
Generally, a change in
the revenue
growth/decline would
result in a similar change
in EBITDA.
The main assumptions used in the valuation
methodologies are:
(a) Projections of the profit and loss for F&C REIT:
Net new business: Based on the F&C
REIT approved budget
for year one, with
management forecast
projections for the
subsequent four years
Revenue growth: Modelled individually
for each year
Cost inflation: 3.5% per annum and
5.25% per annum for
staff costs
(b) Discount rates: 12.5% on recurring
cash flows
25.0% on non-
recurring cash flows
(c) Perpetuity growth rates: 3.0% for recurring
cash flows
3.0% for non-recurring
cash flows
(d) Earnings multipliers: 9.0 x recurring EBITDA
3.0 x non-recurring
EBITDA
The F&C REIT business is valued
using an average of three
valuation methodologies (equally
weighted), namely:
1. Discounted cash flow method
2. Market earnings before
interest, taxation,
depreciation and amortisation
(EBITDA) multiple
3. Fixed EBITDA multiple
F&C REIT put options 94 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
19. Fair value measurement continued
Inter-relationship
between significant
unobservable inputs
and fair value
Type Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs measurements
Level 3 assets/(liabilities) measured at fair value
Available
for sale Financial
Financial assets financial liabilities
at FVTPL assets at FVTPL
Financial
investments
in respect Other
of unit-linked financial Unquoted F&C REIT
contracts investments investments put options Total
Fair value movements £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2012 0.4 0.2 1.7 (45.3) (43.0)
Total gains or losses:
In profit or loss – 0.2 (1.1) 11.5 10.6
In other comprehensive income –– 0.6 – 0.6
Purchases 0.2 ––– 0.2
Settlements (0.6) (0.4) –– (1.0)
At 31 December 2012 –– 1.2 (33.8) (32.6)
Total gains or losses:
In profit or loss –– (1.4) (3.0) (4.4)
In other comprehensive income –– 0.4 – 0.4
Purchases – 0.1 –– 0.1
At 31 December 2013 – 0.1 0.2 (36.8) (36.5)
There were no transfers into or out of level 3 during 2013 or 2012.
Other financial
investments
measured at fair value
through profit or loss
• Offshore OEIC/SICAV funds
andpooled liquidity funds:
net asset value of the fund
divided by the number of
units, with the frequency of
calculation determined on a
fund by fund basis in
accordance with the fund
rules.
• Property and private equity
carried interest investments:
valued in accordance with
property valuation techniques
and International Private
Equity and Venture Capital
Valuation Guidelines.
• Offshore OEICs/SICAVs and pooled liquidity
funds where some are not on quoted markets
and some prices are calculated infrequently.
• Carried interest investments are valued in
accordance with property and private equity
valuation techniques.
• Offshore
OEICs/SICAVs and
pooled liquidity funds
should have little
impact on the fair
value measurement.
• The valuation of the
underlying property
and private equity
funds will determine
the valuation of the
carried interest
investments. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 95
19. Fair value measurement continued
Total gains or losses included in the Income Statement for the year:
Available
for sale Financial
Financial assets financial liabilities
at FVTPL assets at FVTPL
Financial
investments
in respect Other
of unit-linked financial Unquoted F&C REIT
contracts investments investments put options Total
2013 £m £m £m £m £m
Finance revenue –– 1.4 – 1.4
F&C REIT put option fair value loss ––– (3.0) (3.0)
–– 1.4 (3.0) (1.6)
2012
Finance revenue – 0.2 1.1 – 1.3
F&C REIT put option fair value gain ––– 11.5 11.5
– 0.2 1.1 11.5 12.8
The gains or losses included in profit or loss for the years presented were, with the exception of the financial assets at FVTPL at 31 December
2012, all in respect of assets or liabilities held at the reporting date.
Sensitivities for level 3
While the Group believes that its estimates of fair value are appropriate, the use of different assumptions could lead to different measurements
of fair value. In respect of level 3 financial liabilities of the F&C REIT put options, changing one or more of the significant unobservable inputs to
reasonably possible alternative assumptions, holding the other inputs constant, would have the following effects:
Profit or loss
Increase Decrease
£m £m
Risk adjusted recurring discount rate (1% movement to discount rate) 5.3 (4.3)
Recurring fixed EBITDA multiple (1.0 x movement to multiple) 3.3 (3.3)
Market EBITDA (10% movement to weighting) 2.1 (2.1)
(ii) Fair value comparisons
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments.
Carrying amount Fair value
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2013 2012 2013 2012
Financial assets £m £m £m £m
Financial investments: available for sale 0.3 1.3 0.3 1.3
Financial investments: fair value through profit or loss 3.0 138.2 3.0 138.2
Held for trading: stock of units and shares 1.3 0.3 1.3 0.3
Financial liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings:
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 (115.7) (115.6) (106.1) (96.0)
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 (141.8) (141.8) (157.7) (152.9)
Other financial liabilities:
F&C REIT put options (36.8) (33.8) (36.8) (33.8)
Investment contract liabilities (0.1) (136.9) (0.1) (136.9)
The fair values of short-term ‘trade and other receivables’, ‘cash and cash equivalents’ and ‘trade and other payables’ have been excluded
from the above table as their carrying amounts are a reasonable approximation of their fair values. 96 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
20. Trade and other receivables
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Non-current:
Trade debtors* 10.2 –
Accrued income 0.3 –
Other debtors 0.1 0.3
Prepayments 0.1 0.1
10.7 0.4
Current:
Trade debtors* 23.5 32.0
Accrued income 33.9 30.6
OEIC and unit trust debtors 32.3 10.6
Other debtors 2.8 4.9
Prepayments 6.2 8.3
Amounts owed by TRC related party entities 0.9 0.7
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities – 0.1
99.6 87.2
* Trade debtors are generally receivable within 30 days and are non-interest bearing, with one exception which is explained in note 36(a)(ii).
21. Cash and cash equivalents
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Shareholders:
Cash at bank and in hand 37.6 31.4
Short-term deposits 144.4 129.3
182.0 160.7
Policyholders:
Cash at bank and in hand 0.9 4.5
0.9 4.5
Total cash and cash equivalents 182.9 165.2
Cash and cash equivalents are held by the Group for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments rather than for investment or other
purposes. All short-term deposits are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are not subject to significant risk of changes in value.
Short-term deposits are generally made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash
requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents at 31
December 2013 is £182.9m (31 December 2012: £165.2m).
Restrictions on use of cash
The policyholders’ cash is not available for general use by the Group. These funds are held on behalf of policyholders of unit-linked insurance
contracts, although, as highlighted in note 18(a)(i)(1), there are limited assets remaining in this business as at 31 December 2013. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 97
22. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
The contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings are as follows:
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 115.7 115.6
being 115,973,000 notes with a nominal value of £1 (31 December 2012: 115,973,000)
Interest rate of 6.75% per annum until 19 December 2016, payable annually in arrears.
Issuer has the option to extend the notes beyond this date at a rate of 2.69% above
three-month LIBOR until 19 December 2026, payable quarterly in arrears.
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 141.8 141.8
being 142,035,000 notes with a nominal value of £1 (31 December 2012: 142,035,000)
Interest rate of 9.0% per annum until 19 December 2016, payable annually in arrears.
257.5 257.4
Guaranteed
Subordinated Loan
Notes 2016/2026 Notes 2016 Loans total
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2012 124.4 149.4 273.8
Debt buy-backs (9.0) (7.7) (16.7)
Issue costs amortisation 0.2 0.1 0.3
At 31 December 2012 115.6 141.8 257.4
Issue costs amortisation 0.1 – 0.1
At 31 December 2013 115.7 141.8 257.5
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
Repayment periods £m £m
Amounts repayable:
In one year or less, or on demand – –
In more than one year but not more than two years – –
In more than two years but not more than five years* 257.5 257.4
In more than five years – –
257.5 257.4
* Assumes Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes are not extended beyond 2016.
Additional information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate risk is provided in note 36(c)(iv).
Borrowing facilities
The undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at the year end are as follows:
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Expiring in one year or less:
Revolving credit facility – 20.0
Bank overdraft facilities – 2.0
– 22.0
The Group had a £20.0m revolving credit facility which was available for general corporate and working capital purposes. This credit facility
expired on 31 August 2013. 98 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
23. Trade and other payables
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Non-current:
Accruals 0.8 0.7
Other creditors 4.2 2.6
5.0 3.3
Current:
Trade creditors* 3.3 4.8
Accruals 17.6 18.3
OEIC and unit trust creditors 38.6 16.8
Other creditors 7.2 12.8
VAT payable 1.8 –
Amounts owed to F&C REIT related party entities – 0.5
68.5 53.2
* Trade creditors are non-interest bearing and are settled in accordance with the individual contractual arrangements.
During 2012, the final consideration payment of £0.7m for the acquisition of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited was made to Achmea B.V..
24. Provisions
Long-
Onerous NIC on Long- term F&C
premises share term Guaranteed service Partners
contracts schemes sickness product award litigation Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2012 6.1 6.1 1.0 0.4 0.2 2.0 15.8
Provided during the year 0.3 3.4 –––– 3.7
Utilised during the year (1.1) (2.0) (0.1) –– (0.7) (3.9)
Released during the year – (0.5) – (0.4) – (1.3) (2.2)
At 31 December 2012 5.3 7.0 0.9 – 0.2 – 13.4
Provided during the year 0.7 1.2 0.2 ––– 2.1
Utilised during the year (2.6) (3.3) (0.1) ––– (6.0)
Released during the year (0.2) (0.4) –––– (0.6)
At 31 December 2013 3.2 4.5 1.0 – 0.2 – 8.9
At 31 December 2013
Non-current liabilities 2.0 0.6 0.9 – 0.2 – 3.7
Current liabilities 1.2 3.9 0.1 ––– 5.2
At 31 December 2012
Non-current liabilities 2.6 1.6 0.7 – 0.2 – 5.1
Current liabilities 2.7 5.4 0.2 ––– 8.3
Onerous premises contracts
The Group holds all properties under operating leases. This includes a number of vacant or sub-let properties which were either previously
occupied or are partially occupied by the Group. Provision has been made for the residual lease commitments where significant, after taking
into account existing and expected sub-tenant contractual arrangements. The remaining terms are for up to seven years.
Assumptions have been made as to whether each leasehold property may be sub-let or assigned in the future. All leases are for minimum
guaranteed rentals. The provision is subject to uncertainties over time, including market rent reviews and break options within the lease
arrangements. In addition, exposure could exist if an existing tenant defaulted or went into liquidation or administration.
NIC on share schemes
The provision for national insurance contributions (NIC) on share schemes represents the potential employer’s NIC liabilities in respect of a
number of share-based payment schemes operated by the Group. The provision is subject to uncertainties in respect of the extent to which
performance conditions are met, movements in the Company’s share price, the extent to which awards are forfeited and, where eligible, the
timing of when employees choose to exercise options. The current element of the provision for NIC on share schemes relates to awards which
are expected to vest within one year.At 31 December 2013, £2.6m (31 December 2012: £2.5m) of financial investments were held by the
Group to partially fund the NIC liability on the Deferred Investment Plan and Deferred Investment Option Plan. This is disclosed in note 18(a)(i)(2). ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 99
24. Provisions continued
Long-term sickness
The Group has long-term sickness insurance arrangements which cover the cost of absence from work of all current employees. However, the
cost of employees who became long-term absentees prior to these arrangements being established are self-insured by the Group. The
provision represents the expected present value of income protection payments due to these individuals.
This provision has been quantified on the assumption that all employees currently on long-term sick leave do not return to the employment of
the Group. The discount rate and salary growth assumptions used in each year are identical to those used for the purposes of determining UK
defined benefit pension obligations.
Guaranteed product
The provision for the guaranteed product represented the actuarially assessed cost of meeting potential obligations under certain investment
products which have a guaranteed payout in the event of death of the investor. The underlying investment plan was closed to new investors
during 2004 and insurance arrangements are now in place to cover any exposure to the Group. The remaining provision of £0.4m was
therefore released during 2012.
Long-term service award
This provision represents the obligation in respect of long-term service benefits to which some employees are entitled, including incremental
holiday entitlement and long-term service awards.
F&C Partners litigation
In June 2012, following a successful outcome from the Court of Appeal regarding the level of costs and interest to be borne by F&C in respect
of the F&C Partners litigation, a full and final payment of £0.65m was paid to the founder partners. As a result, the excess provision of £1.35m
was released during the year ended 31 December 2012.
Further details of this litigation were disclosed in the Annual Report and Financial Statements for previous reporting periods.
25. Pension benefits
The Group operates defined benefit plans in the United Kingdom, The Netherlands, the Republic of Ireland and participates in one in Portugal.
The plans provide benefits calculated on a final salary basis. The UK scheme is closed to new entrants. All new UK employees are eligible to
benefit from defined contribution arrangements, which provide greater certainty over the future cost to the Group.
A former Chairman of the Group, Mr R W Jenkins, has a pension entitlement which commenced in January 2011 and is adjusted in line with
the Retail Price Index on 1 January in each year. The annual entitlement as at 1 January 2013 was £134,000. The Group has not earmarked
any assets to date with respect to this liability.
The Group’s defined benefit pension plans are based on final salary payments and benefits are adjusted in line with the plans’ rules (e.g. in line
with price inflation in the UK) once in payment during retirement. The level of benefits provided depends on the member’s length of service and
salary at retirement date. The defined benefit pension plans require contributions to be made to separately administered funds.
These defined benefit pension plans expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and market
(investment) risk. Further details are set out under (g) below.
The net pension deficit is recognised under non-current liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position and is stated gross of the related
deferred tax asset.
The results of the latest full actuarial valuations were updated at 31 December 2013 by qualified independent actuaries. 100 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
25. Pension benefits continued
The pension deficits of the Group are summarised in aggregate and by plan as follows:
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
Aggregate Note £m £m
Fair value of plan assets 25(d) 257.5 232.7
Benefit obligations 25(d) (275.0) (256.8)
Total pension deficit 25(d) (17.5) (24.1)
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
By scheme £m £m
F&C Asset Management Pension Plan (FCAM Plan) (3.6) (10.8)
F&C Netherlands pension plan (10.1) (9.4)
F&C Ireland pension plan (0.4) (0.5)
F&C Portugal pension plan 0.1 –
R W Jenkins pension obligation (3.5) (3.4)
Total pension deficit (17.5) (24.1)
Disclosure relating to the Group’s defined benefit obligations
The information given in (a) to (d) below reflects the aggregate disclosures in respect of all Group defined benefit pension arrangements, except
where otherwise indicated.
(a) Plan assets
31 December 2013 31 December 2012
Plan assets £m % £m %
Equity-linked bond funds 81.9 32 66.1 28
Equity instruments 64.4 25 66.7 29
LDI pools 58.8 23 50.1 22
Diversified growth funds 16.2 6 15.9 7
Insurance contracts 16.1 6 14.3 6
Property (including secured leases) 15.9 6 14.0 6
Cash and cash equivalents 3.4 2 4.8 2
Debt instruments 0.8 – 0.8 –
Total fair value of plan assets 257.5 100 232.7 100
Included in the table above are the following plan assets that have a quoted market price in an active market:
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
Plan assets £m £m
Equity-linked bond funds 81.9 66.1
Equity instruments 52.4 56.0
Diversified growth funds 16.2 15.9
Property (including secured leases) 9.2 7.7
Debt instruments 0.8 0.8
Total fair value of plan assets with a quoted market price in an active market 160.5 146.5
Plan assets include £nil (31 December 2012: £2.5m) of underlying investments held by the Group pension schemes via transferable investment
contracts with F&C Managed Pension Funds Limited, the Group’s unit-linked pooled pension business. The plan assets do not include
Ordinary Shares issued by the Company. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 101
25. Pension benefits continued
(b) Major assumptions used by schemes’ actuaries in respect of benefit obligations
(i) Mortality assumptions
The mortality assumptions used for the main UK defined benefit scheme and the unfunded UK obligation are:
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
Mortality table for males retiring in the future S1NMA L–1 CMI 2012 1.50% S1NMA L–1 CMI 2011 1.25%
Mortality table for females retiring in the future S1NFA L–1 CMI 2012 1.50% S1NFA L–1 CMI 2011 1.25%
Mortality table for current male pensioners S1NMA L–1 CMI 2012 1.50% S1NMA L–1 CMI 2011 1.25%
Mortality table for current female pensioners S1NFA L–1 CMI 2012 1.50% S1NFA L–1 CMI 2011 1.25%
The mortality assumptions for the non-UK schemes are:
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
F&C Netherlands Prognosetafel 2012 – 2062 generational table Prognosetafel 2012 – 2062 generational table
F&C Ireland Compulsory Purchase Annuity Rates Compulsory Purchase Annuity Rates
F&C Portugal Males TV 73/77 (rated down 1 year) Males TV 73/77 (rated down 1 year)
Females TV 88/90 (rated down 2 years) Females TV 88/90 (rated down 2 years)
(ii) Impact of mortality assumptions
To demonstrate what these mortality assumptions mean in respect of the FCAM Plan, the expected ages at death of members retiring at age
60 are as follows:
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
Years Years
Expected age at death for a male retiring in the future at age 60, currently aged 40 92 92
Expected age at death for a female retiring in the future at age 60, currently aged 40 94 93
Expected age at death for a current male pensioner aged 60 90 90
Expected age at death for a current female pensioner aged 60 92 91
(iii) Discount and growth assumptions
The range of assumptions used to determine benefit obligations are as follows:
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
Discount rate 3.70% – 4.70% 3.90% – 4.50%
Rate of salary increase 2.00% – 3.00% 2.00% – 3.00%
Rate of pension increases (excluding fixed increases) 1.00% – 3.99% 1.00% – 3.87%
Rate of price inflation (CPI) 2.00% – 2.75% 2.00% – 2.45%
Rate of inflation increase (RPI) – UK only 3.55% 3.15%
The range of assumptions used to determine the net pension charge for the year, are as follows:
2013 2012
Discount rate 3.90% – 4.50% 4.70% – 5.20%
Rate of salary increase 2.00% – 3.00% 2.00% – 4.00%
Rate of pension increases (excluding fixed increases) 1.00% – 3.87% 2.00% – 3.91%
Rate of price inflation (CPI) 2.00% – 2.45% 2.00% – 2.60%
Rate of inflation increase (RPI) – UK only 3.15% 3.30% 102 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
25. Pension benefits continued
(iv) Sensitivities
An estimate of the sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the schemes’ liabilities are set out below:
Assumption Change in assumption Estimated impact on scheme liabilities
Inflation Increase/decrease by 0.1% Increase/decrease by 1.7%
Salary increases Increase/decrease by 0.1% Increase/decrease by 0.0%*
Pension increases Increase/decrease by 0.1% Increase/decrease by 1.4%
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.1% Decrease/increase by 2.2%
Life expectancy Increase/decrease by 1 year Increase/decrease by 2.3%
* The salary increase sensitivity is shown as nil as the UK Pension Plan has a limit on pensionable salary increases of 2.0% per annum. Given the current level of
assumed future inflation, there is no effect from a 0.1% change in future salary increases. Plans in other jurisdictions are affected by changes in their respective
salary increase assumptions but the consolidated effect rounds to nil.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared using a similar method to the benefit obligation with one assumption varied in isolation. There have
been no changes to the methods used to prepare the sensitivity analysis since the previous reporting period. The assumptions used have
changed in line with those used to calculate the benefit obligation.
(c) Profile of schemes’ membership
The profile of the current membership of defined benefit arrangements in the Group is as follows:
31 December 2013 31 December 2012
% of total Average % of total Average
membership age membership age
Active members 11% 46 15% 44
Deferred members 72% 46 71% 44
Pensioners 17% 67 14% 66
100% 100%
The profile of the liabilities of defined benefit arrangements throughout the Group is as follows:
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Active members 49.2 61.1
Deferred members 132.1 117.8
Pensioners 93.7 77.9
Benefit obligations 275.0 256.8
The weighted average duration of benefit obligations is 22 years (2012: 23 years). This is based on the longevity assumptions for the relevant
obligations.
The expected future benefit payments from the defined benefit arrangements are as follows:
Expected future benefit payments £m
2014 5.7
2015 6.1
2016 6.5
2017 7.1
2018 7.8
2019-2023 49.4 25. Pension benefits continued
(d) Aggregate disclosures
2012
2013 (as restated*)
Change in benefit obligations: £m £m
Benefit obligations at 1 January 256.8 236.4
Foreign exchange movements 0.7 (0.7)
Current service cost 2.2 1.9
Past service (income)/costs
†
(0.6) 0.5
Administrative expenses and taxes (0.1) –
Settlement gains – (1.2)
Interest cost on pension obligations 11.3 10.9
Actuarial losses 11.1 15.7
Arising from changes in financial assumptions 4.6 9.8
Arising from changes in demographic assumptions 3.0 4.4
Arising from experience 3.5 1.5
Members’ contributions 0.2 0.2
Net transfers out (0.3) (0.1)
Benefits paid (6.3) (6.8)
Benefit obligations at 31 December 275.0 256.8
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
†
The past service income in 2013 relates to the cessation of employment with F&C by the majority of the plan members in Ireland and changes to the plan rules in
The Netherlands offset by the augmentation of pension entitlements for certain employees in the UK. The past service costs in 2012 related to the augmentation
of pension entitlements for certain employees.
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
Analysis of defined benefit obligations: £m £m
Plans that are wholly or partly funded 271.5 253.4
Obligation that is wholly unfunded 3.5 3.4
Benefit obligations at 31 December 275.0 256.8
2012
2013 (as restated*)
Change in plan assets: £m £m
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 232.7 215.9
Foreign exchange movements 0.5 (0.5)
Interest income on plan assets 10.4 10.2
Administrative expenses and taxes (0.6) (0.4)
Settlement losses – (1.1)
Actuarial gains 14.7 7.2
Employer contributions 6.2 8.1
Members’ contributions 0.2 0.2
Net transfers out (0.3) (0.1)
Benefits paid (6.3) (6.8)
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 257.5 232.7
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Net pension deficit recognised (17.5) (24.1)
2012
2013 (as restated*)
Components of defined benefit pension expense: £m £m
Operating expenses:
Current service cost 2.2 1.9
Past service (income)/cost (0.6) 0.5
Settlement gains – (0.1)
Administrative expenses and taxes 0.5 0.4
Finance costs:
Net interest cost on pension obligations 0.9 0.7
Total defined benefit pension expense recognised in the Income Statement 3.0 3.4
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 103 25. Pension benefits continued
2012
2013 (as restated*)
Classification of defined benefit pension expense in the Income Statement: Notes £m £m
Operating expenses 6 2.1 2.7
Finance costs 9 0.9 0.7
Total defined benefit pension expense recognised in the Income Statement 3.0 3.4
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
2012
2013 (as restated*)
£m £m
Net actuarial gains/(losses) immediately recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 3.6 (8.5)
The cumulative actuarial losses recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income (35.9) (39.5)
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
2012
2013 (as restated*)
£m £m
Actual return on plan assets 25.1 17.4
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
(e) Pension schemes’ details
(i) F&C Asset Management Pension Plan (FCAM Plan)
Date of last actuarial valuation 31 March 2010
Scheme Actuary Mercer Limited
Method of valuation Projected Unit
Market value of assets at last valuation date £156.4m
Level of funding 88%
The triennial actuarial valuation at 31 March 2013 is currently in progress.
The FCAM Plan’s assets, which are managed by F&C and other external investment managers, are held under the control of the Trustees and
are used to secure benefits for the members of the FCAM Plan and their dependants in accordance with the Trust Deed and Rules.
The Plan is subject to the UK Statutory Funding Objective regime, overseen by the Pensions Regulator, which is a form of minimum funding
requirement for the purposes of IAS 19 Employee benefits (revised).
Trustee Board of the FCAM Plan
The appointment of Trustees is determined by the FCAM Plan’s trust documentation. The Trustee Board currently consists of three employer-
appointed Trustees, three member-selected Trustees and an independent Trustee who is currently the Chairman of the Trustee Board. Of the
current employer-appointed and member-selected Trustees, four are employees of F&C and active members of the FCAM Plan, one is a
deferred member and one is retired and receiving a pension from the FCAM Plan.
Relationship between F&C and the Trustees of the FCAM Plan
The FCAM Plan’s assets are held in a separate Trustee-administered fund to meet long-term pension liabilities to past and present employees.
The Trustees of the FCAM Plan are required to act in the best interests of the FCAM Plan’s beneficiaries.
(ii) Other pension schemes
F&C Portugal
Certain employees in Portugal participate in the multi-employer scheme, Fundo de Pensoes do Grupo Banco Comercial Português. The assets
and liabilities of the scheme are separately identifiable. There are no Trustees, and F&C Portugal manages the assets relating to the F&C
members of the scheme. The pension plan has two parts: the “Basic Plan” and the “Complementary Plan”. The Complementary Plan provides
an old age pension as well as death and disability benefits. From 1 January 2011, this scheme has been integrated into the Social Security
system and part of the employees’ occupational pension benefits is funded through the Social Security system from that date. With effect from
1 January 2012, F&C Portugal decided to terminate the old age pension benefit provided to members from the Complementary Plan, and paid
the value of the accrued benefits to the members (or to individual policies for the members).
F&C Netherlands
The Plan in The Netherlands is financed via an insurance contract. There are no Trustees, but the Works Council participates in negotiations in
respect of potential changes to the Plan.
104 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 25. Pension benefits continued
F&C Ireland
The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme in Ireland. There are currently two Trustees of this plan, both of whom are former
employees of F&C.
(f) Future funding requirements
FCAM Plan
A revised schedule of contributions was agreed in January 2011, under which the Group agreed to pay a minimum of 17.0% of pensionable
salaries plus £3.0m per annum in respect of deficit recovery contributions, £0.5m per annum in respect of administrative expenses and any
additional amounts required as a result of the asset underperformance guarantee. Further, to the extent that the Group repays any amount of
its fixed or floating rate notes after 1 January 2011, then the Group shall pay, within one month of that repayment, a special contribution to
reduce the deficit determined in the valuation at 31 March 2010 in the same proportion as the aggregate reduction in fixed or floating rate
notes. If there is more than one such reduction, then the special contributions necessary shall be computed taking into account the aggregate
percentage reduction in fixed or floating rate notes since 1 January 2011 and the amount of any previous such special contribution paid. For
the avoidance of doubt, a repayment does not include a repayment of the notes from the issue of a capital instrument specified for that
purpose. The minimum estimated contribution expected to be paid into the Plan during 2014 is £5.2m (2013: £5.3m).
As the FCAM Plan is a closed scheme, under the projected unit method the current service cost will tend to increase as a percentage of
pensionable salaries as the average age of members increases.
RW Jenkins obligation
The benefits in respect of Mr Jenkins are paid directly by the Company. The expected amount in 2014 is £135,000.
Non-UK schemes
The figures in the table below assume that future contributions will continue to be paid to the non-UK schemes at the level paid in 2013, with
appropriate increases for future changes in salary assumptions.
Contributions to defined benefit schemes
Amounts paid into the Group’s defined benefit schemes in the past two years and expected future payments over the next five years are as
follows:
Contributions paid £m
2012 8.1
2013 6.2
Expected future contributions £m
2014 7.5
2015 5.2
2016 5.1
2017 5.0
2018 2.7
(g) Risk management
(i) FCAM Plan
Market (investment) risk
The Trustees set general investment policy but delegate the responsibility for the selection of specific investments (other than investments in
respect of members’ voluntary contributions) to the investment manager. The Trustees regularly monitor the FCAM Plan’s investments.
The Trustees seek advice from their investment advisor and believe they have sufficient skills and expertise to make investment decisions
based on this advice.
The Trustees have set performance and risk targets for the investment managers. The performance objectives are long term, and the Trustees
monitor the investment managers on a regular basis in order to ensure that the Plan is on track to meet its long-term objectives.
If the assets of the Plan do not perform as expected, the Company may have to make additional contributions to make up the shortfall.
The results of an asset-liability review undertaken alongside the 31 March 2010 actuarial valuation of the Plan have been used to assist the
Trustees and the Group in managing volatility in the underlying investment performance and the risk of a significant increase in the FCAM Plan’s
deficit by providing information used to determine the FCAM Plan’s investment strategy.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 105 106 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
25. Pension benefits continued
During the year, the Trustees, with the agreement of F&C, decided to further diversify the FCAM Plan’s investment strategy by introducing an
allocation to a further private equity fund. The Liability Driven Investment (LDI) holdings were updated to include exposure to F&C’s dynamic
LDI funds.
Interest rate and inflation risk
The liabilities of the Plan are calculated with respect to the yields available on interest rate swaps. In addition, a large part of the benefits under
the Plan is linked to price inflation. Hence, if interest rates fall, or inflation expectations rise without a corresponding increase in the value of the
Plan assets, a shortfall will arise and the Company may have to make additional contributions in order to rectify this.
The Trustees have implemented a LDI strategy in order to hedge the interest and inflation risk. The LDI pools are intended to help provide a
degree of matching to the liabilities of the FCAM Plan. Each pool has leveraged exposure of varying amounts to inflation and interest rates. The
pools are valued using the market values of the underlying securities.
The equity-linked bond funds also provide a degree of matching to the liabilities but, in addition, retain an exposure to equity market
movements through the use of equity futures.
Longevity risk
If members live longer than anticipated, the value of the FCAM Plan’s liabilities will increase. The current assumptions include an allowance for
life expectancy to increase over time; however, it is possible that rates of improvement could be faster than assumed. The corresponding
increase in liabilities could lead to an increase in the contributions required to fund the FCAM Plan.
Currency risk
In order to increase the diversification of the equity portfolio, the FCAM Plan invests in overseas assets. However, the FCAM Plan’s liabilities are
denominated entirely in Sterling and, therefore, there is a risk that the appreciation of Sterling against other currencies will reduce the return
from overseas assets.
Operational risk
The investment managers do not directly hold any of the FCAM Plan’s securities; these are held by an external custodian. The assets are ring-
fenced from F&C’s creditors and are therefore transferable.
(ii) Non-UK schemes
The plan in The Netherlands is financed via an insurance contract. The value of the plan assets is the value of the reserve which the insurance
company holds to match guaranteed pension liabilities. These reserves are, in effect, fixed interest instruments, and so provide a reasonable
match to pension liabilities.
The plan in Portugal is part of an industry-wide banking sector plan. Each participant company holds a share of the assets, which are invested
using the same asset allocation as the overall plan assets. F&C Portugal is the asset manager for the overall scheme.
At 31 December 2013, the assets of both the F&C Portugal and F&C Ireland plans were invested in diversified portfolios that consisted
primarily of debt and equity securities.
(h) Cost of defined contribution plans
2013 2012
Note £m £m
Group personal pension plans 3.2 3.3
Other defined contribution schemes 0.4 0.8
Defined contribution pension expense 6 3.6 4.1
The Group had no pension contributions outstanding as at 31 December 2013 (31 December 2012: £nil). ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 107
26. Share-based payments
The Group operates several share-based payment plans as part of its total employee compensation arrangements.
Summary
The total share-based payment expense is analysed as follows:
2013 2012
By Scheme: Notes £m £m
The Long-Term Remuneration Plan (deferred awards) 26(a)(i) 3.6 9.0
The Long-Term Remuneration Plan (restricted awards) 26(a)(ii) 0.6 2.9
F&C REIT Long-Term Remuneration Plan 26(c) 1.4 1.6
TRC Management Retention Plan 26(d) 1.1 5.6
TRC Commutation arrangements 26(f) 2.7 1.6
Deferred Share Awards 26(g) – 0.2
Executive Director Remuneration Plan (deferred awards) – 0.3
Purchased Equity Plan (F&C investment funds) – 0.2
Purchased Equity Plan (FCAM plc shares) 26(h) – 0.1
Total share-based payment expense recognised in the Income Statement 6 9.4 21.5
The total expense recognised during the year in respect of share-based payment schemes is split as follows:
2013 2012
Note £m £m
Equity-settled 32 6.9 13.4
Cash-settled 2.5 8.1
Total share-based payment expense recognised in the Income Statement 9.4 21.5
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Total carrying amount of cash-settled liabilities 4.9 8.4
The details of each scheme are disclosed below.
Details of option pricing models and key assumptions used to obtain the fair value of services received, or the fair value of the equity
instruments granted, have been disclosed only for awards granted during the year ended 31 December 2013. Details of awards granted in
previous accounting periods are disclosed in the previous years’ Financial Statements.
The fair value of services received in return for awards granted is measured by reference to the fair value of share awards granted.
The cash-settled element of the awards is based on dividends payable on the shares during the vesting period, being notionally re-invested in
F&C Asset Management plc shares. Once the share awards vest, the value of the notional shares is paid to the employee in cash. The value of
dividend payments has been separated from the equity-settled awards as these are settled in cash. 108 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
26. Share-based payments continued
The cumulative expense for each award is “trued-up” during the vesting period and at the end of the vesting period, after allowing for actual
forfeitures and, where applicable, the extent to which the performance criteria have been met.
The weighted average share price during 2013 was £0.99 (2012: £0.82).
The weighted average share price at exercise date during 2013 was £0.96 (2012: £0.80).
The following tables summarise the inputs to the valuations used for awards granted and the fair values assigned, during the year ended
31 December 2013.
Long-Term Remuneration Plan (LTRP) Awards
LTRP Restricted
Share Awards
EPS, Investment
Performance and LTRP Deferred
Award: TSR New Business Share Awards
Award date 13 May 2013 13 May 2013 13 May 2013
Number of awards granted 2,094,944 6,284,831 132,789
Share price at grant date 95.0p 95.0p 95.0p
Exercise price 0.0p 0.0p 0.0p
Vesting period 4 years 4 years 3 years
Full term of award 4 years 4 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield (%) 3.77% 3.77% 3.77%
Expected volatility (%)* 31.9% n/a n/a
Risk-free interest rate (%) p.a. 0.66% n/a n/a
Expected forfeiture rate (%) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Fair value at measurement date (per award)
– Equity 43.0p 82.0p 85.0p
– Cash 7.0p 13.0p 10.0p
Valuation basis Monte Carlo simulation model market price market price
Estimated vesting percentage at award date 50.0% 50.0% n/a
* Expected volatility is based on observed historical volatility.
F&C REIT Long-Term Remuneration Plan
Award: 2013 award
Award date 1 April 2013
Number of units in F&C REIT LLP granted 10,886.52
Value of unit at award date £70.50
Vesting period 3 years
Full term of award 3 years
Expected forfeiture 0.0%
Model used External valuation of F&C REIT LLP business
(a) The Long-Term Remuneration Plan
The LTRP is the primary long-term incentive arrangement of the Group. The LTRP rules allow both Deferred Share Awards and Restricted
Share Awards to be made at the discretion of the Board and, where appropriate, allow for the settlement of awards in cash rather than shares.
(i) Deferred Share Awards
The LTRP allows deferred awards to be granted to employees below Executive Director level, subject only to a time-vesting period of
three years.
The number of Deferred Share Awards is as follows:
2013 2012
No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January 24,957,487 36,957,268
Granted during the year 132,789 1,382,076
Exercised during the year (13,284,489) (12,315,444)
Forfeited during the year (411,536) (850,501)
Expired during the year – (215,912)
Outstanding at 31 December 11,394,251 24,957,487
Exercisable at 31 December 25,998 1,773,667
The awards exercisable at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 relate to good leavers. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 109
26. Share-based payments continued
At 31 December 2013 the following Deferred Share Awards were outstanding:
Grant date No. of awards outstanding Earliest exercise date Exercise price
10 March 2011 9,954,012 10 March 2014 0.0p
3 April 2012 1,307,450 3 April 2015 0.0p
13 May 2013 132,789 13 May 2016 0.0p
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2013 have a weighted average outstanding term of 0.3 years (31 December 2012: 0.8 years).
(ii) Restricted Share Awards
2010, 2011 and 2013 Awards
Ordinary Shares that are the subject of a Restricted Share Award under the LTRP will vest dependent upon achieving four specified
performance conditions and conditions of continued service being met. The performance conditions applied to the LTRP are determined by
the Board, are measured over a three or four-year performance period, and comprise the following:
• 25% of the award comprises an underlying EPS condition;
• 25% of the award comprises a Total Shareholder Return (TSR) condition;
• 25% of the award comprises an Investment Performance condition; and
• 25% of the award comprises a Net New Business condition.
To the extent that any element of the award has not vested in accordance with the performance criteria detailed below it expires immediately.
(1) The EPS element
2013 award
The 2013 share awards under the LTRP are subject to specific underlying EPS conditions and conditions of continued service being met.
EPS for the year ended 31 December 2016 Percentage of award vesting
Less than 8.2p 0%
8.2p 20%
Between 8.2p and 11.1p Prorata between 20% and 75% on a straight-line basis
11.1p 75%
Between 11.1p and 13.7p Prorata between 75% and 100% on a straight-line basis
13.7p or above 100%
2010 and 2011 awards
The EPS condition is based on the amount by which the average annual percentage growth in underlying EPS exceeds the percentage
increase in the Retail Price Index over the three-year performance period (EPS Outperformance Percentage).
The awards vest according to the following criteria:
EPS Outperformance Percentage Percentage of award vesting
Less than 3% 0%
3% 25%
Equal to or greater than 11% 100%
Between 3% and 11% Straight-line vesting between 25% and 100%
(2) The TSR element
The TSR condition compares the TSR of the Group over a three-year performance period (commencing on the award date) with a list of
companies in a predetermined financial services comparator group. At the end of the performance period, the Group and each of the
comparator companies are listed and ranked in accordance with their TSR over the performance period (TSR Position). The TSR measure
reflects the movement in the value of shares plus any dividends declared during the relevant period.
The awards vest according to the following criteria:
TSR Position Percentage of award vesting
Below median 0%
Median 25%
Upper quartile 100%
Between median and upper quartile Straight–line vesting between 25% and 100% 110 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
26. Share-based payments continued
(3) The Investment Performance element
The Investment Performance condition is based on the Total Weighted Outperformance Percentage (25% of the one-year outperformance
percentage and 75% of the three-year outperformance percentage) on investment management performance over a three-year period.
The awards vest according to the following criteria:
Total Weighted Outperformance Percentage Percentage of award vesting
Equal to or less than 42% 0%
75% or more 100%
Between 42% and 75% Straight–line vesting between 0% and 100%
(4) The Net New Business element
The Net New Business condition is based on a comparison of the actual versus the budgeted amount of net new business for the period (Net
New Business Percentage). The budgeted net new business is determined on an annual basis by the Board. Performance is measured
annually in each financial year during the vesting period.
The awards vest according to the following criteria:
Net New Business Percentage Percentage of award vesting
Equal to or less than 25% 0%
125% or more 100%
Between 25% and 125% Straight–line vesting between 0% and 100%
2012 Awards
The 2012 Share Awards under the LTRP are subject to specific underlying EPS conditions and conditions of continued service being met. To
the extent that the award does not vest in accordance with the performance criteria detailed below it expires immediately.
EPS for the year ended 31 December 2015 Percentage of award vesting
Less than 8.2p 0%
8.2p 20%
Between 8.2p and 11.1p Pro rata between 20% and 75% on a straight-line basis
11.1p 75%
Between 11.1p and 13.7p Pro rata between 75% and 100% on a straight-line basis
13.7p or above 100%
The number of Restricted Share Awards is as follows:
2013 2012
No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January 25,802,439 7,085,543
Granted during the year 8,379,775 19,701,464
Exercised during the year (1,460,645) –
Forfeited during the year (368,420) (298,507)
Expired during the year (2,149,594) (686,061)
Outstanding at 31 December 30,203,555 25,802,439
No awards were exercisable at 31 December 2013 or 31 December 2012.
At 31 December 2013 the following Restricted Share Awards were outstanding:
No. of awards Earliest Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date* price
4 May 2011 3,299,057 4 May 2014 0.0p
3 April 2012 18,893,143 3 April 2016 0.0p
13 May 2013 8,011,355 13 May 2017 0.0p
* Assuming performance criteria satisfied.
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2013 have a weighted average outstanding term of 2.3 years (31 December 2012: 2.7 years). ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 111
26. Share-based payments continued
The following expected vesting percentages have been applied to LTRP ‘Restricted Shares Awards’ for accounting purposes.
At 31 December 2013
2013 2012 2011
LTRP Performance Condition Award Award Award
EPS 50.0% 29.5% 100.0%
Investment performance 50.0% n/a 100.0%
Net New Business 50.0% n/a 0.0%
TSR* 50.0% n/a 0.0%
At 31 December 2012
2012 2011 2010
LTRP Performance Condition Award Award Award
EPS 50.0% 100.0% 100.0%
Investment performance n/a 100.0% 100.0%
Net New Business n/a 33.0% 0.0%
TSR* n/a 100.0% 100.0%
* As the TSR award is a market-related performance award, the charge in respect of the equity-settled element of this award is not trued-up or down for the actual
number of shares vesting.
(b) F&C REIT variable non-controlling interests SBP
In accordance with the F&C REIT Partnership Agreement, the F&C REIT non-controlling partners (Kendray Properties Limited, Leo Noé and
Ivor Smith) have the potential to increase their stake in F&C REIT Asset Management LLP (F&C REIT) collectively from 30% to 40%.
A variable NCI entitlement exists as an incentive to achieve increased levels of profit including realisation of future performance fees in return for
a potential increased stake in the business. This variable NCI entitlement is therefore accounted for under IFRS 2: Share-based Payment. The
fair value of the award at date of acquisition reflected the value assessed as part of the acquisition valuation. The fair value of the award is
reassessed at each reporting date and this fair value is spread over the relevant vesting period.
The non-controlling partners have the potential to increase their stake in F&C REIT by 3.33% for every year in which the EBITDA
performance target of £45.0m is achieved, up to a maximum of 10%. The performance criterion could be achieved in any year of the six
calendar years ending 31 December 2014. At 31 December 2013 the Directors continued to assess that the performance target is unlikely
to be achieved in the final performance measurement year.
(c) F&C REIT Long-Term Remuneration Plan (F&C REIT LTRP)
There are two elements to the Plan which was introduced to incentivise F&C REIT employees:
(i) Deferred Awards with no performance conditions; and
(ii) Restricted Awards with performance conditions.
Participants are awarded notional units in the F&C REIT Asset Management LLP Group (F&C REIT), each equal to 0.00005% of the market
value of F&C REIT. The market value of F&C REIT is determined annually by an independent valuation.
The Deferred Awards vest at the end of a predetermined period from grant date (normally three years), subject to the continued employment of
the participant. On vesting, the awards are settled by a cash payment based on the market value of each unit at the end of the vesting period,
together with a pro-rated share of distributions made during the vesting period. No Restricted Awards have been granted under the
performance element of this Plan before 31 December 2013.
The number of F&C REIT LTRP Deferred Awards is as follows:
2013 2012
Units Units
Outstanding at 1 January 46,812.74 43,608.24
Granted during the year 10,886.52 19,569.54
Exercised during the year (12,119.23) (15,890.98)
Forfeited during the year – (474.06)
Outstanding at 31 December 45,580.03 46,812.74
No awards were exercisable at 31 December 2013 or 31 December 2012. 112 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
26. Share-based payments continued
At 31 December 2013 the following F&C REIT LTRP Deferred Awards were outstanding:
No. of units Earliest Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date price
1 May 2011 15,388.89 1 May 2014 0.0p
1 April 2012 19,304.62 1 April 2015 0.0p
1 April 2013 10,886.52 1 April 2016 0.0p
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2013 have a weighted average outstanding term of 1.2 years (31 December 2012: 1.5 years).
The intrinsic value of a unit at 31 December 2013 ranged from £78.10 to £87.80 (31 December 2012: range between £67.40 and £89.70)
depending on the vesting date of the award.
(d) Thames River Capital Management Retention Plan (TRC MRP)
The TRC MRP was one of the two new share plans established at the date of the TRC acquisition to retain and incentivise key professionals
within the TRC Group. Awards of deferred shares vested three years after completion of the acquisition, subject to continued employment
within the F&C Group or membership of one of the two TRC LLPs. The TRC MRP awards were not subject to any performance criteria. The
TRC MRP included good and bad leaver provisions.
The number of TRC MRP awards is as follows:
2013 2012
No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January 19,183,301 21,312,209
Exercised during the year (19,183,301) –
Expired during the year – (2,128,908)
Outstanding at 31 December – 19,183,301
Exercisable at 31 December – 11,423,917
The awards vested on 1 September 2013. The awards exercisable at 31 December 2012 related to good leavers.
(e) Thames River Capital Management Incentive Plan (TRC MIP)
The TRC MIP is the second of two plans established at the date of the TRC acquisition to further incentivise TRC employees and members of
the two TRC LLPs in the six-year period from the date of acquisition (Completion) on 1 September 2010.
Awards under the TRC MIP vest upon achievements of specified financial targets as follows:
• 12.5% of the shares subject to awards vest on the date falling 30 months following Completion provided that the Run-rate EBITDA of the
TRC Group as at 31 December 2011 is £15.0m or more. If the Run-rate EBITDA is £12.5m or less, none of this tranche of shares vests
and the number of the shares that vest increases on a linear basis if the Run-rate EBITDA falls between the two thresholds;
• 12.5% of the shares subject to awards vest on the third anniversary of Completion provided that the Run-rate EBITDA of the TRC Group
as at 30 June 2012 is £17.0m or more. If the Run-rate EBITDA is £15.0m or less, none of this tranche of shares vests and the number of
the shares that vest increases on a linear basis if the Run-rate EBITDA falls between the two thresholds; and
• the remaining 75.0% of the shares subject to awards will vest in two equal instalments on each of the fifth and sixth anniversaries of
Completion provided that the cumulative EBITDA of the TRC Group for the four-year period to 31 March 2014 is equal to £100.0m or
more. If the cumulative EBITDA is equal to £60.0m or less, none of this tranche of shares will vest and the number of the shares that vest
will increase on a linear basis if the Run-rate EBITDA falls between these two thresholds.
The first two specified financial targets were not achieved and the associated 25% of awards expired.
Vesting of the remaining 75% of awards is also subject to continued employment within the F&C Group or membership of the relevant LLP (as
the case may be). The terms of the TRC MIP include good and bad leaver provisions, change of control provisions and a cash-settled element.
In addition, participants in the TRC MIP will receive an additional cash payment (up to a maximum aggregate amount of £3.0m), payable at the
time that shares are delivered and in proportion to the number of shares which vest.
The Directors believe that the remaining financial target will not be achieved. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 113
26. Share-based payments continued
The number of TRC MIP awards is as follows:
2013 2012
No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January 7,989,558 14,208,140
Forfeited during the year (1,544,048) –
Expired during the year (169,144) (6,218,582)
Outstanding at 31 December 6,276,366 7,989,558
No awards were exercisable at 31 December 2013 or 31 December 2012.
At 31 December 2013 the following TRC MIP awards were outstanding:
No. of awards Earliest Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date* price
1 September 2010 3,150,265 1 September 2015 0.0p
1 September 2010 3,126,101 1 September 2016 0.0p
* Assuming performance criteria satisfied.
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2013 have a weighted average outstanding term of 2.2 years (31 December 2012: 3.2 years).
(f) Thames River Capital Commutation arrangements (TRC Commutation arrangements)
The Divisional Members of Investment Teams have entered into put and call options which, if exercised, will transfer value to F&C by way of
variation of the entitlements to the allocation of management fee profits (as defined in the underlying legal agreements) and capital profits in the
respective LLP . The exercise of these options will increase TRC UK’s share of the management fee profits of the respective Investment Teams
by up to 20%.
These options were exercisable:
• 18 months after Completion:
At the option of the Investment Teams, TRC UK would purchase an additional 10% of the management fee profits of each Investment
Team. The option for Investment Teams to exercise this put option was conditional on that team’s respective net fund flows being positive
for the twelve months preceding the option exercise period.
• 36 months after Completion:
FCAM has a call option to purchase, through TRC UK, typically, an additional 20% of the management fee profits of each of the
Investment Teams. The level of 20% is reduced by the percentage of any profits which have already been commuted at an earlier date.
The 18/36 months options to acquire such management fee profits may be deferred for a period of twelve months if the F&C EBITDA
Multiple, which is one of the components used to quantify the Commutation consideration, is less than five.
The Commutation consideration may be satisfied in two tranches, at F&C’s sole discretion, by:
• The allotment and issue at the relevant Commutation completion date to each Divisional Member of such number of F&C shares as shall
have a value equal to 50% of the consideration, or the payment to the Divisional Members of 50% of the consideration in cash at the
relevant Commutation completion date; and
• The allotment and issue at the relevant Commutation completion date to a Nominee of such number of F&C shares as shall have a value
equal to 50% of the consideration (Deferred Commutation Shares), or in certain circumstances the payment of 50% of the consideration in
cash on the date falling 24 months after the relevant Commutation completion date. Deferred Commutation Shares shall be released by
the Nominee 24 months after the Commutation completion date, provided the Member continues to provide services to the respective
LLP or has ceased to do so in certain good leaver circumstances.
The members of the LLPs are considered to be providing services to the Group and as a result, the share element of the Commutation
consideration is required to be accounted for as a share-based payment.
It is the intention of the Directors to settle these awards in equity and therefore they have been treated as equity-settled awards.
The maximum payable under Commutation arrangements is £81.4m and F&C has authority to issue a maximum of 122,511,485 shares to
settle the consideration payable on exercise of the options.
The options are re-measured at intrinsic value at each reporting date and the total expense is spread over the respective vesting period. The
options are considered to have non-market performance conditions – if the options are not exercised, then there is no charge to the Income
Statement. 114 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
26. Share-based payments continued
Three TRC Investment Teams exercised their put options during the year ended 31 December 2012. These exercises transferred a further
entitlement of the management fee profits (typically 10%) to the F&C Group. F&C settled these awards through the issue of FCAM shares.
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Cumulative TRC Commutation expense, recognised in equity 14.8 12.1
Total intrinsic value of unexercised Commutation options 4.8 3.8
No. No.
Potential number of FCAM plc shares which would be settled as at the reporting date
(based on Commutation Consideration Share Issue share price at 31 December) 4,928,363 3,761,922
No Commutation options were exercisable at either 31 December 2013 or 31 December 2012. However, at 31 December 2013, 4.9 million
(31 December 2012: 3.8 million) shares relate to the options potentially exercisable by the Group.
One F&C option exercise date in respect of Commutation arrangements was deferred until April 2014, on agreement of both parties, from the
original exercise date of 1 September 2013. There was no incremental fair value resulting from the modification, as the awards are measured at
intrinsic value. The other Commutation options expired on 1 September 2013 as the Company chose not to exercise its options. The
remaining shares could vest at dates up to 1 September 2016.
(g) Deferred Share Awards
The Group has made some Deferred Share Awards which are not subject to ongoing performance conditions, but have a time-vesting period.
The number of share awards is as follows:
2013 2012
No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January 22,200 1,148,840
Exercised during the year – (1,126,640)
Outstanding at 31 December 22,200 22,200
No awards were exercisable at either 31 December 2013 or 31 December 2012.
At 31 December 2013 the following Deferred Share Awards were outstanding:
No. of awards Earliest Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date price
1 April 2011 22,200 1 April 2014 0.0p
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2013 have a weighted average outstanding term of 0.2 years (31 December 2012: 1.2 years). The
remaining award vested on 1 April 2014.
(h) Purchased Equity Plan (PEP)
The PEP operated in conjunction with the discretionary bonus scheme and was intended to encourage shareholding by management and
employees of the Group by providing for the compulsory purchase of FCAM plc shares using annual bonus above a threshold level.
At the Board’s discretion, eligible employees who were awarded in a financial year an aggregate bonus in excess of a threshold level, typically
£100,000, were required to defer one-third of the element exceeding the threshold into shares (comprising either a range of investment
products managed by the Group or the Company’s shares) for three years.
This Compulsory PEP is subject to forfeiture in the event that the employee leaves the Group for any reason (other than as a good leaver) in the
three-year retention period.
The number of Compulsory PEP share awards is as follows:
2013 2012
No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January 493,810 691,198
Exercised during the year (493,810) (197,388)
Outstanding at 31 December – 493,810
Exercisable at 31 December – 493,810
The awards vested on 31 March 2013. 26. Share-based payments continued
(i) 2002 Executive Share Option Schemes (2002 ESOS)
IFRS 2: Share-based Payment is only applied to grants of shares, share options or other equity instruments that were granted after 7 November
2002 and had not vested before 1 January 2005 (i.e. the effective date of IFRS 2). The 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme granted options
before 7 November 2002 and was not therefore subject to the full effects of IFRS 2 in terms of recognising an expense in the Income Statement.
The standard does, however, require certain disclosures to be made in respect of this scheme.
All scheme options have now vested. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire.
Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group.
The number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of share options are as follows:
2013 2012
WAEP WAEP
No. £ No. £
Outstanding at 1 January 702,413 2.00 909,900 1.96
Forfeited during the year (58,555) 2.41 (207,487) 1.82
Expired during the year (280,278) 1.39 ––
Outstanding at 31 December 363,580 2.41 702,413 2.00
Exercisable at 31 December 363,580 2.41 702,413 2.00
At 31 December 2013 the following options granted under the 2002 ESOS to acquire Ordinary Shares were outstanding:
No. of options Earliest Exercisable Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date before price
9 March 2004 363,580 1 January 2013 9 March 2014 240.83p
The options outstanding at 31 December 2013 have a weighted average outstanding term of 0.2 years (31 December 2012: 0.8 years). All
options subsequently expired on 9 March 2014 without being exercised.
27. Deferred income
2013 2012
£m £m
At 1 January 8.3 10.3
Income deferred in the year 1.0 1.4
Amortisation in the year (2.8) (3.4)
At 31 December 6.5 8.3
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Split as follows:
Non-current liabilities 4.3 5.6
Current liabilities 2.2 2.7
6.5 8.3
Deferred income primarily comprises initial fees arising on investments into open-ended funds. These fees are initially recognised as deferred
income and released to income over the estimated period (2013: four to seven years; 2012: four to seven years) for which the investment is
expected to be held.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 115 116 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
28. Other financial liabilities
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Non-current:
F&C REIT put option liabilities 33.0 30.0
Current:
F&C REIT put option liabilities 3.8 3.8
Total other financial liabilities 36.8 33.8
The F&C REIT put option liabilities represent the fair value of the options to purchase the 30% interest in F&C REIT currently held by the NCI
partners in this business. The NCI partners have the right to require F&C to acquire all or part of their membership interests in F&C REIT at a
valuation determined by an independent valuer, subject to an overall cap on F&C’s liability of £100.0m. Ivor Smith’s option was capable of
being exercised on 1 September 2011 and Leo Noé’s option becomes exercisable on 1 September 2015, being the seventh anniversary of the
REIT acquisition. While Kendray Properties Limited does not have any direct right to require F&C to acquire its holding in F&C REIT, under the
terms of the Partnership Agreement, Kendray cannot hold a greater interest in F&C REIT than the aggregate of Leo Noé’s and Ivor Smith’s
interests (or the holder of their beneficial interests) and is therefore effectively required to transfer an element of its holding such that this
requirement is achieved. The consideration for such a transfer would be fair value. Hence, in determining the gross liability of the option,
Kendray Properties Limited’s entire holding in F&C REIT has been included. The increase in the fair value of the F&C REIT put option liabilities
of £3.0m during 2013 (2012: £11.5m reduction) has been recognised in the Income Statement as detailed in note 7(b).
An external valuation of the F&C REIT business is performed at each reporting date to enable a fair value to be placed on the F&C REIT put
option liabilities.
Details of the valuation of the F&C REIT put option are disclosed in note 19 on page 93.
29. Investment contract liabilities
Investment contract liabilities in respect of policyholder investments at the start and end of the year, and an analysis of movements during the
year, are as follows:
2013 2012
Note £m £m
Liability as at 1 January 136.9 472.8
Contributions received 40.9 52.1
Net gains and investment income on unit-linked assets 4 6.5 40.6
Charges levied (0.1) (1.5)
Repayments (176.7) (424.2)
Movement in reinsurance ceded (7.4) (2.9)
Liability as at 31 December 0.1 136.9
All investment contract liabilities have been disclosed as current liabilities as this is considered to be appropriate to the rights of policyholders
who may withdraw their investments at short notice. During March 2014 the remaining investment contract liabilities were settled, in
accordance with the planned closure of the underlying investment product.
30. Share capital
31 December 2013 31 December 2012
Ordinary Share capital of 0.1p No. of shares £m No. of shares £m
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
Equity interests
Ordinary Shares of 0.1p* 581,035,337 0.6 555,180,788 0.6
* Includes those categorised as own shares.
2013 2012
No. of shares No. of shares
Issued at 1 January 555,180,788 532,118,789
Issue of shares at par to settle share-based payment awards
†
25,854,549 12,377,307
Issue of shares in respect of TRC Commutation arrangements – 10,684,692
Issued at 31 December 581,035,337 555,180,788
†
During 2013 and 2012 Ordinary Shares were allotted at par value into either an Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) or Nominee account to settle share-based
payment awards.
The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at
meetings of the Company. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 117
30. Share capital continued
The Group held the following Ordinary Shares in EBTs or similar arrangements. These are categorised as own shares and are deducted from
shareholders’ funds:
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
No. of shares No. of shares
Held by RBC cees in a nominee capacity
#
3,955,932 4,072,180
F&C Management Limited Employee Benefit Trust 2,524,501 8,864,824
The Ivory & Sime Employee Benefit Trust 64,176 64,176
6,544,609 13,001,180
#
These are specifically held as TRC Deferred Commutation Shares in respect of Commutation arrangements.
The aggregate nominal value of own shares held by EBTs at 31 December 2013 was £6,545 (31 December 2012: £13,001). The market value
of these shares at 31 December 2013 was £6.0m (31 December 2012: £13.3m).
During the year, the Group purchased 1,528,931 of its own 0.1p Ordinary Shares (2012: 64,105) to satisfy the settlements of awards granted
under share schemes and to hold as own shares within an EBT. The consideration paid for the shares was £1.6m (2012: £0.1m).
Details of Ordinary Shares issued between the reporting date and approval of the Consolidated Financial Statements are disclosed in note 11
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
31. Reserves
The analysis of movements in reserves is disclosed within the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 60.
Nature and purpose of reserves:
Share premium account
The share premium account is used to record the issue of share capital in excess of par value.
Capital redemption reserve
The Capital redemption reserve is used to maintain the capital of the Company when shares are bought back and subsequently cancelled
without Court Approval.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve is used to record share premium on shares issued by way of consideration in respect of acquisitions. The element of the
merger reserve which relates to intangible assets is considered to be realised in line with the associated amortisation and impairment charges
to the Income Statement.
A transfer is made from the merger reserve to retained earnings to recognise the extent to which the merger reserve has been realised, thereby
offsetting the corresponding element of the intangible amortisation and any impairment charge.
Other reserves:
• Foreign currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of
foreign operations and non-Sterling denominated intangible assets.
• Fair value reserve
This reserve records fair value changes on available for sale investments until the investments are derecognised.
• Acquisition reserve
The acquisition reserve was created on the initial recognition of the F&C REIT NCI put option liabilities. 118 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
31. Reserves continued
Retained earnings
Movements in retained earnings comprises:
• net profits and losses recognised through the Income Statement;
• dividend distributions to equity holders;
• actuarial gains and losses recognised on pension obligations;
• deferred tax on actuarial gains and losses;
• transactions relating to equity-settled share-based payments, and deferred tax movements on share-based payments reflected through
equity;
• transactions with NCI in respect of their share of the partnerships;
• the purchase and sale of own shares;
• allotment of share capital for non-cash consideration; and
• transfers from merger reserve.
Non-controlling interests
This reserve represents the share of the Group’s net assets which are not attributable to equity holders of the parent, including the NCI share of
intangible assets, and subsequent amortisation thereof, arising from business combinations.
32. Notes to the statement of cash flows
(a) Analysis of movements in statement of cash flows
2012
2013 (as restated*)
Notes £m £m
Adjustments for non-cash items:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 2.7 3.0
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 14 44.4 43.1
Equity-settled share-based payment expense 26 6.9 13.4
Loss on disposal of intangible assets (software and licences) 0.1 –
(Gain)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.1) 0.9
Non-cash movement in respect of adjustment to consideration for NCI in F&C Partners LLP – 1.0
54.0 61.4
Changes in working capital and provisions:
Increase in trade and other receivables (22.9) (2.5)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 16.1 (16.5)
Decrease in employee benefit liabilities (6.8) (5.0)
(Increase)/decrease in stock of units and shares 18(a)(ii) (1.0) 0.6
Decrease in liabilities to members of LLPs (1.8) (0.7)
Decrease in investment contract liabilities 29 (136.8) (335.9)
Decrease in reinsurance assets – 2.0
Decrease in insurance contract liabilities – (2.0)
Decrease in deferred acquisition costs 16 1.8 1.8
Decrease in deferred income 27 (1.8) (2.0)
Pension charge to operating profit less defined benefit pension contributions paid 25(d) (4.1) (5.4)
Decrease in provisions (4.4) (2.5)
Decrease in unit-linked financial investments 18(a)(i)(1) 134.2 313.6
(27.5) (54.5)
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
(b) Property, plant and equipment
During the period the Group acquired property, plant and equipment with an aggregate cost of £1.1m (2012: £3.7m). Cash payments of
£0.9m (2012: £3.6m) were made to purchase property, plant and equipment during the year, as detailed in note 13.
(c) Cash and cash equivalents
Note 21 provides details of cash and cash equivalent balances, a description of cash and cash equivalents and restrictions on use of cash. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 119
33. Contingent liabilities
Ongoing business operations
In the normal course of its business, the Group is subject to matters of litigation or dispute. While there can be no assurances, at this time the
Directors believe, based on the information currently available to them, that it is not probable that the ultimate outcome of any of these matters
will have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Group.
34. Commitments
Operating leases
The Group has the following future minimum rentals payable in respect of non-cancellable operating leases and other contracts at the
year end:
Premises Other contracts
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2013 2012 2013 2012
£m £m £m £m
Not later than one year 8.4 8.8 0.5 0.4
Later than one year and not later than five years 29.9 31.7 0.5 0.2
Later than five years 28.4 34.9 – –
66.7 75.4 1.0 0.6
Commitments in respect of premises leases exclude service charges and other costs, which are variable in nature, and cannot be reliably
estimated.
Obligations in respect of other contracts are stated gross and exclude amounts potentially recoverable from brokers under commission-sharing
arrangements.
Sub-lease receivables
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases at the year end are as follows:
Premises
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Not later than one year 3.0 3.0
Later than one year and not later than five years 10.7 10.6
Later than five years 3.4 5.8
17.1 19.4
Other commitments
A number of third-party administration services are provided under contracts with a fixed-term duration. The actual amounts payable under
these contracts vary according to the level of services received. The minimum amounts payable under the terms of the contracts are as
follows:
Third-party administration
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Not later than one year 4.0 4.0
Later than one year and not later than five years 8.1 11.4
Later than five years – 0.7
12.1 16.1
Capital commitments
The amount of capital expenditure contracted for, but not provided for in the Financial Statements at 31 December 2013, was £nil.
(31 December 2012: £0.3m). 120 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
35. Financial risk management
Overview
The Group has exposure to a number of business risks. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Group’s risk management
arrangements, but has delegated the implementation and operation of the Board policies to management. The Group’s risk management
policies and the risk management framework for identifying, monitoring and managing risks across the Group, including strategic and
operational risks, are outlined in the Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance on page 31 and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the
Group, together with actions taken to mitigate these risks are outlined on pages 11 and 12 of the Strategic Report.
The Directors consider it appropriate to differentiate between those financial risks which directly impact the Group and those which indirectly
impact the Group due to the risks borne by our clients and the consequential impact on the Group’s assets under management and revenues.
The Group’s direct or indirect exposure to financial instruments arises from the following financial risks:
• Credit risk;
• Liquidity risk; and
• Market risk, which comprises:
– Market price risk
– Foreign currency risk
– Interest rate risk
This note presents information on the Group’s direct or indirect exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and
processes for measuring and managing these risks and the management of the Group’s capital. Note 36 provides numerical analysis of the
Group’s financial instrument exposure to such risks, including relevant sensitivity analysis, at the reporting date.
Indirect earnings risk through client assets
As an active fund manager, the Group is responsible for managing assets in accordance with the mandates specified by our clients. The assets
managed by the Group are, to varying degrees, subject to the financial risks outlined above. While these risks could result in financial loss or
gain through a change in asset value, these risks and rewards are fully borne by, or fall to the benefit of, our clients.
However, as the majority of the Group’s revenues are quantified as a percentage of assets under management (generally on a quarterly,
monthly or daily basis), the Group’s income is impacted by movements in client assets which are caused by the exposure to financial risks. As
a result of the direct link of revenues to the value of client assets, the Group’s interests are aligned to those of our clients.
A key risk to our business is that of poor investment performance, which could lead to the subsequent loss of client mandates. A key role of
the heads of F&C’s investment functions is to monitor the fund performance achieved by our investment professionals. Where it is considered
necessary, actions are taken to change process or personnel with a view to attaining top quartile performance. The Group has the ability to
earn performance fees from a number of our clients based on absolute performance or where out-performance of the benchmark or set
objective is achieved. These arrangements reinforce the alignment of the Group’s interests with those of our clients.
Direct earnings and capital risk exposure
The Group has direct exposure to the following risks in respect of financial instruments on the Statement of Financial Position:
• Credit risk – the risk of financial loss to the Group if a client or counterparty to a financial instrument is unable to pay, in full, amounts
when due, and arises principally from the Group’s cash and cash equivalents and trade debtors and accrued income.
• Liquidity risk – the risk of the Group failing to maintain adequate levels of financial resources to enable it to meet its financial obligations
as they fall due, or can only do so at a significantly increased cost.
• Market price risk – the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will change due to movements in market prices,
other than foreign exchange rates or interest rates.
• Foreign currency risk – the Group is exposed to foreign currency risk from the Sterling value of cash flows arising from transactions
denominated in a foreign currency. Foreign currency risk arises from translating balances denominated in a currency other than Sterling
and therefore the Sterling value of those balances could vary adversely.
• Interest rate risk – the Group is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through the variable-rate interest received on cash deposits and
through borrowing at fixed rates.
A fuller analysis follows of the financial risks associated with the Group’s financial instruments, together with the objectives, policies and
processes to manage the Group’s exposure to those risks. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 121
35. Financial risk management continued
Unit-linked assets and liabilities
The financial risk management disclosures specifically exclude policyholders’ unit-linked assets and liabilities relating to F&C Managed
Pension Funds Limited (F&C MPF) as there is no direct exposure to the Group from the associated financial instruments. In addition,
following the decision to close the underlying product associated with this business, there are no material related assets or liabilities as at
31 December 2013.
Financial investments
Recognising that the Group’s revenue stream has significant financial exposure to fluctuations in assets managed on behalf of clients, a key
principle of the Group Treasury Policy set by the Board is to restrict investment of the Group’s assets to low risk deposits or money-market
instruments where the risk of capital loss is low, thereby seeking to protect the Group’s capital. Advance Board approval is required for any
investment or financial instrument which does not follow this general principle.
Financial investments classified as available for sale, as detailed in note 15, primarily reflect the value of certain of the Group’s legacy private
equity investments. These represent carried interest entitlement which arises from the Group’s historical ownership of private equity
businesses. The Board does not seek to manage any of the financial risks associated with these investments and recognises that uncertainty
exists as to the quantum and timing of future distributions which may arise from these investments, although generally it is expected that the
level of future cash flows arising from these assets will diminish over time.
Other financial investments, classified as fair value through profit or loss, as detailed in note 18(a)(i)(2), primarily comprise assets held in
connection with current or historical employee remuneration arrangements. The ‘NIC hedge’ economically hedges the Group’s exposure to
movements in future national insurance contributions obligations in respect of legacy employee share plans.
Stock of units and shares
The Group operates and manages a number of OEICs whose funds, into which retail and institutional investors can invest, have a wide range
of investment objectives. The Group holds a stock of units and shares in these OEIC funds in order to facilitate the creation and redemption of
units by investors. The Group’s risk management policy limits the aggregate value of the units held by the Group to £2.5m, thereby capping the
maximum financial risk exposure associated with these assets.
Trade debtors and accrued income
Trade debtors and accrued income represent amounts recognised within net revenue in the Income Statement, but which have not been
settled in cash. The nature of F&C’s business is such that asset management fees accrue based on daily, month-end or quarter-end asset
values which, once known, are billed to clients and are due to be settled in line with individual contractual terms. As a result, the aggregate
value of debtors and accrued income can typically represent up to four months of revenue at any point in time.
Before the Group takes on new clients, it undertakes the required “Know Your Client” procedures. As the Group manages assets on behalf of
clients and management fees are typically charged to and paid from the underlying funds managed by the Group, there is a relatively low risk
of default on management fees. The Group does not hold any credit insurance. Due to the scale of some of F&C’s larger clients, the Group is
exposed to a concentration of credit risk from large clients or groups of connected clients, arising from the timing difference between the
recognition of income and the receipt of management fees outlined above. Very few clients have an external credit rating.
Within F&C REIT, the Group’s property asset management business, certain contractual arrangements provide for settlement of asset
management fees on realisation of the property portfolio, to the extent that surplus liquid resources are not available in the fund. As at
31 December 2013 some £2.9m of debtors are in this category. In addition, a further receivable of £13.3m exists for which the cash will be
settled from the realisation of property assets, although the Group also has collateral over separate assets with a view to mitigating any default
exposure. Further details are given on page 125.
Where management fees are denominated in a currency other than Sterling, the Group is exposed to currency risk. The Board recognises that
the Group has significant exposure to Euro-denominated cash flows, although, following the loss of some of the Achmea own risk assets, this
exposure has reduced. At this point in time the Board has not chosen to enter into any medium or long-term forward exchange contracts.
OEIC and unit trust debtors
‘OEIC and unit trust debtors’ include trustee debtors and debtors due from investors in respect of the purchase of units and shares in open-
ended funds. Typically, the Group recognises ‘OEIC and unit trust creditors’ of a similar magnitude at any point in time. In operating and
managing OEICs, the Group seeks to match the purchase and sale of investments to align to the receipt or payment of funds from or to
investors. However, if these obligations are not matched then there is a requirement for the Group to fund any shortfall from its corporate cash
resources. The risk relating to unsettled transactions is considered small due to the short settlement period involved. In the event that investors
default on sums due, then the Group is entitled to reimbursement of costs from the investor. 122 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
35. Financial risk management continued
Cash and cash equivalents
F&C adopts a low risk approach to treasury management and seeks to ensure that its capital is preserved and financial risks are managed
appropriately.
The Group treasury operations are managed by the Finance function within parameters defined by the Board. The regulatory capital and
treasury positions of the Group are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
The Group’s cash and cash equivalent assets are exposed to a number of financial risks in the normal course of its business. The policy
adopted is designed to manage risk and recognises that treasury management operations are specifically not treated as a profit centre. The
key aspects of this policy and its implementation are detailed below:
• Funds on deposit will only be placed on a short-term basis (maximum term 90 days) to help maximise regulatory capital and limit any
liquidity risk.
• Deposits may only be placed with counterparties approved by the Group Credit and Counterparty Approval Committee, and the Board has
set a £25.0m limit for the maximum exposure to any single counterparty. The Committee’s primary focus is to assess the credit position of
counterparties prior to placing any assets with them and to monitor credit risk thereafter.
• Exposure to cash and cash equivalent balances held in foreign currency is managed to reduce the risk of adverse movements in exchange
rates, where possible, by the repatriation of surplus foreign currency into Sterling. This is achieved in practice via the regular settlement of
the Group’s transfer pricing arrangements and through the payment of dividends from foreign subsidiaries, having regard to any restrictions
in respect of their respective legal, regulatory and working capital requirements.
• Cash and deposit balances can be exposed to interest rate movements. The Group utilises the experience and skills of its professional
dealing team to obtain the best interest rates, ensuring the expected maturity dates of deposits are aligned to the Group’s working capital
requirements.
Any exception to the treasury policy requires the prior approval of the Board.
Defined benefit pension deficit
The Group’s defined benefit pension deficit represents the discounted value of future pension obligations in excess of plan assets, details of
which are given in note 25.
The Group has exposure to movements in the market value of the plan assets, which are held across a number of asset classes. The value of
defined benefit pension obligations is quantified and discounted using corporate bond rates. Movements in these rates can have a significant
impact on the pension liabilities and hence the quantum of the Group’s pension deficit. Details of the asset and liability risk management
framework in respect of the Group’s primary defined benefit pension plan are given on pages 105 and 106.
Management of capital
The Company’s Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. The Board monitors significant movements in the composition of
its shareholder base. In the ordinary course of business the only movements in the absolute number of shares in issue would be through the
issue of shares to satisfy obligations under share-based payment arrangements. Some 25.9 million shares were issued in 2013, the majority of
which related to the vesting of retention awards which were put in place in 2010 when the TRC business was acquired.
The Directors give careful consideration to the appropriate funding structure for financing all acquisitions, which historically have included both
equity and debt-funded transactions.
Dividends are only declared by the Board after due consideration of a number of key items, including the financial results and the outlook of the
financial position of the Company and of the Group. Specifically, as part of the recent Strategic Review, the Board has sought to improve
dividend cover and to repurchase debt from cash generation. Cognisant of these matters, the Board declared an unchanged total dividend of
3.0 pence per share for 2013. While some debt was repurchased in 2012, no loan notes were repurchased during 2013, primarily due to the
higher market price prevailing throughout 2013.
The overall objective of liquidity risk management is to ensure that there is sufficient liquidity over the short and medium-term to meet the
needs of the business. This includes liquidity to cover, among other things, capital expenditure, servicing debt and equity capital as well as
working capital to fund the Group’s day-to-day operational requirements.
Working capital
Working capital is monitored on a daily basis to ensure that settlement terms of all forthcoming liabilities can be met. This activity includes
timely collection of debtors and monitoring of cash on deposit, having regard to regulatory capital requirements, as outlined below. The
Group’s Finance function includes a Treasury team which manages the cash flow requirements of the Group while seeking to maximise the
amount of cash on deposit. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 123
35. Financial risk management continued
At 31 December 2013, the Group had some £142m of Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes which mature in December 2016 together with
some £116m of Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes in issue. The earliest repayment date for these Subordinated Notes is 2016, but this
can be extended at the option of the Group to 2026. In addition, the Group has the option to defer interest payments on this subordinated
debt, but if it elects to do so then no dividend can be paid to Ordinary Shareholders until the cumulative amount of any unpaid interest due on
the subordinated debt is settled in full. No such interest payments have been deferred.
The Board Reserved List prohibits the use of derivatives including futures, options and forward contracts, in respect of the Group’s net assets,
without prior Board approval, recognising the general principle of seeking to minimise capital loss.
Regulatory capital requirements
During 2013 the Group was required to maintain a minimum level of capital in accordance with the Capital Requirements Directive (CRD)
prescribed for investment firms in the UK by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
CRD IV applies to the Group from 1 January 2014 and establishes an EU-prescribed Capital Requirements Regulation, which is directly
binding on firms, and a revised Capital Requirements Directive, which is transcribed into national law for investment firms by the relevant
national regulatory authority. This introduces, for relevant firms, new capital requirement ratios, as well as making certain other changes to the
calculation of capital requirements.
The Group has a waiver, granted by the Financial Services Authority (now the FCA), from meeting any minimum capital requirements under the
consolidated supervision rules of the CRD. The waiver is grandfathered under CRD IV rules and shall continue in force and effect until the
expiry date of April 2016.
At 31 December 2013, there were 12 regulated companies in the Group, of which 9 are registered in the United Kingdom and are subject to
regulation by the FCA. This includes F&C MPF which, being a regulated insurance firm as opposed to an investment firm, is dual regulated by
the FCA and the Prudential Regulation Authority and not part of the consolidation Group for regulatory capital reporting purposes. Overseas
regulated companies, registered in The Netherlands, Portugal and Hong Kong are subject to regulatory capital requirements set out by their
respective local regulatory authority, as embedded within the legislation of those jurisdictions.
CRD rules set out the measurement of Capital Resources and Capital Resources Requirements (CRR) to determine the regulatory capital
surplus or deficit. This CRR is referred to as the Pillar 1 capital requirements under CRD.
For the UK-regulated investment firms, the CRR is the higher of:
•the sum of the ‘credit risk capital requirement’ and the ‘market risk capital requirement’; and
• the ‘fixed overhead requirement’.
Credit risk represents the risk of a party being unable to meet its obligations to a firm and is calculated using risk-weighted percentages
applied to the various exposure amounts. The market risk for F&C represents the risk of loss from fluctuations in exchange rates and is
calculated as a percentage of the total of the long or short positions, denominated in foreign currencies, whichever is the greater. The fixed
overhead requirement is calculated as a quarter of a firm’s relevant fixed annual expenditure in the previous year’s audited Financial
Statements.
The regulated companies are required to submit financial returns to the FCA, or the local regulatory authority for overseas companies, setting
out the calculation of the regulatory capital surplus (or deficit). The Group’s regulated companies are required to submit financial returns
monthly, quarterly or semi-annually, and during 2013 the Group was required to submit a consolidated return semi-annually.However, under
CRD IV rules the Group is no longer required to submit a consolidated capital adequacy return as long as the waiver from meeting minimum
capital requirements under consolidated supervision rules remains in force.
The CRD requires the Group to conduct an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP), referred to as Pillar 2 capital
requirements. The objective of this process is to ensure that firms have adequate capital to enable them to manage risks not deemed to be
adequately covered under the Pillar 1 minimum requirements. This is a forward-looking exercise which includes stress-testing key risks,
considering how the company would cope with a significant market downturn, for example, and an assessment of the Group’s ability to
mitigate the risks. The requirement to undertake an ICAAP continues under CRD IV rules.
All of the Group’s regulated entities maintained surpluses of regulatory capital throughout 2012 and 2013 and are expected to hold sufficient
regulatory capital to meet relevant regulatory requirements under CRD IV rules. 124 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
36. The extent of risks arising from financial instruments
Note 35 presents details of the Group’s direct or indirect exposure to financial risks arising from financial instruments and the Group’s
objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk and the management of the Group’s capital. This note provides numerical
analyses of the Group’s direct exposure to such financial risk, including relevant sensitivity analysis, at each reporting date.
The disclosures in this note exclude any policyholder unit-linked assets and liabilities in respect of F&C MPF, as the risks and rewards rest
primarily with the policyholders.
(a) Credit risk
(i) Maximum exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk. The maximum exposure of each class of
financial asset is shown in the total column in the following table.
The accrued income balance is higher than the average monthly balance during the year. This is primarily due to the level of performance fees
recognised at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012.
The quantum of OEIC and unit trust debtors fluctuates significantly during the year; the balance is dependent upon the timing and values of
creations and liquidations of units or shares.
The credit risk of the financial assets analysed by the credit ratings of the counterparties, based on external credit ratings, is set out below:
Other Not
AAA AA A rated rated Total
As at 31 December 2013 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments – 1.1 – 0.1 1.8 3.0
Stock of units and shares ––– 1.3 1.3
Available for sale financial assets:
Financial investments –––– 0.3 0.3
Loans and receivables:
Trade debtors –– 0.4 0.9 32.4 33.7
Accrued income –– 0.3 2.9 31.0 34.2
OEIC and unit trust debtors –––– 32.3 32.3
Other debtors – 0.3 – 0.2 2.4 2.9
Amounts owed by TRC related party entities –––– 0.9 0.9
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholders 6.7 63.2 87.8 24.3– 182.0
6.7 64.6 88.5 28.4 102.4 290.6
Other Not
AAA AA A rated rated Total
As at 31 December 2012 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments – 1.2 1.1 – 1.7 4.0
Stock of units and shares –––– 0.3 0.3
Available for sale financial assets:
Financial investments –––– 1.3 1.3
Loans and receivables:
Trade debtors –– 0.3 – 31.7 32.0
Accrued income –– 0.1 – 30.5 30.6
OEIC and unit trust debtors –––– 10.6 10.6
Other debtors – 1.7 – 0.6 2.9 5.2
Amounts owed by TRC related party entities –––– 0.7 0.7
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities –––– 0.1 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholders 4.1 34.1 117.1 5.4 – 160.7
4.1 37.0 118.6 6.0 79.8 245.5 36. The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
(ii) Analysis of financial assets past due but not impaired
The analysis of financial assets which are receivable but have not been impaired is as follows:
Neither Less Between Between
past due than 30 30 and 90 90 days Beyond
nor days days and 1 year 1 year
impaired overdue overdue overdue overdue Total
As at 31 December 2013 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments 3.0 –––– 3.0
Stock of units and shares 1.3 –––– 1.3
Available for sale financial assets:
Financial investments 0.3 –––– 0.3
Loans and receivables:
Trade debtors 13.1 4.7 1.9 6.7 7.3 33.7
Accrued income 34.2 –––– 34.2
OEIC and unit trust debtors 32.3 –––– 32.3
Other debtors 2.3 – 0.1 0.3 0.2 2.9
Amounts owed by TRC related party entities 0.9 –––– 0.9
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholders 182.0 –––– 182.0
269.4 4.7 2.0 7.0 7.5 290.6
Neither Less Between Between
past due than 30 30 and 90 90 days Beyond
nor days days and 1 year 1 year
impaired overdue overdue overdue overdue Total
As at 31 December 2012 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments 4.0 –––– 4.0
Stock of units and shares 0.3 –––– 0.3
Available for sale financial assets:
Financial investments 1.3 –––– 1.3
Loans and receivables:
Trade debtors 11.0 4.2 4.0 12.7 0.1 32.0
Accrued income 30.6 –––– 30.6
OEIC and unit trust debtors 10.6 –––– 10.6
Other debtors 5.2 –––– 5.2
Amounts owed by TRC related party entities 0.7 –––– 0.7
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities 0.1 –––– 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholders 160.7 –––– 160.7
224.5 4.2 4.0 12.7 0.1 245.5
Based on past experience and the nature of the Group’s business, the Directors believe that no additional impairment provision is necessary at
either 31 December 2013 or 31 December 2012 in respect of trade debtors. The trade debtor balances, which have been impaired at the
reporting dates, are shown in 36(a)(iii).
Collateral
The Group has obtained collateral over receivables in the F&C REIT property segment. The underlying unimpaired receivable which has the
associated collateral at 31 December 2013 is £13.3m. This amount has been guaranteed by a related company and, with effect from
3 September 2013, interest is chargeable on any balance which remains unpaid six months after its original due date. The guarantee is a
continuing security over the entire amount receivable. The collateral takes the form of two portfolios of properties, one in the UK and one
overseas. It is expected that the receivables will be settled from the realisation of certain properties held within the portfolios. The fair value of
both portfolios, at 31 December 2013, amounts to an aggregate of £52.5m.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 125 126 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
36. The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
(iii) Impairment losses
Details of impairment of financial assets at 31 December are as follows:
2013 2012
Trade debtors provision £m £m
At 1 January 0.9 1.1
Bad debt charge in the year* 1.0 0.1
Utilised in the year (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 December 1.6 0.9
Gross impaired trade debtors 1.6 0.9
* Included within operating expenses in the Income Statement.
No other financial instruments have been impaired during 2013 (2012: none).
(iv) Concentration risk
Specific concentration of risk in respect of amounts receivable from any one bank or financial institution, client or group of connected clients at
the reporting date is given below:
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
Concentrations of £1.0m or more £m £m
Amounts held with banks and similar financial institutions – 2013: 17 (2012: 19) 179.3 158.6
Amounts due from OEICs and OEIC Trustees 3.2 9.6
Amounts due from other significant clients – 2013: 12 clients (2012: 9) 58.1 33.0
240.6 201.2
Concentration risk comprises individual entities or clients with a receivable balance of £1.0m or more at the reporting date. This disclosure
shows the potential impact of some of these entities or clients failing to satisfy payment of the receivable amounts. The table does not consider
the likelihood of any of these entities or clients defaulting.
(b) Liquidity risk
The cash flow profile associated with the Group’s financial liabilities is as follows:
Within
1 year, or More
repayable Within Within than
on demand 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total
As at 31 December 2013 £m £m £m £m £m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings:
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 –– 116.0 – 116.0
Interest on Subordinated Notes* 7.8 7.8 7.6 – 23.2
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 –– 142.0 – 142.0
Interest on Guaranteed Loan Notes 2016 12.8 12.8 12.4 – 38.0
Trade and other payables:
Trade creditors 3.3 ––– 3.3
OEIC and unit trust creditors 38.6 ––– 38.6
Other creditors 7.2 0.8 2.0 1.4 11.4
Accruals 17.6 0.1 0.1 0.6 18.4
Liabilities to members of LLPs 2.2 ––– 2.2
Other financial liabilities 3.8 29.2 3.8 – 36.8
93.3 50.7 283.9 2.0 429.9
* To the date of the Group’s option to extend the Notes beyond 19 December 2016. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 127
36. The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
Within
1 year, or More
repayable Within Within than
on demand 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total
As at 31 December 2012 £m £m £m £m £m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings:
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 –– 116.0 – 116.0
Interest on Subordinated Notes* 7.8 7.8 15.4 – 31.0
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 –– 142.0 – 142.0
Interest on Guaranteed Loan Notes 2016 12.8 12.8 25.1 – 50.7
Trade and other payables:
Trade creditors 4.8 ––– 4.8
OEIC and unit trust creditors 16.8 ––– 16.8
Other creditors 12.8 0.5 1.4 0.7 15.4
Accruals 18.3 0.1 0.1 0.5 19.0
Amounts owed to F&C REIT related party entities 0.5 ––– 0.5
Liabilities to members of LLPs 4.0 ––– 4.0
Other financial liabilities 3.8 3.8 26.2 – 33.8
81.6 25.0 326.2 1.2 434.0
* To the date of the Group’s option to extend the Notes beyond 19 December 2016.
The quantum of OEIC and unit trust creditors fluctuates significantly during the year; the balance is dependent upon the timing and values of
creations and liquidations of units or shares.
The maturity dates of the Group’s financial liabilities have been determined by reference to the earliest contractual date on which the
counterparty could demand payment and the stated amounts represent undiscounted cash flows.
Other financial liabilities comprise the F&C REIT put options, included at the earliest date at which the options could be exercised.
The cash flow commitments in respect of operating leases are disclosed in note 34.
(c) Market risks
(i) Market price risk
The analysis of financial assets which are exposed to market price risk is as follows:
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments 1.7 1.7
Stock of units and shares 1.3 0.3
3.0 2.0
Details of the assets held by the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes, which are also exposed to market price risk, are given in note 25.
(ii) Other price risk
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Available for sale financial assets:
Financial investments 0.3 1.3 128 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
36. The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
(iii) Currency risk
The Group is exposed to currency risk at the reporting date in respect of:
• Financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies; and
• Net assets of foreign operations.
The net monetary assets and net investment in foreign operations, in Sterling, which are denominated in foreign currencies or for which the fair
value of the asset or liability varies with movements in foreign currencies, are:
Euro US Dollar Other Total
£m £m £m £m
As at 31 December 2013 70.7 2.9 1.4 75.0
As at 31 December 2012 54.2 5.1 1.7 61.0
The above table excludes intangible assets.
(iv) Interest rate risk
The following tables set out the carrying amount and maturity profile of the Group’s financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk:
Within Within Within More than
1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years
As at 31 December 2013 £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate:
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 –– (116.0) –
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 –– (142.0) –
Financial investments – NIC hedge 0.1 –––
Financial investments – corporate bonds 0.1 –––
Floating rates:
Financial investments – NIC hedge 1.1 –––
Financial investments – mutual funds 0.2 –––
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholder 182.0 –––
183.5 – (258.0) –
Within Within Within More than
1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years
As at 31 December 2012 £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate:
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 –– (116.0) –
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 –– (142.0) –
Financial investments – NIC hedge 0.1 –––
Floating rates:
Financial investments – NIC hedge 1.1 –––
Financial investments – mutual funds 0.3 –––
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholder 160.7 –––
162.2 – (258.0) –
(v) Sensitivity analysis
The Group has quantified the impact of specific changes in its significant market risk variables. This analysis measures the change in fair value
of the Group’s financial instruments.
The sensitivity analysis, which is for illustrative purposes only, is prepared based on financial instruments at the reporting dates. The sensitivity
assumes changes in certain market conditions. These assumptions may differ materially from the actual outturn due to the inherent
uncertainties in global financial markets. In practice, market risks rarely change in isolation and are likely to be interdependent. The methods
and assumptions used are the same for both reporting periods.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared based on the impact that a set percentage increase or decrease in the market conditions would
have on the profit or loss and on total equity.
Changes in exchange rates assume an instantaneous increase or decrease of 10.0% in foreign currency to Sterling rates at the reporting date,
with all other variables remaining constant. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 129
36. The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
The estimated changes in fair values of investments assume a 10.0% increase or decrease in the fair values of investments at the reporting
date, with all other variables remaining constant.
Changes in market interest rates assume an increase or decrease of 1.0% in the rate applied to average cash balances in the year.
The financial impact of market risk sensitivities, after taxation, are summarised below:
Profit or loss Profit or loss Equity Equity
sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity
As at 31 December 2013 £m £m £m £m
Exchange rate movement* +10% –10% +10% –10%
Sterling/Euro exchange rates 1.7 (2.1) 5.9 (7.3)
Sterling/USD exchange rates 0.2 (0.2) 0.2 (0.2)
Fair value movement – Investments +10% –10% +10% –10%
Sterling equity prices 0.2 (0.2) 0.2 (0.2)
Interest rate movement +1% –1% +1% –1%
Sterling market interest rates 1.4 (1.4) 1.4 (1.4)
As at 31 December 2012
Exchange rate movement* +10% –10% +10% –10%
Sterling/Euro exchange rates 0.5 (0.6) 4.8 (5.8)
Sterling/USD exchange rates 0.2 (0.2) 0.2 (0.2)
Fair value movement – Investments +10% –10% +10% –10%
Sterling equity prices 0.2 (0.2) 0.2 (0.2)
Interest rate movement +1% –1% +1% –1%
Sterling market interest rates 1.4 (1.4) 1.4 (1.4)
* +10% represents a movement in favour of the Group and -10% represents a movement against the Group.
In addition, the F&C REIT put options are disclosed in note 28 at fair value. A 10% movement in the fair value of the options at 31 December
2013 would result in a £3.7m (31 December 2012: £3.4m) charge or credit to the Income Statement and to equity.
Impairment of financial assets can also be affected by changes in the relevant underlying risk.
(d) Capital
A summary of the Group’s capital and the net assets which it represents is shown below:
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Share capital 0.6 0.6
Share premium account 58.9 58.9
Capital redemption reserve 0.8 0.8
Merger reserve 315.8 336.8
Other reserves (24.2) (25.7)
Retained earnings 182.9 162.7
Non-controlling interests 8.8 12.1
Total equity 543.6 546.2
Net assets 543.6 546.2
Note 35 describes the Group’s management of capital, working capital and regulatory capital requirements. 130 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
37. Subsidiary undertakings
The principal entities controlled by the parent undertaking are as follows:
Percentage Country of
interest and registration or
voting rights* incorporation Nature of business
(i) United Kingdom
FP Asset Management Holdings Limited
(1)
100 England Holding company
F&C Asset Management Services Limited
(1)
100 Scotland Employee service company
ISIS Investment Manager plc
(1)
100 England Investment management
F&C Managed Pension Funds Limited
(1)
100 England Unit-linked pooled pensions business
F&C Treasury Limited
(1)
100 England Treasury management company
F&C Group (Holdings) Limited
(1)
100 England Holding company
F&C Group ESOP Trustee Limited
(1)
100 Scotland ESOP Trustee
F&C Investment Business Limited
(1)
100 Scotland Investment management
F&C Finance plc
(1)
100 England Debt financing company
F&C Aurora (GP) Limited
(1)
100 Scotland General Partner
The Aurora Fund (Founder Partner) LP
(1)
50
†
Scotland Founder Partner
F&C European Capital Partners (GP) Limited
(1)
100 Scotland General Partner
F&C European Capital Partners (Founder Partner) LP
(1)
50
†
Scotland Founder Partner
F&C European Capital Partners II (GP) Limited
(1)
100 Scotland General Partner
F&C European Capital Partners II (Founder Partner) LP
(1)
50
†
Scotland Founder Partner
F&C Climate Opportunity Partners (GP) Limited
(1)
100 Scotland General Partner
F&C Climate Opportunity Partners (Founder Partner) LP
(1)
50
†
Scotland Founder Partner
F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
(1)
70
†
England Property asset management
FP Fund Managers Limited
(2)
100 England Investment management
F&C Asset Managers Limited
(2)
100 England Investment management
F&C Property Limited
(2)
100 England Property asset management
WAM Holdings Limited
(3)
100 England Holding company
F&C Property Investments Limited
(4)
100 England Property asset management
F&C Fund Management Limited
(4)
100 England OEIC investment management
F&C Managers Limited
(4)
100 England Investment management
F&C Alternative Investments (Holdings) Limited
(5)
100 England Holding company
F&C Group Management Limited
(5)
100 England Holding company
F&C Holdings Limited
(6)
100 England Holding company
F&C (CI) Limited
(7)
100 England Investment company
F&C Investment Services Limited
(7)
100 England Support services company
F&C Management Limited
(7)
100 England Investment management
FCEM Holdings (UK) Limited
(8)
100 England Holding company
F&C Emerging Markets Limited
(9)
100 England Investment management
F&C Partners LLP
(10)
100
†
England Hedge fund investment management
F&C Private Equity Nominee Limited
(11)
100 England Investment company
F&C REIT Property Asset Management plc
(12)
70 England Property asset management
REIT Asset Management Limited
(12)
70 England Property asset management
F&C REIT Corporate Finance Limited
(13)
70 England Property asset management
F&C REIT Property Management Limited
(14)
70 England Property asset management
Tier Services Limited
(15)
70 England Property asset management
Thames River Capital UK Limited
(17)
100 England Support services company
Thames River Capital LLP
(18)#
100
†
England Investment management
Thames River Multi-Capital LLP
(18)#
100
†
England Investment management
(ii) Non United Kingdom
Thames River Capital Group Limited
(1)
100 Cayman Islands Holding company
F&C Netherlands B.V.
(5)
100 The Netherlands Investment management
F&C Ireland Limited
(5)
100 Republic of Ireland Investment management
F&C Portugal Gestao de Patrimonios S.A.
(5)
100 Portugal Investment management
F&C Asset Management Asia Limited.
(5)
100 Hong Kong Investment management
F&C Management Luxembourg S.A.
(5)
100 Luxembourg Investment management
F&C REIT Asset Management S.à.r.l.
(12)
70 Luxembourg Property asset management
F&C REIT Asset Management Sweden AB
(15)
70 Sweden Property asset management
F&C REIT Asset Management Worldwide Limited
(15)
70 Gibraltar Property asset management
F&C REIT Asset Management GmbH & Co KG
(15)
70
†
Germany Property asset management
F&C REIT Property Management India Pvt Ltd
(15)#
70 India Property asset management
Thames River Capital Holdings Limited
(16)
100 Cayman Islands Holding company
* Voting rights are ordinary share capital except where indicated.
†
Partnership interest in voting rights.
#
These companies have non-coterminous 31 March reporting dates, to comply with local reporting requirements and partnership agreements. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 131
37. Subsidiary undertakings continued
(1) Owned by F&C Asset Management plc
(2) Owned by FP Asset Management Holdings Limited
(3) Owned by F&C Treasury Limited
(4) Owned by WAM Holdings Limited
(5) Owned by F&C Group (Holdings) Limited
(6) Owned by F&C Group Management Limited
(7) Owned by F&C Holdings Limited
(8) Owned by F&C Management Limited
(9) Owned by FCEM Holdings (UK) Limited
(10) Owned by F&C Alternative Investments (Holdings) Limited
(11) Owned by F&C (CI) Limited
(12) Owned by F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
(13) Owned by REIT Asset Management Limited
(14) Owned by F&C REIT Property Asset Management plc
(15) Owned by F&C REIT Asset Management S.à.r.l.
(16) Owned by Thames River Capital Group Limited
(17) Owned by Thames River Capital Holdings Limited
(18) Owned by Thames River Capital UK Limited
Other non-material entities which form part of the Group are disclosed in the Annual Return of the Company.
38. Related party transactions
In the ordinary course of business, the Group carried out transactions with related parties, as defined by IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company are shown in note 37.
During the year, the Group entered into the following transactions with related parties:
(a) Compensation of key management personnel of the Group
In aggregate these are set out below:
Total Outstanding at Total Outstanding at
compensation 31 December compensation 31 December
2013 2013 2012 2012
£m £m £m £m
Short-term employee and member benefits 9.7 2.9 14.8 5.0
Long-term employee and member benefits 0.3 0.3 ––
Post-employment benefits 0.7– 1.0 –
Termination benefits 0.4– 0.1 –
Share-based payments 11.8– 7.2 –
Total 22.9 3.2 23.1 5.0
‘Key management personnel’ comprise:
• Directors of all principal companies in the Group;
• Members of Group Management;
• Members of F&C REIT’s Executive Committee; and
• Members of TRC’s Management Committee.
Compensation of key management personnel excludes the profit entitlement attributable to non-controlling interests, which are separately
disclosed within note 38(c)(ii).
Where key management personnel participate in defined benefit pension schemes which have been accounted for as such under IAS 19, the
amount included as compensation reflects the current service and/or past service cost for the relevant year. Where key management personnel
are members of multi-employer defined benefit arrangements or defined contribution schemes, the benefits shown reflect the contributions
payable for each year. 38. Related party transactions continued
The share-based payments disclosed in the table above reflect the value of any share-based payments vesting during the year. This is
quantified as the aggregate of cash payments plus the fair value of shares on the date of vesting (after adjusting for any consideration payable
on exercise) of such share-based payment awards.
(b) Transactions with key management personnel of the Group
Appropriations of profits paid to key management are as follows:
2013 2012
£m £m
Ordinary dividends paid 0.1 0.1
Distributions paid to non-controlling interests 5.0 3.3
(c) Transactions and balances with Group related parties
Transactions with related parties during 2013 and 2012 and outstanding balances with these parties as at 31 December 2013 and
31 December 2012 are given below, by each group of related parties.
(i) Related party transactions with Sherborne
Sherborne was a related party until Edward Bramson’s resignation from the Board of F&C on 22 August 2013. Sherborne previously owned
approximately 20% of the Ordinary Share capital of F&C and was represented on the Board by the Executive Chairman, Edward Bramson,
who is a partner in Sherborne, and by Ian Brindle, who was also a representative of Sherborne. Sherborne divested its holding in F&C to its
underlying investors during 2013. Sherborne was entitled to ordinary dividends, and a fee in respect of the Chairman’s services to F&C. The
Company’s transactions with Sherborne until 22 August 2013 are disclosed below:
Total expensed Outstanding at Total expensed Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2013* 2013 during 2012 2012
£m £m £m £m
Ordinary dividends paid to Sherborne 2.2 n/a 3.2 –
Director’s fees payable to Sherborne – n/a 0.2 –
Other expenses payable to Sherborne 0.1 n/a 0.3 –
* Until Edward Bramson resigned from the Board of F&C on 22 August 2013.
(ii) Transactions with minority partners
F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
F&C Asset Management plc owns 70% of the “A” and “B” partnership units in F&C REIT Asset Management LLP (the Partnership). The other
partners in the Partnership, all of whom have significant influence over the management of the Partnership or a significant economic interest in
the Partnership, are:
Kendray Properties Limited 30.0% ownership interest in “B” units
Leo Noé 22.5% ownership interest in “A” units
Ivor Smith 7.5% ownership interest in “A” units
These parties are considered to be related parties.
The partners are entitled to receive a share of the profits of F&C REIT Group as disclosed in the table below:
2013
amortisation 2012
and impairment 2013 2013 NCI at amortisation 2012 2012 NCI at
of intangible profit distributions 31 December of intangible profit distributions 31 December
assets share paid 2013 assets share paid 2012
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Kendray Properties Limited (1.3) 2.0 (1.7) 7.3 (1.1) 3.1 (0.5) 8.3
Leo Noé (1.0) 1.7 (2.3) 1.8 (0.8) 1.5 (2.0) 3.4
Ivor Smith (0.3) 0.6 (1.0) (0.3) (0.3) 0.5 (0.8) 0.4
(2.6) 4.3 (5.0) 8.8 (2.2) 5.1 (3.3) 12.1
132 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 133
38. Related party transactions continued
F&C has a shared services agreement and a staff secondment agreement with F&C REIT Asset Management LLP whereby the F&C Group
provides certain administrative and professional services to the F&C REIT Group. Amounts charged under these agreements are set out below:
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2013 2013 during 2012 2012
£m £m £m £m
Shared services and administrative services:
Employee benefits* 9.3 6.3 9.8 6.3
Administration service fees* 0.7 0.3 0.8 0.2
* These amounts are eliminated on consolidation.
In addition, F&C REIT Asset Management LLP paid Leo Noé and Ivor Smith £0.5m during 2013 (2012: £0.5m) in respect of rent for the F&C
REIT Group’s head office at Wigmore Street, London.
The F&C REIT Asset Management LLP Group had balances with related parties as follows:
Balances Balances
outstanding at outstanding at
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Kendray Properties Limited – (0.5)
REIT Europe Limited – 0.1
F&C Asset Management plc has made carried interest investments in F&C REIT Carry LP , F&C REIT Carry 3 LP , F&C REIT Carry 4 LP and F&C
REIT Carry 5 LP respectively. These investments will entitle the Company to a share of any future carried interest arising from the management
of F&C REIT Club Deals LPs.
£9.1m of profit distributions, which eliminate on consolidation, were paid by F&C REIT Asset Management LLP to the Company in 2013
(2012: £5.1m).
Certain management fees receivable by F&C companies outwith the F&C REIT Group are passed to the F&C REIT Group under delegation
agreements, under which asset management activity has been delegated to F&C REIT. Amounts payable during the year and outstanding at
the year end are set out below:
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2013 2013 during 2012 2012
£m £m £m £m
Management fees* 11.4 5.4 11.6 4.5
* These amounts are eliminated on consolidation.
Details of the F&C REIT variable non-controlling interest share-based payment plan are disclosed in note 26(b). No income or expense has
been recognised in either 2012 or 2013 in respect of this plan.
The F&C REIT minority partners each have a put option to sell their minority stake in F&C REIT after a minimum number of years. Details of the
carrying amount of these option liabilities are disclosed in note 28. 134 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
38. Related party transactions continued
(iii) Transactions with Thames River Capital related party entities
Thames River Capital UK Limited and certain of its directors are members of Nevsky Capital LLP , an entity to which Thames River Capital UK
Limited provides support and infrastructure services. Thames River Capital UK Limited recharges Nevsky Capital LLP at cost for these
services. Thames River Capital is also entitled to a share of profits from Nevsky Capital LLP .
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2013 2013 during 2012 2012
£m £m £m £m
Support and infrastructure services 1.4 0.3 1.6 0.6
Profit share 0.8 0.6 0.9 0.1
(iv) Post-employment benefit plans
The Group operates and participates in several post-employment benefit plans as detailed in note 25.
The Group contributed amounts to the defined benefit plans and the amounts outstanding at 31 December each year are as follows:
Employer Outstanding at Employer Outstanding at
contributions 31 December contributions 31 December
2013 2013 2012 2012
£m £m £m £m
F&C Asset Management Pension Plan 5.2 – 6.9 –
F&C Portugal
(1)
0.1 – 0.3 –
F&C Netherlands 0.7 – 0.7 –
F&C Ireland 0.1 – 0.1 –
6.1 – 8.0 –
(1)
Incorporated within the Fundo de Pensoes do Grupo Banco Comercial Português scheme.
In addition to the above, the Group has an unfunded obligation to provide a former Chairman, Mr R W Jenkins, with a pension as detailed in
note 25.
The Group manages certain of the assets of the F&C Asset Management Pension Plan. The assets of the Plan managed by the Group totalled
£208.9m at 31 December 2013 (31 December 2012: £187.7m).
The Group received the following investment management fees from this Plan:
Fees Outstanding at Fees Outstanding at
receivable 31 December receivable 31 December
2013 2013 2012 2012
£m £m £m £m
F&C Asset Management Pension Plan 0.1 – 0.2 0.1
(v) Asset management vehicles
The Group has some carried interest investments in asset management vehicles, which entitle the Group to a share of profits if certain
investment return thresholds are achieved. No carried interest was received during 2013 (2012: £nil).
The Group provides asset management services for a number of asset management vehicles where Group companies directly sponsor or are
involved in the management of underlying funds, which meet the criteria of related parties. In return, the Group receives investment
management fees for provision of these services.
The investment management fees receivable from these asset management vehicles are summarised below:
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2013 2013 during 2012 2012
£m £m £m £m
Investment management fees 60.3 7.9 54.3 7.2 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 135
39. Capital Requirements Directive
Under Pillar 3 of the Capital Requirements Directive, prescribed in the UK by the Financial Conduct Authority, the Group is required to disclose
information relating to its risks, regulatory capital, remuneration policy and risk management objectives and policies. The Group’s Pillar 3
disclosures are given on the Company’s website (www.fandc.com).
Country by country reporting
CRD IV brings in new transparency rules for EU institutions and introduces a requirement for institutions to disclose certain information on a
country by country basis. The disclosures in respect of 2013 are not subject to audit and require to be reported by 1 July 2014; the Group is
currently considering the basis and format of the disclosures which will be disclosed separately on the Company’s website (www.fandc.com)
by 1 July 2014.
40. Guarantees
At 31 December 2013 the Company’s subsidiary, F&C Netherlands B.V., has provided a lease guarantee for £0.1m (31 December 2012:
£0.1m) to the landlord of its premises at Jachthavenweg 109E, 1081 KM Amsterdam.
41. Parent undertaking and controlling party
In the opinion of the Directors, the Group has no ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party.
42. Events after the reporting period
(a) Proposed acquisition of F&C by Bank of Montreal
On 28 January 2014, F&C Asset Management plc (F&C) and the Bank of Montreal (BMO) announced that agreement had been reached for
BMO Global Asset Management (Europe) Limited (BMO Europe), a wholly owned subsidiary of BMO, to acquire the entire issued and to be
issued Ordinary Share capital of F&C for an aggregate consideration of approximately £708m. F&C shareholders will receive 120p per share
and will also be entitled to retain an ordinary course dividend of 2p per share which was declared on 28 January 2014.
The proposed acquisition is subject to the satisfaction of certain regulatory and other conditions.
The acquisition will be effected by means of a Court sanctioned scheme of arrangement, full details of which, together with the terms and
conditions of the transaction, are contained in the Scheme Circular. A copy of this document is available via the link on the front page of the
Group’s website: www.fandc.com. The Scheme was approved by shareholders on 25 March 2014. In addition to the regulatory conditions
referred to above, the Scheme is also subject to sanction by the Court prior to it becoming effective. Once the Scheme becomes effective,
BMO Europe will acquire 100% of the share capital of F&C and F&C will, therefore, become a wholly-owned subsidiary of BMO Europe.
Subject to the fulfilment of the conditions, the acquisition is currently expected to complete on or around 7 May 2014. However, if the Scheme
does not become effective on or before 31 August 2014 (or such later date (if any) as BMO and F&C may agree), it will lapse and the
acquisition will not proceed (unless the Takeover Panel otherwise consents).
While the proposed acquisition has not materially impacted the Group results for 2013 or the financial position of the Group as at 31 December
2013, it will impact the results of subsequent periods. In particular, the Scheme document highlights that the aggregate fees and expenses
which are expected to be incurred by F&C in connection with the acquisition are estimated to amount to between £7.9m and £9.1m (excluding
applicable VAT). A significant element of these costs is conditional upon completion of the acquisition; however, certain costs will be incurred
irrespective of whether the transaction completes or not. In addition, the aggregate cost of share awards and the profile of the associated
accounting charge will be influenced by the combination of the increase in the F&C share price since the date of the announcement of the
proposed acquisition and its impact on share awards vesting in 2014, and the proposed replacement of certain existing F&C share awards
with new BMO awards.
(b) Friends Life – notice to withdraw assets under management
At 31 December 2013, the Group managed £16.2bn of Strategic Partner assets on behalf of Friends Life. The associated long-term contracts
were due to expire during 2014. However, on 18 March 2014 F&C was informed by Friends Life that they have selected a new investment
manager in respect of £12.2bn of multi-asset and equity mandates currently managed by F&C and that they intend to transfer a further £2.3bn
of sterling fixed income assets to Friends Life Investments, their in-house asset manager. The Group has received notice of termination or an
indication to serve notice in respect of these assets and anticipates that they will be withdrawn by the end of 2014. The annualised revenues
associated with the assets which are to be withdrawn are approximately £16m. 42. Events after the reporting period continued
(c) F&C REIT LTRP awards
The following Deferred and Restricted Awards were made in respect of F&C REIT after the reporting date:
No. of Market value
units per unit
Plan Grant date Vesting date awarded at grant date
F&C REIT LTRP (Deferred Awards) 16 January 2014 1 April 2016 2,553.19 £70.50
F&C REIT LTRP (Restricted Awards) 16 January 2014 1 April 2017 5,390.08 £70.50
Details of the F&C REIT LTRP plan are shown in note 26(c)(i).
The Restricted Awards are subject to conditions of continued service being met and have the following conditions:
31 December 2016 EBITDA results for F&C REIT LLP Group Percentage of Restricted Award due to vest on 1 April 2017
£19.4m or above 100%
Between £18.1m and £19.4m Pro rata between 75% and 100% on a straight-line basis
£18.1m 75%
Between £16.0m and £18.1m Pro rata between 40% and 75% on a straight-line basis
£16.0m 40%
Between £14.2m and £16.0m Pro rata between 0% and 40% on a straight-line basis
Less than £14.2m 0%
These awards will be settled in cash.
(d) TRC Commutation arrangements
Note 26(f) on pages 113 and 114 outlines the agreement reached by F&C to defer the potential exercise of the remaining option for F&C to
purchase additional profit entitlement until April 2014. As at 31 December 2013, the accounting assumption was that the remaining option
would be exercised by the issue of shares. However, as a consequence of the announcement of the proposed acquisition of F&C by Bank of
Montreal, F&C is prohibited from issuing new shares to satisfy the Commutation arrangements, without shareholder approval unless the
consent of the Takeover Panel is obtained. The rules of these arrangements do, however, allow for cash settlement. On 4 April 2014 a
Commutation Settlement Agreement was signed whereby the Commutation consideration of £5.25m is settled in cash rather than shares, as
previously assumed under these arrangements which have been accounted for as equity-settled share awards. 50% of this consideration is
deferred for a period of 24 months. No adjustment has been made to these Consolidated Financial Statements. As at 31 December 2013, the
balance within equity in relation to this Commutation arrangement was £4.0m. Upon settlement in cash, the balance of £1.25m will be charged
to the Income Statement and the remaining 24-month vesting period.
136 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Historical summaries
The Five Year Record is shown based on International Financial Reporting Standards which have been adopted by the Group.
This Five Year Record is not part of the audited Financial Statements.
2009 2010 2011 2012* 2013
£m £m £m £m £m
Consolidated Income Statements
Revenue
Investment management fees 237.8 258.2 279.0 252.6 252.5
Other income 4.1 1.6 4.2 4.8 5.0
Total revenue 241.9 259.8 283.2 257.4 257.5
Fee and commission expenses (16.8) (16.6) (16.2) (13.9) (16.3)
Net revenue 225.1 243.2 267.0 243.5 241.2
Net gains and investment income
on unit-linked assets 136.0 74.3 13.7 40.6 6.5
Movement in fair value of unit-linked liabilities (134.6) (73.3) (13.4) (40.8) (6.3)
Operating expenses
Operating expenses (164.8) (169.7) (183.8) (162.6) (140.9)
Distributions to members of LLPs – (6.0) (18.3) (11.6) (11.1)
Amortisation and impairment of intangible
assets – management contracts (49.8) (50.7) (45.8) (42.5) (42.7)
Other exceptional net operating expenses (19.0) (20.9) (19.0) (21.9) (8.2)
Unrealised gains on forward currency contracts 1.2 ––– –
Total operating expenses (232.4) (247.3) (266.9) (238.6) (202.9)
Operating (loss)/profit (5.9) (3.1) 0.4 4.7 38.5
Finance revenue 11.5 11.1 17.2 3.9 2.3
Finance costs (30.3) (33.6) (35.4) (23.1) (22.1)
F&C REIT put option fair value gain/(loss) 5.6 6.4 8.7 11.5 (3.0)
TRC acquisition consideration adjustments –– 7.6 – –
Gain on debt exchange 27.9 ––– –
Impairment in associates and other financial investments (0.1) ––– –
Profit/(loss) before tax 8.7 (19.2) (1.5) (3.0) 15.7
Tax – Shareholders 10.4 6.2 4.1 5.4 (5.5)
Tax – Policyholders (0.4) (0.4) – 0.2 –
Tax income/(expense) 10.0 5.8 4.1 5.6 (5.5)
Profit/(loss) for the year 18.7 (13.4) 2.6 2.6 10.2
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 15.9 (16.6) (0.5) (0.3) 8.5
Non-controlling interests 2.8 3.2 3.1 2.9 1.7
Profit/(loss) for the year 18.7 (13.4) 2.6 2.6 10.2
Underlying earnings per Ordinary Share
#$
5.75p 6.02p 5.51p 6.99p 8.78p
Basic earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share 3.24p (3.31)p (0.10)p (0.06p) 1.52p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share 3.19p (3.31)p (0.10)p (0.06p) 1.43p
Dividends
Memo
Final dividend for 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 19.8 19.4 10.4 10.4 10.9
Interim dividend for 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 9.7 5.1 5.2 5.4 5.8
29.5 24.5 15.6 15.8 16.7
Final dividend per Ordinary Share for
2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 4.0p 4.0p 2.0p 2.0p 2.0p
Interim dividend per Ordinary Share for
2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 2.0p 1.0p 1.0p 1.0p 1.0p
Dividend cover
†
0.54 (0.68) (0.03) (0.02) 0.51
Underlying dividend cover
†#$
0.96 1.23 1.82 2.34 2.94
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised).
#
As restated in 2009 and 2010 for the effect of the Deferred Tax – Corporation Tax rate change being excluded from Underlying EPS.
†
Based on the dividends paid during 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013.
$
Excluding foreign exchange gains and losses.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 137
Five Year Record (unaudited) 138 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS |
The following tables reconcile the statutory earnings to underlying earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent. In addition, the
calculation of certain key performance indicators is given below.
Year ended 31 December 2013
£ millions unless otherwise stated
Non-
Adjusted Adjustments controlling Underlying
Statutory Income for FX Underlying interests earnings
results Adjustments Statement gains earnings profits* (ex NCI)
A Net Revenue 241.2 – 241.2 – 241.2 – 241.2
Net policyholder income 0.2 – 0.2 – 0.2 – 0.2
Operating expenses (141.3) – (141.3) – (141.3)– (141.3)
Exchange gains 0.4 – 0.4 (0.4) –––
Operating expenses (140.9) – (140.9) (0.4) (141.3) – (141.3)
Distributions to members of LLPs (11.1) – (11.1) – (11.1) – (11.1)
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (42.7) 42.7 –––––
Other exceptional operating expenses (8.2) 8.2 –––––
Total operating expenses (202.9) 50.9 (152.0) (0.4) (152.4)
†
– (152.4)
B Operating profit 38.5 50.9 89.4 (0.4) 89.0 – 89.0
Interest paid (21.2) – (21.2) – (21.2) – (21.2)
Interest and investment income received 2.3 – 2.3 – 2.3 – 2.3
F&C REIT put option fair value loss (3.0) 3.0 –––––
Other non-operating items (0.9) – (0.9) – (0.9) – (0.9)
Non-controlling interests share of profits ––––– (5.0) (5.0)
Profit before tax 15.7 53.9 69.6 (0.4) 69.2
‡
(5.0) 64.2
Tax expense (5.5) (10.5) (16.0) 0.1 (15.9) 0.7 (15.2)
C Profit for year 10.2 43.4 53.6 (0.3) 53.3 (4.3) 49.0
Underlying EPS (C÷D) 8.8p
Underlying operating margin (B÷A) 36.9%
D Weighted average number of shares (000’s) 557,459
* Excluding NCI share of amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
†
Defined as ‘underlying operating costs’.
‡
Defined as ‘Group underlying profit before tax’.
Year ended 31 December 2012
Ø
£ millions unless otherwise stated
Non-
Adjusted Adjustments controlling Underlying
Statutory Income for FX Underlying interests earnings
results Adjustments Statement losses earnings profits* (ex NCI)
A Net Revenue 243.5 – 243.5 – 243.5 – 243.5
Net policyholder expense (0.2) – (0.2) – (0.2) – (0.2)
Operating expenses (160.6) – (160.6) – (160.6) – (160.6)
Exchange losses (2.0) – (2.0) 2.0 –––
Operating expenses (162.6) – (162.6) 2.0 (160.6) – (160.6)
Distributions to members of LLPs (11.6) – (11.6) – (11.6) – (11.6)
Amortisation of intangible assets (42.5) 42.5 –––––
Other exceptional operating expenses (21.9) 21.9 –––––
Total operating expenses (238.6) 64.4 (174.2) 2.0 (172.2)
†
– (172.2)
B Operating profit 4.7 64.4 69.1 2.0 71.1 – 71.1
Interest paid (22.4) – (22.4) – (22.4) – (22.4)
Interest and investment income received 3.9 – 3.9 – 3.9 – 3.9
F&C REIT put option fair value gain 11.5 (11.5) –––––
Other non-operating items (0.7) – (0.7) – (0.7) – (0.7)
Non-controlling interests share of profits ––––– (5.8) (5.8)
(Loss)/profit before tax (3.0) 52.9 49.9 2.0 51.9
‡
(5.8) 46.1
Tax income/(expense) 5.6 (14.8) (9.2) (0.5) (9.7) 0.7 (9.0)
C Profit for year 2.6 38.1 40.7 1.5 42.2 (5.1) 37.1
Underlying EPS (C÷D) 7.0p
Underlying operating margin (B÷A) 29.2%
D Weighted average number of shares (000’s) 530,963
Ø
As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1.
* Excluding NCI share of amortisation of intangible assets.
†
Defined as ‘underlying operating costs’.
‡
Defined as ‘Group underlying profit before tax’.
Reconciliations of Statutory Results to
Underlying Earnings (unaudited) ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 139
Underlying operating costs
The underlying operating costs of the Group are as follows:
Year ended
Year ended 31 December
31 December 2012
2013 (as restated)*
£m £m
Staff costs and related expenses 86.9 104.5
Premises expenses 10.1 12.2
Communication and information technology expenses 16.0 16.4
Third-party administration expenses 11.0 9.7
Promotional and client servicing expenses 4.0 5.1
Other expenses 13.3 12.7
Core operating expenses 141.3 160.6
Distributions to members of LLPs 11.1 11.6
Underlying operating costs 152.4 172.2
* As restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised), as disclosed in note 1. Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2013
These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice
(UK GAAP).
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the F&C Asset Management Group, given on pages 57 to 136 have been
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).
140 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 141
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets 4 0.5 0.5
Investments in subsidiaries 5 1,261.8 1,261.4
Other investments 6 2.7 3.6
1,265.0 1,265.5
Current assets
Debtors – amounts falling due:
Within one year 7 147.3 91.8
After more than one year 7 0.4 60.4
Cash and short-term deposits 0.3 0.1
148.0 152.3
Creditors (amounts falling due within one year) 8 (7.9) (8.1)
Net current assets 140.1 144.2
Total assets less current liabilities 1,405.1 1,409.7
Creditors (amounts falling due after more than one year) 8 (295.3) (295.1)
Provisions for liabilities 9 (4.0) (5.1)
Net assets 1,105.8 1,109.5
Capital and reserves
Called up Ordinary Share capital 14, 15 0.6 0.6
Share premium account 15 58.9 58.9
Capital redemption reserve 15 0.8 0.8
Merger reserve 15 912.7 912.7
Other reserves 15 80.0 80.5
Profit and loss account 15 52.8 56.0
Total shareholders’ funds 15 1,105.8 1,109.5
The Company Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 9 April 2014. They were signed on its
behalf by:
Kieran Poynter Richard Wilson
Chairman Chief Executive
Company Balance Sheet
as at 31 December 2013
The accompanying notes to the Company Financial Statements form an integral part of these Financial Statements. 142 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS |
Basis of preparation
The separate Financial Statements of the Company are presented
as required by the Companies Act and are prepared under the
historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of other
investments, and in accordance with applicable accounting
standards in the United Kingdom.
The principal accounting policies set out below have been
applied consistently for the years ended 31 December 2013 and
31 December 2012.
The Company’s Financial Statements are presented in millions of
pounds Sterling (rounded to one decimal place), the Company’s
functional and presentational currency.
In accordance with Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 a
separate Profit and Loss Account for the Company is not presented.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29
Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and has not
disclosed the information required by that standard because the
Company is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements
which are publicly available and include disclosures given under
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to
affect its future development, performance and position are set out
in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 21. The financial position of
the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are also described in
the Strategic Report. In addition, note 35 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements on pages 120 to 123 includes the Group’s
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its
financial risk management objectives; details of its financial
instruments and its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk and
market risks.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation
that the Company has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these
Financial Statements.
Turnover
Turnover comprises fees for secretarial services provided to
Investment Trusts, and shared services and administration services
provided to subsidiary undertakings. Fees are recognised in the
Profit and Loss Account over the period for which these services
are provided.
Dividend recognition
Dividends receivable and dividends payable are recognised only
when they have been declared and approved or at the date of
payment for interim dividends.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less accumulated
impairment losses. The cost includes the uplift arising from the
equity-settled share-based payments calculated in accordance with
FRS 20 Share-based Payment, where no cash contributions are
made by the subsidiaries. The uplift is credited to a capital
contribution reserve in equity. The Company recharges certain
subsidiaries when it satisfies these equity-settled awards with its
own shares.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Expenditure on tangible fixed assets is capitalised on initial
recognition. Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised when it is
probable that there will be future economic benefits associated with
the expenditure which can be measured reliably. All other
expenditure is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account as an
expense as incurred.
Tangible fixed assets are depreciated, using the straight-line
method, to write off the cost of assets over their estimated useful
lives, as follows:
Leasehold improvements – 10 years
Office furniture & equipment – 3-5 years
Computer equipment – 3 years
The carrying value of assets and their useful lives are reviewed at
each reporting date. If an indication of impairment exists, the assets
are written down to their recoverable amount and the impairment is
charged to the Profit and Loss Account in the year in which it arises.
Financial instruments
When financial instruments are recognised initially they are
measured at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
The fair value of instruments that are actively traded in organised
financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid
prices (mid-price for Open-Ended Investment Companies) at the
close of business on the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments are classified into the categories described
below:
(i) Available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value in the
Balance Sheet. In respect of unquoted instruments, or where
the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is
established by using recognised valuation methodologies, in
accordance with International Private Equity and Venture
Capital Valuation Guidelines.
For unquoted investments in early stage enterprises and
enterprises with revenues but without significant profits or
significant positive cash flows, fair value is determined using
the “price of a recent investment” method. Repayments are
treated as reductions to carrying value. After an appropriate
period, an assessment is made as to whether the
circumstances of the investment have changed such that
another valuation methodology is appropriate or there is any
evidence of deterioration or strong defensible evidence of an
increase in value. In the absence of these indicators, fair value
Company Accounting Policies ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 143
is determined to be that reported at the previous balance
sheet date.
Unquoted investments with revenues, maintainable profits
and/or maintainable cash flows are valued by deriving an
Enterprise Value of the underlying business.
Movements in fair value, other than impairment losses and
foreign exchange movements on monetary assets, are taken
to the fair value reserve in equity until derecognition of the
asset, at which time the cumulative amount in this reserve is
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. The following
assets are classified as available for sale:
• Fixed assets
– Other investments
(ii) Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss include
investments which have been specifically designated as ‘at fair
value through profit or loss’. These are carried in the Balance
Sheet at fair value and movements in fair value are taken to
the Profit and Loss Account in the period in which they arise.
The following assets are classified as financial instruments at
fair value through profit or loss:
• Fixed assets
– Other investments
(iii) Loans and receivables are measured on initial recognition at
fair value plus any incremental costs incurred. Subsequent to
initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Gains
and losses are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account
when loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as
well as through the amortisation process. The following assets
and liabilities are classified as loans and receivables:
• Current assets:
– Debtors
– Cash and short-term deposits
(iv) Financial liabilities are recognised at amortised cost using the
effective interest rate method after initial recognition. The
following liabilities are classified as financial liabilities:
• Creditors (amounts falling due within one year)
• Creditors (amounts falling due after more than one year)
The Company has adopted “trade date” accounting for
purchases or sales of financial assets under a contract whose
terms require delivery of the assets within the timeframe
established in the marketplace concerned. Accordingly, such
financial instruments are recognised on the date the Company
commits to the purchase of the investments, and are
derecognised on the date it commits to their sale.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets
A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset, is
derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset
have expired.
Financial liabilities
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the
liability is either discharged, cancelled or expires.
Impairment of financial assets
The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a
financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost
If there is objective evidence that an impairment in loans and
receivables carried at amortised cost has occurred, the amount of
the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the
asset’s carrying amount and the expected recoverable amount. The
carrying amount of the asset would be reduced and the amount of
the loss recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss
decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event
occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously
recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any subsequent reversal of
an impairment loss is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account to
the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its
amortised cost at the reversal date.
Available for sale financial assets
If an available for sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the
difference between its cost (net of any principal payment and
amortisation) and its current fair value, less any impairment loss
previously recognised in the Profit and Loss Account, is transferred
from reserves to the Profit and Loss Account. Reversals in respect
of equity instruments classified as available for sale are not
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. Reversals of impairment
losses on debt instruments are taken through the Profit and Loss
Account, if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be
objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss
was recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that
have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where
transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in
an obligation to pay less or receive more tax, with the following
exceptions:
• Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation
(and similar fair value adjustments) of fixed assets, or gains on
disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into
replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance
sheet date, there is a commitment to dispose of the assets
concerned. However, no provision is made where, on the
basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is
more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into
replacement assets and charged to tax only when the
replacement assets are sold;
• Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on
remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries
only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends
have been accrued as receivable; and
• Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the
Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will
be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing
differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates
that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences
reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively
enacted at the balance sheet date. 144 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Company Accounting Policies
Operating leases
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the Profit and
Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives are recognised by the Company as a reduction of
the rental expense, allocated on a straight-line basis, over the
shorter of the lease term and a period ending on a date from which
it is expected the prevailing market rental will be payable.
Accounting for Employee Benefit Trusts (EBTs)
UITF 38 requires that own shares acquired through an EBT be
deducted in arriving at shareholders’ funds until they vest
unconditionally to the employees. Consideration paid and received
for the purchase or sale of these shares is included in shareholders’
funds and no gain or loss is recognised. Other assets and liabilities
of the EBTs are recognised as assets and liabilities of the Company.
Ordinary Shares of the Company are held by EBTs in order to satisfy
a number of F&C Group share-based payment plans and future
exercises of options and awards to employees of subsidiary
companies. The cost relating to the share-based payment plans is
recognised in the subsidiary companies which employ the staff in
receipt of awards, and the Company recognises any fresh issue of
shares or re-issue of own shares when such a transaction occurs.
These shares are included in the Financial Statements of the
Company as a deduction from shareholders’ funds.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Company
has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and
it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to
settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are
determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-
tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. No
provision is established where a reliable estimate of the obligation
cannot be made.
Where the Company expects some or all of a provision to be
reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset
but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Where the Company has obligations under property leases and
where the space has ceased to be used for the purposes of the
business, full provision is made for future net outstanding liabilities
under such leases after taking into account the effect of any
expected sub-letting arrangements.
Related party disclosures
FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures requires disclosure of the details of
material transactions between the reporting entity and related
parties. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS
8 not to disclose transactions between F&C Group companies
which eliminate on consolidation.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional
currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at
the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at
the balance sheet date, and any exchange differences arising are
taken to the Profit and Loss Account.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost in a
foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date
of transaction and are not subsequently restated. Non-monetary
assets and liabilities stated at fair value in a foreign currency are
translated at the exchange rate at the date the fair value was
determined. When fair value movements in assets and liabilities are
reflected in the Profit and Loss Account, the corresponding
exchange movements are also recognised in the Profit and Loss
Account. Conversely, when fair value movements in assets and
liabilities are reflected directly in equity, the corresponding exchange
movements are also recognised directly in equity.
Share-based payments
The Company operates a variable NCI incentive which is required to
be accounted for as a share-based payment.
The fair value of share-based payment awards, where it is not
considered possible to estimate reliably the fair value of these
awards at the grant date, is determined by measurement of the
equity instruments at intrinsic value. The fair value is measured by an
independent external valuer at each reporting date. The intrinsic
value is spread over the vesting period.
Vesting of equity-settled employee share awards depends upon
meeting “non-market related” performance conditions. The type of
vesting criteria affects the calculation of the expense charged to the
Profit and Loss Account and subsequent adjustments, as non-
market related conditions are performance criteria such as earnings
targets and/or service requirements. The probability of meeting non-
market conditions is incorporated into the expense charge via the
estimate of the number of awards expected to vest. The total
cumulative expense is ultimately adjusted to reflect the actual
number of awards which vest. Therefore, if no awards vest, no
cumulative expense is ultimately recognised.
FRS 20 Share-based Payment makes a distinction between awards
settled in equity and those settled in cash. Equity-settled awards are
charged to the Profit and Loss Account with a corresponding credit
to equity. Cash-settled awards are charged to the Profit and Loss
Account with a corresponding credit to liabilities. The estimated fair
value of cash-settled awards is re-measured at each reporting date
until the payments are ultimately settled.
Ordinary Share capital
When Ordinary Shares are issued the proceeds on issue are
allocated to the equity component and included in shareholders’
funds, net of transaction costs.
When Ordinary Shares are repurchased, the amounts of
consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, are
recognised in the own share reserve included within retained
earnings and are classified as deductions in equity. Dealings in own
shares are reflected through equity.
Dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised on the date of
payment or, if subject to approval, the date approved by the
shareholders.
Cash flow statement
The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions in FRS 1
(revised) Cash Flow Statements and has elected not to prepare a
Cash Flow Statement as it is included within the Consolidated Cash
Flow Statement in the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C
Asset Management plc. 1. Auditor’s remuneration
Amounts received by the Company’s auditor in respect of services to the Company have not been disclosed as the Group-wide information is
disclosed in note 5(c) to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 76.
2. Directors’ remuneration
Details of Directors’ remuneration are as follows:
2013 2012
£m £m
Aggregate emoluments 2.8 2.1
Company contributions paid to defined contribution pension schemes 0.1 0.2
Aggregate value of gains made by Directors on exercise of share awards 1.3 2.8
2013 2012
No. No.
Members of defined contribution pension schemes 2 3
Full disclosure of Directors’ remuneration is shown in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 44 to 51.
The Company has no employees (including Directors) under contract of employment, all F&C Group employees being employed by several
subsidiary companies.
3. Dividends
Details of dividends paid and proposed during the year are disclosed in note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 83.
4. Tangible fixed assets
Office
Leasehold furniture and Computer
improvements equipment equipment Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 January 2013 4.1 0.4 4.2 8.7
Additions 0.2 – 0.1 0.3
Disposals (0.2) – (1.5) (1.7)
At 31 December 2013 4.1 0.4 2.8 7.3
Depreciation:
At 1 January 2013 3.6 0.4 4.2 8.2
Depreciation charge for the year 0.2 –– 0.2
Disposals (0.1) – (1.5) (1.6)
At 31 December 2013 3.7 0.4 2.7 6.8
Net book values:
At 31 December 2012 0.5 –– 0.5
At 31 December 2013 0.4 – 0.1 0.5
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 145
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 5. Investments in subsidiaries
£m
Cost:
At 1 January 2013 1,264.4
Additions in respect of share-based payment awards 6.9
Recharge in respect of share-based payment awards (6.5)
At 31 December 2013 1,264.8
Cumulative impairment:
At 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2013 3.0
Net book values:
At 31 December 2012 1,261.4
At 31 December 2013 1,261.8
Included within the above net book value is £80.0m (31 December 2012: £79.6m) in respect of equity-settled share-based payment awards
made by subsidiary undertakings.
6. Other investments
The classification of investments at 31 December is as follows:
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
Notes £m £m
Available for sale (a) 0.1 1.1
Fair value through profit or loss (b) 2.6 2.5
2.7 3.6
(a) Available for sale
Unquoted
£m
At 1 January 2013 1.1
Fair value gain in the year 0.2
Fair value gains transferred to the Profit and Loss Account (1.2)
At 31 December 2013 0.1
These investments represent carried interest entitlement in private equity funds.
The unquoted investments have been valued in accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines and in
accordance with the limited partnership agreements where possible.
(b) Fair value through profit or loss
NIC hedge
£m
At 1 January 2013 2.5
Disposals in the year (0.2)
Fair value movement in year 0.3
At 31 December 2013 2.6
Further details of this investment are disclosed in note 18(a)(i)(2) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, on page 90.
The fair value of quoted investments as at 31 December 2013 was £1.5m (31 December 2012: £1.3m). These investments are either offshore
mutual funds or funds not quoted on a daily basis.
146 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Company Financial Statements ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 147
7. Debtors
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
Note £m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Trade debtors 0.8 0.9
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 3.5 2.8
Loan to subsidiary undertaking 136.5 81.2
Prepayments 2.2 2.3
VAT recoverable 0.5 0.6
Group relief receivable 3.2 3.2
Other debtors 0.6 0.8
147.3 91.8
Amounts due after more than one year:
Loan to subsidiary undertaking – 60.0
Deferred tax 11 0.4 0.4
0.4 60.4
The loan to the subsidiary undertaking bears interest at three-month LIBOR minus 0.25%, is repayable on demand and is with F&C
Treasury Limited.
8. Creditors
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
Note £m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Trade creditors 0.1 0.4
Accruals 2.6 2.4
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 0.3 0.4
Other creditors 0.9 0.9
Loans from subsidiary undertakings 10 4.0 4.0
7.9 8.1
Amounts due after more than one year:
Loans from subsidiary undertakings 45.0 45.0
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 250.3 250.1
10 295.3 295.1
During 2012, a final consideration payment of £0.7m for the acquisition of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited was made to Achmea B.V..
9. Provisions for liabilities
Onerous Pension
premises Plan Deferred Litigation
contracts guarantee tax guarantee Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2012 5.7 0.2 0.4 2.0 8.3
Provided during the year 0.4 0.1 0.1 – 0.6
Utilised during the year (1.6) – (0.2) – (1.8)
Released during the year ––– (2.0) (2.0)
At 31 December 2012 4.5 0.3 0.3 – 5.1
Provided during the year 0.6 ––– 0.6
Utilised during the year (1.4) – (0.3) – (1.7)
At 31 December 2013 3.7 0.3 –– 4.0
At 31 December 2013
Falling due after more than one year 2.5 0.3 –– 2.8
Falling due within one year 1.2 ––– 1.2
At 31 December 2012
Falling due after more than one year 3.1 0.3 0.3 – 3.7
Falling due within one year 1.4 ––– 1.4 148 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Company Financial Statements
9. Provisions for liabilities continued
Onerous premises contracts
The Company holds all properties under operating leases. This includes a number of vacant or sub-let properties which were either previously
occupied or are partially occupied by the Company. Provision has been made for the residual lease commitments, where significant, after
taking into account existing and expected sub-tenant contractual arrangements. The remaining terms are for up to seven years.
Assumptions have been made as to whether each leasehold property may be sub-let or assigned in the future. All leases and sub-leases are
for minimum guaranteed rentals. The provision is subject to uncertainties over time including market rent reviews and break options within the
lease arrangements. In addition, exposure could exist if an existing tenant defaulted or went into liquidation or administration.
The amount included within the Profit and Loss Account in respect of unwinding of the discount on onerous premises provisions in 2013 is
£0.1m (2012: £0.1m).
Pension Plan guarantee
The Company has agreed to provide the F&C Asset Management Pension Plan (FCAM Plan) Trustees with a guarantee that, should F&C Asset
Management Services Limited become insolvent, the Company will guarantee an amount up to the lower of the cost of securing members’
benefits with an insurance company over the assets of the FCAM Plan (the ‘solvency deficit’) and £120.0m. The provision represents the
actuarial estimate of the fair value of the guarantee at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012.
Deferred tax
The deferred tax provision related to short-term timing differences which had originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date. The
provision is subject to uncertainties in respect of when timing differences might reverse. The provision related to the revaluation of available for
sale assets, which is recognised as a separate component of reserves.
A further analysis of deferred tax is disclosed in note 11.
Litigation guarantee
Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 98 and 99 summarises the Group position in respect of the F&C Partners
litigation, which was settled in 2012.
The Company had a joint legal obligation with F&C Alternative Investment (Holdings) Limited (F&C AIH) to settle any litigation amounts payable to
the founder partners. At 31 December 2011 the Company held a provision of £2.0m in respect of this. In June 2012, following a successful
outcome from the Court of Appeal regarding the level of costs and interest to be borne by F&C in respect of the litigation, a full and final payment
of £0.65m was paid to the founder partners by F&C AIH. The full provision of £2.0m was therefore released by the Company during 2012.
10. Loans
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
Notes £m £m
Amounts repayable:
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 (i) 250.3 250.1
Fixed Rate inter-company loan 2016 (ii) 25.0 25.0
Fixed Rate inter-company loan 2016 (iii) 20.0 20.0
Floating Rate inter-company loan repayable on demand (iv) 4.0 4.0
299.3 299.1
(i) The £251.0m (31 December 2012: £251.0m) Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 bear interest at 6.75% per annum for
the period 20 December 2006 – 19 December 2016, payable annually in arrears. The Company has the option to extend the Notes
beyond 19 December 2016 at a rate of 2.69% above three-month LIBOR for the period 20 December 2016 – 19 December 2026, payable
quarterly in arrears. At 31 December 2013 £135.0m (31 December 2012: £135.0m) of the Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes
2016/2026 were held by F&C Finance plc, a subsidiary undertaking.
(ii) The £25.0m loan bears interest at a fixed rate of 13.26%, payable half-yearly in arrears. This loan is due to F&C Finance plc, a subsidiary
undertaking, and is repayable on 19 December 2016.
(iii) The £20.0m loan bears interest at a fixed rate of 9.66%, payable half-yearly in arrears. This loan is due to F&C Finance plc and is repayable
on 19 December 2016.
(iv) The £4.0m loan bears interest at three-month LIBOR minus 0.25%, payable quarterly in arrears. This loan is due to F&C Managed Pension
Funds Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, and is repayable on demand. 10. Loans continued
Fixed/Floating Rate
Subordinated Notes
2016/2026
£m
At 1 January 2012 258.9
Debt buy-backs (9.0)
Issue costs amortisation 0.2
At 31 December 2012 250.1
Issue costs amortisation 0.2
At 31 December 2013 250.3
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
Note £m £m
Amounts repayable:
In one year or less, or on demand 8 4.0 4.0
In more than one year but not more than two years – –
In more than two years but not more than five years 8 295.3 295.1
In more than five years – –
299.3 299.1
Borrowing facilities
The undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at the year end are as follows:
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Revolving credit facility – 20.0
Details of the revolving credit facility are disclosed in note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 97.
11. Deferred tax
2013 2012
£m £m
At 1 January 0.1 0.2
Current year movement 0.2 –
Adjustments in respect of previous periods 0.1 (0.1)
At 31 December 0.4 0.1
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
Notes £m £m
Deferred tax is provided as follows:
Depreciation in advance of capital allowances 0.3 0.3
Other timing differences 0.1 0.1
Revaluation of available for sale assets – (0.3)
0.4 0.1
Disclosed in the Financial Statements as follows:
Debtors: Amounts due after more than one year 7 0.4 0.4
Provisions for liabilities 9 – (0.3)
Net deferred tax asset 0.4 0.1
The Directors believe it is appropriate to recognise a deferred tax asset because it is considered that it is more likely than not that there will be
suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
12. Share-based payment
F&C REIT variable non-controlling interests share-based payment
Details of this share-based payment award are disclosed in note 26(b) to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 111.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 149 150 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Company Financial Statements
13. Pension commitments
The sponsoring company and principal employer for the FCAM Plan is F&C Asset Management Services Limited.
The Company has provided a guarantee in respect of this Plan, further details of which are described in note 9.
14. Ordinary Share capital
31 December 2013 31 December 2012
Ordinary Share capital of 0.1p No. of shares £m No. of shares £m
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
Equity interests
Ordinary Shares of 0.1p* 581,035,337 0.6 555,180,788 0.6
* Includes those categorised as own shares.
2013 2012
No. of shares No. of shares
Issued at 1 January 555,180,788 532,118,789
Issue of shares at par to settle share-based payment awards* 25,854,549 12,377,307
Issue of shares in respect of TRC Commutation arrangements – 10,684,692
Issued at 31 December 581,035,337 555,180,788
* During 2013 and 2012 Ordinary Shares were allotted at par value into an EBT or Nominee account to settle share-based payment awards.
The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at
meetings of the Company.
Details of Ordinary Shares issued between the balance sheet date and approval of the Company Financial Statements are disclosed in note 11
to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 82.
Contingent rights to the allotment of shares
The F&C Group operates several share-based payment schemes and has a number of contractual obligations which have a contingent right to
Ordinary Shares which may be settled by the allotment of shares in the Company. The Company may choose to purchase shares in the market
or utilise its own shares to settle some of these awards.
At 31 December 2013 the maximum contingent right to the allotment of shares was as follows:
No. of awards Exercise
Scheme outstanding price (p) Exercise/vesting dates
Long-Term Remuneration Plan (Deferred Award) 11,394,251 0.00 10 March 2014 – 13 May 2016
Long-Term Remuneration Plan (Restricted Award) 30,203,555 0.00 4 May 2014 – 13 May 2017
TRC Management Incentive Plan 6,276,366 0.00 1 September 2015 – 1 September 2016
TRC Commutation Awards* 4,928,363 0.00 4 April 2014 – 1 September 2016
Deferred Share Awards 22,200 0.00 1 April 2014
2002 Executive Share Option Scheme 363,580 240.83 1 January 2014 – 9 March 2014
#
53,188,315
* The potential number of shares as quantified at the reporting date.
#
These options expired on 9 March 2014.
Details of share-based payment arrangements are given in note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Employee Benefit Trusts (EBTs)
The following shares are held in EBTs, where the Company is the sponsoring employer, or in Nominee for the Company. These are categorised
as own shares and deducted from shareholders’ funds:
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
No. of shares No. of shares
Held by RBC cees in a nominee capacity* 3,955,932 4,072,180
F&C Management Limited Employee Benefit Trust 2,524,501 8,864,824
The Ivory & Sime Employee Benefit Trust 64,176 64,176
6,544,609 13,001,180
* These are specifically held as TRC Deferred Commutation Shares in respect of Commutation arrangements.
The aggregate nominal value of own shares held by EBTs at 31 December 2013 was £6,545 (31 December 2012: £13,001). The market value
of these shares at 31 December 2013 was £6.0m (31 December 2012: £13.3m).
The Trustees of the EBTs have waived their right to the dividend entitlement on some of these shares.
During the year, the Company purchased 1,528,931 of its own Ordinary Shares (2012: 64,105) of 0.1p to satisfy the settlement of awards
granted under share schemes and to hold as own shares in EBTs. The consideration paid for the shares was £1.6m (2012: £0.1m). 15. Reserves
Reconciliation of movement in reserves:
Ordinary Share Capital Fair Capital Profit Total
Share premium redemption Merger value contribution and loss shareholders’
capital account reserve reserve reserve
(1)
reserve
(1)
account funds
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2012 0.5 51.8 0.8 912.7 1.2 74.2 66.5 1,107.7
Profit for the year –– –––– 4.6 4.6
Share capital allotted on issue of TRC
Commutation shares 0.1 7.1 –– –– (7.2) –
Purchase of own shares –– –––– (0.1) (0.1)
Equity-settled share-based payment charge –– ––– 13.4 – 13.4
Transfer to Profit and Loss Account on settlement
of share-based payment awards by subsidiaries –– ––– (8.0) 8.0 –
Fair value gains in the year –– –– 0.2 –– 0.2
Fair value gains transferred to Profit and Loss Account –– –– (0.6) –– (0.6)
Tax on fair value movements –– –– 0.1 –– 0.1
Final 2011 dividend paid –– –––– (10.4) (10.4)
Interim 2012 dividend paid –– –––– (5.4) (5.4)
Balance at 31 December 2012 0.6 58.9 0.8 912.7 0.9 79.6 56.0 1,109.5
Profit for the year –– –––– 8.6 8.6
Purchase of own shares –– –––– (1.6) (1.6)
Equity-settled share-based payment charge –– ––– 6.9 – 6.9
Transfer to Profit and Loss Account on settlement
of share-based payment awards by subsidiaries –– ––– (6.5) 6.5 –
Fair value gains in the year –– –– 0.2 –– 0.2
Fair value gains transferred to Profit and Loss Account –– –– (1.2) –– (1.2)
Tax on fair value movements – – – – 0.1 – – 0.1
Final 2012 dividend paid –– –––– (10.9) (10.9)
Interim 2013 dividend paid –– –––– (5.8) (5.8)
Balance at 31 December 2013 0.6 58.9 0.8 912.7 – 80.0 52.8 1,105.8
(1)
The Fair value reserve and Capital contribution reserve constitute ‘Other reserves’ as disclosed on the face of the Balance Sheet and amount to £80.0m at
31 December 2013 (31 December 2012: £80.5m).
The profit after tax of the Company for the year, before dividends paid, was £8.6m (2012: £4.6m).
16. Financial commitments
The Company had the following annual commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases:
Premises
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
£m £m
Commitments expiring within one year – –
Commitments expiring within two to five years 1.2 1.2
Commitments expiring outwith five years 3.3 3.3
4.5 4.5
The premises financial commitments disclosed above do not include any sub-leasing arrangements which the Company may have in place.
The amounts shown reflect gross commitments at the balance sheet dates.
17. Capital commitments
There are no capital commitments not provided for at 31 December 2013 (31 December 2012: £nil).
18. Subsidiary undertakings
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings are disclosed in note 37 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 130 and 131.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 151 152 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Company Financial Statements
19. Related party transactions
The Company has taken exemption from the requirement to disclose related party transactions with wholly-owned members of the F&C Asset
Management plc Group on the basis that these companies are included within the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C Asset
Management plc.
(a) Related party transactions with Sherborne
Sherborne was a related party until Edward Bramson’s resignation from the Board of F&C on 22 August 2013. Sherborne previously owned
approximately 20% of the Ordinary Share capital of F&C and was represented on the Board by the Executive Chairman, Edward Bramson,
who is a partner in Sherborne, and by Ian Brindle, who was also a representative of Sherborne. Sherborne divested its holding in F&C to its
underlying investors during 2013. Sherborne was entitled to ordinary dividends, and a fee in respect of the Chairman’s services to F&C. The
Company’s transactions with Sherborne until 22 August 2013 are disclosed below:
Total Total
expensed Outstanding at expensed Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2013* 2013 during 2012 2012
£m £m £m £m
Ordinary dividends paid to Sherborne 2.2 n/a 3.2 –
* Until Edward Bramson resigned from the Board of F&C on 22 August 2013.
(b) Transactions with entities which are not wholly owned
F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
F&C Asset Management plc owns 70% of the “A” and “B” partnership units in F&C REIT Asset Management LLP (the Partnership). The other
partners in the Partnership, all of whom have significant influence over the management of the Partnership or a significant economic interest in
the Partnership, are:
Kendray Properties Limited 30.0% ownership interest in “B” units
Leo Noé 22.5% ownership interest in “A” units
Ivor Smith 7.5% ownership interest in “A” units
These parties are considered to be related parties.
Shared services and administrative services
The Company has a shared services agreement with F&C REIT Asset Management LLP whereby it provides certain administrative and
professional services to F&C REIT Asset Management LLP . Amounts charged under this agreement are set out below:
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2013 2013 during 2012 2012
£m £m £m £m
Administration service fees 0.7 0.3 0.8 0.2
£9.1m of profit distributions were paid to the Company by F&C REIT Asset Management LLP in 2013 (2012: £5.1m).
F&C Asset Management plc has a potential share-based payment obligation in respect of the variable non-controlling interest (NCI)
enhancement which could be achieved by Kendray Properties Limited, Leo Noé and Ivor Smith. Full details are disclosed in note 26(b) to the
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 111.
The F&C REIT NCI partners each have a put option, requiring the Company to purchase their minority stake in F&C REIT after a minimum
number of years, at fair value. The fair value of the option is nil, as the potential amount payable is the same as the fair value of the interests to
be acquired.
In the Consolidated Financial Statements the gross amount payable under the option is dealt with as a liability, in accordance with IAS 32 as an
obligation for purchase of own equity. As at 31 December 2013, the value of this commitment is estimated at £36.8m (31 December 2012:
£33.8m). Further details are provided in note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 116.
The Company has made carried interest investments in F&C REIT Carry LP , F&C REIT Carry 3 LP , F&C REIT Carry 4 LP and F&C REIT Carry 5
LP respectively. These investments will entitle the Company to a share of any future carried interest arising from the management of the F&C
REIT Club Deals LPs. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 153
20. Guarantees
The Company has provided the following guarantees as at 31 December 2013:
• A guarantee in respect of the F&C Asset Management Pension Plan. Details of this guarantee are disclosed in note 9.
• A guarantee for the £142.0m 9% Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 issued by F&C Finance plc, details of which are disclosed in note
22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 97. These Loan Notes are unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by the Company.
• Guaranteed funding for its subsidiary F&C Treasury Limited until 25 September 2014 for satisfying its liabilities. At 31 December 2013,
F&C Treasury Limited had net liabilities of £26.6m.
• Guaranteed funding for its subsidiary FP Asset Management Holdings Limited until 25 September 2014 for satisfying its liabilities.
At 31 December 2013, FP Asset Management Holdings Limited had net liabilities of £0.6m.
• Guaranteed funding for its subsidiary F&C Alternative Investments (Holdings) Limited until 25 September 2014 for satisfying its liabilities.
At 31 December 2013, F&C Alternative Investments (Holdings) Limited had net liabilities of £8.8m.
21. Contingent liabilities
Ongoing business operations
In the normal course of its business, the Company is subject to matters of litigation or dispute. While there can be no assurances, at this time
the Directors believe, based on the information currently available to them, that it is not probable that the ultimate outcome of any of these
matters will have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company.
22. Parent undertaking and controlling party
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has no ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party.
23. Post balance sheet events
(a) Proposed acquisition of F&C by Bank of Montreal
Details of this are disclosed in note 42(a) to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 135.
(b) TRC Commutation arrangements
Details of this are disclosed in note 42(d) to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 136, with the payments being made for the
obligation out of the Company. 154 | SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION |
Notice To US Shareholders –
Certain PFIC Considerations
Shareholders should consult their own tax advisors as to the tax
considerations applicable to them relating to the purchase,
ownership and disposition of our ordinary shares (the ‘Shares’),
including the applicability of US Federal state and local tax laws and
non-US tax laws. This discussion does not address tax
considerations applicable to US Shareholders other than the passive
foreign investment company rules.
F&C Asset Management plc (the ‘Company’) and certain of its
subsidiaries may be treated as passive foreign investment
companies (each, a ‘PFIC’) within the meaning of section 1297 of
the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ‘Code’) for
US Federal income tax purposes.
Treatment of the Company or any of its subsidiaries as a PFIC could
result in adverse tax consequences for US Shareholders.
A foreign corporation generally will be treated as a PFIC in any year
in which either 75 per cent or more of its gross income constitutes
passive income or at least 50 per cent of the value of its assets is
attributable to assets which produce or are held for the production
of passive income. In applying these tests, a non-US corporation
that directly or indirectly owns at least 25 per cent, by value, of the
stock of another corporation is treated as if it held directly its
proportionate share of the other corporation’s assets and received
directly its proportionate share of the other corporation’s income.
Whether a non-US company is a PFIC is determined annually,
and the status of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, could
change depending among other things upon the changes in the
composition of its gross receipts and assets, and the nature of
its business.
US Shareholders are particularly urged to consult their own Tax
Advisors regarding the US tax considerations relating to an
investment in a company that may be or may become a PFIC,
including the availability and consequences of elections that may be
available to mitigate the adverse Federal income tax consequences
of owning or disposing of PFIC shares. In that regard, US
Shareholders should be aware that the Company does not intend to
satisfy the record keeping and other requirements that would permit
a US Shareholder to make a qualified electing fund (‘QEF’) election
with respect to the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Each taxpayer is hereby notified that: (a) any discussion of US
Federal tax issues herein is not intended or written to be used, and
cannot be used by the taxpayer, for the purpose of avoiding
penalties that may be imposed on the taxpayer under US Federal
tax law; (b) any such discussion is written to support the promotion
or marketing of the transactions or matters addressed herein; and
(c) the taxpayer should seek advice based on its particular
circumstances from an independent tax advisor. ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 155
Corporate Information
Directors
Kieran Poynter, Chairman
‡
Richard Wilson, Chief Executive
Keith Bedell-Pearce, Senior Independent Non-executive*
†‡o
Keith Jones, Non-executive
‡
*
o
David Logan, Chief Financial Officer
Derham O’Neill, Non-executive*
†
Keith Percy, Non-executive
‡†o
Charlie Porter, Non-executive
Ruth Sack, Non-executive
‡
Member of Nomination Committee
* Member of Remuneration Committee
†
Member of Audit & Compliance Committee
o
Member of the Risk Committee
Head Office
Exchange House
Primrose Street
London EC2A 2NY
Telephone 020 7628 8000
Facsimile 020 7628 8188
Email: enquiries@fandc.com
Secretary and Registered Office
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
Telephone 0131 718 1000
Facsimile 0131 225 2375
Solicitors
Norton Rose LLP
3 More London Riverside
London SE1 2AQ
Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP
1 Exchange Crescent
Conference Square
Edinburgh EH3 8UL
Principal Banker
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
142-144 Princes Street
Edinburgh EH2 4EQ
Stockbrokers
J.P . Morgan Cazenove
25 Bank Street
Canary Wharf
London E14 5JP
Jefferies Hoare Govett
Vintners Place
68 Upper Thames Street
London EC4V 3BJ
HSBC Bank plc
8 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 5HQ
Auditor
KPMG Audit Plc
Saltire Court
20 Castle Terrace
Edinburgh EH1 2EG
Registrar and Transfer Office
Equiniti Limited
34 South Gyle Crescent
South Gyle Business Park
Edinburgh EH12 9EB
Corporate information
F&C Asset Management plc
Registered in Scotland
Company Registration Number SC73508
Website
Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website
www.fandc.com
Shareholder services available from Equiniti Limited
Shareview
The Company’s registrar, Equiniti, offers a Shareview service enabling shareholders to have more control over their shares and other investments:
Direct access to data held on the share register including recent share movements and dividend details.
The ability to change address details or dividend payment instructions online.
To sign up for Shareview, shareholders need the “shareholder reference” printed on the proxy form or dividend stationery, and there is no
charge to register.
On registration, shareholders can select their preferred format (post or e-mail) for shareholder communications. Shareholders selecting “e-mail”
as their mailing preference will be sent shareholder communications, such as proxy forms and notice of Company results by e-mail instead of
post, as long as this option is available. Shareholders selecting “post” as their preference will be sent paper documents as usual. Details of
software and equipment requirements are given on the website, www.shareview.co.uk F&C Asset Management plc
Head Office: Exchange House Primrose Street London EC2A 2NY
Telephone: 020 7628 8000 Email: enquiries@fandc.com
Website: www.fandc.com
