 Expect excellence
F&C Asset Management plc
Annual Report & 
Financial Statements
2007 Forward-looking statements
This Annual Report and Financial Statements may contain certain “forward-looking statements” with respect to certain of the Group’s plans and its current goals and
expectations relating to its future financial condition, performance, results, strategy and objectives. Statements containing the words “believes”, “intends”, “expects”,
“plans”, “seeks” and “anticipates”, and words of similar meaning, are forward-looking.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances which are beyond the Group’s control
including among other things, UK domestic and global economic and business conditions, market related risks such as fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates,
and the performance of financial markets generally; the policies and actions of regulatory authorities, the impact of competition, inflation and deflation; the timing, impact
and other uncertainties of future acquisitions or combinations within relevant industries; and the impact of changes in capital, solvency or accounting standards, and tax
and other legislation and regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
As a result, the Group’s actual future financial condition, performance and results may differ materially from the plans, goals, and expectations set forth in the Group’s
forward-looking statements. F&C undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report and Financial Statements. Nothing in
this publication should be considered as a profit forecast. 1
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
Contents
Definitions
3 Key Highlights of 2007
4 Chairman’s Statement
6 Chief Executive’s Report
10 Business Review
24 Directors
28 Report of the Directors
34 Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance
41 Directors’ Remuneration Report
50 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
51 Independent Auditor’s Report
52 Consolidated Income Statement
53 Consolidated Balance Sheet
54 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
55 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
56 Accounting Policies
66 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
142 Five Year Record
145 Company Balance Sheet
146 Company Accounting Policies
151 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
164 Notice of Annual General Meeting
167 Corporate Information
“F&C, FCAM, Group or Company” F&C Asset Management plc and its subsidiaries
“FP” Friends Provident plc, the Company’s ultimate parent undertaking
“F&CGH” F&C Group (Holdings) Limited and its subsidiaries 2
Trusted for over a century 3
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
Key Highlights of 2007
“Asset management is a service industry, our
business philosophy is to excel in everything that
our clients expect from us... this straightforward
view has been embedded as the cornerstone of 
our corporate culture”...
† excluding BCP compensation receipt.
* before amortisation and impairment of intangibles, BCP compensation
receipt, restructuring costs, Investment Trust VAT expense and the cost of
the Re-Investment Plan.
‡
excluding minority interest.
# operating margin represents underlying operarting profit expressed as a
percentage of net revenue.
2006
£248.2m
2007
£264.5m
2006
£(30.5)m
2007
£25.9m
2006
£88.7m
2007
£77.3m
Net revenue
†
Profit/(loss) before tax Underlying profit before taxation*
‡
2006
36.5%
2007
30.9%
2006
£104.1bn
2007
£103.6bn
2006
(4.9)p
2007
3.5p
Operating margin*
#
Assets under management
Basic earnings/(loss) 
per ordinary share
2006
12.8p
2007
10.4p
Underlying earnings 
per ordinary share*
‡
2006
11.0p
2007
6.0p
Total dividends per ordinary share
Reconciliation between reported earnings and underlying earnings and
between basic earnings/(loss) per share and underlying earnings per share are
given in note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 4
Chairman’s Statement
Results
For the year 2007, the Company recorded a profit after tax of
£18.7 million. This compares to a reported loss in 2006 of
£22.5 million. Underlying earnings per share were 10.4 pence
versus the 12.8 pence reported in 2006. The swing to reported
profit reflects the absence of prior year distortions such as
impairment charges. The reduction in underlying earnings reflects
early stage investment in accordance with our three-year plan. 
Strategy and Outlook
Last year we announced a three-year plan designed to better
position your Company for growth. The strategy required an
upfront increase in investment spending. We said that we would
spend more in the short term to make more in the long term.
2007 was year one of the three year plan. The resultant
underlying earnings are consistent with the indication given at the
time. Non-earnings-related targets were also established for
which Key Performance Indicators were agreed and tracked. The
accompanying CEO Report and Business Review give details on
progress made to date. 
During the year, the Board revisited and reaffirmed its
commitment to the plan and to the strategy it represents. We
continue to believe that the realisation of the plan is the best
strategy by which to maximise shareholder value.  Meanwhile,
Friends Provident, our 52% shareholder has undertaken its own
strategic review. Among the conclusions announced by the Board
of FP was that wealth management would no longer be core to
their strategy. We are therefore working with Friends Provident to
seek a solution which will work to the benefit of all parties and
shareholders. Needless to say, this development offers both
challenge and opportunity.
Dividend and Dividend Policy
The Board are recommending a final dividend of 4.0 pence,
payable on 16 May 2008 to shareholders on the register at
11 April 2008.
Our policy is to pursue progressive dividend growth from the
rebased dividend for 2007 and to achieve at least 1.5 times
earnings cover.
Board Developments
There were a number of Board changes since my last statement.
These have of course been announced but are summarised
below. Biographical details are given on pages 24 and 25.
Philip Moore, Chief Executive of Friends Provident stepped down
from the Board of F&C in November 2007 upon leaving the Board
of Friends Provident. We thank Philip for his contribution during
his tenure and wish him well.
Sir Adrian Montague, Executive Chairman of Friends Provident
replaced Philip Moore on the Board of F&C. He joins as a
non-Executive, non-Independent Director. 
Nicholas MacAndrew joined the Board last May as an
Independent non-Executive Director. He is a chartered accountant
with experience in both finance and asset management. Nick is a
member of the Audit & Compliance Committee. 
Gerhard Roggemann joined the Board in July as an Independent
non-Executive Director. Gerhard’s long career in finance includes
experience in the asset management, banking and corporate
finance sectors. He brings a particular knowledge of the German
marketplace.
John Heywood reached the normal retirement age of 70 in 2007
and intends to retire from the Board at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting in May.  During his years on the Board, John
could always be counted on to ask the challenging question in a
manner both incisive and polite. He is an example to us all. He will
be missed. 
John chaired the Company’s Remuneration Committee. To
ensure a smooth transition ahead of his retirement and in advance
of the most recent bonus round, the Chair was assumed during
the 3rd quarter by Brian Larcombe. Brian is a long standing
member of the Remuneration Committee.  Summary
We remain committed to the objectives of the three-year plan.
2007 was the first year of this effort and overall progress is
encouraging. As set out further in the Chief Executive’s Report,
the market and corporate situation creates uncertainty over the
timetable for delivery but not to our commitment to the strategic
direction. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our employees for
their tremendous efforts and impressive achievements. 
Robert Jenkins
Chairman
6 March 2008
5
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 6
Chief Executive’s Report
Last year I reported the launch of a three-year plan, focused on
targeting specialist areas and higher margin products, to foster
profitable organic growth. Consistent with this strategy, our Key
Performance Indicators are biased towards growth, rather than
short term operating margin or assets under management.
The first phase of this plan required accelerated investment in
people, products and infrastructure to ensure we deliver strong
investment performance on existing funds and upgrade our
product suite, distribution resources and operating platform.
Underpinning this we identified a portfolio of eight product and
marketing initiatives for 2007, as well as specific infrastructure
investments.
In spite of turbulent markets in the second half of the year and the
corporate backdrop, discussed further below, I am pleased to report
good overall progress in executing the first year of our plan. Our
portfolio approach to new initiatives, combined with a careful
monitoring of progress in each, provided us with the flexibility to
adjust the mix of the investment programme throughout the year
in light of market developments. In aggregate, the revenues and
costs of these initiatives were well within the parameters of our plan.
The financial outcome for 2007 is slightly ahead of our plans, with
underlying earnings per share of 10.4 pence and operating margin
of 30.9 per cent. Our average fee rate has continued to rise
progressively from 21.6 basis points in 2006 to 22.5 in 2007
reflecting our focus on increasing revenue margins.
Business Flows
2007 was another record year for our UK retail funds business
with £703 million of inflows into open ended funds. Our net sales
rose 28 per cent. during a period when, according to the
Investment Management Association, net sales of UK domiciled
retail funds actually declined by 38 per cent. Importantly, inflows
were across a broad number of funds including multi-manager,
ethical, corporate bond, UK and Asian equity funds. We have
excellent momentum in UK retail and have secured a number of
new distribution agreements with adviser firms that should allow
us to build sales further during 2008.
Having disclosed in January 2007 that we had received
notification of institutional withdrawals during 2007 of £5.2 billion,
final institutional outflows totalled £6.1 billion including an 
£800 million withdrawal from Cambridge University notified in
September 2007, following its decision to establish its own
investment office. We recorded increased institutional inflows of
£3.3 billion during the year and obtained eleven new consultant
“buy” ratings. Average fees on institutional inflows were higher
than average fees lost on institutional outflows, reflecting the
implementation of our strategy.
Investment Performance
Investment performance was strong across a number of key
products and asset classes during 2007 resulting in performance
fees increasing by more than 100 per cent. We out-performed in
core UK equities, UK high alpha, UK small cap, pan-European
equities, emerging equities, global equities, UK credit, high yield
bonds, emerging debt and convertibles. Performance was
excellent in Asia ex Japan and emerging equities. The latter result
is particularly pleasing as it vindicates the actions taken to rebuild
our emerging equities team in 2006.
We under performed in US, Japanese and Continental European
equities and UK government bonds and global credit. Where
necessary we have taken action to improve performance in these
asset classes.  For example, we have appointed a new Head of
European equities and, in the case of US large cap equities, we
moved all mandates to our Quantitative Equity Strategies desk at
the start of 2008. 
Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) funds under performed their
unscreened sectors during 2007 as they are naturally biased
towards small caps and were limited in their ability to participate
in oil and gas and mining shares, as well as certain defensive
sectors such as tobacco. However, our SRI funds remain
positioned as market leaders against their ethically screened
competitors and we expect to see ongoing strong demand for
sustainable investments. 
Investment in Products, People and Infrastructure
New product development was a key feature of 2007, particularly
in the first half of the year. In addition to those products identified
in my interim report and at the launch of the three-year plan, we
also launched an innovative multi-asset Diversified Growth Fund
and the first ‘130/30’ fund focused on UK equities. We further
built our sustainable investment range with new funds focused on
ethical bonds and the investment opportunities linked to climate
change. In The Netherlands we launched our own fiduciary
management service to respond to the structural changes in 
that market.
We also continued work on our infrastructure platform. We
successfully brought in-house the element of our operations that
had previously been outsourced to Mellon and now have in place
a single, integrated operational function that leaves us better
placed to take on new business and ensure consistency of service.
As we recognise the efficiencies generated by these infrastructure
developments and other investments we would anticipate a
reduction in head count from the end of 2007 levels. Likewise, we
implemented a new front-office Decision, Risk and Dealing (DRD)
system to support the delivery of investment performance,
particularly as we develop more sophisticated products.
We have made additional investments in human capital, following
on from the substantial upgrades of our investment teams in
2006. Much of our recruitment in 2007 has been focused on the
further development of our distribution capabilities to allow us to
achieve increased inflows over the coming years. In particular we
recruited a Head of Distribution and Business Development to
lead the distribution drive in our international wholesale and
institutional businesses and a Head of Product Management to
improve the speed of delivery of new product initiatives. We have
strengthened distribution teams in The Netherlands, Germany and
the UK and opened an office in Sweden. We have also registered
our funds into a number of new jurisdictions including Austria,
Switzerland and the Nordic region.
Outlook
With strong performance, an enhanced product suite and
additional hires in sales and business development, the focus of
6 7
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
2008 will be distribution. In Europe we will continue to deepen our
presence in existing markets as well as extend into new territories.
We have recently concluded a distribution deal with the Allfunds
Bank platform that will provide us access to a broad base of
distributors located in several markets, including Spain and Italy.
Moreover, we have recently established distribution relationships
with banks in both Italy and Russia. We are also finding
opportunities outside of Europe, including a new agreement with
IM Trust that will provide us with access to the Chilean market
and are exploring initiatives in Asia and the Middle East.
Against this backdrop of good progress in executing the plan
there are undoubtedly challenges ahead, not least from a
deteriorating economic environment and volatile markets. We
believe that our strategy of being a diversified business by asset
class, client type and geography positions us well to weather the
storm. We have no direct exposure to US sub-prime mortgages
and limited exposure to structured credit instruments. However,
volatile markets undoubtedly present significant challenges for
active investors and hamper net sales. 
In our 2006 Annual Report & Financial Statements, we stated that:
“we are setting ourselves a target of increasing underlying EPS by
50 per cent. from 2007 to 2009”. Since that statement was made
the Company has entered into an Offer Period and has confirmed
with the Takeover Panel that this target qualifies as a Profit Forecast
for the purposes of the Takeover Code. Given its duration the
target cannot be reported on as a Profit Forecast as required by
the Takeover Code and in the absence of such a report the
Company is unable to provide an assurance that the target will be
achieved. Accordingly shareholders should not rely upon it.
As outlined earlier the Board and management are pleased with
the progress to-date in implementing its strategy and during 2007
launched a number of new products, recruited high quality
professionals and improved investment performance in key
product areas. However, since publishing the earnings target a
number of factors have affected our business including the
uncertainty surrounding Friends Provident, the recent
announcement by Friends Provident that it is considering
divesting its shareholding in the company and deteriorating
market conditions. The combination of these factors is impacting
some client and consultant decisions on new business and has
resulted in there being an increased level of uncertainty around
the timing of the growth anticipated in the plan. Nevertheless the
Board and management remains committed to the strategic
direction set out in the plan and its focus on seeking organic
growth opportunities in higher revenue margin and specialist
product areas. The Board and management believe that the
group will increase its rate of progress once market conditions
stabilise and our long term ownership is resolved.
Alain L. Grisay
Chief Executive
6 March 2008 8
Expect excellence 9
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
“2007 saw F&C embark on a major sponsorship
deal with Birmingham City Football Club. 
This exciting development promotes brand
awareness through many sectors of the media.’’ 10
The Board has prepared this report on pages 10 to 21 in accordance with the requirements
of Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 and it forms part of the Directors’ Report. The
law requires the Company’s auditors to report on whether the information given in the
Directors’ Report and Business Review is consistent with the financial statements. The
auditor’s opinion is included in their report on page 51.
The purpose of this review is to provide shareholders with a snapshot summary setting
out the business objectives of the Company, the Board’s strategy to achieve those
objectives, the risks faced, the regulatory environment and the key performance indictors
(KPIs) used to measure performance.
The Group‘s sole activity is asset
management. We are an active
international investor but with a client
focus on the UK and Continental Europe.
Our clients comprise a wide range of
insurance, institutional and retail investors,
across multiple jurisdictions, for whom we
manage a diverse range of investments
including equities, fixed income and
property. The asset management industry
is highly competitive and we have a range
of competitors, who differ by geography,
product and asset class. While we
operate across multiple locations, with a
physical presence in nine countries, our
organisational philosophy has two key
parameters – to seek to avoid duplication,
by, for example, managing each asset
class from only one location, and to place
client service functions where appropriate
in order to meet client requirements.
Our objective
To deliver shareholder value. Asset
management is a service industry, so
seeking to excel in everything that clients
expect from us is the key to building
shareholder value.
Our strategy
  Focus on investment performance to
deliver client satisfaction
  Seek and develop distribution
opportunities in key markets to deliver
organic growth
  Focus on higher margin and specialist
areas for new business
  Maintain diversity of revenues while
leveraging our scale
Key risks – see page 16
In addition to the “normal risks” facing the
business relating to the market, interest
rates, foreign currency and personnel, the
Board has identified the following as the
key risks facing the business in 2008:
  Uncertainty and distraction arising
from Friends Provident’s strategic
announcement that it is considering
divesting from the Company.
  Risk of poor historic investment
performance leading to loss of key
investment mandates.
  Development of front office control
processes.
  Market trends towards polarisation
and fiduciary management.
  Development of operational platforms.
Executive Directors, Executive
Committee and Management
Committee
Messrs Grisay and Logan are the
Executive Directors of the Company.
These Executive Directors, together with
Messrs Criticos, Mendez de Vigo and
Ribeiro form the Executive Committee
(EXECOM). EXECOM is accountable and
responsible for implementing Board
strategy, proposing development of new
elements of strategy and, together with
the Management Committee (ManCom),
for the day-to-day running of the
business. In addition to overseeing the
implementation of the strategy, EXECOM
and ManCom regularly review business
issues and matters not reserved for the
Board as a whole. The Committees have
reserved lists to assist them in carrying
out their functions. Examples of matters
reserved for EXECOM and ManCom as
delegated authorities from the Board are:
The approval of day-to-day business
issues linked to the strategy or the annual
budget and including the launch of new
products; approval of contractual
commitments; approval of expenditure;
and the management of any issue that
could have a potential legal or
reputational impact on the Group.
Business Review
Alain Grisay
Chief Executive
David Logan
Chief Financial 
Officer
Nick Criticos 
Head of UK
Retail and 
Marketing
Fernando Ribeiro 
Head of
Investments
Cristobal 
Mendez de Vigo
Head of Distribution
and Business
Development
Underlying earnings per ordinary
share – see pages 18 and 19
Basic earnings/(loss) per ordinary
share
2007 10.4p
2006 12.8p
2005 15.9p
2007 3.5p
2006 (4.9p)
2005 (16.4p) 11
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
Our view of the market
After a buoyant start to the year, 2007 will be remembered as one of the most challenging
years on record for financial markets. Problems emanating from the US housing market,
and the sub-prime mortgage sector in particular, sent shockwaves through the financial
system with a freezing up of credit that notably resulted in the first run on a UK bank in
over a century.
We see the fall-out from the credit crisis continuing to unfold for some time as banks
announce write-offs and consumers and corporate borrowers no longer have access to
the easy credit which has helped fuel growth in recent years. The risk of a US recession
driven by a slowdown in the housing market has increased and signs of an economic
slowdown have spread to other markets.
Against this backdrop of slowing economic growth, inflationary pressures continue to
cause concerns and present a real dilemma for central bankers, particularly the Bank of
England, which has a specific remit to control inflation. Rising oil prices, household energy
bills, council tax and food prices are strong inflationary factors in the UK which may
therefore curtail the Bank of England’s willingness to cut interest rates as aggressively as
US authorities are able to.
Given these macro economic headwinds we anticipate continued levels of significant
volatility in equity markets and continued lack of liquidity in the credit markets. These
create challenging conditions for managers of both equity and bond portfolios. Mergers
and acquisitions activity, particularly from private equity leveraged buy-out (LBO) funds,
had been a significant feature of markets in recent years but as a result of tougher credit
conditions we anticipate much more subdued levels of M&A activity going forward and
trade deals to be a bigger feature of the market as LBOs subside.
The financial sector has been at the sharp edge of the deteriorating economic outlook, to
the extent that we believe the market has priced in recession in its rating of some banks.
Asset managers, along with other market participants, have experienced a de-rating of
their stock prices, particularly those with a heavy focus on retail investors, commercial
property and equities. We believe that our strategic commitment to remaining a well
balanced business by client type, asset class and geography means we are relatively well
positioned. 
Developments in distribution continue to be a key driver of the asset management industry
with banks and insurers gradually shifting away from the manufacturing and distribution of
in-house product towards “open architecture” models, where they provide their clients
with access to products from multiple providers through wrap accounts and other
platforms.
In the UK, firms of Independent Financial Advisers (IFAs) continue to seek to scale up
through consolidation and re-engineer their service propositions. In particular, we believe
that the Financial Services Authority’s “Treating Customers Fairly” initiative is accelerating
the pace at which some firms withdraw from in-house fund selection and migrate client
assets into multi-manager products. Service support and operational effectiveness are
therefore becoming key factors alongside investment performance.  
A further key regulatory development during 2007 was the introduction of the Markets in
Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID). The impacts of MiFID are wide ranging and we
anticipate it will create further impetus for change.
In the institutional market place we believe that the shift away from balanced management
has largely played out in the UK but remains a trend on the Continent, particularly in
markets such as The Netherlands where fiduciary management has made strong inroads.
In this environment the ability of an asset manager to demonstrate the delivery of “alpha”
in specific products is more important than its perceived overall capabilities.
UK Equity Market Performance – 
FTSE 100 Index
UK Government Bond Market
Performance – FTA Brit. Gov.
Fixed All Stocks Total Return
1682
1793
1935
1949
2052
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
4477
4814
5619
6221
6457
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
All graphs at 31 December.  12
At the product level there is a clear separation between the provision of “alpha”,
through specialist mandates and portable alpha products, including Global Tactical
Asset Allocation funds, and low-cost “beta” exposure achieved through Exchange
Traded Funds, index funds and derivative instruments. Alternative investments
continue to grow in acceptance and enhanced alpha products, such as “130/30”
funds, are attracting closer scrutiny following rapid growth in the US. As a result of
these various developments, performance fees are becoming ever more common-
place on actively managed investment mandates. In turn, this may lead to greater
revenue volatility for asset managers.
Strong equity market performance in recent years has helped many company pension
schemes close their funding gaps. However, as markets move into more uncertain
territory, we expect funding gaps once more to become a concern. This should also
refocus the attention of trustees once again on the need to hedge inflation and interest
rate risk and renew interest in Liability Driven Investment (LDI) and Asset Liability
Management (ALM). 
Many of these product trends require asset managers to deepen their derivatives
expertise and ensure that decision, risk and dealing systems are sufficiently robust.
Increasingly asset managers are therefore recruiting staff from the same pool as
investment banks which is further adding to competitive pressures.
Assets under Management by
client category
Assets under Management by asset
class
Our view of the market continued
All graphs at 31 December. 
Business Review
2007
     Insurance Funds     58.9
     Institutional Funds   27.3
     Sub-Advisory            6.5
     Investment Trusts     6.6
     UK Retail
     (Mutual Funds)          3.3
     International
     Wholesale
     (Mutual Funds)         1.0
              £bn   2006
     Insurance Funds     59.0
     Institutional Funds  28.1
     Sub-Advisory            7.0
     Investment Trusts     6.5
     UK Retail
     (Mutual Funds)          3.0
     International
     Wholesale
     (Mutual Funds)          0.5
              £bn
2007
     Fixed Interest          53.5
     Equities                  37.0
     Property                    5.3
     Other Alternative
     Investments              1.9
     Money Market          5.9
                    £bn   2006
     Fixed Interest          54.0
     Equities                  38.2
     Property                    5.2
     Other Alternative
     Investments              1.3
     Money Market          5.4
                    £bn   
Assets under management
2007 £103.6bn
2006 £104.1bn
2005 £131.0bn 2007 Key points
  We launched a three-year plan to
accelerate revenue growth by focusing
on new business opportunities in higher
margin areas and specialist mandates
  To support the three-year plan, 2007
saw increased investment in people,
products and infrastructure, financed
by a rebasing of our full-year dividend
from historic levels
  Further strengthening of investment and
distribution teams with additional hires
  Implemented new Decision, Risk and
Dealing systems to support the
delivery of investment performance
and the new product suite
  A portfolio of eight growth initiatives was
identified for 2007
Key Performance Indicators
Corporate Health
The Board has identified sixteen
corporate health indicators providing an
overview of the Group’s corporate
strategy, management, IT infrastructure
and control environment. These indicators
are assessed by the Board on a quarterly
basis and coded as follows:
RED = At risk,
AMBER = Need for improvement,
GREEN = Competitive
Number of green indicators (out of sixteen)
Number of red indicators (out of sixteen)
2007 Investment Performance awards
included:
  Category winner – F&C Far East
Equity, Standard & Poors European
Fund Awards
  Category winner – Best overall group,
Lipper Fund Awards
  Category winners – F&C Global
Convertible Bond Fund and F&C HVB
Stiftungsfonds, Lipper Fund Awards
  Category runner ups – F&C European
High Yield Bond Fund (2nd place) and
F&C Global Convertible Bond Fund
(3rd place), Finanzen Euro Awards
  Category winner – F&C Global Smaller
Companies, Money Observer
Investment Trust Awards
  Best Asset Manager investing in
Environmental, Social & Governance,
TBLI / IPE Awards
2007 9
13
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
Focus on performance to deliver client satisfaction
We seek to define and deliver top quartile performance in everything we do. Our strategy
is grounded in our belief in a virtuous circle: delivering excellent performance will be
validated by organic growth which will, in turn, translate into earnings growth and stock
price performance.
2006 6
2005 1
2007 0
2006 2
2005 7
Investment Performance
2007 Key points
  £20.8 million performance fees earned
– an increase of over 100% from 2006
  Out-performance in core UK equities,
UK high alpha, UK smaller companies,
pan-European equities, Asia ex Japan,
emerging equities, global equities, UK
credit, high yield bonds, emerging
debt and convertibles
  Underperformance in US equities,
Japanese equities, Continental
European equities, UK government
bonds and global credit
  Sixteen UK retail funds achieved
Standard & Poors Fund Research
ratings
  Fourteen mutual funds delivered top
quartile performance
  Socially Responsible Investment funds
posted relative underperformance
against unscreened sectors because
ethical restrictions limited oil, gas and
mining exposure
2008 Priorities
  Accelerate new inflows into recent
product launches
  Deliver top quartile performance
against a more challenging economic
environment
  Retain key investment personnel
during period of corporate change
  Continue momentum in Performance
First initiative 14
Seek and develop distribution opportunities in key markets to deliver
organic growth
Our business model is based on intermediaries and partnerships. We are focused
primarily on the UK and Continental Europe, however, we will increasingly seek to expand
distribution into other geographies. Our priority is organic growth, however, we will take an
opportunistic approach towards further acquisitions.
2007 Key points
  Record year for our UK retail business
with £703 million gross sales during a
period when industry net retail sales
declined by 38 per cent.
  Institutional new business increased
11 per cent.; outflows reflected the
pipeline identified 12 months ago
  Signed new UK retail distribution deals
on our Lifestyle fund range with
Lighthouse, Paradigm and Thinc
  Appointed a new Head of Distribution
& Business Development and
re-organised wholesale and
institutional distribution
  Further expanded our European
footprint with the opening of a new
office in Sweden and registration of
funds in Austria, Switzerland and the
Nordic region
  Strengthened sales and client servicing
teams in Germany, The Netherlands
and the UK
  Enhanced brand building activities
through sponsorship of Birmingham
City Football Club
2008 Key priorities:
  Further expand European presence
into Spain, Italy and Russia
  Seek distribution opportunities in
South America, Canada, Asia and the
Middle East
  Support strong momentum in the UK
retail market through broadening and
deepening client relationships  
  Sign additional Lifestyle fund
distribution deals with UK IFA firms
  Add links to additional life company
platforms
Key Performance Indicators
Percentage of Retail funds above median
(1 year)
Percentage of key institutional accounts
exceeding client objective (3 years)
2007 41%
2006 64%
2005 54%
2007 64%
2006 46%
2005 40%
Business Review  15
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
Focus on higher margin and specialist areas
We are targeting net new business in higher margin and specialist areas. These include
retail, alternatives and specialist institutional mandates yielding performance fees.
2007 Key points:
  Significantly upgraded product
suite including the launch of:
  Four Lifestyle multi-manager funds
  A European private equity fund of
funds
  A multi-asset Diversified Growth Fund
  A UK equities ‘130/30’ fund 
  A Global Tactical Asset Allocation fund
  An enhanced cash fund
  Climate Change and Ethical Bond
Funds
  Two new hedge funds and a listed
fund of hedge funds
  A fiduciary management service
  Average fee rate improved from 
21.6 basis points to 22.5 basis points
  Performance fees increased from
£9.5 million to £20.8 million
2008 Key priorities:
  Product priorities in the UK institutional
market include LDI and Diversified
Growth
  In Continental Europe and the US the
focus will vary from market to market
but will include emerging equities/
Indian equities, Asian equities, SRI
products and convertibles
  UK retail sales priorities are multi-
manager, F&C UK Growth & Income,
Stewardship, Asia ex Japan and
emerging equities
Key Performance Indicators
Average basis points earned on Assets
Under Management
2007 22.5
2006 21.6
2005 20.8
2007 Key points:
  Over 45 per cent. of revenues are
earned from non UK clients
  Continued to diversify distribution
across Europe with the registration of
funds in Austria, Switzerland and the
Nordic region
  Consolidated our operations in to a
single in-house function following the
termination of our contracts with
Mellon
  Continued to embed our multi-
boutique investment model
  Delivered 31 per cent. Operating
Margin in line with indications given to
the market
2008 Priorities
  Increase strategic focus on distribution
  Seek presence in additional markets
both within and beyond Europe
  Continue to consider bolt-on
acquisitions, particularly those which
bring added distribution
Key Performance Indicators
Operating Margin
Maintain diversity of earnings while leveraging scale
We are a diversified business by client type, asset mix and geography. This provides us
with a robust business model across market cycles. We benefit from scale in terms of
research, infrastructure, distribution and access to the market.
2007 30.9%
2006 36.5%
2005 44.1% 16
Business Review 
  Uncertainty and distraction arising
from Friends Provident’s strategic
announcement that it is considering
divesting from the Company 
Friends Provident’s January 2008
announcement creates a risk of
disruption to asset gathering and the
stability of the Company’s human
capital. The Board of F&C is working
with the board of FP to find a solution
that is in the best interests of all
shareholders and are proposing
amendments to the Company’s
remuneration plans to enhance
retention.
  Development of operational
platforms 
During 2007, investment administration
services previously outsourced to
Mellon were brought back in-house and
merged into one Investment Operations
function. This has allowed for greater
management oversight and
enhancement of the control
environment. Throughout 2008, a major
programme is underway to consolidate
the systems and processes on to a
single platform and operating model. 
  Development of front office control
processes 
During 2007 significant progress has
been made in relation to the
development and implementation of the
new front office systems. An integrated
systems platform is now in place for
dealing and order management and
decision support for equity fund
managers. Equivalent systems for fixed
income and pre and post-trade
compliance will be implemented in the
first half of 2008. In addition, a core risk
platform was implemented for use by
both the front office and Investment
Risk functions replacing multiple legacy
risk services. 
  Market trends towards polarisation
and fiduciary management 
The trend, particularly in The
Netherlands, towards Fiduciary
Management presents a business risk
for the balanced institutional mandates
managed by F&C but has also opened
up some new opportunities. F&C’s
own Fiduciary Services offering has
already been launched for clients in
The Netherlands.
  Risk of poor historic investment
performance leading to loss of key
investment mandates
Despite difficult market conditions in the
second half of 2007, investment
performance remained resilient
throughout the year with some notable
areas of out-performance. In 2008 there
will be continued focus on performance
and the retention of key talent. 
Key risks 17
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
Our trading performance and outlook
Overall, funds under management at 31 December 2007 were £103.6 billion, compared with £104.1 billion at the end of 2006. During
2007 F&C experienced net outflows of £9.0 billion.
Insurance
Net outflows of £5.0 billion from insurance clients represented 
56 per cent. of all net outflows during the year. These included
£1.6 billion resulting from the reinsurance of Friends Provident’s
annuity book with Swiss Re.
Institutional
Institutional net outflows of £2.9 billion reflected the following:
  Inflows during the year of £3.3 billion;
  In January 2007 we highlighted a pipeline of £5.2 billion
institutional outflows. This included some Dutch balanced
mandates moving to fiduciary managers;
  Cambridge University, a longstanding client, withdrew an 
£800 million equity portfolio as it established its own
investment office along the lines of many US universities.
New institutional business inflows were at higher fee rates than
outflows with mandate wins in convertibles, emerging market
debt, global equities and LDI.
Good progress has been made with consultants in newer product
areas such as LDI and UK high alpha equities.
Sub Advisory
Continuing the trend reported last year, 2007 saw further net
outflows (£1.3 billion) which substantially represented Portuguese
retail investors moving out of money market funds and into
banking products. Fee margins on these assets are substantially
below our average fee rate. 
Investment Trusts 
2007 was an active year for our investment trust business with 
a successful roll-over of an existing trust and the launch of 
F&C Event Driven (a £75 million fund of hedge funds). There were
no investment trust mandate losses. A £346 million net outflow of
investment trust assets related to the following factors:
  Share buyback activity;
  Reductions in gearing levels;
  The natural wind-up of Investors Capital Trust of which 61 per
cent. was rolled-over into a successor vehicle.
Our investment trusts savings products continued to account for
approximately a third of all industry inflows, with more than
51,000 Child Trust Fund accounts now having been opened.
UK Retail 
2007 was a record year for us with net retail sales up 28 per cent.
and gross inflows of £703 million. Flows were spread across a
range of key products including our multi-manager, ethical,
corporate bond, UK and Asian equities funds. New distribution
deals have been signed with key partners including Lighthouse,
Paradigm and Thinc on our Lifestyle multi-manager range with
further deals in the pipeline for 2008.
International Wholesale 
Net sales of mutual funds increased 109 per cent. to £111 million,
primarily reflecting a very significant reduction in the level of
historic outflows. Strengthened distribution, registrations into new
countries and good investment performance will see significantly
increased focus on this currently small part of our business in
2008. In particular we are concentrating activity around the 
F&C Asia Dynamic, F&C HVB Stiftungsfonds, F&C Global
Convertibles, F&C Stewardship International, and F&C Indian
Investment Company funds. 18
Our financial performance
Business Review 
Total return
Our focus is the creation of shareholder value and an indicator of
our success is total shareholder return, measured as percentage
change in share price plus dividends. In the year ended
31 December 2007, our total shareholder return was -4.31 per
cent. In the same period, the average total shareholder return on
the FTSE 250 index was -2.46 per cent. and the FTSE100 was
7.36 per cent.  However, financial stocks, including asset
managers, which are often seen as generating returns correlated
to stock markets, were particularly volatile in the second half of
2007 and our return was impacted accordingly. 
Overview
We set out in last year’s review an outline of our three-year plan,
which, as reported elsewhere, was successfully launched in the
first quarter of the year.  Integral to the plan was a need for
investment, to accelerate our future organic growth, and
accordingly 2007 saw additional investment in people, distribution
and infrastructure.  As an asset management business, we
require limited capital expenditure and much of our investment
took the form of revenue expenditure, to assist us to grow future
revenues. We indicated on the launch of the plan that this
additional expenditure was likely to reduce our operating margin
for 2007 and our margin has fallen to 30.9 per cent., in line with
indications we gave at the start of the year.
Presentation of financial results
IFRS requires our financial statements to consolidate the results of
our Managed Pension Fund business on a line-by-line basis,
impacting both our Income Statement and Balance Sheet
presentation.  Our Income Statement also includes Re-Investment
Plan costs of £6.4 million. These costs relate to the share scheme
established at the time of the merger in 2004 to lock-in and
incentivise senior staff. This scheme matured during 2007 and
that year is the last period in which such costs will be incurred.  
During 2006 our Income Statement also included impairment
charges on intangible assets of £58.5 million, principally arising
from the fact that our client loss rate on investment management
contracts acquired in corporate acquisitions was greater than that
assessed at the time of those acquisitions.  In 2007, we incurred
no such impairment charges.
Net revenue
Net revenue for the year was £264.5 million (2006: £248.2 million
excluding the £2.6 million compensation received for the loss of
funds in 2005).  Whilst new business of £6.5 billion was won
during the year and rising markets and positive exchange
variances added approximately £8.5 billion to our funds under
management, our management fees were impacted by net
business outflows totalling £9.0 billion, together with the full year
revenue effect of business outflows which arose in 2006. Net fund
flows are a key performance measure for us and are indicative of
the growth of our business. In that respect, our net UK retail
funds inflows were approximately 28 per cent. higher than 2006
and our institutional net outflows fell by some 64 per cent.
from 2006.
In addition another important indicator is the level of performance
fees earned from clients. In 2007 performance fees were
£20.8 million, an increase of more than 100 per cent. from 2006.
Revenue margins
Our revenue margin, measured as management fee income
divided by average assets under management, has increased
from 21.6 basis points in 2006 to 22.5 basis points in 2007.
Although in part this reflects the loss of low fee mandates, it is
also a measure of our progress against our objective of
generating net new business in higher margin products.
Operating expenses
Operating expenses excluding the Re-Investment Plan costs,
amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, restructuring
costs and Investment Trust VAT expense  were £183.8 million
(2006: £159.4 million). The largest component of this is staff
related costs. Accordingly, managing our headcount and our
remuneration policies is critical to effective cost control.  During
2007 our headcount rose by some 138, 81 relating to the
transfer of staff on the termination of the Mellon outsourcing
agreement. The remaining headcount increase represents part of
our investment in the business and reflects the need for
additional personnel to support our distribution plans and
manage and support our enhanced product range. During 2007,
our IT and operations costs also increased as a result of  the
significant project costs associated with changes made to our
operating platform, both through the reintegration of the Mellon
back office and the introduction of new front office Decision, Risk
and Dealing systems.
Operating margin
As a consequence of the changes in our net revenue and expense
base, discussed above, our operating margin for the year to 
31 December 2007 was 30.9 per cent (2006: 36.5 per cent).
Investment Trust VAT expense
During the year, litigation between an investment trust and 
Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs (“HMRC”) concluded in the
European Court of Justice. That litigation determined that
investment trust management fees should not be subject to VAT.
This judgement is retrospective and accordingly we have created a
provision for amounts of VAT and interest which may be payable
to investment trust clients beyond that recoverable from HMRC.
Underlying earnings
The Board utilises underlying earnings per share as one of its key
metrics in assessing financial performance. The table opposite
sets out the reconciliation between underlying earnings and
statutory earnings. Underlying earnings per share for the year
ended 31 December 2007 was 10.4 pence (2006: 12.8 pence).
The reduction principally reflects the investment costs 
discussed earlier. 19
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
Dividends
At the start of the year, and as announced at that time, the Board
determined it was appropriate to rebase the 2007 dividends in
light of the need to fund the investment in the business to launch
the three-year plan. Accordingly, we indicated that the 2007
dividend would be rebased to achieve at least 150 per cent. cover
on underlying earnings. In line with this policy, the Board has
declared a final dividend of 4.0 pence per share, which, subject to
approval by shareholders, will be paid on 16 May 2008 to
shareholders on the register at 11 April 2008. This dividend, when
taken with the interim dividend of 2.0 pence per share, results in a
total dividend for the year of 6.0 pence per share.
Intangible assets
Under IFRS when an acquisition is made, there is a requirement
to recognise separately the fair value attributed to intangible
assets, in our case, management contracts. The excess of
consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired represents
the business value and infrastructure and is recognised as
goodwill.
Management contracts are separated by client type and are
amortised over their estimated useful lives. Where an indicator of
impairment occurs, such as greater than anticipated fund losses,
we are required to review the carrying value of these contracts.
No such indicators of impairment arose during 2007 and
accordingly no impairment charges were recognised.  We are also
required to conduct an annual impairment review of the carrying
value of goodwill. This review demonstrated that there was no
impairment and hence no requirement to write down goodwill.
Cash resources
While we have debt on our balance sheet, we also have cash
resources of £216.2 million. However, a significant part of that
cash is held in our regulated subsidiaries against their capital
requirements and is accordingly not available for corporate
purposes. As asset management should generally be a cash
generative business, we should not require significant cash for
working capital purposes beyond our regulatory capital
requirement. 
Pension funds 
Our pension fund deficits have fallen from £45.4 million at
31 December 2006 to £26.8 million at 31 December 2007, partly
through additional contributions of £8.0 milion made during 2007
to facilitate the merger of the two UK defined benefit schemes.
This advertisement is for financial advisers only. *Annualised performance since appointment of T ed Scott 1 July 2005. Prospective investors should consult the
Simplified Prospectus and will find the past performance record of the Fund as prescribed by the FSA at www.fandc.com. Past performance is not a guide to
future performance. As a result of market fluctuations, investments and the income from them can fall as well as rise and investors may not get back the amount
originally invested. Issued and approved by F&C Fund Management Limited. F&C Fund Management Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services
Authority (FSA) FRN:119230. Limited by shares. Registered in England and Wales, No. 517895. Registered address and Head Office: Exchange House, Primrose
Street, London EC2A 2NY. F&C Asset Management plc is the listed holding company of the F&C Group. F&C Fund Management Limited is a member of the 
F&C Group of companies and a subsidiary of F&C Asset Management plc. 
T ed Scott’s turning in 
the numbers.
08457 99 22 99
Expect excellence
This advertisement is intended for Financial Advisers only.
The F&C UK Growth & Income Fund
Ted Scott’s F&C Growth & Income Fund has returned 15.6% per year since he
started managing the fund.
Ted, supported by Investment Manager Hilary Aldridge, takes a relatively
aggressive approach to delivering outperformance.
In the two years that Ted has managed the fund it has comfortably beaten 
the sector average and remained 1st quartile.
T o find out more call 08457 99 22 99 or visit www.fandc.com
Example of promotional activity for our
high margin UK Retail business.
Reconciliation of Earnings per share (pence) 2007 2006
Earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share 3.54 (4.91)
BCP compensation receipt – (0.38)
Amortisation of intangibles, net of tax 5.25 6.29
Impairment of intangibles – 8.54
Cost of the Re-Investment Plan, net of tax 0.98 1.81
Restructuring costs post acquisition of F&CGH Group – 1.45
Investment Trust VAT expense, net of tax 0.60 –
Underlying earnings per share* 10.37 12.80
* Defined as earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangibles, BCP
compensation receipt, restructuring costs, Investment Trust VAT expense and the
cost of the Re-Investment Plan. 20
Our strategic approach and commitment to Corporate Responsibility (“CR”)
Business Review 
CR strategy
The Company has two overarching strategic ambitions:
  To enable our clients to respond effectively to changing
dynamics in the world economy through our products and
through influencing companies to improve business
performance.
  To ensure that we meet the highest practicable standards of
corporate responsibility in our own operations.
The Company is committed to meeting these ambitions over a
three year time horizon in line with the broader goals of the
business articulated in the group’s three-year plans.
We have defined four key categories supporting our strategic
ambitions, Marketplace, Environment, Workplace and Community.
We are committed to monitoring and reporting on progress
against the targets set within each category, both internally (on a
quarterly basis) and externally (at least annually). F&C’s Corporate
Responsibility policies are guided by a number of broadly
accepted international standards and benchmarks. Wherever
practicable, we will seek external validation of our progress and
publish these results.
F&C considers the following key external measures to validate our
relative Corporate Responsibility performance.
External Validation Existing Position 3 Year Target
BITC Corporate 
Responsibility Index Silver status Platinum status
EIRIS/FTSE4Good Inclusion Inclusion
UN Global Compact CCP Member Member
Carbon Disclosure Project Member Member
Principles for Responsible Founding Founding
Investment Signatory Signatory
F&C identifies its key stakeholders as shareholders, clients,
employees, suppliers, government and non-government
organisations, the wider community, other asset management
companies and companies in which we invest. We engage widely
with stakeholder groups through regular dialogue that is tailored
to meet the requirements of each stakeholder group.
CR categories supporting the strategic ambitions
F&C has established key performance indicators (KPIs) for each of
the CR categories detailed below, details of which can be found
on the Corporate Responsibility section of the Company’s
website.
Marketplace 
F&C will use the influence of its customers’
assets to engage with companies on all relevant
CR matters where this will improve business
performance. F&C will increase the number of
milestones achieved (being an instance in which
a company improves its policies, procedures or
practices following engagement and where F&C’s participation
has been a major factor) to 250 in 2007 and to 300 by 2010.
F&C will issue voting instructions in line with its Corporate
Governance Operational Guidelines on 100% of global resolutions
that it is mandated to on behalf of clients and will publish its
voting history. F&C will contact 100% of companies following an
abstention or vote against mangement.
Environment 
F&C is targeting carbon neutrality internally and
is committed to helping our clients and suppliers
cut carbon emissions. Over the next three years
F&C will obtain 100 per cent. of its energy usage
from renewable sources, where such markets
exist.
F&C will source 100 per cent. of its paper used from chlorine free
recycled supplies, reduce like for like waste to landfill by 20 per
cent. and increase its own recycling by 20 per cent.
F&C will actively embark on an internal education programme on
the effect that water and other waste management has on the
environment.
F&C, through its marketplace engagement activity, will widen its
influence to the companies in which it invests.
As the market leader in
sustainable investment, F&C seeks
to embed corporate responsibility
throughout its own business,
including an active community
programme. 
Early in 2008, as part of the
Community programme, the
Company organised a tree
planting day at Hanworth Park 
in London. Workplace 
F&C is committed to ensuring good practices in
managing its own workplace issues.
F&C will undertake an annual Employee Survey
and will, by 2009, target top decile employee
participation levels.
F&C always seeks to employ the best person for each job and
does not discriminate on grounds of gender, race, ethnicity,
religion, sexual orientation, age or physical disability. F&C will
educate 100 per cent. of employees on the importance of
recognising and embracing diversity in the workplace and the
community as a whole.
F&C encourages share ownership and will continue to operate 
all-employee share schemes.
Community 
F&C will, over the next three years, introduce
financial support and wherever  practicable offer
time off work to support employees involved in
Charitable Activities.
F&C will, over the next three years, target 75 per
cent. of all employees dedicating at least one working day per
year to a Charitable or community programme.
F&C will target 15 per cent. of employees, participating in the
Give as You Earn scheme and will match employee contributions
up to a set monthly level.
CR commitment
The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of
governance and corporate citizenship. We recognise that in
addition to our responsibilities to clients and shareholders we also
have responsibilities to employees, suppliers, the environment, the
companies in which we invest and the wider community in which
we operate.
How is Corporate Responsibility implemented by F&C?
The Board is ultimately responsible for CR within the Group.
Development of F&C’s policies on CR and their implementation
throughout the Group are co-ordinated by the CR Committee
chaired by David Logan.
Alain Grisay
20 March 2008
David Logan
20 March 2008
21
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 22
Headquartered in the heart of the 
City of London and operating across 
nine countries, F&C manages assets 
for a diverse range of insurance, 
institutional and retail clients. 23
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 24
Non-executive Directors
Robert Jenkins‡
BA, MA
Age 57
Chairman
Keith Bedell-Pearce*†,
LLB, MSc
Age 62
Senior Independent
Director
Dick de Beus ‡
Age 61
Independent
Director
Nick MacAndrew
FCA †
Age 61
Independent
Director
John Heywood*†, LLB
Age 70
Independent
Director
Brian Larcombe*†‡
Age 54
Independent
Director
Mr Jenkins joined the Board on completion of the
merger in October 2004. Prior to his appointment
Mr Jenkins was Chief Executive of F&CGH. Prior to
joining F&CGH in 1997, Mr Jenkins spent over 
five years with Credit Suisse Asset Management
(“CSAM”) and 16 years with Citibank. At Citibank
Mr Jenkins held senior assignments in Dubai,
Bahrain, Zurich, New York and Tokyo. From 1992
until 1995 he was Chief Investment Officer and
Head of Asset Management for CSAM in Japan. In
1995 he transferred to London where he was Chief
Operating Officer for CSAM in the UK and Central
and Eastern Europe. Mr Jenkins is Chairman of the
Board of the Investment Management Association
in the UK, Member of The Takeover Panel,
Executive Fellow of the London Business School
and Honorary Visiting Professor of Investment
Management at City University London’s Cass
Business School.
Mr Larcombe joined the Board in January 2005.
Prior to his appointment, Mr Larcombe was
Chief Executive of 3i Group plc and is currently
Chairman of Bramdean Alternatives Limited and a
Non-executive Director of Smith & Nephew plc.
Mr Bedell-Pearce, a solicitor, joined the Board 
in December 2002. Until December 2001, 
Mr Bedell-Pearce was an Executive Director of
Prudential plc with over 30 years experience in the
financial services industry. He is currently 
Non-executive Chairman of Norwich &
Peterborough Building Society and Executive
Chairman of The Student Loans Company Limited
(a part-time public appointment).
Mr de Beus joined the Board on completion of the
merger in October 2004. Mr de Beus has worked
for over 30 years in the pension fund industry. He
joined PGGM, the Dutch pension fund for the
healthcare and welfare industry in 1979, and retired
as Chairman in 2004. Mr de Beus had been
member and Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory
Board of KAS BANK N.V. from 1996 (European
custodian services, Amsterdam). He is involved in
several supervisory functions in non-listed real
estate companies and non-profit organisations. 
Mr de Beus served as a Non-executive Director of
F&CGH since his appointment in February 2004.
Mr MacAndrew, a Chartered Accountant, joined the
Board in May 2007. He worked for Schroders plc
for over 30 years until 2002, latterly as finance
director. He is a Non-executive Director of Fuller
Smith & Turner plc, Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group
plc and Wates Group Limited and recently retired as
Chairman of Save the Children.
Gerhard Roggemann
Age 60
Independent
Director
Mr Roggemann joined the Board in June 2007 as
an Independent Director.  Mr Roggemann is
currently Vice Chairman of Hawkpoint Partners
Europe, responsible for the development of its
German business, and an independent director of
Friends Provident plc and Deutsche Börse AG.
He spent much of his professional career with
financial services firm, JPMorgan, where his
positions included managing director of JPMorgan’s
German branch in Frankfurt and regional treasurer
Asia Pacific in the Tokyo office. He spent a total of
13 years on the management board of two German
Landesbanks, joining the executive boards of
Norddeutsche Landesbank in 1991, and of
Westdeutsche Landesbank (WestLB AG) in 1996.
Previous board appointments include AXA
Lebensversicherungs AG, AXA Kapitallanlagege-
sellschaft mbH, Deka Bank, Fresenius AG, Hapag
Lloyd AG and VHV Holdings AG.
* Member of the Remuneration Committee
†
Member of the Audit & Compliance Committee
‡
Member of the Nomination Committee
Mr Heywood joined the Board on completion of the
merger in October 2004. Mr Heywood worked for
20 years at Jardine Matheson & Co Ltd where he
served as Managing Director. He was Chairman of
Clayhithe PLC from 1993 – 1998. Mr Heywood
served as a Non-executive Director of F&CGH
since his appointment in January 1998. 25
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
Alain Grisay, LLM, MA
Age 53
Chief Executive
David Logan, BA, CA
Age 38
Chief Financial
Officer
Jim Smart, B.Com,
CPFA, FCCA, MBA
Age 48
Mr Smart joined the Board in January 2007. He
joined Friends Provident in November 2006 and
was appointed Group Finance Director of Friends
Provident plc on 1 January 2007. He is a member
of the Financial Regulation and Taxation Committee
of the Association of British Insurers and was
previously Chief Financial Officer at Boots Group
plc. Prior to joining Boots, he was at Abbey
National plc for 15 years where he held a number
of senior finance and operational positions and was
a director of the group’s life assurance business,
Scottish Mutual Assurance plc.
Executive Directors
Jeff Medlock,
B.Sc(Econ), F.I.A.
Age 67
Sir Adrian Montague‡,
CBE, MA, Solicitor,
Age 60
Mr Medlock joined the Board on completion of the
merger in October 2004. Mr Medlock, an actuary,
was Chief Executive Officer of Eureko from its
formation in 1992 until 1999 when he became
Chief Financial Officer at Achmea. He returned to
the board of Eureko in 2002 shortly after its merger
with Achmea and Seguros e Pensoes as Chief
Financial Officer. Mr Medlock retired from Eureko in
2004 but remains a director of Eureko’s companies
in Ireland and Cyprus. He is also a trustee of the
children’s charity Life Education Centres.
Sir Adrian joined the Board in November 2007. He
was appointed chairman of Friends Provident in
May 2005, having been appointed an independent
director in October 2004. In November 2007 
Sir Adrian assumed the role of Executive Chairman
of Friends Provident plc. Sir Adrian is currently the
Non-executive chairman of British Energy Holdings
plc, Michael Page International plc and Infrastructure
Investors Limited. Sir Adrian is a Trustee of the
Waterways Trust and a director of London First and
CellMark Holdings AB and a member of the
Supervisory Board of Skanska AB.
Formerly Deputy Chairman of Network Rail and
Chairman of Cross-London Rail Links Limited
(Crossrail). Previously Chief Executive of the Treasury
Taskforce and Deputy Chairman of Partnerships UK
plc. In his early career, he was a partner of Linklaters
& Paines, and subsequently the Global Head of
Project Finance for Dresdner Kleinwort Benson. 
Mr Grisay joined the Board on completion of the
merger in October 2004 having previously been
Deputy Chief Executive of F&CGH and head of the
institutional business. Prior to joining F&C in April
2001, Mr Grisay was at JP Morgan for 20 years,
serving as Managing Director responsible for the
investment bank’s market client business in Europe.
Mr Grisay was appointed an Executive Director of
Friends Provident plc on 1 January 2006.
Mr Logan joined the Board on 31 July 2006. Prior
to his appointment Mr Logan spent seventeen
years in the accounting profession, including 
four years as a partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP
and three years as a partner at Andersen. 26 27
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 28
Report of the Directors
Results, business review and dividend
The Group’s results for the year ended 31 December 2007 are
shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 52. A
business review of the year ended 31 December 2007 and future
developments are covered on pages 10 to 21. This review forms
part of the Report of the Directors.
The Group profit for the year, after tax, amounted to £18.7 million.
The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 4.0 pence
per share, amounting to £19.7 million, resulting in a total of
6.0 pence and £29.4 million for the year. Preference dividends of
£0.1 million were also incurred during the year.
The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 16 May
2008 to ordinary shareholders whose names are on the register on
11 April 2008. No liability for the proposed dividends has been
recognised as at 31 December 2007, in accordance with IFRS.
Principal activity and status
The Group’s business is asset management. Details of the
progress of the business during the year and of future prospects
are contained in the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s
Report and the Business Review.
The Company is registered as a Public Limited Company in terms
of the Companies Act 2006 and is currently a constituent of the
FTSE 250 Index. The Company is registered in Scotland,
registered number 73508 and is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Significant agreements
In addition to the significant contracts with Friends Provident plc
and the Achmea Group, details of which are contained in Note 40
to the Consolidated financial statements, F&C is party to the
following significant contracts that take effect, alter or terminate
upon a change of control of the Company.
Millennium BCP Group (BCP)
The consequences of termination of the various agreements with
BCP related funds are regulated by an Umbrella Agreement with
BCP which provides that compensation is payable if any of these
agreements are terminated before 29 June 2013. These agreements
may be terminated on written notice with immediate effect in the
event that a person acquires an interest which is larger than the
aggregate interest of Friends Provident and Eureko in the shares of
F&C. Under such circumstances, compensation is payable by BCP
to F&C based on prescribed compensation periods which in turn are
linked to when the change of control takes place.
Royal Sun Alliance (RSA)
The investment management agreement with the RSA group is a
long term agreement expiring on 1 July 2012. In the event that it is
terminated by the RSA group prior to 1 July 2012 and if the
aggregate fees received by F&C from 1 January 2008 up until the
point of termination fall below a certain threshold, F&C shall be
entitled to receive the difference between the amount of fees
received at that point and the threshold figure.
Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust Plc
The Investment Management Agreement in place with Foreign &
Colonial Investment Trust Plc can be terminated by the investment
trust on a minimum of six months’ notice expiring at the end of any
calendar month. In the event that there is a change of control in F&C
(as defined in Section 840 of ICTA 1988), then the investment trust
is entitled to terminate the agreement on not less than 3 months’
notice to expire at the end of any calendar month.
F&C Commercial Property Trust
The Investment Management Agreement in place with F&C
Commercial Property Trust Limited can be terminated by the
investment trust on not less than 12 months’ notice, provided that
such notice may expire no earlier than 4 March 2009. Early
termination can be undertaken by the investment trust, but only
subject to the payment of compensation to F&C based on revenue
stream. Immediate termination is possible by the investment trust in
the event that there is a change of control in F&C (as defined in
Section 840 of ICTA 1988) which has not been consented to by its
Board.
Property, plant and equipment
Details of changes in property, plant and equipment are disclosed in
note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. At 31 December
2007, there were no significant differences between the net book
and market value of property, plant and equipment.
Financial instruments
Details of financial instruments are disclosed in notes 14 and 19 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements. The financial risk management
objectives and policies of the Group are contained in note 36.
Share capital and directors’ interests
During the year the Company issued 10,929,940 ordinary shares
in respect of vested awards or options under the Company’s long
term incentive schemes. 29
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
31 December 31 December
2007 2006**
Ordinary Ordinary
Shares Shares
Robert Jenkins Beneficial 200,000 200,000
Non Beneficial * 562,857 665,111
Dick de Beus Beneficial Nil Nil
Keith Bedell-Pearce Beneficial 51,285 51,285
Alain Grisay Beneficial
†
1,438,676 326,153
John Heywood Beneficial 4,326 4,326
Non Beneficial * Nil 665,111
Brian Larcombe Beneficial 20,000 Nil
Non Beneficial * 562,857 Nil
David Logan Beneficial 990 Nil
Nick MacAndrew Beneficial 25,000 Nil
Jeff Medlock Beneficial 10,000 10,000
Sir Adrian Montague Beneficial Nil Nil
Gerhard Roggemann Beneficial Nil Nil
Jim Smart Beneficial Nil Nil
*Robert Jenkins and Brian Larcombe are Directors of the F&C Group ESOP Trustee Limited, a company incorporated in 1995 as a discretionary employee benefit trust
to encourage and facilitate the acquisition and holding of shares in the Company by employees. Mr Heywood was a Director of F&C Group ESOP Trustee Limited until
November 2007. 
**Or date of appointment if later.
†
These shares include Alain Grisay’s participation in the Purchased Equity Plan. Further details of this plan are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 49.
No other changes to Directors’ interests have occurred.
The Directors who held office at the year end and their interests in the share capital of the ultimate parent undertaking, Friends Provident
plc, are shown below:
31 December 31 December
2007 2006
Ordinary Ordinary
Shares Shares
Sir Adrian Montague Beneficial 6,281 6,018
Gerhard Roggemann Beneficial – –
Jim Smart Beneficial 19,205 –
Directors’ and officers’ liability
The Group maintains insurance cover in respect of directors’ and
officers’ liability.
The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provision set out in
the Company's Articles of Association at article 166 which is a
qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined in the
Companies Acts and which was in force throughout the year and
is currently in force.
As summarised in paragraph 7 of the summary of amendments to
the Articles of Association of the Company on page 33, it is
proposed that the articles be amended to reflect, amongst other
things, the Companies Act 2006 provisions relating to the power
of a company to indemnify Directors and to fund expenditure
incurred in connection with certain actions against Directors.
One qualifying third party indemnity has been granted to a Director
who held office during the year ended 31 December 2007.
Charitable and political contributions
During the year the Group made contributions to charity of
£117,000 (2006 – £94,000). No political donations were made
during the year (2006 – £nil). Further details on the criteria for
charitable giving are contained on the Company’s website.
Payment policy and practice
It is the Group’s payment policy to ensure settlement of suppliers’
accounts in accordance with the stated terms. In certain
circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior to any business
taking place. It is our policy to abide by those terms.
At 31 December 2007, trade creditors represented the equivalent
of 10 days (2006 – 13 days) of the annual purchases invoiced by
the suppliers to the Group.
Substantial interests in share capital
The Company has been informed of the following substantial
interests, above 3 per cent., as at 20 March 2008.
Ordinary
Shares Percentage
Friends Provident plc 258,722,798 52.5
Credit Agricole 58,082,694 11.8
Eureko B.V. 51,128,190 10.4
Fidelity 22,867,297 4.6
Details of shares under option at 31 December 2007 are shown on pages 101 to 114. Details of all shares issued during the year ended
31 December 2007, are given in note 31. The Directors who held office at the year end and their interests in the share capital of the
Company are shown below: 30
Employees
At 1 February 2008 there were 869 full-time employees and 
61 part-time employees within the Group (1 February 2007 – 
750 full-time employees and 52 part-time employees).
Disabled employees
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment
from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be
adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Group’s
policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment
under normal terms and conditions and to provide training, career
development and promotion to disabled employees wherever
possible.
Employee involvement
During the year, the policy of providing employees with
information about the Group has been continued through internal
presentations by the Executive Directors, Management
Committee and the internal publication of relevant information.
Wherever appropriate, employees are consulted to ensure that
their views are taken into account before decisions are taken
which are likely to affect their interests.
Equal opportunities
The Group aims to provide equal opportunities for all, without
discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, marital status, age,
sex, sexual orientation or disability. We recruit and promote those
best suited for the job. The Group respects the dignity of
individuals and their beliefs. The Group does not tolerate any
sexual, racial, physical or mental harassment of staff in the 
work place.
Share incentive schemes
During the year, employees participated directly in the business
through a number of Employee Share Schemes, details of which
are included within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages
41 to 49 or the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on
pages 101 to 114.
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The Company will hold its AGM on Tuesday, 13 May 2008 at
Butchers Hall, 87 Bartholomew Close, London EC1. The meeting
will start at 12 noon (UK time). Details of all resolutions being put
to shareholders are set out in the Notice of Annual General
Meeting commencing on page 164.
Relationship agreement
The relationship agreement formalises the ongoing relationship
between the Company and its parent, Friends Provident plc, and
Friends Provident plc’s subsidiaries. If renewed, the relationship
agreement will remain in place until the next AGM or until Friends
Provident’s interest in the ordinary shares of the Company falls
below 30 per cent. The relationship agreement contains
provisions which permit the Friends Provident group to participate
in future issues of equity shares by the Company not made to
existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings in
order to maintain its percentage shareholding in the Company.
Your Directors are recommending that the relationship agreement
be re-approved and the authority be renewed at this year’s AGM
pursuant to resolution 11. Members of the Friends Provident
group will abstain from voting on such ordinary resolution.
Board changes
On 1 January 2007, Keith Satchell, a Non-executive Director,
retired from the Board and was replaced on the same date by
Jim Smart, a Non-executive Director.
On 10 May 2007, David Gray an independent Non-executive
Director, and Christopher Jemmett, an independent Non-
executive Director, retired from the Board. Nick MacAndrew
joined the Board as an independent Non-executive Director on 
10 May 2007.
On 19 June 2007, Gerhard Roggemann joined the Board as an
independent Non-executive Director. 
On 27 November 2007, Philip Moore, a Non-executive Director,
retired from the Board and was replaced on the same date by 
Sir Adrian Montague, a Non-executive Director. 
Having reached the age of 70 during 2007, John Heywood, an
independent Non-executive Director, will retire from the Board
and relevant Board Committees on conclusion of this year’s
Annual General Meeting.
Authority to allot ordinary shares and disapplication of
pre-emption rights
Ordinary resolution 12 will be put to the AGM of the Company to
renew the present authority of the Directors to exercise their
powers to allot authorised but unissued ordinary shares. Such
authority will cover a maximum of 164,074,921 unissued ordinary
shares, being up to an aggregate maximum nominal amount of
£164,074.92. This maximum nominal amount represents 
33.33 per cent. of the Company’s total ordinary share capital in
issue at the date of this report (calculated exclusive of treasury
shares) and meets institutional guidelines. The Company holds
3,431,540 ordinary shares in treasury at the date of this report.
This amount represents 0.7 per cent. of the Company’s total
ordinary share capital in issue at the date of this report (calculated
exclusive of treasury shares). The authority conferred by this
resolution will expire on the conclusion of the AGM of the Company
to be held in 2009.
Special resolution 16 will be put to the AGM of the Company to
renew the present power to allot unissued ordinary share capital
and to sell ordinary shares held in treasury for cash without first
being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders. Such
power will cover a maximum of £164,074.92 of unissued ordinary
share capital and, if renewed, will apply to any ordinary shares
allotted and treasury shares sold:
(a) in accordance with the relationship agreement referred to
above (conditional upon the passing of the ordinary
resolution 11 referred to above);
(b) in order to satisfy options or awards under any share scheme
for employees or share incentive plan approved by the
Company in general meeting;
(c) pursuant to a rights issue or other pre-emptive offering (where
legal or regulatory or other difficulties prevent the issue of
shares wholly on a pre-emptive basis); and
(d) other than pursuant to (a), (b) and (c) above, up to an
aggregate nominal amount of £24,785.28, representing 5 per
Report of the Directors 31
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
cent. of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital as at the
date of this report.
The Directors consider that the authority proposed to be granted
by resolution 12 and the power proposed to be granted by
resolution 16 are necessary in order to take advantage of
opportunities as they arise and to retain flexibility. The Directors
do not have any intention of exercising such authority or power at
the present time other than for the purposes referred to in (b)
above.
Purchase of own shares
Special resolution 17 will be put to the AGM to renew the present
power to make market purchases of the Company’s own ordinary
shares. Pursuant to special resolution 17 the maximum aggregate
number of ordinary shares which may be purchased pursuant to
the authority shall be 49,227,399 (being approximately 10 per
cent. of the issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury
shares) of the Company as at the date of this report). The
minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be
0.1 pence (exclusive of expenses). The maximum price for an
ordinary share (again exclusive of expenses) shall be an amount
equal to 105 per cent. of the average of the middle market
quotations for the Company’s ordinary shares for the 
five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
As at the date of this report, the Company had 17,687,366
options to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding (representing
3.6 per cent. of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company
(excluding treasury shares) at the same date). If the buy-back
authority is renewed at the 2008 AGM and is then utilised in full,
the options outstanding at the date of this report would represent
4.0 per cent. of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company
(excluding treasury shares). The power conferred by this resolution
will expire on the earlier of the date falling 15 months after the
date of the passing of this resolution and the conclusion of the
Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009.
With the coming into force of the Companies (Acquisition of Own
Shares) (Treasury Shares) Regulations 2003 (as amended); on 
1 December 2003, the Company may do any of the following in
respect of its own ordinary shares which it buys back and does
not immediately cancel but, instead, holds “in treasury”:
(a) sell such shares (or any of them) for cash (or its equivalent
under the Treasury Shares Regulations);
(b) transfer the shares (or any of them) for the purposes of or
pursuant to an employees’ share scheme; or
(c) cancel the shares (or any of them).
The Directors may use the Treasury Shares Regulations in any
one or more of the ways noted above and intend to take
advantage of this flexibility as they deem appropriate. While any
shares are held in treasury, voting rights are suspended and
currently no dividends (or any other distribution) are paid (or
made) on such shares.
While the Directors recognise that, due to the free float
requirements, the scope for buy-backs may currently be limited,
they consider it appropriate to have in place the facility to acquire
shares in circumstances where they believe that future
shareholder returns can be enhanced by taking such action. This
authority, if renewed, will only be exercised if to do so would
result in an increase in earnings per ordinary share and if it is
considered to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
In 2007, the Group purchased 1,279,618 ordinary 0.1 pence
shares (2006 the Group acquired 563,205 ordinary 0.1 pence
shares) representing 0.3 per cent. of the ordinary Shares in issue
at 31 December 2007 pursuant to this authority. The aggregate
consideration paid for own share purchases in 2007 was £2.4
million (2006: £1.1 million).
Proposed amendment to the Company’s Long Term
Remuneration Plan (LTRP)
Friends Provident, our 52 per cent. shareholder, announced the
results of its strategic business review on 31January 2008. The
continued market and media speculation relating to this review
has already caused considerable uncertainty for the Company’s
shareholders, management and staff and this uncertainty is further
compounded by the continued volatility in markets experienced in
the year to date.
The continued stability of our key employees is fundamental to the
successful achievement of the Company’s three-year plan. Your
Board and the Company’s management team place the highest
priority on the retention of top-performing fund managers as well
as other valuable executives and professionals. It is for this reason
that the Company’s compensation policy is based on the delivery
of competitive total compensation as warranted by performance
and relevant market comparators.   
In practice, the Company’s policy is to provide a strong emphasis
on long-term share-based awards. The LTRP is the Company’s
principal scheme to provide an alignment of long-term interest
between employees and shareholders. Under this arrangement
your Board approves annually the conditional awards of shares to
high-performing and market-visible key employees, below
Executive Director level. These awards are made with a delayed
three-year maturity and comprise ‘deferred’ and/or 
‘performance’ shares.  
In facing a continued period of uncertainty it is important to
ensure that the Company’s long-term share plans provide
maximum retention value. In accordance with their terms of
reference and best market practice, the Company’s Remuneration
Committee and its Board keep the terms and the effectiveness of
the Company’s share schemes under review. Having concluded
the recent review, which commenced in the final quarter of 2007,
your Board’s assessment is that in one important aspect the rules
of the LTRP do not provide the necessary retention value required
during this period of uncertainty and as such should be amended. 
Under the current rules of the LTRP, a participant whose
employment is terminated in certain ‘good leaver’ circumstances
(namely, redundancy, retirement at normal retirement age, the
transfer of his employing business or company out of the F&C
group, or any other reason at the discretion of the Board) receives
only a pro rata award (to reflect the period of service) and at a
future date, being the original vesting date of the award.
Our proposal is to enhance the retention value of the deferred
share awards to certain categories of ‘good leavers’ (namely,
participants who cease employment due to redundancy or in any
other circumstance which the Board considers makes it
appropriate for the revised provisions to be applied) by providing,
in respect of all existing deferred share awards and for any 32
deferred share awards made during 2008, for full vesting as at the
date of termination of employment. The ordinary shares of the
Company to which the employee will become entitled as a result
of such vesting will be released to the employee as soon as
reasonably practicable after termination (and in any event not later
than thirty days from the date of vesting). It is intended that
deferred share awards made after 2008 will revert to the good
leaver rules that applied prior to this proposal. The Board will,
however, retain discretion to apply this proposed change to future
deferred share awards as appropriate.
It should be noted that the LTRP rules covering restricted share
awards remain unchanged and subject to the existing tests of
performance. The terms of The F&C Asset Management plc
Executive Director Remuneration Plan, covering the Executive
Directors of the Company, also remain unchanged by this
proposal.
Further details of the proposed amendment to the LTRP rules are
set out in the appendix to the notice of meeting contained on
page 166.
Friends Provident has given its irrevocable undertaking to vote in
favour of the resolution approving the proposed amendments to
the LTRP.
Changes to the Company’s Articles of Association
Special resolution 14 will be put to the AGM to amend the
Company’s articles of association to reflect the provisions of
the Companies Act 2006 brought into force on 1 January 2007,
20 January 2007, 6 April 2007 and 1 October 2007. A summary
of the principal proposed alterations is set out in paragraphs 1 to
7 below. Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or
clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely
reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006 or changes to
market practice have not been noted in this summary.
Certain of the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, in particular
those relating to Directors' conflicts of interests summarised in
paragraph 8 below, will be brought into force on 1 October 2008.
Special resolution 15 will be put to the AGM to amend the
Company’s articles of association to reflect those provisions from
1 October 2008 or such later date as those provisions are
brought into force. 
The proposed changes to the Company's articles of association
in resolution 14 and 15 are set out in the copies of the articles of
association marked “A” and “B” respecitively which will be
available for inspection at the Company's registered office,
80 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 3BU, and at the Company's
head office at Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A
2NY during normal business hours on any week day (Saturdays,
Sundays and public holidays excepted) from the date of this
annual report until the date of the AGM and at the place of the
AGM from 15 minutes prior to and during the continuance of the
meeting.
Summary of Amendments to the Articles of
Association 
Amendments to take effect from the date of the AGM, conditional
on the passing of special resolution 14
1.  Articles which duplicate statutory provisions
Provisions in the current articles which replicate provisions
contained in the Companies Act 1985 are in the main amended to
bring them into line with the Companies Act 2006. Certain
examples of such provisions include provisions as to the form of
resolutions, the variation of class rights and provisions regarding
the period of notice required to convene general meetings. The
main changes to reflect this approach are detailed below.
2.  Form of resolution
The current articles contain a provision that, where for any
purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special or
extraordinary resolution is also effective and that, where an
extraordinary resolution is required, a special resolution is also
effective. It is proposed that this provision be amended as the
concept of extraordinary resolutions has not been retained under
the Companies Act 2006.  
The current articles enable members to act by written resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006 public companies can no longer
pass written resolutions. It is therefore proposed that these
provisions be deleted.
3. Variation of class rights
The current articles contain provisions regarding the variation of
class rights. The proceedings and specific quorum requirements
for a meeting convened to vary class rights are contained in the
Companies Act 2006. It is proposed that the relevant provisions in
the articles be amended to reflect the provisions of the
Companies Act 2006.
4.  Convening extraordinary and annual general meetings
The provisions in the current articles dealing with the convening of
general meetings and the length of notice required to convene
general meetings are being amended to conform to new
provisions in the Companies Act 2006. In particular an
extraordinary general meeting to consider a special resolution can
be convened on 14 days' notice whereas previously 21 days'
notice was required.
5.  Votes of members
Under the Companies Act 2006 proxies are entitled to vote on a
show of hands whereas under the current articles proxies are only
entitled to vote on a poll. Multiple proxies may be appointed
provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights
attached to a different share held by the shareholder. The
proposed amendments to the articles reflect all of these new
provisions.
6.  Age of directors on appointment
The current articles contain a provision limiting the age at which a
Director can continue to be a Director or be appointed. Such
provision could now fall foul of the Employment Equality (Age)
Regulations 2006 and so it is proposed that it be deleted.
Report of the Directors 33
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
7. Directors' indemnities and loans to fund expenditure
The Companies Act 2006 has in some areas widened the scope
of the powers of a company to indemnify directors and to fund
expenditure incurred in connection with certain actions against
directors. In addition, the existing exemption allowing a company
to provide money for the purpose of funding a director's defence
in court proceedings now expressly covers regulatory
proceedings and applies to associated companies.
The proposed amendments to the articles reflect these provisions
of the Companies Act 2006 and include inserting new provisions
in the articles to allow Directors to be counted in the quorum and
vote at a meeting of the Directors in respect of a resolution
relating to the entry into any indemnity in favour of him or any
provision to him of funds to meet expenditure incurred or to be
incurred by him in certain investigations, actions or proceedings
where he would otherwise not be entitled to be counted in the
quorum and vote.
Amendments to take effect from 1 October 2008, conditional on
passing of special resolution 15
8. Directors' interests 
The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors’ general duties which
largely codify the existing law but with some changes. Under the
Companies Act 2006, from 1 October 2008 a director must avoid
a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest
that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the company’s
interests. The requirement is very broad and could apply, for
example, if a director becomes a director of another company or
a trustee of another organisation. The Companies Act 2006
allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and
potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the articles of
association contain a provision to this effect. The Companies Act
2006 also allows the articles of association to contain other
provisions for dealing with directors’ conflicts of interest to avoid a
breach of duty. 
The changes to the articles of association proposed in special
resolution 15, to take effect from 1 October 2008, would give the
Directors authority to approve such situations and to include other
provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar
way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide
whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict. First, only
Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will
be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the
decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good
faith, will be most likely to promote the Company’s success. The
Directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving
authorisation.
It is also proposed that the articles of association should contain
provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at board
meetings and availability of board papers to protect a Director
being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential 
conflict of interest arises. These provisions will only apply where
the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously 
been authorised by the Directors and will take effect from 
1 October 2008.
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc have expressed their willingness to continue in
office as auditors and a resolution proposing their re-appointment
and for the Directors to determine their fees will be submitted at
the AGM. 
Details of the auditor’s remuneration is provided in note 4 to the
financial statements and further detail on how the Board ensures
the independence of the auditors is detailed on page 40 within
the Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance.
Adequacy of the information provided to the auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approving this
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware,
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s
auditor is unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that
he is obliged to take as a Director in order to make himself aware
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the
Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
By order of the Board,
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
20 March 2008 34
The Company is committed to, and strives for, best practice in
corporate governance. The Board is accountable to the
Company’s shareholders for good corporate governance. This
statement describes how the principles of corporate governance
set out in section one of the Combined Code issued in 2003 
(“the Code”) have been applied.
Statement of compliance
The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the
year ended 31 December 2007 and up to the date hereof,
applied the principles and met the requirements of the Code.
The Chairmen of the Audit & Compliance, Remuneration and
Nomination committees will be available to answer questions
at this year’s Annual General Meeting to be held on Tuesday,
13 May 2008.
Going concern
The Code requires Directors to report, under the terms set out in
the relevant guidelines to the Code, on the appropriateness of
adopting the going concern basis in preparing financial statements.
The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For
this reason, the Directors consider that the business is a going
concern and continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements.
The Board
The Board of Directors currently comprises the Chairman, 
two Executive Directors and nine Non-executive Directors, six of
whom the Board has identified as Independent Directors. 
Keith Bedell-Pearce is the Senior Independent Director. The
biographies of the Directors appear on pages 24 and 25. These
demonstrate a range of experience, skills and personal standing
sufficient to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy,
performance, resources and standards of conduct which are vital
to the success of the Group. All Directors have access to the
advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is
responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are
followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied
with. The Board meets formally on a regular basis and is
responsible for approving the Group’s objectives and policies. The
Board focuses mainly on strategy, investment and financial
performance, the Group’s control environment and executive
management and Board succession. To enable the Board to
discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely
information ensuring that they are properly briefed on issues for
consideration in advance of meetings. In addition, all Directors
have access to senior management and can request, either
during meetings or at other appropriate times, further explanation
or written papers on matters as they see fit.
The Board has a detailed list of matters specifically reserved to it
– the “Board Reserved List”. This is contained in “The Directors’
Guide”, a training and reference document issued to all Directors
on appointment and updated as appropriate. The Board Reserved
List is reviewed annually and clearly sets out that authority is
delegated from the Board to Board Committees and to
management. This ensures that matters of significance are
overseen and reviewed by the Board prior to implementation.
Examples of matters reserved for the Board as set out in the
Board Reserved List are the approval of: The Group strategy; the
annual budget; the composition and terms of reference of any of
the Board Committees; the high level organisational structure; and
the review of the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal
control.
Board composition
F&C Asset Management plc is a quoted subsidiary of Friends
Provident plc (“FP”), which owns 52 per cent. of the Company.
There are, in addition to a formal agreement to manage funds on
behalf of FP, various other arrangements in place between the
Company and FP, all of which are governed by independent
agreements, the terms of which are approved by the minority
shareholders as appropriate. New business created by FP has a
direct benefit to the Company and the Company’s investment
performance has a direct impact on FP and its ability to develop
its business. Because of this relationship, close co-operation and
understanding of each other’s businesses and strategies is very
important. To facilitate this, Sir Adrian Montague (FP Executive
Chairman), Philip Moore and Jim Smart (FP Executive Directors)
served as Directors of the Company during the year. Alain Grisay,
the Company’s Chief Executive, served as an Executive Director
of FP during the year. No remuneration or benefits are paid to 
Mr Grisay in respect of his services as an Executive Director of
FP. In addition, Gerhard Roggemann is an independent Non-
executive Director of both FP and the Company. Mr Roggemann
joined the Board as an independent Non-executive Director in
June 2007. As part of the formal annual evaluation exercise, the
Board assessed Mr Roggemann’s ongoing independence in
March 2008 and determined Mr Roggemann to be independent in
character and judgement. The Board’s conclusion was based on
the integrity, objectivity and professionalism displayed by Mr
Roggemann’s contribution to Board discussions and debates.
The Board acknowledges and respects that some parties may
hold a different view of Mr Roggemann’s independence as a
consequence of him being an independent Non-executive
Director of FP.
The other Non-executive Directors of the Company are 
Robert Jenkins (Chairman), Keith Bedell-Pearce, Dick de Beus,
John Heywood, Brian Larcombe, Nick MacAndrew and 
Jeff Medlock. With the exception of Jeff Medlock, who in 2004
retired as Chief Financial Officer of Eureko, a 10 per cent.
shareholder in the Company, all of the Non-executive Directors
listed above meet the criteria of independence as set out in the
accepted guidance. Although not independent on appointment,
the Chairman is considered by the Board to be sufficiently
independent of management.
The composition of the Board is reviewed annually.
The Board committees
The Board has established a number of standing committees to
facilitate the smooth transaction of business within the Group. The
terms of reference of each Board Committee outlining the
authority and duties are reviewed and approved annually by the
Board, are published on the Company’s website and are available
on written request from the Company Secretary. The terms of
reference of each of the Board Committees provide the authority
to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the
Company’s expense.
(a) Statement of the Nomination Committee
Purpose and Terms of Reference
The Committee leads the process, and makes recommendations
to the Board, for all new Board appointments and the
Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance 35
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
appointment of Non-executive Directors to any Board Committee.
It is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge
and experience on the Board and ensuring that a formal, rigorous
and transparent appointment process exists.
Membership
The Committee is chaired by Robert Jenkins. The Committee
comprises the Chairman and three Non-executive Directors, 
two of whom are Independent Non-executive Directors.
Throughout 2007 the Committee met formally on three occasions.
In addition, the Committee or its members had many other occasions
to meet informally or with advisers and candidates. None of these
informal sessions are reflected in the numbers shown on page 36.
On 10 May 2007 David Gray retired from the Board and the
Committee. 
On 27 November 2007 Philip Moore retired from the Board and
the Committee. Sir Adrian Montague replaced Mr Moore as a
member of the Committee at the same date.
Members of the Nomination Committee: Robert Jenkins (Chairman),
Dick de Beus, Brian Larcombe and Sir Adrian Montague.
Activities and work of the Committee
In January 2007, Keith Satchell, a Non-executive Director, retired
from the Board and was replaced on the same date by Jim Smart.
On 10 May 2007, David Gray, an independent Non-executive
Director, and Christopher Jemmett, a Non-executive Director,
retired from the Board. 
During 2007, the Committee, assisted by an external search agency,
successfully concluded searches for two independent Non-executive
Directors. Nicholas MacAndrew joined the Board on 10 May 2007
and Gerhard Roggemann joined the Board on 19 June 2007. 
As an integral part of its succession planning, the Committee
reviews the balance and composition of the Board including the
number of Directors serving thereon. After due deliberation the
Committee and the Board re-affirmed the Company’s
commitment to striving to achieve best practice corporate
governance by continuing with a Code-compliant Board and
Board Committee structure.
On an annual basis the Committee reviews the terms and
conditions of appointment of Non-executive Directors set out in
the standard letter of appointment to ensure that they continue to
meet the requirements of the Code. This standard letter of
appointment can be inspected during normal working hours at the
Company’s registered office by contacting the Company
Secretary. The Committee considers on an annual basis the time
required of Non-executive Directors for the fulfilment of their
duties and assesses the contribution of the Directors, their
independence and their suitability for re-election prior to an
appropriate resolution being put to shareholders. All Directors are
subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after
their appointment and to re-election at least every three years.
For the Board
Robert Jenkins
Chairman, Nomination Committee
20 March 2008
(b) Statement of the Audit & Compliance Committee
Purpose and Terms of Reference
The Committee vouchsafes the processes and controls
surrounding the production of the Group’s financial statements
and provides the Board with assurance that the processes and
controls exist to facilitate reporting on the Group’s risk
management activities, including those related to Social,
Environmental and Ethical matters, internal control and adherence
to policies and procedures.
Membership
The Committee is chaired by Keith Bedell-Pearce. The Committee
comprises solely independent Non-executive Directors.
The Committee usually meets at least five times a year to review
the integrity of the Interim Report and Financial Statements and
the Annual Report and Financial Statements and other matters as
set out in the terms of reference. Senior management and a
representative from FP, given the enlarged group’s governance
requirements, attend as required. These meetings are also
attended by senior members of the Company’s auditor.
During the year the Committee met formally on five occasions and
informally on a number of occasions to discuss and consider
business matters including the award of non-audit related
consultancy work. On two occasions, the Committee met
members of the external auditors without management present
and on two occasions the Committee met with the head of the
Audit Risk & Compliance department without any other members
of management present.
Members of the Audit & Compliance Committee: 
Keith Bedell-Pearce (Chairman), Brian Larcombe, John Heywood
and Nick MacAndrew. Brian Larcombe and Nick MacAndrew
joined the Committee on 10 May 2007 and Messrs Gray and
Jemmett retired from the Board and the Committee on the same
day. The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the
Committee has recent and relevant financial experience, a
position that should continue throughout 2008.
Activities and work of the Committee
As highlighted earlier, the Committee normally discharges its
responsibilities, as allocated by its terms of reference, within a
schedule of five meetings. Two meetings are held early in the
year, one to deal with matters of governance (for example,
compliance with the Code, the Financial Services Act, the
effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems,
monitoring and reviewing the internal Audit Risk & Compliance
department and monitoring and reviewing the independence,
objectivity and effectiveness of the external audit process) and the
other to consider the integrity of the year end financial statements
and any formal announcements relating to the Company’s and
the Group’s financial performance, including any significant
financial reporting judgements contained in them. A similar
process is adopted at the interim reporting stage, with a final
meeting taking place late in the year to consider any year end
matters. The Committee also considers and reviews other risk
management or control documentation including the Company’s
policy on whistleblowing, the results of internal and external audit
and compliance reports or management letters and oversees the
award of any non-audit related consultancy work. On an annual
basis the Committee considers and makes a recommendation to 36
the Board as to the appointment, re-appointment or removal of
the external auditors and approves their remuneration and terms
of engagement. Other meetings of the Committee are called at
the request of the Chairman to consider ad hoc control issues
that may emerge during the year as well as other matters that the
Board has asked the Committee to consider or investigate.
For the Board
Keith Bedell-Pearce
Chairman, Audit & Compliance Committee
20 March 2008
(c) Statement of the Remuneration Committee
Purpose and Terms of Reference
Full details of the purpose and terms of reference, activities and
work of the Committee are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration
Report.
Membership
The Chairman of the Committee is Brian Larcombe. Having
reached the age of 70 during the year, John Heywood, the
Committee’s former Chairman, will retire from the Board and the
Committee on conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting. In order to effect a smooth handover of responsibilities,
Mr Larcombe assumed the role of Chairman to the Committee in
the third quarter of 2007. The Committee comprises solely
independent Non-executive Directors.
Members of the Remuneration Committee: Brian Larcombe
(Chairman), Keith Bedell-Pearce and John Heywood.
Activities and work of the Committee
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Group’s
remuneration policy (as set out in the Directors’ Remuneration
Report on pages 41 to 49). Within that policy, the Committee is
responsible for determining the remuneration packages of the
Executive Directors and making recommendations and monitoring
the specific remuneration packages of senior management below
Board level. It is also responsible for the Company’s incentive
schemes for employees, including the bonus scheme and the
grant of awards under the long term incentive schemes. Further
details of the objectives of the Committee are contained in the
Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 41.
For the Board
Brian Larcombe
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
20 March 2008
Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance
Attendance at meetings
The following table identifies the number of Board and formal committee meetings held in 2007 and the attendance record of the individual
Directors as members of committees of the Board. In addition to the meetings detailed below a number of sub-committees of the Board
and Board Committees occurred.
Non-executive
Director
meetings
without Audit & 
management Remuneration Compliance Nomination
Board present Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings held in 2007(2006) 8(7) 2(2) 4(6) 5(7) 3(4)
Robert Jenkins 8 2 – – 3
Alain Grisay 7 ––––
Keith Bedell-Pearce 8245 –
Dick de Beus 8 2 – – 3
David Gray
(1)
31 –22
John Heywood 7243 –
Christopher Jemmett
(1)
31 –2 –
Brian Larcombe
(2)
82432
David Logan 8 ––––
Jeff Medlock 8 2 – – –
Nick MacAndrew
(3)
21 –2 –
Philip Moore
(4)
61 – – 2
Sir Adrian Montague
(5)
1–– - –
Gerhard Roggemann
(6)
2 1 –––
Keith Satchell
(7)
–––––
Jim Smart
(8)
6––––
(1)
Resigned as a member of the Board and relevant Board Committees on 10 May 2007.
(2)
Appointed as a member of the Audit & Compliance Committee on 10 May 2007.
(3)
Appointed as a member of the Board and Audit & Compliance Committee on 10 May 2007.
(4)
Resigned as a member of the Board and relevant Board Committees on 27 November 2007.
(5)
Appointed as a member of the Board and the Nomination Committee on 27 November 2007.
(6)
Appointed as a member of the Board on 19 June 2007.
(7)
Resigned as a member of the Board and relevant Board Committees on 1 January 2007.
(8)
Appointed as a member of the Board on 1 January 2007. 37
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
Board roles
Chairman
The Chairman of the Company is Robert Jenkins. As Chairman,
Mr Jenkins is responsible for leadership of the Board and
ensuring the effective running and management of the Board. The
role profile of the Chairman outlines the specific responsibilities of
the Chairman and includes the following:
  Ensuring that the Board agenda for each meeting takes
account of the issues and concerns of each Board member
and that members of the Board receive accurate, timely and
clear information on the Company and related matters to
enable them to monitor the Company’s performance and take
sound decisions.
  Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and
ensuring that the Board develops an understanding of the
views of major investors.
  Ensuring that, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, a
formal induction and development process, including any
relevant internal and external training, exists for all Directors
and the Board as a whole with a view to enhancing the
Board’s effectiveness.
  Ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-
executive Directors and effective contribution from all Directors.
The performance of the Chairman during 2007 was reviewed by
the Non-executive Directors in a meeting chaired by Keith Bedell-
Pearce, the Senior Independent Director. The Non-executive
Directors concluded at the meeting that Robert Jenkins displayed
the characteristics expected of a Chairman including being
appropriately independent of the management team.
Mr Jenkins’ biography is set out on page 24. Mr Jenkins assumed
the Chair of the Investment Management Association of the UK in
May 2007. This is a Non-executive, part-time role. Finally, 
Mr Jenkins volunteers time to two London based business
schools with which he is affiliated.
Chief Executive
The Chief Executive of the Company is Alain Grisay. As Chief
Executive, Alain Grisay is responsible for overseeing the
implementation of the strategy as set by the Board, providing
strategic vision and executive leadership to all the Group’s
business activities and ensuring the effective running of the
business and the Executive Management Committee.
Non-executive Directors
Messrs Bedell-Pearce, de Beus, Heywood, Larcombe,
MacAndrew, Medlock, Sir Adrian Montague, Roggemann and
Smart are the Company’s Non-executive Directors. As Non-
executive Directors they are responsible for: Promoting
entrepreneurial leadership and the highest standards of
governance within a framework of prudent and effective controls;
constructively challenging and helping develop strategic
proposals; ensuring that the Group has in place the necessary
resources to meet its strategic objectives; reviewing management
performance; determining appropriate levels of Executive Director
Remuneration (Remuneration Committee members), taking a
prime role in appointing, and where necessary removing,
Executive Directors; setting the Company’s values and standards
to ensure its obligations to its stakeholders are understood and
met; and reviewing communication with shareholders. 
Board evaluation and professional development
A comprehensive and rigorous evaluation of the performance of
the Board, its principal Committees and the Chairman was
conducted during the year. The Board evaluation was carried out
with the assistance of the Company Secretary and was led by the
Chairman. The procedure adopted was for each Director to
complete a detailed questionnaire, on a non-attributable basis, on
their perception of the composition, operation and effectiveness of
the Board and its Committees. Each Director was then
interviewed by the Chairman in order to explore certain issues in
greater depth and to identify areas requiring improvement.
The results of the review were then considered during one-to-one
discussions with the Chairman and collectively at a Board meeting
as well as at the relevant Committee meetings.
This process confirmed that areas of weakness highlighted in the
prior year had been satisfactorily addressed and that the Board was
functioning effectively. One significant area identified for improvement
in the year ahead is strengthened executive director succession
planning. The aim is to ensure continuous improvement in Board
processes and procedures. The Non-executive Directors also met
separately, under the Chairmanship of the Senior Independent
Director, to discuss the performance of the Chairman and provide
him with collective feedback.
During the year the Chairman, in consultation with the Nomination
Committee, performed an evaluation of the skills each Board
member brings to the Board and created a skills matrix that was
presented to the Nomination Committee and the Board for use in
identifying professional development requirements and succession
planning.
The Company has a full and formal induction process for all new
appointments to the Board. The Chairman, in consultation with
the Company Secretary and individual Directors, is responsible for
assessing the professional development needs of each Director.
The induction process and ongoing professional development is
facilitated by the Company Secretary who, in consultation with the
individual Director, identifies the most appropriate method of
ensuring professional development. The Company Secretary also
assists in organising attendance at internal or external courses of
professional development to develop familiarity with the
Company’s area of business operation.
During 2007, the Board made site visits to the Company’s offices
in Edinburgh and The Netherlands. These visits afforded an
opportunity to meet with senior staff in both locations. The Board
has, since the merger in 2004, visited all the Company’s offices
with the exception of its sales and marketing offices in Boston,
Geneva and Paris. The result of these visits is a better
understanding by the Board of the Company’s activities.
Directors and Directors’ election and re-election
The Directors who served at any time during the year ended 
31 December 2007 are as shown in the Directors’ Remuneration
Report on page 47. Details of the Executive Directors’ service
contracts and Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment can
be found on pages 46 and 47.
Nick MacAndrew and Gerhard Roggemann, both of whom are
Independent Non-executive Directors, and Sir Adrian Montague, a
Non-executive Director, were appointed during the year. As such,
they retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, are
offering themselves for election. 38
Under the terms of the Company’s Articles of Association, at least
one third of Directors eligible to stand for re-election must do so
at each Annual General Meeting. Accordingly Messrs Bedell-
Pearce, de Beus and Medlock have been selected by the
Nomination Committee and the Board to retire by rotation and,
being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the Annual
General Meeting. 
The Nomination Committee has reviewed the structure, size and
composition of the Board, and confirm that all Directors offering
themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting
demonstrate commitment to their role. In accordance with the
requirements of the Code, the Nomination Committee gave more
detailed consideration to the proposed re-election of Mr Bedell-
Pearce, given that he will, if re-elected, enter his third three-year
term of appointment. The Nomination Committee and the Board
have resolved to review Mr Bedell-Pearce’s appointment on an
annual basis. The Nomination Committee has also confirmed that
all Directors submitting themselves for re-election devote sufficient
time to perform their roles as members of the Board and any
Board Committee and that the Chairman and all Non-executive
Directors display the qualities expected of a Chairman and of an
effective Non-executive Director. The Nomination Committee
believes that all Directors submitting themselves for election and
re-election should be elected or re-elected.
Details of the Directors offering themselves for election or 
re-election can be found on pages 24 and 25.
Board succession planning
The Nomination Committee has a detailed succession plan for the
Board’s Non-executive Directors. The plan was shaped by the
aforementioned skills profile, projected and expected normal
retirements, and the Company’s commitment to corporate
governance best practice. The plan is approved annually by the
Board. The Directorate changes during 2007 were consistent with
the plan.
Relations with shareholders
The Board as a whole acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring
satisfactory dialogue with shareholders and communications are
given high priority. The Company welcomes the views of
shareholders and, where practicable, enters into dialogue with
institutional shareholders based on the need for mutual
understanding of objectives. The Company’s Chief Executive and
Chief Financial Officer regularly meet the largest institutional
shareholders and Company analysts following the announcement
of the year end and interim results; the Senior Independent
Director and all other Non-executive Directors have the
opportunity to attend these meetings. The Annual General
Meeting of the Company provides a forum, both formal and
informal, for investors to meet and discuss issues with Directors
and senior management of the Company. Details of resolutions to
be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on Tuesday, 13 May
2007 can be found in the notice of the meeting commencing on
page 164. 
At its Annual General Meeting, the Company complies with the
provision of the Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the
separation of resolutions and the attendance of the Committee
Chairmen. The timing of the despatch of the formal notice of the
Annual General Meeting complies with the Code. The results of
the votes cast at the Annual General Meeting are posted on the
Company’s website.
The Non-executive Directors meet twice a year without
management present. At these meetings, representatives from the
Company’s significant shareholders have the opportunity to
express their views about the Company and consideration is
given to any other relevant views expressed by other
shareholders. Unattributed shareholder feedback on the
Company, facilitated by the Company’s brokers, is also presented
to the Board following management’s year end results
presentations.
Shareview
The Company’s registrar, Equiniti, offers a Shareview service
enabling shareholders to have more control over their shares and
other investments:
  Direct access to data held on the share register including
recent share movements and dividend details.
  The ability to change address details or dividend payment
instructions on-line.
  To sign up for Shareview – shareholders need the “shareholder
reference” printed on the proxy form or dividend stationery –
and there’s no charge to register.
On registration, shareholders can select their preferred format
(post or e-mail) for shareholder communications. Shareholders
selecting “e-mail” as their mailing preference will be sent
shareholder communications, such as proxy forms and notice of
company results by e-mail instead of post, as long as this option
is available. Shareholders selecting “post” as their preference will
be sent paper documents as usual.
Details of software and equipment requirements are given on the
website, www.shareview.co.uk
Electronic communications
Copies of the 2007 Annual Report and Financial Statements, the
Notice of Annual General Meeting, other corporate publications,
press releases and announcements are available on the
Company’s website. Shareholders are encouraged to take
advantage of the provisions allowing the Company to
communicate electronically. 
Voting Online
In accordance with good governance practice the Company is
offering shareholders use of an online voting service, “sharevote”,
offered by the Company’s registrar, Equiniti, at
www.sharevote.co.uk. Shareholders can use this service to vote
or appoint a proxy online. The same voting deadline (12 noon (UK
time) on 11 May 2008) applies as for the Personalised Voting
Form to vote or appoint a proxy by post to vote. Shareholders
need to use the unique personal identification details (Reference
Number, Card ID and Account Number) that are printed on the
Personalised Voting Form to use this service.
Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance 39
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
CREST members
Registered shareholders who are CREST members who are
entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and who wish to
appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy
appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to
be held on 13 May 2008, or any adjournment of it, by utilising the
procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST Personal
Members or other CREST Sponsored Members, and those
CREST members who have appointed a voting service
provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service
provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate action on their
behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of
the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message
(a “CREST Proxy Instruction”) must be properly authenticated in
accordance with CRESTCo’s specifications and must contain the
information required for such instructions, as described in the
CREST Manual. The message, regardless of whether it
constitutes the appointment of a proxy, or an amendment to the
instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order
to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer’s
agent, Equiniti (ID 7RA01), by 12 noon (UK time) on 11 May 2008.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time
(as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the
CREST Applications Host) from which the issuer’s agent is able to
retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner
prescribed by CREST. After this time any change of instructions
to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to
the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors
or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not
make available special procedures in CREST for any particular
message. Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore,
apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is
therefore the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to
take (or procure the taking of) such action as shall be necessary
to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST
system by any particular time. In this connection, CREST
members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting
service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of
the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST
system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in
the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a regular
basis. Management’s role is to implement and operate the Board
policies on risk and risk management. The system of internal
control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of
failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material errors,
losses or fraud.
The Company, as required by the FSA Listing Rules, complied
with the Code provisions on internal control for the year ended 
31 December 2007.
The procedures that the Directors have established are designed
to provide effective control within the Group and accord with the
Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Code issued by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales “Internal
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code” (the
“Turnbull Guidance”). Such procedures have been in place
throughout the year and up to 20 March 2008, the date of approval
of the Annual Report and Financial Statements. A high-level
overview of the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and
managing significant risks including social, environmental and
ethical issues is detailed below. This process is regularly reviewed
by the Board to ensure it complies with the Turnbull Guidance. 
Control environment
The Group is committed to the highest standards of business
conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all areas
of the business. The Group has in place appropriate procedures
for the reporting and resolution of activities that do not meet the
required standards of business conduct.
The Group has an appropriate organisational structure for
planning, executing, controlling and monitoring business
operations in order to achieve its objectives. The structure is
designed to provide clear responsibilities and a control framework
for key areas of the Group’s business.
Operational responsibility rests with the Chief Executive and is
devolved through a documented executive structure with clearly
delegated and appropriate levels of authority. Members of Group
management are, therefore, accountable for the operation of the
systems of internal controls within the Group’s business.
Business risks
The identification of major business risks is carried out by the
Board in conjunction with management, and procedures to
control these risks, where possible, are reviewed and agreed.
Quarterly reports are prepared by each of the business units,
across all locations. The quarterly reports include issues of material
business risk. These reports are discussed in detail by the
Management Committee which includes both Executive Directors.
All significant items are identified and reported to the Board on a
regular basis.
The key risks facing the Group at the year end and the mitigating
actions assigned to these risks are detailed in the Business
Review on page 16.
Monitoring and corrective action
There is a formal compliance function, which is integrated with the
internal audit function and operational risk function, to form an
Audit, Risk & Compliance department. The Audit, Risk &
Compliance department conducts regular monitoring of various
business areas and control procedures in line with a plan agreed
annually with the Audit & Compliance Committee. Any issues of
significance are brought to the attention of the Board by the 40
Audit, Risk & Compliance department and through the regular
reporting process. Planned corrective actions are independently
monitored for timely completion and reviewed by the Audit &
Compliance Committee.
The Audit & Compliance Committee reviews the effectiveness of
the operation of this framework at least twice each year.
Independence of the auditors
The Board has in place rigorous systems for ensuring the
independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Group’s
auditors and has satisfied itself that during the year no aspect of
their work was impaired on these grounds. In maintaining a clear
perception of independence and balancing that with the best
interests of the Group, the Board has a clear policy that it follows
when considering awarding non-audit work to the Group’s
auditors. The policy applied during 2007 is detailed below.
The Company does not impose an automatic ban on the Group’s
auditors undertaking non-audit work. The Group’s aim is always
to have any non-audit work involving accountancy firms carried
out in a manner that affords value for money while taking into
account relevant ethical guidance. The firm must not be in a
position of conflict in respect of the work in question and must
have the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work in
the best interests of the Group.
Auditors of the Company are permitted to perform non-audit work
in areas where, in the opinion of the Audit & Compliance
Committee, it is appropriate for them to do so and there are no
actual or perceived independence issues.
The Chairman of the Audit & Compliance Committee is authorised
to approve the use of auditors for non-audit work provided that
the cost does not exceed £50,000 and the aggregate value does
not exceed the audit fee for the financial year in question. In other
circumstances, the approval of the Audit & Compliance
Committee is required.
The performance, independence, competence and cost of
auditors are reviewed annually by the Audit & Compliance
Committee. When the Committee considers it appropriate, the
provision of audit services will be formally market-tested through a
tender process involving those audit firms judged competent to
meet the needs of the Group. The frequency of this market-
testing will depend on the views of the Audit & Compliance
Committee, on the needs of the Group and prevailing leading
practice. During 2006, a competitive audit tender exercise was
undertaken resulting in the appointment of KPMG Audit Plc at the
2007 Annual General Meeting. KPMG Audit Plc have expressed
their willingness to remain in office and the Board’s
recommendation to shareholders to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc
as the Company’s auditor is contained in the Notice of the
Meeting on page 164.
During the year, Deloitte, Ernst & Young, and
PricewaterhouseCoopers, all of whom are independent of KPMG,
the external auditors, provided non-audit related services to the
Group. Details of fees paid to these accounting firms during 2007
are disclosed in note 4 on page 70 of the notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Future developments
The Board believes that the controls in place during 2007 have
been appropriate to the needs of the Group. Nevertheless, it is
committed to the highest standards of governance and business
conduct and will ensure that those controls continue to develop in
line with the requirements of the FSA and leading practice.
By order of the Board,
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
20 March 2008
Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance 41
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
In designing the total compensation arrangements for the Group
and in preparing this report, the Board and the Remuneration
Committee have complied with the provisions of the Combined
Code (“the Code”), Schedule 992 to the Companies Act 2006
and the FSA Listing Rules. An ordinary resolution for the approval
of this report will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting.
Legislation requires the Group’s auditors to audit certain
disclosures within this report. Where disclosures have been
audited they are indicated as such.
The following policies represent the policies now adopted by the
Group for the forthcoming year and subsequent financial years.
Introduction and objectives
The Remuneration Committee is a standing committee of the
Board, chaired by Brian Larcombe, an independent 
Non-executive Director, (the Committee was chaired by 
John Heywood, an independent Non-executive Director until
November 2007; Mr Heywood continues to serve as a member of
the Committee). Its other member is Keith Bedell-Pearce an
independent Non-executive Director.
The Committee has been established by the Board to:
(a) Recommend to the Board the Group’s policy on Directors’
remuneration;
(b) ensure that the Executive Directors and senior employees are
fairly rewarded and that a significant proportion of Executive
Directors’ remuneration is linked to the Group’s corporate, and
their individual, performance;
(c) demonstrate to shareholders that the remuneration of
Executive Directors and senior employees of the Group is
determined by a committee of Board members which has no
personal interest in the level of remuneration of the Group’s
Executive Directors or senior employees and who will pay due
regard to the interests of shareholders and to the financial and
commercial health of the Group; and
(d) ensure that full consideration has been given to Section B and
Schedule A of the Code’s best practice provisions as annexed
to the Listing Rules.
Research and advice
During the year, the Remuneration Committee sought and
received independent remuneration research undertaken by
McLagan & Partners, Deloitte, Kepler Associates, and
PricewaterhouseCoopers, leading firms of executive remuneration
consultants appointed by the Committee to assess comparability
of the Group’s remuneration policies to the marketplace and in
particular the remuneration policies of the Group’s competitors.
The Committee approves all work undertaken by these specialist
consultants and the Board is satisfied that its advisers in respect
of remuneration matters are independent.
During 2007 the Remuneration Committee also received advice
from PricewaterhouseCoopers, Shepherd and Wedderburn and
Kepler Associates relating to the application 
of the rules and the operation of the Company’s long term
incentive plans.
Statement of the policy on Directors’ remuneration
The Company’s compensation policy detailed below is based
upon the following key principles:
  A single compensation policy applying across the business;
  a focus on market-competitive total compensation;
  differentiation by merit and performance;
  an emphasis on variable, performance-driven remuneration;
  alignment with shareholders’ interests through equity
participation; and
  clarity, transparency, and fairness of process.
A total compensation approach is central to the operation of the
Company’s compensation philosophy, with a strong focus on
variable compensation. The Board believes that shareholders’
interests are best served by containing fixed costs and increasing
the proportion of total compensation that is directly performance
related and thus aligned with shareholders’ interests. Total
remuneration will comprise basic salary, pension provision, annual
bonus, any awards under the long term share incentive schemes
and all-employee share plans.
The total cash component of compensation will be benchmarked
to market median for solid performers and to upper quartile for
exceptional performance. A range of benchmark data is used,
based on comparable asset management businesses, with
appropriate data being used for each geographic location.
Policies on the individual elements of remuneration
and employment
(a) Salaries
The salaries of all employees, including Executive Directors, are
reviewed annually and are determined by reference to external
market research. The Group has an active policy of reducing the
emphasis on base salary for senior employees.
(b) Bonus
The size and distribution of the bonus pool is recommended by
the Remuneration Committee to the Board for consideration and
approval. In considering the size and in determining the
distribution of the bonus pool, the Committee considers the
performance of the business, the need to recruit, motivate and
retain high-calibre individuals, the arrangements operated by the
Company’s competitors and the need to maintain an appropriate
balance between salary and performance-related remuneration
that ensures the achievement of objectives is rewarded. 
Bonus awards to all staff, including the Executive Directors, are
made under the discretionary bonus scheme. The purpose of this
scheme is to reward all staff and the Executive Directors for
performance relative to agreed targets.
A Purchased Equity Plan operates in conjunction with the
discretionary bonus scheme and is intended to encourage
shareholding by management and employees of the Group by
providing for:
Directors’ Remuneration Report 42
  The compulsory purchase of shares using annual bonus above
a threshold level; and
  voluntary purchase of shares using annual bonus, with
associated matching shares.
Under the terms of the Purchased Equity Plan, participation can
arise in two ways:
  On an annual basis, eligible employees who are awarded in a
financial year an aggregate bonus in excess of a threshold 
level of £75,000 (£100,000 in respect of the year ended 
31 December 2007), will be required to defer one third of the
element exceeding £75,000 (£100,000 in respect of the year
ended 31 December 2007) into shares (comprising a range of
investment products managed by the Company or the
Company’s shares) (“Compulsory Purchased Equity”) for 
three years; and
  as and when determined by the Board, eligible employees may
be invited to elect to defer into shares any remaining
proportion of their gross cash bonus not subject to deferral on
a compulsory basis for three years (subject to a minimum
deferral of £1,500) (“Voluntary Purchased Equity”).
The Compulsory Purchased Equity will not benefit from any form
of matching award and is subject to forfeiture in the event that the
employee leaves the Group for any reason (other than as a “good
leaver”) in the three-year retention period.
In the year ended 31 December 2007, the Compulsory Purchased
Equity element of the Purchased Equity Plan was applied to
78 employees (2006: 57 employees) in respect of their
performance in 2006: Awards equivalent to £3.3 million (2006:
£1.8 million) were acquired under the Compulsory Purchased
Equity element of the Purchased Equity Plan.
To encourage participants to defer their bonus on a voluntary
basis, a matching award will be made for Voluntary Purchased
Equity. The matching award will provide, at most, one share for
each two shares received as Voluntary Purchased Equity. Vesting
of any matching award is dependent on the satisfaction of
performance conditions and continued service. The conditions 
will relate to real earnings per share growth measured over a 
three-year period as set out below.
Growth in the Group’s  earnings per share* over three year Matching Purchased Equity award for each 
performance period Voluntary Purchased Equity share purchased
Below PI + 9% 1 for 5
PI + 9% 1 for 5
PI + 24% or higher 1 for 2
*Earnings per share (EPS) is calculated by reference to underlying earnings of the Group.
(where PI stands for an appropriate index of price inflation – the Retail Price Index (RPI))
For levels of EPS performance between those shown in the table, the Matching Purchased Equity award will vary on a straight line basis
between the minimum and maximum levels shown.
Invitations to participate in the Voluntary Purchased Equity element of the plan are at the discretion of the Board and will only be offered
when the Board considers it appropriate to do so. To date no such invitations have been made.
Directors’ Remuneration Report 43
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
(d) Share incentive schemes
The Board believes that the share incentive schemes increase the
potential for greater importance to be placed upon the
performance related element of total remuneration.
In any 10 year period the aggregate number of Ordinary Shares
which will be placed under award under any share incentive
scheme, shall not, when aggregated with the number of Ordinary
Shares placed under option or issued in that period under any
other employees’ share scheme operated by the Company,
exceed 10 per cent. of the Company’s issued ordinary share
capital at that time. For the purposes of measurement against this
limit the following will be disregarded: Any Ordinary Shares that
have been, or will be purchased, rather than allotted; and any
awards or grants that have lapsed or become incapable of
vesting.
In order to ensure that the assessment of performance conditions
in relation to the share incentive schemes detailed below is
independent, PricewaterhouseCoopers will report to the
Remuneration Committee as to whether the performance criteria
under all schemes have been met.
(c) Savings-related share schemes
To foster a culture of share ownership throughout the Group, the Board operates a Share Save Scheme (Share Save) and a Share
Incentive Plan (SIP) for all eligible employees. Both schemes are “all-employee share schemes” and all employees including Executive
Directors who meet certain criteria are eligible to participate. Invitations to all employees eligible to participate in these schemes are issued
following the announcement of the year end results in March.
The SIP is a share scheme that enables employees to purchase F&C shares in a tax efficient manner on a monthly basis at the prevailing
market price. The Share Save is a personal savings scheme that enables employees to either purchase discounted F&C shares, the price
of which is determined at the time of offering, at the end of a three-year or five-year saving period, or to receive the accumulated cash
value, including accrued interest, on a tax-free basis.
At 31 December 2007, 332 employees (31 December 2006: 321 employees) participated in Share Save and 413 employees 
(31 December 2006: 426 employees) participated in the SIP.
Shares under option within Share Save at 31 December 2007 are detailed below:
Number of options Term (years) Exercise price
March 2003 Participation
256,474 5 114.0 pence
March 2004 Participation
105,332 3 181.0 pence
102,955 5 181.0 pence
March 2005 Participation
197,180 3 186.6 pence
122,334 5 186.6 pence
March 2006 Participation
238,050 3 171.0 pence
117,033 5 171.0 pence
March 2007 Participation
436,163 3 144.3 pence
182,446 5 144.3 pence
290,089 shares (2006: 213,109 shares) were held in trust for employees within the SIP. Both “all-employee share schemes” seek to buy
shares in the market to remove any possible impact of dilution. 44
The results of each year’s calculation are set out below.
Achievement of performance conditions
During 2007 the growth in the Group’s underlying EPS
underperformed the growth in the RPI by 22.8 percentage points
(2006: underperformed, as amended for the adjustment in relation
to the loss of Resolution assets (2.74pence per share), by 
6.7 percentage points, 2005: outperformed by 22.2 percentage
points, 2004: outperformed by 13.2 percentage points).
In respect of awards made in 2007, the Company’s total
shareholder return (“TSR”) ranked 89 out of a FTSE 250 Index
comparator group of 210 companies* in the period from 
1 January 2007 to 31 December 2007.
In respect of awards made in 2006, the Company’s TSR ranked
114 out of a FTSE 250 Index comparator group of 185 companies*
in the period from 1 January 2006 to 31 December 2007.
The share price at 31 December 2007 was 192.5 pence. During
the year the highest price was 222.0 pence per share and the
lowest price was 161.25 pence.
The F&C Asset Management plc Executive Director
Remuneration Plan (EDRP)
The EDRP is an arrangement tailored to address the retention and
incentive required for the Executive Directors of the Company
during the term of the three-year business plan. 
The EDRP comprises two components: Deferred Share Awards
and Restricted Share Awards. The Restricted Share Award made
during the year was a one-off award linked to the three-year
growth plan for the Group. 
Deferred awards
Vesting of the Ordinary Shares that are subject to a deferred
award under the EDRP will be contingent solely on the continued
employment of the Executive Director over the three year period.
During the year, 1,500,574 deferred awards were made under the
EDRP.
Restricted awards
Vesting of the Ordinary Shares that are currently the subject of a
restricted award under the EDRP will be contingent upon both the
specified performance conditions below and conditions of
continued service.
The performance conditions applied to restricted awards under
the EDRP are determined by the Board and are measured over a
three-year period.  The vesting of Restricted Share Awards will
generally be dependent on the satisfaction of a performance
condition relating to the Underlying Earnings Per Share, excluding
the costs associated with the EDRP (“EPS”) performance of the
Group.
Under this condition, a Restricted Share Award will only vest if the
Group’s EPS equals or exceeds a specified target in the year
ending 31 December 2009. On achievement of the specified
target, 100 per cent. of the award will vest.
The EPS that will be required in order for a Restricted Share
Award to vest is appropriately challenging at not less than 
18.0 pence per share, representing growth in excess of 40 per
cent. from the 2006 reported EPS.
In addition, and in order to ensure that the EDRP encourages
and rewards exceptional performance over and above the
stretching target which must be met in order for a Restricted
Share Award to vest, the terms of the above performance
condition will also provide that, where the Group’s EPS over the
performance period exceeds the specified target level, a
participant will be given the opportunity to increase the
percentage of the relevant award that vests, up to a maximum
of 140 per cent. To achieve the maximum enhanced level of
vesting an extremely stretching condition of EPS at not less than
25.0 pence per share, representing growth in excess of 95 per
cent. from the 2006 reported EPS, is required.
Where the EPS actually achieved by the Group over the
performance period exceeds the level required for a Restricted
Share Award to vest but is less than the specified target which must
be met in order to achieve the maximum level of enhanced vesting,
then the percentage of the award that vests will be calculated on a
“straight-line” basis between 100 per cent. and 140 per cent.
On vesting, any Restricted Share Awards will be subject to an
additional holding period with 50 per cent. of any shares vesting
held until announcement of the 2010 annual results and the
balance not being released before September 2011. 
During the year 2,860,000 restricted awards (being 100% of the
maximum 140% of the award) were made under the EDRP.
The F&C Asset Management plc Long Term
Remuneration Plan (LTRP)
The LTRP is the primary long term incentive arrangement of the
Company.
The LTRP is a discretionary contingent share award scheme
unapproved by HM Revenue and Customs. The LTRP is designed
to support the business objectives of the Group.
Under the LTRP, contingent awards of shares are made under
two categories:
Deferred awards
Vesting of the Ordinary Shares that are subject to a deferred
award under the LTRP will be contingent solely on the continued
employment of the relevant participant over a three-year period.
During the year, 5,911,422 deferred awards were made under the
LTRP (2006: 3,634,418). Deferred awards were made to 202 staff
(2006: 183 staff).
Restricted awards
Vesting of the Ordinary Shares that are currently the subject of a
restricted award under the LTRP will be contingent upon both the
specified performance conditions below and conditions of
continued service.
The performance conditions applied to restricted awards under
the LTRP are determined by the Board and are measured over a
three-year period. For existing restricted awards under the LTRP,
50 per cent. of any award relates to TSR and 50 per cent. of the
award relates to real earnings per share growth.
*In line with the definition of the performance condition, the constituent
companies of the FTSE 250 Index were taken as at the date of award and 
31 December 2007. Only companies appearing in the index on both dates are
included for the purpose of the analysis.
Directors’ Remuneration Report The TSR target is dependent upon the TSR of the Company
compared to the TSR of the other companies who formed the
FTSE 250 Index at the start of each performance period (the
“comparator companies”) over a three-year performance period
commencing on the first day of the accounting period in which
the award was made. In order to determine how much of an
award will vest, the Remuneration Committee compares the TSR
of the Company with that of the companies that constituted the
FTSE 250 Index published by the London Stock Exchange plc
immediately before the date of the award. At the end of the
performance period, the Company and each of the comparator
companies (the “comparator list”) are listed and ranked in
accordance with their TSR over the performance period. The
number of Ordinary Shares which vest would depend upon the
ranking of the Company in the comparator list in accordance with
the vesting table above, described as follows. For below median
TSR performance no awards would vest; for TSR performance
between the median and upper quartile (125th and 63rd position
in the index) awards would vest on a straight-line basis between
35 per cent. for median and 100 per cent. for upper quartile. The
TSR measure reflects the movement in the value of shares plus
any dividends declared during the relevant period. It was chosen
as the performance measure for the LTRP as it is directly related
to movements in shareholder value.
For levels of both TSR and EPS performance between those
shown in the tables above, any award that vests under the LTRP
will vary on a straight-line basis between the minimum and
maximum levels shown.
During the year 327,548 restricted awards were made under the
LTRP (2006: 1,482,046). Restricted awards were made to 9 staff
(2006: 20 staff).
Deferred Share Awards
In November 2007 the Company made deferred awards of
1,096,539 ordinary shares in the Company to four employees in
connection with commitments made to them on recruitment in
2005. The awards will vest in November and December 2008 and
will be settled by the ISIS Employee Benefit Trust.
Policy on grants and awards under the share
incentive schemes
The Company’s policy for the granting of awards under the LTRP
and EDRP is that awards and grants are based on an assessment
of individual contribution to the business and independent advice
obtained on current remuneration practices. Award levels will be
determined by the Remuneration Committee with reference to
Group performance, market competitiveness (assessed on a total
compensation basis using independent market total
compensation data), and individual performance. Because of the
active policy of reducing the emphasis on base salary, the
Company will not link or limit any awards under the LTRP and
EDRP explicitly to a multiple of base salary, believing that making
such a linkage provides an incentive to increase base salaries,
and therefore fixed costs, which is contrary to shareholders’
interests.
Performance graph for the share incentive schemes
The graph below compares the performance of the Company for
the five financial periods ending 31 December 2007 based on the
TSR for each period (assuming all dividends are reinvested) to
ordinary shareholders compared with the TSR for each period on
a notional investment made up of shares of the group of
companies from which the FTSE 250 Index of companies is
calculated. The FTSE 250 Index has been chosen as the
comparator index as it is the index that includes the Company
and is considered an appropriate benchmark as there are very
few comparable listed asset management businesses. It is
therefore the group against which 50 per cent. of the LTRP is
measured.
Source: Datastream
45
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
TSR target (applying to 50 per cent. of any award) Percentage of award vesting
The Group’s TSR relative to FTSE 250
Below Median Nil
Median 35%
Upper Quartile 100%
Underlying EPS target (applying to 50 per cent. of any award) Percentage of award vesting
Growth in Group’s EPS over three year performance period
Below PI + 9% Nil
PI + 9% 50%
PI + 24% or higher 100%
(Where PI stands for an appropriate index of price inflation – the Retail Price Index (RPI))
 46
(e) Policy on other benefits
The Group provides all staff with life assurance cover. The
Group’s policy in relation to cars is to provide cars only to
employees where the use of a car is essential to the fulfilment of
their role and to provide a car cash allowance in all other
instances.
(f) Policy on pension
The Group’s policy on pension provision is to provide a means
whereby each employee either receives a pension at retirement
age or funding to operate a money purchase pension plan. New
UK employees are provided with funding to enable them to
operate a money purchase pension plan. The funding rate varies
according to the age of the employee.
Pension payments are based on basic salary and no other cash
payments or benefits are pensionable.
(g) Policy on contracts of employment
The Company’s policy regarding contracts of employment is that
all senior employees, including Executive Directors, should be
offered rolling contracts of no longer than twelve months. Where it
is commercially appropriate to protect the Company, a longer-
term initial contract with any employee, including an Executive
Director, may be entered into. On completion of the initial
contract, the Company’s standard terms will be applied. The
Remuneration Committee, in considering contracts, has regard to
compensation commitments in respect of termination and
believes that these are best addressed by restricting the term of
the contract. In the event of a termination, the Remuneration
Committee would consider all the relevant factors and seek a just
solution.
(h) Policy on Non-executive Directors’ remuneration
Non-executive Directors’ fees for the year to 31 December 2007
are set out below. None of the Non-executive Directors have
service contracts. Letters of appointment provide for an initial
period of three years, subject to review. Non-executive Directors
must submit to re-election at least every three years and are not
eligible for bonuses or participation in savings related share
schemes or share incentive schemes. Non-executive Directors are
not eligible to join any of the Company’s pension schemes. No
pension contributions are made on their behalf and no Non-
executive Director receives a salary from the Company. The
remuneration of Non-executive Directors is determined by the
Board as a whole within the limits stipulated in the Company’s
Articles of Association. All fees are reviewed annually.
Apart from the Chairman, Non-executive Directors are paid a
basic fee. In the year ended 31 December 2007 the Non-
executive base fee was £30,000 per annum. Non-executive
Directors are separately remunerated for their services on Board
Committees.  In the year ended 31 December 2007 The
Chairman of the Board, who chairs the Nomination Committee,
received an annual all inclusive fee of £100,000. 
The Remuneration Committee sets the Chairman’s annual
remuneration. The Board as a whole determines the fees for Non-
executive Directors, the Senior Independent Director supplement
and the additional fees payable for Membership and Chairing
Board Committees. The supplemental member and Chairman’s
fees paid for Board Committees are set out below.
On 27 November 2007 the Board approved an increase to the
Chairman’s fee of £25,000 per annum and an increase of
£10,000 to the basic fee payable to Non-executive Directors.
A £15,000 supplemental fee is paid to the Senior Independent
Director. No changes were made to the additional fees payable
for Membership or Chairing Board Committees. The increase in
fees took effect from 1 January 2008. 
Chairman’s fee
Committee (payable in addition to
Member’s fee (£) the member’s) (£)
Audit & Compliance 10,000 5,000 
Remuneration 7,500 5,000
Nomination 5,000 5,000*
*Currently included within the all inclusive fees payable to Robert Jenkins.
Statement on Executive Directors’ service contracts and Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment
Messrs Grisay and Logan have current service contracts with the Company that are for a rolling period of one year, details of which are
summarised below. No employee of the Group has a service contract that cannot be brought to an end within one year.
Provision for
compensation
payable by the
Company
on early
Date of Notice Unexpired termination
Executive Directors contract period term £000
Alain Grisay 11 Oct 2004 Twelve months rolling twelve months 331
David Logan 31 July 2006 Twelve months rolling twelve months 252
Directors’ Remuneration Report 47
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
Provision for
compensation
payable by the
Company
Unexpired on early
Chairman and Date of Notice term termination
Non-executive Directors contract period at 31 March 2008 £000
Robert Jenkins 16 May 2006 None Fourteen months Nil
Keith Bedell-Pearce 16 May 2006 None Fourteen months Nil
Dick de Beus 16 May 2006 None Fourteen months Nil
John Heywood 26 Apr 2005 None One month Nil
Brian Larcombe 10 May 2007 None Twenty six months Nil
Nick MacAndrew 10 May 2007 None N/A* Nil
Jeff Medlock 26 Apr 2005 None One month Nil
Sir Adrian Montague 27 Nov 2007 None N/A* Nil
Gerhard Roggemann 19 Jun 2007 None N/A* Nil
Jim Smart 10 May 2007 None Twenty six months Nil
* Subject to election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting
Directors retiring and seeking election/re-election
The names of those Directors proposed for election and re-election are contained in the Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance on
pages 37 and 38.
Statement on Directors Remuneration (audited)
The remuneration of the Chairman and the other Directors who held office during the year ended 31 December 2007 is set 
out in the table below:
Total Total
2007 2006
Salary Benefits and (excluding (excluding Pension
and fees Bonus allowances pension pension contributions Total Total
2007 2007 2007 contribution) contribution) 2007 2007 2006
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive Directors
Alain Grisay 325 1,161* 11 1,497 1,689 892** 2,389 2,374
David Logan(1) 250 317* 3 570 556 195 765 567
Chairman and Non-executive Directors
Robert Jenkins (Chairman) 100 – 2 102 102 – 102 102
Christopher Jemmett (2) 20 – – 20 55 –20 55
Dick de Beus 35 – – 35 35 –35 35
Keith Bedell-Pearce(3) 59 – – 59 48 –59 48
David Gray(2) 16 – – 16 65 –16 65
John Heywood 51 – – 51 48 –51 48
Brian Larcombe(4) 50 – – 50 38 –50 38
Nick MacAndrew(5) 26 – – 26 – –26 –
Sir Adrian Montague(6) –– – – – –– –
Philip Moore(7) –– – – – –– –
Jeff Medlock 30 – – 30 30 –30 30
Gerhard Roggemann(8) 16 – – 16 – –16 –
Jim Smart –– – – – –– –
Total 978 1,478 16 2,472 2,666 1,087 3,559 3,362
*In addition, Alain Grisay and David Logan received £633,333 and £158,333 repectively, which will be deferred for three years in Compulsory Purchased Equity under
the terms of the Purchased Equity Plan details of which are shown on pages 41 and 42.
**Includes £666,666 pension contribution, each year representing one third of the £2,000,000 contribution detailed below.
(1)
Appointed as a Director on 31 July 2006.
(2)
Resigned as a Director on 10 May 2007. 
(3)
Appointed Senior Independent Director on 10 May 2007.
(4)
Appointed to the Audit & Compliance Committee on 10 May 2007 and appointed Chairman of Remuneration Committee on 27 November 2007.
(5)
Appointed as a Director on 10 May 2007.
(6)
Appointed as a Director on 27 November 2007.
(7)
Resigned as a Director on 27 November 2007.
(8)
Appointed as a Director on 19 June 2007. 48
No sums were paid to third parties in respect of any Executive Director’s services.
The Company received £Nil (2006: £Nil) in fees payable to Executive Directors in respect of any external directorships held. No Executive
Director receives any fees in respect of external appointments.
The Non-executive Directors’ fees of Philip Moore, Sir Adrian Montague and Jim Smart, which would have been payable to Friends
Provident plc, were waived in 2007 by Friends Provident in lieu of the services provided by Alain Grisay to their Board in his capacity as a
Director of Friends Provident, for which no fee is payable to F&C.
Statement on Directors’ pensions (audited)
The number of Directors who held office during the year and to whom retirement benefits are accruing is set out below:
2007 2006
Number Number
Members of money purchase pension scheme 2 2
Members of defined benefit scheme – 2
2007 2006
£000 £000
Company contributions paid to money purchase pension schemes
Alain Grisay 225 2,018*
David Logan (2006 – from appointment on 31 July 2006) 195 11
*£2,000,000 of which is re-payable in full by Mr Grisay if he resigns or is dismissed for cause before 15 January 2009. This payment, which is equivalent to £666,666 per
annum for three years, represents the Company’s commitment to Mr Grisay on assuming the role of Chief Executive to provide him with an appropriate pension at age 60.
During the year, the Company paid a widow’s pension of £91,000 (2006: £88,000) in respect of the pension benefits which had accrued
to a former chairman.
No Directors were members of a defined benefit scheme during the year.
Mr Jenkins has an entitlement from F&C to an unfunded pension benefit of £100,000 per annum from age 60, index linked with attaching
spouse’s benefits.
(4) (5)
(1) (2) (3) Transfer Total (6) (7)
Gross Increase Total value of net change Value of Value of
increase in accrued accrued increase in value accrued accrued
in accrued pension net pension at in accrual during pension at pension at
pension of inflation 31/12/2007 over period period 31/12/2007 31/12/2006
Robert Jenkins £4,100 – £110,500 – £479,400 £2,383,000 £1,903,600
Notes
(a) Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement at age 60. The pension will be indexed before and after retirement in line with
the Retail Prices Index on 1 January each year.
(b) Mr Jenkins became entitled to the benefit on 11 October 2004 following the completion of the merger to form F&C Asset Management plc.
(c) Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 9.2 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
(d) The transfer values represent the actuarial value of a liability to the Group, and are not a sum paid to Mr Jenkins.
Statement on Directors’ share incentive schemes (audited)
The Executive Directors who held office during the year and their awards under any of the Group’s share incentive schemes at
31 December 2007 are shown below.
David Logan, an Executive Director, received an award of 154,838 deferred shares on joining the Company in July 2006. This award,
which is contingent on Mr Logan remaining with the Company for a period of at least three years, will vest in July 2009. This award was
an initial joining award made outwith any of the Company’s long term incentive schemes.
Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the Group’s long term incentive plans.
Executive Director Remuneration Plan (audited)
Details of the Executive Director Remuneration Plan are set out on page 44.
During the year both Alain Grisay and David Logan participated in the plan.
Date of Grant Nature of Award Alain Grisay David Logan Total Awards Share Price at 
Outstanding date of award
21 May 2007 Deferred 1,300,000 200,574 1,500,574 193.0p
21 May 2007 Restricted* 2,500,000 360,000 2,860,000 193.0p
* representing 100 per cent. of the maximum 140 per cent. of the award.
Directors’ Remuneration Report 49
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
Long Term Remuneration Plan awards (audited)
Details of the Long Term Remuneration Plan are set out on page 44.
At 31 December 2007 there are no awards outstanding to any Executive Director under the Long Term Remuneration Plan (31 December
2006: 1,165,270 outstanding to Mr Grisay). On 10 May 2007, following shareholder approval for the adoption of the Executive Director
Remuneration Plan, the restricted share award of 956,937 made under the LTRP in 2006 to Alain Grisay was waived. No awards were
made to Executive Directors under the Long Term Remuneration Plan in 2007. On 15 November 2007, being the third anniversary of the
awards made in 2004, Alain Grisay exercised 104,167 awards and 104,167 awards lapsed. The share price on 15 November 2007 was
210.5p.
Re-Investment Plan (audited)
Details of the Re-Investment Plan are set out on page 104.
During the year the Re-Investment Plan, which was a one-off plan introduced at the time of the merger in 2004, matured.  On 11 October
2007 1,195,638 “matching” shares were allocated to Alain Grisay in accordance with the rules of the plan. The share price on 11 October
2007 was 213.75p. 
At 31 December 2007, there are no awards outstanding to any Executive Director under the Re-Investment Plan. 
Share options (audited)
Details of the share option schemes are set out on pages 101 to 114. No options have been granted to Directors or former Directors since
2003. 
At 31 December 2007, David Logan held 6,548 options at an exercise price of 144.3 pence by saving £250 per month in the F&C Asset
Management plc Share Save Scheme for 3 years. 
Other senior executives
There are a number of senior executives who make a significant contribution to the Group. These senior executives directly support the
Company’s Executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee has regard to the remuneration of members of this group whose total
remuneration including salary, bonus and benefits, but excluding pension contributions and share scheme participation, is summarised
below. These numbers have been prepared on a comparable basis with the figures shown in the column headed “Total 2007 (excluding
pension contribution)” within the Statement on Directors’ remuneration on page 47.
The table below covers the total remuneration of all senior executives who served at any time during the year.
Number of senior Number of senior
executives (excluding executives (excluding
Total remuneration Executive Directors) Executive Directors)
£000 2007 2006
100-125 65 56
126-150 31 39
151-175 15 18
176-200 14 13
201-225 20 6
226-250 18 13
251-300 12 19
301-400 10 12
401-500 5 4
501-600 2 2
601-700 1 3
>700 1 1
By order of the Board, 
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
20 March 2008 50
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and
the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements in
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Consolidated and
Company Financial Statements for each financial year. Under that
law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(“IFRS”) as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have
elected to prepare the Company Financial Statements in
accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
The Consolidated Financial Statements are required by law and
IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position
and the performance of the Group; the Companies Act 1985
provides in relation to such financial statements that references in
the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true
and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Company Financial Statements are required by law to give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company. In
preparing each of the Consolidated and Company Financial
Statements, the Directors are required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
  make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
  for the Consolidated Financial Statements, state whether they
have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by
the EU;
  for the Company Financial Statements, state whether
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in
the Company Financial Statements; and
  prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that
its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also
responsible for preparing a Directors' Report, Directors'
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that
comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of
the corporate and financial information included on the
Company's website. Legislation in the UK governing the
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of
the Annual Report and the Financial Statements 51
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
We have audited the Consolidated and Company Financial
Statements (the ''Financial Statements'') of F&C Asset
Management plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which
comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated
and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of
Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated Cash Flow
Statement and the related notes. These financial statements have
been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We
have also audited the information in the Directors' Remuneration
Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body,
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
company's members those matters we are required to state to
them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the
Company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and
the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the Company
Financial Statements and the Directors' Remuneration Report in
accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the
Statement of Directors' Responsibilities on page 50.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the part
of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial
Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial
Statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to
be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Consolidated Financial
Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you
whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors'
Report is consistent with the Financial Statements. The
information given in the Directors’ Report includes the information
presented in the Business Review that is cross referred from the
Directors’ report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and
other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects
the Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of
the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We
are not required to consider whether the board's statements on
internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on
the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial
statements. We consider the implications for our report if we
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the Financial Statements. Our responsibilities
do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis,
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the
Financial Statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration
Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the
significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the
preparation of the Financial Statements, and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the group's and company's
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the Financial Statements and the part of the
Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are free from
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial
Statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to
be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
  the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair
view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the
state of the Group's affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of
its profit for the year then ended;
  the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation;
  the Company Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice,
of the state of the parent company's affairs as at 31
December 2007;
  the Company Financial Statements and the part of the
Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
1985; and
  the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent 
with the Financial Statements.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor
Edinburgh
20 March 2008
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of
F&C Asset Management plc Notes
2007
»m
2006
»m
Revenue
Investmentmanagementfees 2 267.2 257.6
Otherincome 2 10.6 3.7
Totalrevenue 277.8 261.3
Feeandcommissionexpenses 2 (13.3) (10.5)
Netrevenue 2 264.5 250.8
Netgainsandinvestmentincomeonunit-linkedassets 3 45.0 106.7
Movementsinfairvalueofunit-linkedliabilities (43.9) (105.0)
Operatingexpenses
Operatingexpenses 4(b) (183.8) (159.4)
InvestmentTrustVATexpense 4(c) (4.2) ^
Re-InvestmentPlancosts (6.4) (11.6)
Amortisationofintangibleassets^managementcontracts 13 (42.4) (43.0)
Impairmentofintangibleassets^managementcontracts 13 ^ (58.5)
Totaloperatingexpensesbeforerestructuringcosts (236.8) (272.5)
Operatingprofit/(loss)beforerestructuringcosts 28.8 (20.0)
Restructuringcosts 6 ^ (9.7)
Operatingprofit/(loss)afterrestructuringcosts 28.8 (29.7)
Financerevenue 7 23.8 20.6
Financecosts 8 (27.3) (22.0)
Impairmentinassociatesandotherfinancialinvestments 14 ^ (0.8)
Lossondisposalofassociates 16(b) ^ (0.1)
Shareofprofitofassociates 15 0.6 1.5
Profit/(loss)beforetax 25.9 (30.5)
Tax^Policyholders (0.6) (0.9)
Tax^Shareholders (6.6) 8.9
Tax(expense)/income 9 (7.2) 8.0
Profit/(loss)fortheyear 18.7 (22.5)
Attributableto:
Equityholdersoftheparent 17.1 (23.5)
Minorityinterests 1.6 1.0
Profit/(loss)fortheyear 18.7 (22.5)
Basicearnings/(loss)pershare 11 3.54p (4.91)p
Dilutedearnings/(loss)pershare 11 3.43p (4.91)p
»m »m
Memo^dividendspaid 10(a) 43.5 52.7
^dividendsproposed 10(a) 19.7 33.8
ConsolidatedIncomeStatement
fortheyearended31December2007
52 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
ConsolidatedBalanceSheet
asat31December2007
Notes
Asat
31December
2007
»m
Asat
31December
2006
»m
Assets
Non-currentassets
Property,plantandequipment 12 11.4 12.8
Intangibleassets:
^Goodwill 13 569.9 569.9
^Managementcontracts 13 253.7 284.3
^Otherintangibleassets 13 1.1 1.1
13 824.7 855.3
Otherfinancialinvestments 14 3.8 2.1
Otherreceivables 21 0.8 2.5
Investmentinassociates 15 ^ 1.4
Deferredacquisitioncosts 17 8.1 7.9
Deferredtaxassets 18(a) 29.0 33.4
Totalnon-currentassets 877.8 915.4
Currentassets
Financialinvestments 19 1,042.8 1,128.8
Reinsuranceassets 20 2.3 2.4
Stockofunitsandshares 19 0.8 0.7
Tradeandotherreceivables 21 96.7 86.2
Deferredacquisitioncosts 17 3.8 3.4
Cashandcashequivalents:
^Policyholders 22 58.2 53.3
^Shareholders 22 216.2 214.3
22 274.4 267.6
Totalcurrentassets 1,420.8 1,489.1
Totalassets 2,298.6 2,404.5
Liabilities
Non-currentliabilities
Interestbearingloansandborrowings 23 258.7 258.5
Otherpayables 24 7.2 4.0
Provisions 25 10.2 9.2
Pensiondeficit 26 26.8 45.4
Employeebenefits 2.0 ^
Deferredincome 28 12.1 13.7
Deferredtaxliabilities 18(a) 73.4 86.1
Totalnon-currentliabilities 390.4 416.9
Currentliabilities
Investmentcontractliabilities 29 1,090.1 1,175.1
Insurancecontractliabilities 30 2.3 2.4
Interestbearingloansandborrowings 23 ^ 5.0
Tradeandotherpayables 24 58.9 62.2
Provisions 25 10.1 9.3
Employeebenefits 33.7 32.8
Deferredincome 28 4.3 4.2
Currenttaxpayable 15.3 12.8
Totalcurrentliabilities 1,214.7 1,303.8
Totalliabilities 1,605.1 1,720.7
Equityattributabletoequityholdersoftheparent
Sharecapital 31,32 0.5 0.5
Sharepremiumaccount 32 33.8 32.6
Mergerreserve 32 499.3 520.7
Otherreserves 32 13.6 (2.7)
Retainedearnings 32 145.2 132.3
Totalequityattributabletoequityholdersoftheparent 692.4 683.4
Minorityinterests 32 1.1 0.4
Totalequity 32 693.5 683.8
Totalliabilitiesandequity 2,298.6 2,404.5
ThefinancialstatementswereapprovedbytheBoardofDirectorsandauthorisedforissueon20March2008.Theyweresignedonits
behalfby:
RobertJenkins AlainGrisay
Chairman ChiefExecutive
53 Notes
2007
»m
2006
»m
Profit/(loss)fortheyear 18.7 (22.5)
Foreignexchangemovementsontranslationofforeignoperations 14.9 (4.4)
Actuarialgainsondefinedbenefitpensionschemes 26 11.1 2.5
Gainonavailableforsalefinancialinvestments 1.9 1.9
FairvaluegainsonavailableforsalefinancialinvestmentstransferredtotheIncomeStatement ^ (2.4)
Taxexpenseonitemstakendirectlytoequity 9(a) (4.5) (0.8)
Other ^ 0.1
Netincome/(expense)recogniseddirectlyinequity 23.4 (3.1)
Totalrecognisedincomeandexpensefortheyear 32 42.1 (25.6)
Attributableto:
Equityholdersoftheparent 40.5 (26.6)
Minorityinterests 1.6 1.0
42.1 (25.6)
ConsolidatedStatementofRecognisedIncomeandExpense
fortheyearended31December2007
54 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
ConsolidatedCashFlowStatement
fortheyearended31December2007
Notes
2007
»m
2006
»m
Cashflowsfromoperatingactivities
Operatingprofit/(loss)beforerestructuringcosts 28.8 (20.0)
Cashoutflowrelatingtorestructuringcosts (2.9) (11.3)
Adjustmentsfornon-cashitems 33 59.9 119.4
Changesinworkingcapitalandprovisions 33 (0.8) 41.4
Cashgeneratedfromoperatingactivities 85.0 129.5
Incometaxpaid (21.3) (18.3)
Netcashinflowfromoperatingactivities 63.7 111.2
Cashflowsfrominvestingactivities
Acquisitionofproperty,plantandequipment (2.2) (4.1)
RefundofacquisitionconsiderationforlossofResolutionLifefunds ^ 27.0
Purchaseofintangibles^software (0.8) (0.7)
Returnofcapitalfrominvestments 0.1 0.1
Distributionstominorityinterests (0.9) (0.5)
Repaymentofloanfromassociate(ISISEPLLP) 1.0 ^
Paymentstoacquireinvestments (2.0) (1.8)
Proceedsfromdisposalofinvestments ^ 0.2
ExpensesofF&CGHGroupacquisition (0.1) (0.2)
Distributionsreceivedfromassociates 1.9 0.4
Investmentincome^investments 3.8 6.4
Investmentincome^interestanddividends 10.6 5.7
Netcashinflowfrominvestingactivities 11.4 32.5
Cashflowsfromfinancingactivities
Proceedsfromissueofsharecapital 32 1.2 1.9
RepaymentofloanfromEurekoB.V. ^ (9.0)
RepaymentofloansfromFPGroup (5.0) (205.0)
Proceedsfromlong-termborrowings ^ 260.0
Paymentsinrespectofexpensesforlong-termborrowings (0.3) (2.1)
InterestpaidonLoanNotes (17.6) ^
Interestpaidonotherloans (0.1) (14.0)
Otherinterestpaid (0.2) (0.5)
Equitydividendspaid 10(a) (43.5) (52.7)
InterestonPreferenceShares (0.1) (0.1)
Cashmovementsfromdealinginownshares (2.2) (0.7)
Netcashoutflowfromfinancingactivities (67.8) (22.2)
Netincreaseincashandcashequivalents 7.3 121.5
Effectofexchangeratefluctuationsoncashheld (0.5) (0.1)
Cashandcashequivalentsat1January 267.6 146.2
Cashandcashequivalentsat31December 22 274.4 267.6
Cashandcashequivalents
Shareholders 22 216.2 214.3
Policyholders 22 58.2 53.3
22 274.4 267.6
55 Basisofpreparationandstatementofcompliance
ThesearetheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsofF&CAssetManagementplcanditssubsidiaries(theGroup)whichhavebeen
preparedinaccordancewithInternationalFinancialReportingStandardsasadoptedbytheEuropeanUnion(‘‘adoptedIFRS’’)
andthosepartsoftheCompaniesAct1985applicabletocompaniesreportingunderadoptedIFRS.TheConsolidatedFinancial
StatementsarepresentedinmillionsofpoundsSterling,roundedtoonedecimalpoint,exceptwhereotherwiseindicated.
TheGrouphasadoptedthefollowingstandardsandinterpretationsduring2007:
IFRS7FinancialInstruments:Disclosures.
IAS1Amendment^PresentationofFinancialStatements:CapitalDisclosures.
Thesestandardsprimarilyconcernthedisclosureofcapital,financialinstrumentsandrisks.Thesedisclosurescanbefound
primarilyinnotes36and37.
Parentcompanyfinancialstatements
TheparentCompanyhascontinuedtopresentindividualfinancialstatementspreparedonaUKGAAPbasisaspermittedby
section226(2)of,andSchedule4to,theCompaniesAct1985,adoptingtheexemptionofomittingtheprofitandlossaccountand
relatednotesconferredbysection230ofthatAct.TheparentCompanyfinancialstatements,togetherwithitsrespective
accountingpolicies,arepresentedonpages145to163.
Accountingestimatesassumptionsandjudgements
Thepreparationofthefinancialstatementsnecessitatestheuseofestimates,assumptionsandjudgements.Theseestimates,
assumptionsandjudgementsaffectthereportedamountsofassets,liabilities,contingentassetsandcontingentliabilitiesatthe
balancesheetdateaswellasthereportedincomeandexpensesfortheyear.Whileestimatesarebasedonmanagement’s
bestknowledgeandjudgementusinginformationandfinancialdataavailabletothem,theactualoutcomemaydifferfrom
theseestimates.
Thekeysourcesofestimationuncertaintyandcriticaljudgementsinapplyingaccountingpoliciesaredisclosed,whereappropriate,
inthefollowingnotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements:
(a) Amortisationperiodsusedonintangibleassets
Theamortisationperiodsusedonintangiblemanagementcontractsandamortisationcosts,asdisclosedinnote13.
(b) Impairmenttestingofintangibleassets
Theprojectedrevenuegrowth,projectedoperatingcostgrowthanddiscountratesappliedtocashflowprojectionsas
disclosedinnote13.
(c) Deferredtaxationassets
Anassessmentofprobablefuturetaxableprofitsismade,againstwhichtemporarydifferences,beingthecarryingforward
ofexcesstaxexpensesandtaxlosses,areutilised.Deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesaredisclosedinnote18.
(d) Provisions
Detailsofprovisionsaredisclosedwithinnote25.Actuarialvaluationsareusedfortheguaranteedproduct,long-term
sicknessandlong-termserviceawardsusingassumptionsconsistentwiththepensionassumptionsdisclosedinnote26.
Onerouscontractprovisionsforpremisesaresubjecttouncertaintiesovertime,includingmarketrentreviewsand
break-optionswithintheleasearrangements.AnumberofuncertaintiesexistwithrespecttotheInvestmentTrustVAT
provision.
(e) Pensionassumptions
Themortalityassumptions,expectedratesofreturn,discountrates,ratesofsalaryincreasesandrateofinflationincreases,
asdisclosedinnote26.
(f) Share-basedpayments
Thevaluationmodelsused,togetherwiththeassumptionsusedonexpectedvolatility,riskfreerates,expecteddividend
yieldsandexpectedforfeiturerates,asdisclosedinnote27.
(g) Insurancecontractliabilities
Themortalityanddiscountratesusedoninsurancecontractliabilities,asdisclosedinnote30.
AccountingPolicies
56 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
Summaryofsignificantaccountingpolicies
TheaccountingpoliciessetoutbelowhavebeenappliedconsistentlythroughouttheGroupforthepurposesoftheConsolidated
FinancialStatementsfortheyearsended31December2007and31December2006.
(a) Consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
SubsidiariesareentitiesoverwhichtheGrouphasthepower,directlyorindirectly,togovernthefinancialandoperating
policiessoastoobtainbenefitsfromtheiractivities.Allsubsidiariesfollowaccountingpoliciesconsistentwiththoseofthe
Groupandhavecoterminousreportingperiods.
TheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsincorporatetheassets,liabilities,resultsandcashflowsoftheCompanyandits
subsidiaries.Theresultsofsubsidiariesacquiredorsoldduringtheperiodareincludedintheconsolidatedresultsfromthe
dateofacquisitionoruptothedateofdisposal.Intra-groupbalancesandanyunrealisedgainsandlossesorincomeand
expensesarisingfromintra-grouptransactionsareeliminatedinpreparingtheConsolidatedFinancialStatements.
MinorityinterestsrepresenttheportionofprofitorlossandnetassetsinsubsidiariesnotheldbytheGroupandare
presentedseparatelyintheIncomeStatementandwithinequityintheBalanceSheet,separatelyfromparentshareholders’
equity.
(ii) Associates
AssociatesareallentitiesoverwhichtheGrouphassignificantinfluencebutnotcontroloverthefinancialandoperating
policies.Investmentsinassociatesareaccountedforundertheequitymethodofaccountingandareinitiallyrecognisedat
cost.TheGroup’sinvestmentinassociatesincludesgoodwill(netofanyimpairmentloss)identifiedonacquisition.
Undertheequitymethodofaccounting,aninvestmentisincludedasthecostoftheinvestmentplustheGroup’sshareof
post-acquisitionchangesinnetassetsafterdeductinganydistributionsreceivedandanyimpairmentlossrecognised.
Goodwillrelatingtoanassociateisincludedinthecarryingamountoftheinvestmentandisnotamortisedbutissubjectto
impairmentwhereindicatorsofpotentialimpairmentexist.TheGroup’sshareofpost-taxprofitsorlossesispresentedasa
singlelineitemintheIncomeStatement.TheGroup’sassociatesfollowaccountingpoliciesconsistentwiththoseofthe
Groupandhavecoterminousreportingperiods.
(iii) Businesscombinations
Abusinesscombinationisthebringingtogetherofseparateentitiesorbusinessesintoonereportingentity.Theresultisthat
oneentity,theacquirer,obtainscontrolofoneormoreentitiesorbusinesses.
Thecostofanacquisitionismeasuredasthefairvalueoftheassetsgiven,equityinstrumentsissuedandliabilitiesincurred
orassumedatthedateofexchange,pluscostsdirectlyattributabletotheacquisition.Identifiableassetsacquiredand
liabilitiesandcontingentliabilitiesassumedinabusinesscombinationaremeasuredinitiallyattheirfairvaluesatthe
acquisitiondate.TheexcessofthecostoftheacquisitionoverthefairvalueoftheGroup’sshareoftheidentifiablenet
assetsacquiredisrecordedasgoodwill.
(b) Foreigncurrencies
TheGroup’sfunctionalandpresentationcurrencyispoundsSterling.EachentityintheGroupdeterminesitsownfunctional
currencyanditemsincludedinthefinancialstatementsofeachentityaremeasuredinthatfunctionalcurrency.
(i) Foreigncurrencytransactions
Transactionsinforeigncurrenciesaretranslatedtothefunctionalcurrencyattheexchangeraterulingatthedateofthe
transaction.Monetaryassetsandliabilitiesdenominatedinforeigncurrenciesatthebalancesheetdatearetranslatedatthe
exchangeraterulingatthebalancesheetdate,andanyexchangedifferencesarisingaretakentotheIncomeStatement.
Non-monetaryassetsandliabilities,otherthanintangibleassetsarisingontheacquisitionofforeignoperations(measured
athistoricalcostinaforeigncurrency)aretranslatedusingtheexchangerateatthedateoftransactionandarenot
subsequentlyrestated.Non-monetaryassetsandliabilitiesstatedatfairvalueinaforeigncurrencyaretranslatedatthe
exchangerateatthedatethefairvaluewasdetermined.Whenfairvaluemovementsinassetsandliabilitiesarereflectedin
theIncomeStatement,thecorrespondingexchangemovementsarealsorecognisedintheIncomeStatement.Similarly,
whenfairvaluemovementsinassetsandliabilitiesarereflecteddirectlyinequity,thecorrespondingexchangemovements
(exceptanyrelatingtoavailableforsalemonetaryassets)arealsorecogniseddirectlyinequity.
(ii) Foreignoperations
ThefunctionalcurrencyofforeignoperationsispredominantlytheEuro.
TheassetsandliabilitiesoforrelatingtoforeignoperationsaretranslatedtoSterlingatforeignexchangeratesrulingatthe
balancesheetdate.TherevenuesandexpensesofforeignoperationsaretranslatedtoSterlingatforeignexchangerates
approximatingtotheratesrulingatthedatesofthetransactions.Foreignexchangedifferencesarisingontranslationof
foreignoperationsintoSterling,includingrelatedintangibleassets,arerecogniseddirectlyintheGroup’sForeignCurrency
57 TranslationReserve(‘‘FCTR’’),whichisaseparatecomponentofequity,andreportedintheStatementofRecognised
IncomeandExpense(‘‘SORIE’’).Theseexchangedifferencesarerecognisedasincomeorexpensesintheperiodinwhich
theforeignoperationsaredisposedof.
(c) Revenuerecognition
Managementfees,investmentadvisoryfeesandotherrevenuegeneratedfromtheGroup’sassetmanagementactivitiesare
recognisedintheIncomeStatementovertheperiodforwhichtheseinvestmentmanagementservicesareprovided.
Initialfeesreceivedinadvance,arisingonOEICcontracts,aretakentotheBalanceSheetandamortisedovertheperiodofthe
assetmanagementservice.TheGroupentersintostandardcontractualtermsforallinvestors.Therefore,theperiodofprovisionof
assetmanagementservicesisestimatedbasedupontheGroup’sexperienceoftheaverageholdingperiodsofOEICinvestors.The
averageholdingperiodisreassessedonanannualbasis.
TheGroupisentitledtoearnperformancefeesfromanumberofclientsiftheactualinvestmentperformanceofclients’assets
exceedsdefinedbenchmarksbyanagreedlevelofoutperformanceinasettimeperiod.MostoftheGroup’sperformancefee
arrangementsareassessedonacalendaryearbasis.Performancefeesarerecognisedwhenthequantumofthefeecanbe
estimatedreliably,whichiswhentheperformanceperiodendswhenthisoccursonorbeforethereportingdate,orwherethereisa
periodoflessthansixmonthsremainingtotheendoftheperformanceperiodandthereisevidenceatthereportingdatewhich
suggeststhatthecurrentperformancewillbesustainable.
(d) Leases
AllleasesenteredintobytheGroupareoperatingleases,beingleaseswherethelessorretainssubstantiallyalltherisksand
rewardsofownershipoftheleasedasset.RentalspaidunderoperatingleasesarechargedtotheIncomeStatementona
straight-linebasisovertheleaseterm.LeaseincentivesarerecognisedbytheGroupasareductionintherentalexpense,allocated
onastraight-linebasisovertheleaseterm.Accountingpolicy(s)^Provisionsdiscussestherecognitionofonerousprovisionson
propertyleaseswhentheleasedspacehasceasedtobeoccupiedbytheGroup.
(e) Feeandcommissionexpenses
Feeandcommissionexpensescomprisetwomainelements^costsassociatedwithgainingnewassetmanagementcontractsand
subsequentcommissionpaidtoagents.ThecostsassociatedwithgainingOEICcontractsaredeferredandamortisedoverthe
estimatedtermofthecontracts(inlinewiththetreatmentoftheassociatedinitialOEICfeesreceived),whilethesubsequentrenewal
commissionpaidtoagentsisexpensedastheservicesareprovided.
(f) Restructuringcosts
WheretheGroupincurssignificant,Board-approved,non-recurringexpenditureasaresultofastrategicdecisionwhich
fundamentallychangeshowtheGroupoperates,theexpenditureinrelationtothatstrategicprojectisseparatelyrecognisedon
thefaceoftheIncomeStatementas‘Restructuringcosts’.Thesecostsarerecognisedonanaccrualsbasis.
(g) Financerevenue
Financerevenuecomprisesinterest,dividends,expectedreturnonpensionassetsandfairvalueadjustmentsthroughtheIncome
Statementinrespectofshareholderinvestments.Dividendincomeisrecognisedwhentherighttoreceivepaymentisestablished.
InterestincomeisrecognisedintheIncomeStatementonaneffectiveinterestratebasisasitaccrues.
(h) Financecosts
Financecostscompriseinterestpayableonborrowing,interestonpensionliabilitiesanddividendsonPreferenceShares.
BorrowingcostsarerecognisedintheIncomeStatementonaneffectiveinterestratebasis.
AccountingPolicies
58 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
(i) Incometaxes
Theincometaxexpense/incomedisclosedonthefaceoftheIncomeStatementrepresentstheaggregateofcurrenttaxandthe
movementindeferredtax.IncometaxisrecognisedintheIncomeStatementfortheperiod,excepttotheextentthatitisattributable
toagainorlossthatisrecogniseddirectlyinequity.Insuchcasesthegainorlossshowninequityisstatedseparatelyfromthe
attributableincometax.
Currenttaxistheexpectedtaxpayabletothetaxationauthoritiesonthetaxableprofitfortheperiod,usingtaxratesenactedor
substantivelyenactedatthebalancesheetdate,andincludesanyadjustmenttotaxpayableinrespectofpreviousyears.
Deferredtaxisthetaxexpectedtobepayableorrecoverableondifferencesbetweenthecarryingamountofassetsandliabilitiesin
thefinancialstatementsandthecorrespondingtaxbasisusedinthecomputationoftaxableprofit,accountedforusingthe
balancesheetliabilitymethod.
Deferredtaxiscalculatedatthetaxratesthatareexpectedtoapplyintheperiodwhentheliabilityissettledortheassetrealised,
basedontaxratesandlawsenactedorsubstantivelyenactedatthebalancesheetdate.
Deferredtaxliabilitiesaregenerallyrecognisedforalltaxabletemporarydifferencesanddeferredtaxassetsarerecognisedtothe
extentthatitisprobablethattaxableprofitswillbeavailableagainstwhichdeductibletemporarydifferencescanbeutilised,except:
. wherethedeferredtaxassetorliabilityarisesfromtheinitialrecognitionofgoodwillorofanassetorliabilityinatransaction
thatisnotabusinesscombinationthatatthetimeofthetransactionaffectsneithertheaccountingnortaxableprofitorloss;
or
. inrespectoftaxableordeductibletemporarydifferencesassociatedwithinvestmentsinsubsidiariesandassociates,where
thetimingofthereversalofthetemporarydifferencescanbecontrolledanditisprobablethatthetemporarydifferenceswill
notreverseintheforeseeablefuture.
Thecarryingamountofdeferredtaxassetsisreviewedateachbalancesheetdateandreducedtotheextentthatitisnolonger
probablethatsufficienttaxableprofitwillbeavailabletoallowallorpartoftheassettoberecovered.
Anyincometaxexpenseorincomeinrespectoftaxablegainsorlossesattributabletopolicyholdersfallstobebornebyortothe
benefitoftheGroup’sunit-linkedpolicyholders.Asaresult,theDirectorsconsideritappropriatetodifferentiateonthefaceofthe
IncomeStatementbetweentaxattributabletopolicyholdersandthatattributabletoshareholders.
(j) Property,plantandequipment
Property,plantandequipmentisstatedatcostlessaccumulateddepreciationandaccumulatedimpairmentlosses.
Expenditureonproperty,plantandequipmentiscapitalisedoninitialrecognition.Subsequentexpenditureisonlycapitalisedwhen
itisprobablethattherewillbefutureeconomicbenefitsassociatedwiththeexpenditurewhichcanbemeasuredreliably.Allother
expenditureisrecognisedintheIncomeStatementasanexpenseasincurred.
Property,plantandequipmentisdepreciatedsoastowriteoffthecostofassets,usingthestraight-linemethod,overtheir
estimatedusefullives,asfollows:
Leaseholdimprovements ^ over10years
Motorvehicles ^ over3-4years
Officefurniture&equipment ^ over3-5years
Computerequipment ^ over3years
DepreciationisrecognisedasanexpenseintheIncomeStatement.
Thecarryingvalueofassetsandtheirusefullivesarereviewedateachreportingdate.Ifanindicationofimpairmentexists,the
assetsarewrittendowntotheirrecoverableamountandtheimpairmentischargedtotheIncomeStatementintheperiodinwhich
itarises.
Anitemofproperty,plantandequipmentisderecognisedupondisposalorwhennofurtherfutureeconomicbenefitsareexpected
fromitsuse.Anygainorlossarisingonderecognitionoftheasset(calculatedasthedifferencebetweenthenetdisposalproceeds
andthecarryingvalueoftheasset)isincludedintheIncomeStatementintheyeartheassetisderecognised.
59 (k) Intangibleassets
(i) Goodwill
Goodwillarisingfromabusinesscombinationisinitiallymeasuredatcost,beingtheexcessofthecostofthebusiness
combinationovertheGroup’sinterestinthefairvalueoftheidentifiableassetsandliabilitiesandcontingentliabilities.
Followinginitialrecognition,goodwillismeasuredatcostlessanyaccumulatedimpairmentlosses.Businesscombinations
arisingafter1July2002areaccountedforunderIFRS3‘BusinessCombinations’usingthepurchasemethod.Wherethe
initialamountofgoodwillcanonlybedeterminedonaprovisionalbasisattheendofthefinancialreportingperiod,
adjustmentsaremadetotheamountofgoodwillupto12monthsfromthedateofacquisition.Otheradjustmentsto
goodwillaremadeforamountsthatarecontingentonfutureeventsandontherealisationofpotentialbenefitsofthe
acquiree’staxlosscarryforwardsandotherdeferredtaxassetsthatdidnotsatisfythecriteriaforseparaterecognition
onacquisition.
Goodwillistestedannuallyforimpairment,ormorefrequentlyifeventsorchangesincircumstancesindicatethatthe
carryingvaluemaybeimpaired.
(ii) Investmentmanagementcontracts
Intangibleassetsacquiredseparatelyaremeasuredoninitialrecognitionatcost.Thecostofintangibleassetsacquiredina
businesscombinationisfairvalueasatthedateofacquisition.Followinginitialrecognition,intangibleassetsarecarriedat
costlessaccumulatedamortisationandanyaccumulatedimpairmentlosses.
Theusefullivesofmanagementcontractsarefiniteandsuchcontractsareamortisedonastraight-linebasisovertheir
estimatedusefullivesoraveragecontractualterm,withamortisationbeingchargedtotheIncomeStatement.The
amortisationperiodisreviewedateachfinancialyear-end.Detailsofestimatedusefullivesareshowninnote13.
(iii) Otherintangibleassets
Thecostofintangibleassetsacquiredinabusinesscombinationisfairvalueasatthedateofacquisition.Followinginitial
recognition,intangibleassetsarecarriedatcostlessaccumulatedamortisationandanyaccumulatedimpairmentlosses.
Separatelypurchasedintangibleassetshaveafinitelifeandareshownatcostlessaccumulatedamortisationand
impairmentlosses.AmortisationischargedtotheIncomeStatementinequalannualinstalments,basedonthefollowing
usefuleconomiclives:
Software ^ 3years
Licences ^ overthecontractualterm(3-5years)
Subsequentexpenditureoncapitalisedintangibleassetsisexpensedasincurred.
(l) Impairmentofintangibleassets
AteachreportingdatetheGroupassesseswhetherthereisanindicationthatanassetmaybeimpaired.Ifanysuchindication
exists,orwhenannualimpairmenttestingisrequired,theGroupmakesanestimateoftheasset’srecoverableamount.Anasset’s
recoverableamountisthehigherofanasset’sorcash-generatingunit’sfairvaluelesscoststosellanditsvalueinuse,andis
determinedforanindividualasset,unlesstheassetdoesnotgeneratecashinflowsthatarelargelyindependentofthosefrom
otherassetsorgroupsofassets.Wherethecarryingamountofanassetexceedsitsrecoverableamount,theassetisconsidered
impairedandiswrittendowntoitsrecoverableamount.AnyimpairmentarisingisrecognisedintheIncomeStatement.Inassessing
valueinuse,theestimatedfuturecashflowsarediscountedtotheirpresentvalueusingapre-taxdiscountratethatreflectscurrent
marketassessmentsofthetimevalueofmoneyandtherisksspecifictotheasset.
Forthepurposeofimpairmenttesting,goodwillacquiredinabusinesscombinationisallocatedtoacash-generatingunit,or
groupofcash-generatingunits,thatareexpectedtobenefitfromthesynergiesofthecombination.Eachunitorgroupofunitsto
whichthegoodwillissoallocatedrepresentsthelowestlevelwithintheGroupatwhichthegoodwillismonitoredforinternal
managementpurposes.
Wheregoodwillformspartofacash-generatingunitandpartoftheoperationwithinthatunitisdisposedof,thegoodwill
associatedwiththeoperationdisposedofisincludedinthecarryingamountoftheoperationwhendeterminingthegainorlosson
disposaloftheoperation.
Exceptforanygoodwillimpairmentswhichcannotbereversed,anassessmentismadeateachreportingdateastowhetherthere
isanyindicationthatpreviouslyrecognisedimpairmentlossesmaynolongerexistormayhavedecreased.Ifsuchindicationexists,
therecoverableamountisestimated.Apreviouslyrecognisedimpairmentlossisreversedonlyiftherehasbeenachangeinthe
estimatesusedtodeterminetheasset’srecoverableamountsincethelastimpairmentlosswasrecognised.Insuchacasethe
carryingamountoftheassetisincreasedtoitsrecoverableamount.Thatincreasedamountcannotexceedthecarryingamount
thatwouldhavebeendetermined,netofdepreciationoramortisation,hadnoimpairmentlossbeenrecognisedfortheassetin
prioryears.SuchreversalisrecognisedintheIncomeStatement.Aftersuchareversal,theamortisationordepreciationchargeis
adjustedinfutureperiodstoallocatetheasset’srevisedcarryingamount,lessanyresidualvalue,onasystematicbasisoverits
remainingusefullife.
AccountingPolicies
60 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
(m) Financialinstruments
Financialinstrumentsarerecognisedinitiallyatfairvalue,plusdirectlyattributabletransactioncosts,inthecaseofinvestmentsnot
atfairvaluethroughprofitorloss.
Thefairvalueofinstrumentsthatareactivelytradedinorganisedfinancialmarketsisdeterminedbyreferencetoquotedmarket
bidprices(midpriceforOpenEndedInvestmentCompanies)atthecloseofbusinessonthebalancesheetdate.Forinvestments
wherethereisnoactivemarket,fairvalueisdeterminedusingvaluationtechniques.Suchtechniquesincludeusingrecentarm’s
lengthmarkettransactions;referencetothecurrentmarketvalueofanotherinstrumentwhichissubstantiallythesame;discounted
cashflowanalysisandoptionpricingmodels.
Financialinstrumentsareclassifiedintothecategoriesdescribedbelow:
(i) Financialinstrumentsatfairvaluethroughprofitorlossincludeinvestmentsthatareheldfortradingpurposesorthathave
beenspecificallydesignatedas‘atfairvaluethroughprofitorloss’.TheyarecarriedintheBalanceSheetatfairvalueand
movementsinfairvaluearetakentotheIncomeStatementintheperiodinwhichtheyarise.Thefollowingassetsand
liabilitiesareclassifiedasfinancialinstrumentsatfairvaluethroughprofitorloss:
Currentassets:
. Financialinvestments
. Stockofunitsandshares
Currentliabilities:
. Investmentcontractliabilities
TheGrouphasadoptedtheFairValueOptioninIAS39,whichenablestheliabilitiesinrespectoftheGroup’sunit-linked
investmentcontractstobematchedtothefairvalueoftherelatedassetswhicharesolelyattributabletotheinvestment
contractpolicyholders,thusreflectingthecontractualentitlementofthepolicyholders.Differencesinfairvaluesaretakento
theIncomeStatement.
(ii) AvailableforsalefinancialassetsarealsocarriedatfairvalueintheBalanceSheet.Inrespectofunquotedinstruments,or
wherethemarketforafinancialinstrumentisnotactive,fairvalueisestablishedbyusingrecognisedvaluation
methodologies,inaccordancewithInternationalPrivateEquityandVentureCapitalValuationGuidelines,issuedbythe
BritishVentureCapitalAssociation.Whereinsufficientinformationexiststoproduceavaluationthenthepriceofrecent
investmentsisused.Suchtechniquesincludeusingrecentarm’slengthmarkettransactions;referencetothecurrentmarket
valueofanotherinstrumentwhichissubstantiallythesame;discountedcashflowanalysisandoptionpricingmodels.
Forunquotedinvestmentsinearlystageenterprisesandenterpriseswithrevenuesbutwithoutsignificantprofitsorsignificant
positivecashflows,fairvalueisdeterminedusingthe‘‘PriceofaRecentInvestment’’method.Repaymentsaretreatedas
reductionstocarryingvalue.Afteranappropriateperiod,anassessmentismadeastowhetherthecircumstancesofthe
investmenthavechangedsuchthatanothervaluationmethodologyisappropriate,andwhetherthereisanyevidenceof
deteriorationorstrongdefensibleevidenceofanincreaseinvalue.Intheabsenceoftheseindicatorsfairvalueisdetermined
tobethatreportedatthepreviousbalancesheetdate.
Unquotedinvestmentswithrevenues,maintainableprofitsand/ormaintainablecashflowsarevaluedbyderivingan
EnterpriseValueoftheunderlyingbusiness.
Movementsinfairvalue,otherthanimpairmentlossesandforeignexchangemovementsonmonetaryassets,aretakento
thefairvaluereserveinequityuntilderecognitionoftheasset,atwhichtimethecumulativeamountinthisreserveis
recognisedintheIncomeStatement.Thefollowingassetsareclassifiedasavailableforsale:
Non-currentassets
. Otherfinancialinvestments
(iii) Loansandreceivablesaremeasuredoninitialrecognitionatfairvalueplusanydirectlyattributabletransactioncosts
incurred.Subsequenttoinitialrecognition,loansandreceivablesaremeasuredatamortisedcostusingtheeffectiveinterest
ratemethod.GainsandlossesarerecognisedintheIncomeStatementwhenloansandreceivablesarederecognisedor
impaired,aswellasthroughtheamortisationprocess.Thefollowingassetsareclassifiedasloansandreceivables:
Non-currentassets:
. Otherreceivables
Currentassets:
. Cashandcashequivalents
. Tradeandotherreceivables
61 (iv) Financialliabilitiesarerecognisedatamortisedcostusingtheeffectiveinterestmethodafterinitialrecognition.Thefollowing
liabilitiesareclassifiedasfinancialliabilities:
Non-currentliabilities:
. Interestbearingloansandborrowings
. Otherpayables
Currentliabilities:
. Interestbearingloansandborrowings
. Tradeandotherpayables
Expensesinrespectofraisingcapitaloninterestbearingloansandborrowingsareamortisedoverthetermoftheloanon
aneffectiveinterestratebasis.Theseexpensesareoffsetagainsttheloanamount.
TheGrouphasadopted‘‘tradedate’’accountingforpurchasesorsalesoffinancialassetsunderacontractwhoseterms
requiredeliveryoftheassetwithinthetimeframeestablishedinthemarketplaceconcerned.Accordingly,suchfinancial
instrumentsarerecognisedonthedatetheGroupcommitstothepurchaseoftheinvestments,andarederecognisedonthe
dateitcommitstotheirsale.
Derecognitionoffinancialassetsandliabilities
Financialassets
Afinancialassetor,whereapplicable,apartofafinancialasset,isderecognisedwhentherightstoreceivecashflowsfrom
theassethaveexpired.
Financialliabilities
Afinancialliabilityisderecognisedwhentheobligationundertheliabilityisdischarged,cancelledorexpires.
Impairmentoffinancialassets
TheGroupassessesateachbalancesheetdatewhetherafinancialassetorgroupoffinancialassetsisimpaired.
Assetscarriedatamortisedcost
Ifthereisobjectiveevidencethatanimpairmentlossonloansandreceivablescarriedatamortisedcosthasbeenincurred,
theamountofthelossismeasuredasthedifferencebetweentheasset’scarryingamountandthepresentvalueof
estimatedfuturecashflowsdiscountedatthefinancialasset’soriginaleffectiveyield.Thecarryingamountoftheassetis
reducedandtheamountofthelossisrecognisedintheIncomeStatement.
If,inasubsequentperiod,theamountoftheimpairmentlossdecreasesandthedecreasecanberelatedobjectivelytoan
eventoccurringaftertheimpairmentwasrecognised,thepreviouslyrecognisedimpairmentlossisreversed.Anysubsequent
reversalofanimpairmentlossisrecognisedintheIncomeStatementtotheextentthatthecarryingvalueoftheassetdoes
notexceeditsamortisedcostatthereversaldate.
Availableforsalefinancialassets
Ifanavailableforsaleassetisimpaired,anamountcomprisingthedifferencebetweenitscost(netofanyprincipalpayment
andamortisation)anditscurrentfairvalue,lessanyimpairmentlosspreviouslyrecognisedintheIncomeStatement,is
transferredfromequitytotheIncomeStatement.Reversalsinrespectofequityinstrumentsclassifiedasavailableforsaleare
notrecognisedintheprofitorloss.ReversalsofimpairmentlossesondebtinstrumentsaretakenthroughtheIncome
Statementiftheincreaseinfairvalueoftheinstrumentcanbeobjectivelyrelatedtoaneventoccurringaftertheimpairment
losswasrecognisedintheIncomeStatement.
(n) Cashandcashequivalents
Cashandcashequivalentscomprisecashbalances,depositsheldatcallwithbanksandothershort-term,highlyliquid
investmentsinmoneymarketinstrumentswithoriginalmaturitydatesofthreemonthsorless.
(o) Investmentcontracts
TheGroupsellsunit-linkedpensioninvestmentcontractsthroughitsinsurancesubsidiary,F&CManagedPensionFundsLimited
(MPF).Theseunit-linkedcontractsinvolveboththetransferofafinancialinstrumentandtheprovisionofinvestmentmanagement
services.Thefinancialinstrumentcomponentisclassifiedasafinancialliabilityatfairvaluethroughprofitorloss.Thefinancial
liabilityismeasuredusingavaluationtechniquebasedonthecarryingvalueoftheassetsandliabilitiesthatareheldtobackthe
contract,adjustedtotakeaccountoftheeffectontheliabilitiesofdiscountingforthetimevalueoftaxpaymentsonassetssoldin
thefund.
Unit-linkedpolicyholderassetsheldbyMPFandrelatedpolicyholderliabilitiesarecarriedatfairvalue,withchangesinfairvalue
takentoprofitorloss.
Amountsreceivedfromandpaidtoinvestorsunderthesecontractsareaccountedforasdepositsreceivedorpaidandtherefore
notrecordedintheIncomeStatement.Atthebalancesheetdatethevalueofthesecontractsisstatedatanamountequaltothe
fairvalueofthenetassetsheldtomatchthecontractualobligations.
AccountingPolicies
62 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
(p) Insurancecontractliabilities
Insurancecontractliabilitiesaremeasuredinaccordancewithactuarialprinciplesandguidance.Anychangeinthevalueofthe
liabilityistakento‘‘Movementsinfairvalueofunit-linkedliabilities’’intheIncomeStatement.Wheretheseliabilitiesarereinsured,
theelementoftheriskreinsuredisvaluedonthesamebasisastherelatedliabilityandisincludedasanassetintheBalance
Sheet.ChangesinthevalueoftheassetaretakentotheIncomeStatement.Amountsrecoverableunderreinsurancecontractsare
assessedforimpairmentateachbalancesheetdate.
(q) Employeebenefits
(i) Short-termemployeebenefits
Short-termemployeebenefitsarerecognisedasanundiscountedexpenseandliabilitywhentheemployeehasrendered
servicesduringanaccountingperiod.Short-termcompensatedabsencesarerecognised,inthecaseofaccumulating
compensatedabsences,whentheemployeesrenderservicethatincreasestheirentitlementtofuturecompensated
absencesor,inthecaseofnon-accumulatingcompensatedabsences,whentheabsencesoccur.
(ii) Profit-sharingandbonuspayments
Thesearerecognisedwhenthereisapresentlegalorconstructiveobligationtomakesuchpaymentsasaresultofpast
eventsandareliableestimateoftheobligationcanbemade.
(iii) Pensionobligations
Definedbenefitschemes
TheGroupoperatesanumberofdefinedbenefitpensionarrangements.
Theseschemesprovidebenefitsbasedonfinalpensionablesalary.Theassetsofthefundedschemesareheldinseparate
trusteeadministeredfunds.
ThepensionliabilityrecognisedintheBalanceSheetisthepresentobligationoftheemployer,whichistheestimated
presentvalueoffuturebenefitsthatemployeeshaveearnedinreturnfortheirservicesinthecurrentandprioryears,less
thevalueoftheplanassetsintheschemes.Thediscountrateappliedtotheemployees’benefitsistheappropriate
AAcorporatebondyieldatthebalancesheetdate.Aqualifiedactuaryperformsthecalculationannuallyusingtheprojected
unitcreditmethod.ThepensioncostsoftheschemesintheIncomeStatementareanalysedinto:
. Currentservicecost,whichistheactuariallycalculatedpresentvalueofthebenefitsearnedbytheactiveemployees
ineachperiod.
. Pastservicecosts,whichrelatetoemployeeserviceinpriorperiods,andariseasaresultoftheintroductionof,or
improvementto,retirementbenefitsinthecurrentperiod.ThesearerecognisedintheIncomeStatementona
straight-linebasisovertheperiodinwhichtheincreaseinbenefitsvest.
. SettlementsorcurtailmentsarerecognisedintheIncomeStatementtotheextentthattheyarenotallowedforinthe
actuarialassumptions.Lossesonsettlementsorcurtailmentsaremeasuredatthedateonwhichtheemployer
becomesdemonstrablycommittedtothetransaction.Gainsonsettlementsorcurtailmentsaremeasuredatthedate
onwhichallparties,whoseconsentisrequired,areirrevocablycommitted.
. Theexpectedreturnonpensionassetsisrecognisedwithin‘Financerevenue’andtheinterestonschemeobligations
isrecognisedin‘Financecosts’.
Theactuarialgainsandlosses,whicharisefromanynewvaluationandfromupdatingthepreviousactuarialvaluationto
reflectconditionsatthebalancesheetdate,aretakeninfulltotheSORIEfortheperiod.
WheretheGroupisunabletoidentifyitsshareofassetsandliabilitiesinmulti-employerdefinedbenefitschemes,theGroup
accountsfortheseinthesamewayasfordefinedcontributionschemes.
Definedcontributionschemes
ContributionsmadetotheseschemesarechargedtotheIncomeStatementastheybecomepayableinaccordancewiththe
rulesofthescheme.
(iv) Otherlong-termemployeebenefits
Otherlong-termemployeebenefitsarerecognisedatthediscountedpresentvalueoftheobligationatthebalancesheet
date.Thebenefitisdeterminedusingactuarialtechniquestoestimatetheamountofbenefitemployeeshaveearnedfortheir
servicesatthebalancesheetdate.
(v) Terminationbenefits
TerminationbenefitsarerecognisedasaliabilityandanexpensewhentheGroupiscommittedtotheterminationof
employmentbeforethenormalretirementdate.AcommitmenttosuchterminationbenefitsariseswhentheGrouphas
initiateddetailedplanswhichcannotrealisticallybewithdrawn.
63 (r) Share-basedpayments
TheGroupoperatesanumberofshareschemearrangementswhichrequiretobeaccountedforasshare-basedpayments.
Allgrantsofshares,shareoptionsorothershare-basedinstrumentsthatweregrantedafter7November2002havebeen
recognisedasanexpense.Thefairvaluesofshare-basedpaymentawardsaremeasuredusingavaluationmodelapplicableto
thetermsoftheawards(BlackScholes,BinomialorMonteCarlosimulation).Thefairvalueismeasuredbyanindependent
externalvalueratthedatetheawardisgrantedandtheexpenseisspreadovertheperiodduringwhichtheemployeesbecome
unconditionallyentitledtoexercisetheawards,knownasthevestingperiod.ThecumulativeexpenserecognisedintheIncome
Statementisequaltotheestimatedfairvalueoftheawardmultipliedbythenumberofawardsexpectedtovest.Vestingofawards
typicallydependsuponmeetingdefinedperformancecriteriasuchascontinuedCompanyservicerequirements,underlying
earningspershare(EPS)targetsand/orsharepricereturntargets.
Thefairvalueofshare-basedpaymentawards,whereitisnotconsideredpossibletoreliablyestimatethefairvalueofthese
awardsatthegrantdate,havebeendeterminedbymeasurementoftheequityinstrumentsatintrinsicvalue.Theintrinsicvalueis
spreadoverthevestingperiod.
Vestingofequity-settledemployeeshareawardsdependsuponmeeting‘‘market’’and/or‘‘non-marketrelated’’performance
conditions.ThetypeofvestingcriteriaaffectsthecalculationoftheexpensechargedtotheIncomeStatementandsubsequent
adjustments,asfollows:
(i) Non-marketrelatedconditionsareperformancecriterianotdirectlylinkedtoCompanysharepricetargets,suchasEPS
targetsand/orCompanyservicerequirements.Theprobabilityofmeetingnon-marketconditionsisincorporatedintothe
expensechargeviatheestimateofthenumberofawardsexpectedtovest.Thetotalcumulativeexpenseisultimately
adjustedtoreflecttheactualnumberofawardswhichvest.Therefore,ifnoawardsvest,nocumulativeexpensechargeis
ultimatelyrecognised.
(ii) MarketrelatedconditionsareperformancecriterialinkedtoCompanysharepricetargets.Theprobabilityofmeetingmarket
conditionsisincorporatedintothecalculationofthefairvalueoftheaward.Shouldthemarket-basedperformance
conditionnotultimatelybemet,no‘‘trueup/down’’adjustmentismadetoreflectthis.Therefore,anexpensechargeismade
whethermarket-basedawardsultimatelyvestornot.
IFRS2‘Share-basedPayment’makesadistinctionbetweenawardssettledinequityandthosesettledincash.Equity-settled
awardsarechargedtotheIncomeStatementwithacorrespondingcredittoequity.Cash-settledawardsarechargedtothe
IncomeStatementwithacorrespondingcredittoliabilities.Theestimatedfairvalueofcash-settledawardsisre-measuredateach
reportingdateuntilthepaymentsareultimatelysettled.
Awardstoemployeestreatedas‘‘goodleavers’’vestimmediatelyandtheremainingfullexpenseoftheawardsischargedtothe
IncomeStatementatthattime.Goodleaversincluderetireesandemployeeswhohavebeenmaderedundant.
ThedilutiveeffectofoutstandingoptionsisreflectedassharedilutioninthecomputationofEPS.
(s) Provisions
AprovisionisrecognisedintheBalanceSheetwhentheGrouphasalegalorconstructiveobligationasaresultofapastevent
anditisprobablethatanoutflowofeconomicbenefitswillberequiredtosettletheobligation.Iftheeffectismaterial,provisionsare
determinedbydiscountingtheexpectedfuturecashflowsatapre-taxratethatreflectscurrentmarketassessmentsofthetime
valueofmoneyand,whereappropriate,therisksspecifictotheliability.Noprovisionisestablishedwhereareliableestimateofthe
obligationcannotbemade.
WheretheGroupexpectssomeorallofaprovisiontobereimbursed,thereimbursementisrecognisedasaseparateassetbut
onlywhenthereimbursementisvirtuallycertain.
WheretheGrouphasobligationsunderpropertyleasesandwherethespacehasceasedtobeusedforthepurposesofthe
business,fullprovisionismadeforfuturenetoutstandingliabilitiesundersuchleasesaftertakingintoaccounttheeffectofany
expectedsub-lettingarrangements.
AccountingPolicies
64 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
(t) Sharecapital
Whensharesareissued,anycomponentthatcreatesafinancialliabilityoftheCompanyorGroupispresentedasaliabilityinthe
BalanceSheet,measuredinitiallyatfairvalue,netoftransactioncostsandthereafteratamortisedcostuntilextinguishedon
conversionorredemption.
Theremainderoftheproceedsonissueisallocatedtotheequitycomponentandincludedinshareholders’equity,netof
transactioncosts.
PreferenceSharecapital
TheGroup’sissuedpreferencesharecapitalisclassifiedasaliability.ItiscarriedatamortisedcostintheBalanceSheet.
PreferencedividendsarerecognisedintheIncomeStatementasaninterestexpenseastheyaccrue.
OrdinarySharecapital
WhenOrdinarySharesarerepurchased,theamountsofconsiderationpaid,includingdirectlyattributablecosts,arerecognisedin
theownsharereserveincludedwithinretainedearningsandareclassifiedasdeductionsinequity.Dealingsinownsharesare
reflectedthroughequity.DividendsonOrdinarySharesarerecognisedonthedateofpayment,orifsubjecttoapproval,thedate
approvedbytheshareholders.ThedividendsoncertainownsharesheldbyEmployeeBenefitTrustsarewaivedbytheTrustees.
(u) AccountingforEmployeeBenefitTrusts(‘EBTs’)
TheGrouphasseveralEBTswhichownsharesintheCompanytoenableittosatisfycertainfutureexercisesofshare-based
awards.TheEBTsareconsolidatedintotheGroup’sresults,withthesesharesincludedwithinretainedearningsatcost.
Considerationreceivedforsuchsharesisalsorecognisedinretainedearnings.Nogainorlossisrecognisedintheperformance
statementsonthepurchase,sale,issueorcancellationofequityshares.
(v) Newstandardsandinterpretationsnotapplied
TheInternationalAccountingStandardsBoardhasissuedthefollowingstandards,relevanttotheGroup,whichhavenotyetbeen
appliedandhaveaneffectivedateafterthedateofthesefinancialstatements:
EffectiveDate
InternationalAccountingStandards(IAS/IFRS)
Endorsedandavailableforearlyadoption:
IFRS8 OperatingSegments 1January2009
Changesnotendorsed:
IFRIC14 IAS19^TheLimitonaDefinedBenefitAsset,MinimumFundingRequirementsandtheirInteraction. 1January2008
IAS1 PresentationofFinancialStatements^Comprehensiverevisionincludingrequiringastatementof
comprehensiveincome. 1January2009
IAS27 ConsolidatedandSeparateFinancialStatements^ConsequentialamendmentsarisingtoIFRS3. 1January2010
IFRS2 Share-basedPayment^Amendmentsrelatingtovestingconditionsandcancellations. 1January2009
IFRS3 BusinessCombinations^Comprehensiverevisiononapplyingtheacquisitionmethod. 1January2010
TheDirectorsdonotanticipatethattheadoptionofthesestandardswillmateriallyimpacttheGroup’sfinancialresultsinthe
periodofinitialapplicationalthoughtherewillberevisedpresentationstotheprimaryfinancialstatementsandadditional
disclosures.Anyfuturebusinesscombinationswillbeaffected.TheGroupintendstoadoptthestandardsinthereportingperiod
whentheybecomeeffective.
65 1. Segmentreporting
TheGroupoperatesasasingleassetmanagementbusiness,whichdoesnotcomprisedifferentbusinesssegments,andtheBoard
viewsthebusinessasawholeastheprimaryreportableentity.
Althoughthereareseveraldifferentsourcesofrevenuewithinthebusinessanddistinctdistributionchannels,andassetsunder
managementcanbecategorisedbyclienttypeandassetclass,theDirectorsdonotconsiderthesetoconstituteseparatebusiness
segmentswithinthemeaningofIAS14‘SegmentReporting’.TherisksandreturnstotheGroupacrossthesecategoriesarenot
significantlydifferent,withthefeelevelschargedreflectingthevaryingcomplexitiesandlevelsofadministrationandexpertise
involvedinmanagingtheunderlyingassets;itistheclientsthemselvesratherthantheGroupwhohavethedifferentrisk/return
profiles.
TheDirectorsmonitorprofitabilityofthebusinessonlyonaGroup-widebasis.Furthermore,geographicalconsiderationsaside,the
internaloperationsandmanagementstructureareorganisedonasingleoverallGroup-widebasis,andremunerationandrewards
aredeterminedinthecontextoftheperformanceofthewholebusiness.
TheGrouphasprovidedsegmentinformationonageographicalbasisbylocationofassets,andintheabsenceofbusiness
segments,hasdisclosedthegeographicalsegmentsintheprimaryreportingformat.
Bydefault,primarysegmentdisclosuresarealsoreportedfortheGroup’ssinglebusinesssegment^assetmanagement^inthe
columnheaded‘Consolidated’inpart(a).Secondaryformatdisclosuresaregiveninrelationtorevenuefromexternalclientsby
geographicallocationofclients,asshowninpart(b).
TheGroupispredominantlyUKbasedbuthassignificantoperationsinthreeotherEuropeancountries.
Thereportablegeographicalsegmentsareasfollows:
^ TheUnitedKingdom
^ TheNetherlands
^ Portugal
^ TheRepublicofIreland
TheselocationspresentdifferentriskstotheGroup,primarilyofalegislativeandregulatorynature.Inordertomeetitsobjectives,
andmanageriskappropriately,theGrouphasstatutoryentitiesregisteredineachoftheselocations.Consequently,therespective
statutoryentitiesreflectthereportingwhichtakesplacewithintheGroupinthatthereareidentifiableresults,assetsandliabilities
directlyattributabletothosesegments,whilerepresentingthebroadorganisationalreportingstructureandmanagementof
thebusiness.
Transferpricesbetweenreportablesegmentsaresetonanarm’slengthbasisinamannersimilartotransactionswiththirdparties.
Segmentrevenue,segmentexpenseandsegmentresultincludetransfersbetweenreportablesegments.Thosetransfersare
eliminatedonconsolidation.
Duringthepreviousyear,impairmentlosseswererecognisedinrespectofmanagementcontracts.Theseintangibleassetsand
theirrelatedimpairmentlosseshavebeenassociatedtogeographicalsegments,onthebasisofrevenuesgeneratedfromthe
contracts,proportionatelyacrossthevariouslocations.Theallocationoftheintangibleassets’impairmentrecognisedinthe
IncomeStatementfortheprioryearisshowninpart(a).
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
66 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
1. Segmentreporting(cont’d)
(a) Geographicalsegments^bylocationofassets
TheUnitedKingdom TheNetherlands Portugal TheRepublicofIreland Other Eliminations Consolidated
2007
»m
2006
»m
2007
»m
2006
»m
2007
»m
2006
»m
2007
»m
2006
»m
2007
»m
2006
»m
2007
»m
2006
»m
2007
»m
2006
»m
Revenue
Externalclients 202.8 194.4 54.1 47.1 12.3 11.9 4.2 3.6 4.4 4.3^^ 277.8 261.3
Inter-segmentsales 15.0 17.1 ^ ^ ^ ^ 0.3 ^^ ^ (15.3) (17.1) ^ ^
Segmentrevenue 217.8 211.5 54.1 47.1 12.3 11.9 4.5 3.6 4.4 4.3 (15.3) (17.1) 277.8 261.3
Segmentresult 1.4 (40.6) 17.4 (7.1) 5.2 1.2 1.4 (0.6) 3.4 1.9 ^ 15.5 28.8 (29.7)
Operatingprofit/(loss)
afterrestructuringcosts 28.8 (29.7)
Financerevenue 23.8 20.6
Financecosts (27.3) (22.0)
Impairmentinassociates
andotherfinancial
investments ^ (0.8)
Lossondisposalof
associates ^ (0.1)
Shareofprofitofassociates 0.6 1.5 ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 0.6 1.5
Tax(expense)/income (7.2) 8.0
Profit/(loss)fortheyear 18.7 (22.5)
Otherinformation
Segmentassets 1,520.2 1,636.5 145.3 130.9 41.8 41.6 11.1 16.2 8.0 7.4 (35.6) (39.7) 1,690.8 1,792.9
Investmentinassociates ^ 1.4 ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 1.4
Unallocatedcorporate
assets 607.8 610.2
Consolidatedtotalassets 2,298.6 2,404.5
Segmentliabilities (1,258.0) (1,356.5) (31.1) (31.5) (1.4) (2.5) (2.7) (7.5) ^ ^ 35.6 39.7 (1,257.6) (1,358.3)
Unallocatedcorporate
liabilities (347.5) (362.4)
Consolidatedtotal
liabilities (1,605.1) (1,720.7)
Capitalexpenditure 2.8 3.2 0.1 1.6 ^ ^ 0.1 0.1 ^ ^ ^ ^ 3.0 4.9
Depreciationand
amortisation (29.9) (32.6) (12.2) (9.9) (2.8) (2.5) (1.0) (0.8) (1.0) (0.9) ^ ^ (46.9) (46.7)
Impairmentofintangibleassets ^ (35.7) ^ (16.1) ^ (4.0) ^ (1.2) ^ (1.5) ^ ^ ^ (58.5)
Othernon-cashexpenses (58.6) (123.5) (0.7) (2.2) (0.5) (0.1) (0.2) (0.4) ^ ^ ^ ^ (60.0) (126.2)
Therewerenodiscontinuedoperationsin2007or2006.
(b) Revenuebylocationofclients
2007
»m
2006
»m
TheUnitedKingdom 145.8 136.3
TheNetherlands 61.3 58.1
Portugal 24.2 24.1
TheRepublicofIreland 19.9 19.5
Other 26.6 23.3
Consolidatedtotalrevenue 277.8 261.3
67 2. Netrevenue
2007
»m
2006
»m
Investmentmanagementfees 246.4 248.1
Performancerelatedmanagementfees 20.8 9.5
Investmentmanagementfees 267.2 257.6
CompensationreceivedfromBCPinrespectofwithdrawaloffundsundermanagement* ^ 2.6
Otherincome
#
10.6 1.1
Totalotherincome 10.6 3.7
Renewalcommissiononopen-endedinvestmentproducts (8.4) (7.6)
Othersellingexpenses (4.9) (2.9)
Feeandcommissionexpenses (13.3) (10.5)
Totalnetrevenue 264.5 250.8
* During2006theGroupreceived»2.6mfromBancoCommercialPortugue “sS.A.(BCP)ascompensationfollowingthewithdrawalduring2005ofsomeC2bn
ofassetswhichweremanagedbytheGroupunderlong-termcontractualarrangements.
#
Otherincomein2007includes:
. a»2.4mreceiptfromEurekoB.V.insettlementofthehistoricpensionliabilitiesarisingonnon-UKdefinedbenefitschemesacquiredaspartofthe
mergerin2004;
. »2.4motherincomewasreceivedfromFriendsProvidentasreimbursementofcostsassociatedwiththepotentialacquisitionofResolutionAsset
Management;and
. »5.2mincomearisingasaresultoftheterminationofoutsourcedinvestmentoperations,includingthereleaseofdeferredincome.
3. Netgainsandinvestmentincomeonunit-linkedassets
Note
2007
»m
2006
»m
Interestrevenueonpolicyholderscash 7 2.6 2.3
Interestrevenueonotherfinancialinstruments 7 12.0 11.9
Dividendrevenue 20.6 23.2
Movementsinfairvaluesofunit-linkedassets 9.8 69.3
45.0 106.7
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
68 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
4. Expenses
(a) Totalexpenses
Totaloperatingexpensesincurred,includingrestructuringcosts,classifiedbynature,canbesummarisedasfollows:
2007
»m
2006
»m
Staffrelatedandemployeebenefitexpenses* 126.6 118.6
Premisesexpenses 10.3 9.0
Communicationandinformationtechnologyexpenses 14.8 13.7
Thirdpartyadministrationexpenses 9.7 13.2
Promotionalandclientservicingexpenses 6.7 6.6
Depreciationandamortisationexpenses 46.9 46.7
Impairmentexpenses ^ 58.5
Otherexpenses 21.8 15.9
236.8 282.2
* Thisincludes»8.0m(2006:»7.1m)ofstaffrelatedexpenses.
(b) Operatingexpenses
Operatingexpensesincludethefollowing:
Notes
2007
»m
2006
»m
Depreciationofownedtangibleproperty,plantandequipment 12 3.7 3.0
Amortisationofintangibleassets^software 13 0.8 0.7
Auditor’sremuneration^auditofthesefinancialstatements 0.4 0.5
Auditor’sremuneration^auditoffinancialstatementsofsubsidiariespursuanttolegislation 0.2 0.1
Auditor’sremuneration^otherservices 0.3 0.8
Operatingleaserentals^landandbuildings(headleases) 10.3 9.5
Operatingleaserentals^vehicles 0.4 0.4
Operatingleaserentals^other* 2.0 2.0
Rentalsreceivable^operatingleases (3.0) (2.3)
Foreignexchange(gains)/losses (0.6) 0.7
* StatednetofamountsreceivablefrombrokersunderCommissionSharingArrangements.
Sub-leaserentalsof»3.0m(2006:»2.3m)werereceivedduringtheyearofwhich»2.8m(2006:»2.2m)relatestoguaranteed
paymentsand»0.2m(2006:»0.1m)relatestocontingentpayments.
Allamountswithinoperatingleaseandsub-leaserentalpaymentsrelatetominimumleasepayments.
(c) InvestmentTrustVATexpense
2007
»m
2006
»m
InvestmentTrustVATexpense 4.2 ^
Duringtheyear,litigationbetweenaninvestmenttrustandHMRCconcluded,resultingininvestmentmanagementfeespaidby
investmenttrustsnotbeingsubjecttoVAT.
ThisexpenserepresentsVATandonerousinterestwhichmaybepayabletoinvestmenttrustclientsinrespectofhistoricperiods,
beyondtheamountestimatedasrecoverablefromHMRC.
Duetothenon-recurringnatureofthisexpensethedirectorshaveexcludedthisfromunderlyingearnings.Detailsrelatingtothe
uncertaintiesinrespectofthisexpenseandtheassociatedprovisionaregiveninnote25.
69 4. Expenses(cont’d)
(d) Auditors’remuneration
KPMGAuditPlcreplacedErnst&YoungLLPastheGroup’sauditorson20October2006.AllKPMGAuditPlcfeeshavebeen
treatedasrelatingtofeespaidtotheGroup’sauditorsin2006.AllErnst&YoungLLPfeespaidin2006aredisclosedasfeespaid
tootheraccountancyfirmsfornon-auditservices(seebelow).TheamountpaidtoErnst&YoungLLPincludesworkinrespectof
theirinterimreviewfor2006.
FeespaidtotheGroup’sauditorsaresummarisedasfollows:
KPMGAuditPlc
2007
»m
2006
»m
Annualauditfees^2007 0.4 ^
Annualauditfees^2006 ^ 0.5
Auditofthesefinancialstatements 0.4 0.5
Auditoffinancialstatementsofsubsidiariespursuanttolegislation 0.2 0.1
TotalauditfeesoftheGroup 0.6 0.6
Otherservicessuppliedpursuanttosuchlegislation 0.1 0.1
Otherservicesrelatingtotaxation 0.1 0.1
Servicesrelatingtoinformationtechnology ^ 0.8
Servicesrelatingtorecruitmentandremuneration ^ 0.1
Allotherservices 0.1 0.2
Totalauditors’remuneration* 0.9 1.9
* Includes»nilofKPMGfees(2006:»0.5m)whichareincludedwithinrestructuringcosts(seenote6).
TheGroup’spolicyontheawardofnon-auditservicestoaccountancyfirmsisoutlinedintheDirectors’ReportonCorporate
Governance.DuringtheyeartheadditionalfeespaidbyF&Ctootheraccountancyfirmsfornon-auditserviceswereasfollows:
2007
»m
2006
»m
Ernst&Young 0.3 1.0
PricewaterhouseCoopers 0.5 0.7
Deloitte&Touche 0.2 ^
1.0 1.7
Inadditiontotheabove,thefollowingfeeswerepaidbyOEICsandunittrusts,forwhichGroupcompaniesaretheAuthorised
CorporateDirectororManager,forservicesprovideddirectlytothem:
2007
»m
2006
»m
PricewaterhouseCoopers 0.3 0.3
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
70 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
5. Employeebenefitsexpenses
Totalemployeebenefitsexpenses,includingremunerationoftheDirectors,were:
Note
2007
»m
2006
»m
Short-termemployeebenefits:
Salariesandrelatedbenefits 53.6 47.7
Bonus 26.7 24.1
Wagesandsalaries 80.3 71.8
SocialSecuritycosts 10.6 9.4
90.9 81.2
Post-employmentbenefits:
Definedcontributionsschemeexpenses 4.4 3.0
Definedbenefitsschemeexpenses 4.6 3.9
9.0 6.9
Totalofwagesandsalaries,SocialSecuritycostsandpost-employmentbenefits 99.9 88.1
Terminationbenefits 2.3 5.0
Share-basedpaymentexpenses 27 16.4 18.4
Totalemployeebenefitsexpenses 118.6 111.5
Includedwithintheaboveemployeebenefitsexpensesis»nil(2006:»5.3m)relatedtorestructuringcostsasdisclosedwithinnote6.
Themonthlyaveragenumberofemployees(includingExecutiveDirectors)oftheGroupduring2007was901(2006:855).
F&CAssetManagementplchadnoemployeesduringtheyearsended31December2007and2006.
6. Restructuringcosts
Integration,rationalisationandreorganisationofthebusinessafteracquisitionofF&CGroup(Holdings)Limited
TheDirectorsconsideritappropriatetodiscloseseparatelythefollowingintegration,reorganisationandrestructuringcostsrelating
tocontinuingoperations,duetothefundamentalimpacttheacquisitionin2004hadonthemanagementandoperationalstructure
oftheenlargedGroup:
2007
»m
2006
»m
Terminationandrelatedemployeebenefits ^ 5.3
Premisescosts ^ 0.3
Informationtechnologyandrelatedcosts ^ 3.7
Re-branding,administrationandclientservicing ^ 0.3
Consultancyandothercostssupportingtherestructuringprocess ^ 0.1
Restructuringcosts ^ 9.7
Taxincomeinrespectofrestructuringcosts ^ (2.7)
Neteffectofrestructuringcosts ^ 7.0
Thisrestructuringwascompletedin2006.
71 7. Financerevenue
Note
2007
»m
2006
»m
Loansandreceivables:
Bankinterestreceivable 10.5 5.6
Otherinterestreceivable 0.1 0.3
DesignatedasFairValuethroughprofitorloss:
Movementinfairvalueofinvestments 0.5 0.5
Designatedasavailableforsaleinvestments:
Investmentincomereceivable 3.8 6.4
14.9 12.8
Otherfinancerevenue:
Expectedreturnonpensionplanassets 26 8.9 7.8
23.8 20.6
Investmentincomereceivableprimarilyrepresentsdistributionsfrominterestsinprivateequityinvestments.
Totalinterestincome Note
2007
»m
2006
»m
Bankinterestreceivable 10.5 5.6
Otherinterestreceivable 0.1 0.3
Interestrevenueonpolicyholderscash 3 2.6 2.3
Interestrevenueonotherfinancialinstruments 3 12.0 11.9
25.2 20.1
8. Financecosts
Notes
2007
»m
2006
»m
Interestexpenseonfinancialliabilitiesrecognisedatcostusingtheeffectiveinterest
ratemethod:
Interestexpenseon»260mSubordinatedNotes 17.6 0.6
InterestexpensepayabletoFriendsProvidentgroup:
^»180mtermloan ^ 10.3
^»50mrevolvingcreditfacility 0.1 0.4
^»25msubordinatedloan ^ 1.4
^CumulativePreferenceShares 10(b) 0.1 0.1
Interestexpenseon»9msubordinatedloanfromEureko ^ 0.5
Bankcharges 0.1 0.1
Otherinterestpayable 0.1 0.4
Totalinterestexpense 18.0 13.8
AmortisationofSubordinatedNotescosts 0.2 ^
Unwindingofdiscountrateononerousprovisions 0.1 0.1
Interestcostonpensionobligations 26 9.0 8.1
27.3 22.0
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
72 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
9. Incometax
(a) Analysisoftaxexpense/(income)intheyear
Themajorcomponentsoftaxexpense/(income)are:
ConsolidatedIncomeStatement
2007
»m
2006
»m
Currentincometax:
UK 20.7 18.5
DoubletaxreliefinUKonoverseasearnings (8.9) (5.3)
Overseas 10.5 9.0
Adjustmentsinrespectofpreviousyears 0.3 0.5
Deferredincometax:
Relatingtooriginationandreversaloftemporarydifferences (10.1) (28.9)
Adjustmentsinrespectofpreviousyears (1.3) (1.8)
AdjustmentsinrespectofCorporationTaxratechange (4.0) ^
Taxexpense/(income)reportedintheConsolidatedIncomeStatement 7.2 (8.0)
ConsolidatedStatementofChangesinEquity
2007
»m
2006
»m
Deferredandcurrentincometaxrelatedtoitemschargedorcrediteddirectlytoequity:
Gain/(loss)onfinancialinvestments 0.6 (0.1)
Actuarialgainsondefinedbenefitpensionschemes 3.4 0.9
AdjustmentsinrespectofCorporationTaxratechange 0.5 ^
Taxexpenserecogniseddirectlyinequity 4.5 0.8
(b) Factorsaffectingthetaxexpense/(income)fortheyear
Areconciliationbetweentheactualtaxexpense/(income)andtheaccountingprofit/(loss)multipliedbytheGroup’sdomestictax
ratefortheyearsended31December2007and2006isasfollows:
2007
»m
2006
»m
Profit/(loss)beforetax 25.9 (30.5)
AttheGroup’sstatutoryincometaxrateof30.0%(2006:30.0%) 7.8 (9.1)
Adjustmentsinrespectofpreviousyears (1.0) (1.3)
Disallowedexpenses 2.7 1.2
Non-taxableincome (0.3) (0.4)
Overseastax 0.9 0.6
Utilisationofunrecognisedlosses ^ (0.3)
Share-basedpayments 1.1 1.3
CorporationTaxratechange (4.0) ^
Taxexpense/(income)reportedintheConsolidatedIncomeStatement 7.2 (8.0)
Deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesareshowninnote18.
(c) Factorsaffectingfuturetaxcharges
TheFinanceBill2007,whichhasbeensubstantiallyenacted,changestheUKCorporationTaxratefrom30%to28%witheffect
from31March2008.TheIncomeStatementfortheyearended31December2007reflectsa»4.0mtaxcreditasaresultofthe
Group’sdeferredtaxbalancesbeingrevisedtotherateatwhichtimingdifferencesareexpectedtoreverse.Thiscreditcomprises
twoelements:A»0.3mtaxchargewhichimpactstheunderlyingearningsoftheGroupanda»4.3mtaxcreditwhichisexcluded
fromunderlyingearnings,consistentwiththetreatmentofthecosttowhichitrelates,namelytheamortisationofintangibleassets
andthecostoftheRe-InvestmentPlan.»0.5mhasbeenchargedtoequityreflectingthedeferredtaxthatisexpectedtoreverse
throughequity.
73 10. Dividends
(a) Ordinarydividends
2007
»m
2006
»m
Declaredandpaidduringtheyear
EquitydividendsonOrdinaryShares:
Finaldividendfor2006:7.0p(2005:7.0p) 33.8 33.5
Interimdividendfor2007:2.0p(2006:4.0p) 9.7 19.2
43.5 52.7
ProposedforapprovalattheAnnualGeneralMeeting
EquitydividendsonOrdinaryShares:
Finaldividendfor2007:4.0p(2006:7.0p) 19.7 33.8
TheentitlementofEmployeeBenefitTruststoreceivedividends(onsomeoftheirholdingsofF&Cshares)hasbeenwaivedbythe
Trustees.Thishasresultedinthefollowingdividendsbeingwaived:
Shares »m
2007Dividends
2006Final 3,162,392 0.2
2007Interim 3,095,242 0.1
2006Dividends
2005Final 6,155,096 0.4
2006Interim 2,338,653 0.1
(b) Non-equitydividendsonCumulativePreferenceShares
2007
»m
2006
»m
Interestexpenseduringtheyear 0.1 0.1
11. EarningsperShare
Basicearningspershareamountsarecalculatedbydividingprofit/(loss)fortheyearattributabletoordinaryequityholdersofthe
parentbytheweightedaveragenumberofOrdinarySharesoutstandingduringtheyear.
Dilutedearningspershareamountsarecalculatedbydividingtheprofit/(loss)fortheyearattributabletoordinaryequityholdersof
theparentbytheweightedaveragenumberofOrdinarySharesoutstandingduringtheyearplustheweightedaveragenumberof
OrdinarySharesthatwouldbeissuedontheconversionofallthedilutivepotentialOrdinarySharesintoOrdinaryShares.
IntheopinionoftheDirectorsthe‘‘underlyingprofit’’(definedastheprofitbeforeamortisationandimpairmentofintangibles,the
BCPcompensationreceipt,restructuringcosts,InvestmentTrustVATexpenseandthecostoftheRe-InvestmentPlan)more
accuratelyreflectstheunderlyingearningsperformanceoftheGroup.
2007 2007 2006 2006
Basic Diluted Basic Diluted
ReconciliationofEarningsperShare* pp pp
Earnings/(loss)perOrdinaryShare 3.54 3.43 (4.91) (4.91)
InvestmentTrustVATexpense,netoftax 0.60 ^
CostoftheRe-InvestmentPlan,netoftax 0.98 1.81
Amortisationofintangibles,netoftax 5.25 6.29
Impairmentofintangibles,netoftax ^ 8.54
BCPcompensationreceipt,netoftax ^ (0.38)
Restructuringcosts,netoftax ^ 1.45
Underlyingearningspershare 10.37 12.80
* WheretheGrouphasincurredabasiclossperOrdinaryShare,nodilutionarisesdespitethe‘dilutivepotentialweightedaveragenumberof
OrdinaryShares’beinggreaterthanthe‘weightedaveragenumberofOrdinarySharesusedtodeterminethebasiclosspershare’.Asaresult,thereported
basicanddilutedlossperOrdinarySharearethesamein2006.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
74 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
11. EarningsperShare(cont’d)
Thefollowingreflectstheincomeandsharecapitaldatausedinthebasicanddilutedearningspersharecalculations:
Earnings Note
2007
»m
2006
»m
Earnings/(loss)attributabletoordinaryequityholdersoftheparentforbasic
earnings/(loss)pershare 17.1 (23.5)
InvestmentTrustVATexpense,netoftax 2.9 ^
CostoftheRe-InvestmentPlan,netoftax 4.8 8.7
Amortisationofintangibles,netoftax 25.4 30.1
Impairmentofintangibles,netoftax ^ 40.9
BCPcompensationreceipt,netoftax ^ (1.8)
Restructuringcosts,netoftax 6 ^ 7.0
Underlyingearningsattributabletoordinaryequityholdersoftheparent 50.2 61.4
2007 2006
Sharecapital No. No.
WeightedaveragenumberofOrdinaryShares(excludingownsharesheldbyEmployeeBenefit
Trusts)forbasicearnings/(loss)pershare 484,192,096 479,285,850
WeightedaveragedilutivepotentialOrdinarySharesexercisable:
2002ESOSoptions 212,119 475,912
ShareSaveSchemeoptions 126,219 193,233
TheRe-InvestmentPlanawards 6,109,672 9,820,735
TheLongTermRemunerationPlanawards 8,915,722 1,995,924
PurchasedEquityPlanawards 1,247,902 501,598
Discretionaryawards 8,916 ^
DilutivepotentialweightedaveragenumberofOrdinaryShares 500,812,646 492,273,252
Certainformeremployeesareentitledtoexercisetheir1995or2002ExecutiveShareOptionsforadefinedperiodafterleavingthe
Company,inaccordancewithschemerules.Wheretheoptionpricesarebelowtheaveragesharepricefortheyear,theseoptions
havebeentreatedasdilutive.
TransactionsinvolvingOrdinarySharesorpotentialOrdinarySharesbetweenthereportingdateandthedateofapprovalofthe
ConsolidatedFinancialStatementswereasfollows:noshareoptionshavebeenexercisedduringthisperiod(2006:194,036,
satisfiedbytheissueofordinarysharecapital).
Potentialfuturedilution
TheGroupoperatesseveralshare-basedpaymentschemeswhichcouldpotentiallydilutebasicearningspershareinthefuture
butwhichwerenotincludedinthecalculationofdilutedearningspershareastheywereanti-dilutivefortheyearspresented.
Theshare-basedpaymentschemesmustmeettherelevantperformancecriteriaforeachschemebeforetheexerciseofoptionsis
possible.Theonlyexceptiontothisisfor‘‘goodleavers’’,wherethereisusuallyaperiodoftimeoverwhichtheemployeescan
exercisetheiroptionsinaccordancewiththespecificrulesofeachschemeregardlessofwhethertheperformancecriteriahave
beenmet.
Theoptionsforalltheawardsinthe1995ExecutiveShareOptionSchemevestedon24March2006,astheperformancecriteria
hadbeenmet.At31December2007the1,333,047(31December2006:2,031,927)optionsoutstanding,atexercisepricesbetween
203.83pand455.83p,arenowpotentiallydilutive,assettlementwouldbemadebytheissueofnewshares.
Inaddition,theoptionsgrantedon19March2003underthe2002ExecutiveShareOptionSchemevestedon24March2006,asthe
performancecriteriahadbeenmet.The1,228,227(31December2006:1,122,876)optionsoutstanding,atanexercisepricesof
between139.00pand240.83p,arenowpotentiallydilutive,assettlementwouldbemadebytheissueofnewshares.
Detailsofotherawardsexercisableat31December2007and31December2006aredisclosedinnote27,togetherwiththetotal
numberofawardsoutstandingforeachscheme.
75 12. Property,plantandequipment
Leasehold
improvements
»m
Motor
vehicles
»m
Office
furnitureand
equipment
»m
Computer
equipment
»m
Total
»m
Cost:
At1January2006 9.0 0.1 2.5 8.9 20.5
Additions 3.1 0.1 0.3 1.2 4.7
Disposals (0.1) ^ (0.1) (0.5) (0.7)
At31December2006 12.0 0.2 2.7 9.6 24.5
Additions 0.3 0.1 0.5 1.3 2.2
Disposals ^ (0.1) (0.4) (0.4) (0.9)
Foreignexchangegains 0.1 ^ ^ 0.1 0.2
At31December2007 12.4 0.2 2.8 10.6 26.0
Depreciationandimpairment:
At1January2006 1.6 ^ 1.0 6.7 9.3
Depreciationchargefortheyear 1.1 0.1 0.4 1.4 3.0
Disposals ^ ^ (0.1) (0.5) (0.6)
At31December2006 2.7 0.1 1.3 7.6 11.7
Depreciationchargefortheyear 1.4 0.1 0.9 1.3 3.7
Disposals ^ (0.1) (0.4) (0.4) (0.9)
Foreignexchangelosses ^ ^ ^ 0.1 0.1
At31December2007 4.1 0.1 1.8 8.6 14.6
Netbookvalues:
At31December2005 7.4 0.1 1.5 2.2 11.2
At31December2006 9.3 0.1 1.4 2.0 12.8
At31December2007 8.3 0.1 1.0 2.0 11.4
Cumulativeimpairmentlosses:
At31December2006 2.0^^^ 2.0
At31December2007 2.0^^^ 2.0
TherearenorestrictionsontheGroup’stitletotheaboveassetsandnonearepledgedassecurityforliabilities.
Thecostoffullydepreciatedproperty,plantandequipmentwhichisstillinuseat31December2007is»7.5m
(31December2006:»6.1m).
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
76 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
13. Goodwillandotherintangibleassets
Goodwill
Management
contracts
Softwareand
licences Total
»m »m »m »m
Cost:
At1January2006 578.0 619.8 4.1 1,201.9
Additions ^ ^ 0.2 0.2
Disposals (8.1) (43.2) (0.1) (51.4)
Foreignexchangelosses ^ (3.3) ^ (3.3)
At31December2006 569.9 573.3 4.2 1,147.4
Additions ^ ^ 0.8 0.8
Disposals ^ ^ (0.2) (0.2)
Foreignexchangegains ^ 11.8 0.1 11.9
At31December2007 569.9 585.1 4.9 1,159.9
Amortisationandimpairment:
At1January2006 ^ 203.7 2.5 206.2
Amortisationchargefortheyear ^ 43.0 0.7 43.7
Disposals ^ (16.2) (0.1) (16.3)
Impairmentlosses ^ 58.5 ^ 58.5
At31December2006 ^ 289.0 3.1 292.1
Amortisationchargefortheyear ^ 42.4 0.8 43.2
Disposals ^ ^ (0.1) (0.1)
At31December2007 ^ 331.4 3.8 335.2
Netbookvalues:
At31December2005 578.0 416.1 1.6 995.7
At31December2006 569.9 284.3 1.1 855.3
At31December2007 569.9 253.7 1.1 824.7
Goodwillaroseonbusinesscombinationsandrelatestothebusinessasawholefollowingthefundamentalintegration,
rationalisationandre-organisationswhichtookplaceaftereachacquisition.Assuch,goodwillisnotallocatedtocashgenerating
unitsbelowtheoverallentitylevel.Goodwillisnotamortisedbutrequirestobetestedforimpairmentannually.Thecarryingvalueof
goodwillhasbeentestedforimpairmentatthebalancesheetdate,asdescribedbelow.Theaccumulatedimpairmentlossesat
31December2007relatingtogoodwillwere»nil(31December2006:»nil).
77 13. Goodwillandotherintangibleassets(cont’d)
Managementcontractspredominantlyrelatetocontractsarisingfrombusinessacquisitions.Theirdescriptions,carryingamounts
attheyear-end,remainingamortisationperiodsandestimatedusefullivesareasfollows:
31December2007 31December2006
Netbook
values
»m
Remaining
amortisation
period
(years)
Estimated
usefullife
(years)
Netbook
values
»m
Remaining
amortisation
period
(years)
Estimated
usefullife
(years)
RSAIinsurancecontracts 3.1 4 10 3.8 5 10
RSAIretailcontracts 24.4 4 10 29.9 5 10
F&Cinsurancecontracts 89.4 7 10 94.1 8 10
F&Cinstitutionalcontracts
(fixedterm/non-fixedterm) 47.0 7/3 10/4 57.4 8/4 10/4
F&Cinvestmenttrustcontracts 27.2 8
1
 2
10 30.4 9
1
 2
10
F&Cadvisoryandsub-advisorycontracts 49.6 7 10 54.0 8 10
F&COEICs 11.9 7 10 13.6 8 10
Privateequityfundoffunds 1.11720 1.1 18 20
253.7 284.3
Theaccumulatedimpairmentlossesat31December2007relatingtomanagementcontractswere»170.0m(2006:»170.0m).Details
ofimpairmentrecognisedin2006relatingtoF&Cinstitutionalandinvestmenttrustcontracts,andchangestotheirestimated
remainingusefullives,arediscussedbelow.
Asdisclosedinthe2006annualreportandfinancialstatements,Resolutionplcwithdrewthemajorityofitsassetsinthefirstquarter
of2006.Thereimbursementof»27.0moftheoriginalacquisitionpricepaidin2002wasrecognisedasproceedsinrespectofthe
deemeddisposalofintangibleassets.Thecostoftheassetsdisposedofwas»43.2mandtherelatedcumulativeamortisation
amountedto»16.2m.Thereforethecarryingvalueofthedisposedassetequalledtheproceedsreceivedgivingrisetoneithera
gainnoraloss.The»8.1mdisposalofgoodwillin2006isinrespectofthedeferredtaxwhichrelatedtothe»27.0mcarryingvalue
oftheintangibleassetsdisposedof.
Impairmenttestingofgoodwillandintangibleassetswithfinitelives
Goodwill
Therecoverableamountofgoodwillhasbeendeterminedbasedonavalueinusecalculationusingcashflowprojectionsbased
onthelatestannualfinancialbudgetapprovedbytheBoard.
Thediscountrateappliedtocashflowprojectionsis8.5%(2006:8.9%).ThisisbasedontheGroup’sweightedaveragecostof
capital,calculatedasattheyear-end,andtakesintoaccounttherisksassociatedwiththeGroup’srevenuestreams.
ProjectedrevenuesforthefirstyeararebasedontheBoard-approvedbudget.Beyondthis,revenueshavebeengrownat5.85%
perannum(2006:5.75%)whichisinlinewiththeGroup’slong-termviewofmarketgrowth,andconsistentwiththatexperienced
acrossthemarketsinwhichassetsareinvested.Revenuesearnedfromsignificantcontractswithafixedtermareassumedto
terminateattheendofthefixedterm,withoperatingcostsfallingbyanamountwhichassumesassociatedprofitmarginsof70%.
ProjectedoperatingcostsforthefirstyeararedrivenbythebudgetedGroupprofitmarginfor2008.Thereafter,costshavebeen
grownataminimumof4.00%perannum(2006:3.75%),toaccordwithanticipatedfutureinflationandsalaryincreases,withthe
margincappedat45%(2006:45%)asameasureofprudence,basedonhistoricalperformance.
Aterminalvaluehasbeencalculatedandaddedtothenetpresentvalueinordertoascertainanoverallvalueinuseofthe
business.Therecoverablevalueisthencomparedtothecarryingvalueofgoodwill,managementcontractsandotherintangible
assets,netofassociateddeferredtaxprovisions,andproperty,plantandequipmentinordertoascertainwhetheranyimpairment
exists.TheDirectorsconsidertheterminalvaluetoreflectfairlythelong-termnatureofthebusinessandtheBoard’scurrentview
thatthereisnoreasontobelievethatthebusinesswillnotcontinueadinfinitum.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
78 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
13. Goodwillandotherintangibleassets(cont’d)
Asthisannualimpairmentreviewofgoodwilldeterminedasurplus,noimpairmenthasbeenrecognisedintheyearinrespectof
goodwill(2006:»nil).
31December
2007
31December
2006
»m »m
Carryingamountofgoodwill 569.9 569.9
Thekeyassumptionsreferredtoabovetowhichthecalculatedvalueinuseismostsensitive,areasfollows:
2007 2006
Discountrate 8.5% 8.9%
Revenuegrowthrate 5.85% 5.75%
Costinflationrate 4.00% 3.75%
Cappedoperatingmargin 45.0% 45.0%
Inordertoassessthesensitivityofthekeyassumptionsonthevalueofgoodwill,ananalysiswasconductedtoascertainthe
changethatwouldberequiredtoderivearecoverableamountwhichapproximatedtothecarryingvalueofgoodwill.
Theabsolutelevelsofthediscountrate,therevenuegrowthrateorthecostinflationratewhichmostcloselyequatedtoamatchin
therecoverableamounttocarryingvalueofgoodwillwere14.7%,3.4%and7.1%respectively(2006:12.6%,4.0%and6.2%).This
isbasedonvaryingeachassumptioninturnindividually,keepingtheothersconstant.
Managementcontracts
During2006thebusinessexperiencedaleveloffundoutflowswhichwashigherthananticipated.Thisleveloflostbusinesshasa
notableimpactonrevenuesandwassignificantenoughtobeconsideredanindicatorofpotentialimpairmentofcertainintangible
assets,namelytherelatedinvestmentmanagementcontracts.Nosuchindicatorsofimpairmentexistedin2007andthereforeno
impairmentreviewofmanagementcontractshasbeenundertakenthisyear.Theinformationwhichfollowsisthedisclosurein
respectofthecomparativeperiod.
InaccordancewithIAS36‘‘ImpairmentofAssets’’,fullimpairmentreviewsoftheseassetswereundertakenasat30June2006and
31December2006.Thereviewresultedinimpairmentlossesbeingrecognisedinrespectofmanagementcontractsasfollows:
2007 2006
»m »m
F&Cinvestmenttrustcontracts ^ 22.2
F&Cinstitutionalcontracts ^ 36.3
Totalimpairmentrecognisedinthe IncomeStatement ^ 58.5
Theabovecontractsrelatetotheinvestmenttrustmanagementcontractsandinstitutionalfundmanagementcontractsacquired
asaresultofthebusinesscombinationoftheISISandF&CGHGroupson11October2004.
Therecoverableamountsoftheassetsweredeterminedbasedonvalueinusecalculationsusingcashflowprojectionsbasedon
thelatestannualfinancialbudgetapprovedbytheBoard,atthattime.
Thediscountrateappliedtothecashflowprojectionsasat31December2006was9.4%(30June2006:10.1%)forinstitutional
contractswithnofixedtermand8.4%(30June2006:9.1%)forfixedterminstitutionalcontracts.Areviewofinvestmenttrust
contractswasonlycarriedoutasat30June2006andthediscountrateappliedwas10.1%.Theseratesreflectthevaryingrisks
anduncertaintiesinherentintherevenuesfromtheunderlyingassets,usingtheGroup’sweightedaveragecostofcapitalof8.9%,
calculatedasat31December2006,(30June2006:9.6%)asabenchmark.
Therevenueprojectionsassumedgrowthof5.75%perannum,inlinewiththeGroup’slong-termviewofmarketgrowth,and
consistentwiththatexperiencedacrossthemarketsinwhichthemanagedassetsareinvested.Theprojectionswerederivedusing
theestimatedusefullivesoftheunderlyingcontractsandassumedaconstantlossofrevenuesovertheprojectionperiods.
OperatingcostsforthefirstyearoftheprojectionsweredrivenbythebudgetedGroupprofitmarginfor2007.Thereafter,costs
weredrivenbytheGroup’sprojectedoperatingprofitmargins,asdeterminedforthepurposesofthemostrecentgoodwill
impairmentreview.
79 13. Goodwillandotherintangibleassets(cont’d)
Impairmentwasdeterminedbycomparingtheresultsofthevalueinusecalculationsinrespectoftheremainingcontractsatthe
period-endtothecarryingvalue(costlessaggregateamortisationandpriorimpairment)oftheassetsatthebalancesheetdates,
withanydeficitsarisingconstitutingimpairmenttoberecognisedfortheperiod.
Havingcontinuedtolosecontractsatahigherthananticipatedrateduring2006,theGroupreconsideredtheaverageexpected
livesoftherelatedassets.Thereappraisalatthehalf-yearstagerevisedtheestimateoftheremainingusefullivesoftheinvestment
trustsandnon-fixedterminstitutionalmanagementcontractsto10yearsand6yearsrespectively,witheffectfrom1July2006.
Followingfurtherbusinessoutflowsinthesecondhalfof2006,theBoardrevisitedtheusefullifeestimatesoftheaffectedassetsat
theendof2006andasaresult,witheffectfrom1January2007,theremaininglifeofnon-fixedterminstitutionalcontractswas
assessedas4years.TheBoarddeterminedtheseusefullivesremainedappropriateduring2007.
TheoriginalestimateoftheusefullivesonacquisitionoftheassetsinOctober2004was20yearsforinvestmenttrustsand10years
fornon-fixedterminstitutionalcontracts.Theestimatedusefullivesofallothercategoriesofmanagementcontractsremained
unchanged.
Therevisedusefullivesrepresentedachangeinaccountingestimateandacceleratedtheamortisationoftheremainingvalueof
theassetsfromJuly2006andagainfromJanuary2007.Theeffectofthesechangesincreasedtheamortisationchargeinthe
secondhalfof2006by»1.7mandthechargein2007andbeyondisincreasedby»2.6mcomparedtocontinuingtoamortiseover
thelivesassignedfrom1July2006,untilsuchtimeastheassetsbecomefullyamortised.
14. Otherfinancialinvestments
Thefollowingassetsaredesignatedasavailableforsale:
31December
2007
31December
2006
»m »m
Quoted ^ 0.1
Unquoted 3.8 2.0
3.8 2.1
UnquotedinvestmentsincludetheGroup’sdirectinvestment,co-investmentsandcarriedinterestentitlementinprivateequity
limitedpartnerships.
ThefairvalueoftheunquotedinvestmentshasbeenestimatedusingInternationalPrivateEquityandVentureCapitalValuation
Guidelines.
TheDirectorsbelievethattheestimatedfairvaluesresultingfromthevaluationtechniqueappliedtounquotedshareswhichare
recordedintheBalanceSheet,andtherelatedrealisedfairvaluegainsrecordedintheIncomeStatement,arereasonableandthe
mostappropriateatthebalancesheetdate.
Theinvestmentshavenofixedmaturitydateorcouponrate.
Includedwithintheunquotedfinancialinvestmentsat31December2007are»0.3m(31December2006:»0.4m)ofequity
instrumentsmeasuredatthepriceofrecentinvestments.Thefairvalueoftheseinvestmentscannotbemeasuredreliablyasthe
Groupdoesnothaveaccesstotheunderlyinginformationtoproducefairvaluevaluationsfortheseinvestments.These
investmentsconsistofloansandcarriedinterestinprivateequitylimitedpartnerships.Theseinvestmentsaremanagedbyexternal
fundmanagersandtheGroupobtainreturnswhentheinvestmentsarerealised.TheGroupintendstoholdtheseinvestmentsuntil
alltheprivateequityinvestmentsarerealised.
TheGroupreceiveddistributionstotalling»3.9m(2006:»4.1m)whichcomprised»3.8m(2006:»4.0m)ofinvestmentincomeand
»0.1m(2006:»0.1m)returnofcapitalinrespectoftheseinvestments.
Includedinthemovementinunquotedinvestmentsduringtheyearisanimpairmentchargeof»nil(2006:»0.8m).
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
80 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
15. Investmentinassociates
TheGroupheldaninvestmentinanassociatelimitedliabilitypartnership,ISISEPLLP,whichacquiredtheprivateequitybusiness
previouslyownedbytheGroup;F&Chelda19.99%stakeinthisbusinessuntiltheinvestmentwasterminatedbyanagreed
DeedofRetirementinDecember2007resultinginISISEPLLPnolongerbeinganassociateoftheGroupattheyear-end.The
Groupalsopreviouslyheldaninvestmentinanassociatealternativeinvestmentbusinessinvolvedinhedgefunds,CardinalCapital
PartnersLimited(Cardinal),whichwasdisposedofduring2006.Detailsofinvestmentsinassociatesheldduringtheyearare
asfollows:
Nameofcompany
Placeof
incorporation
andoperation
Proportionof
ownership
Proportionof
votingpower
held
Methodused
toaccountfor
investment
ISISEPLLP England 19.99% 19.99% Equitymethod
ISISEPLLPisaprivateLimitedLiabilityPartnershipwhichisnotlistedonanypublicexchanges.
Themovementsintheaggregatecarryingamountofinvestmentsinassociatesareanalysedbelow:
2007
»m
2006
»m
At1January 1.4 0.3
Disposalsintheyear ^ (4.0)
Shareofprofitfortheyear 0.6 1.5
Distributionsofprofitsreceivedintheyear (1.9) (0.4)
Furtherdistributiondueonterminationofinvestmentagreement(includedintradeandotherreceivables) (0.1) ^
Reversalofimpairmentlossespreviouslyrecognisedoninvestmentsdisposedofintheyear ^ 4.0
At31December ^ 1.4
TheGroup’sshareofthetotalassets,liabilities,revenuesandprofitsofassociatesissetoutbelow:
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Shareofassociates’balancesheet:
Currentassets ^ 4.2
Non-currentassets ^ ^
Currentliabilities ^ (0.8)
Non-currentliabilities ^ (2.0)
Netassets ^ 1.4
2007
»m
2006
»m
Shareoftheassociates’revenuesandprofits:
Revenues 3.3 3.0
Profit 0.6 1.5
81 15. Investmentinassociates(cont’d)
InvestmentinISISEPLLP
ThebackgroundtotheGroup’sinvestmentinISISEPLLPwasgiveninthe2006financialstatements.In2005theGroupreceived
anominalamountofcashplus19.99%ofISISEPLLP’svotingAclassordinarycapital.Inaddition,F&Csubscribed»2.5mfor
non-voting,non-participatingBclasscapitalinISISEPLLP,inorderthatthepartnershiphadsufficientregulatorycapital.The
proceedsfromtheBcapitalweremaintainedinadesignatedbankaccountbyISISEPLLPandanybankinterestearnedonthat
accountaccruedtoF&CasadividendonBcapital.
UnderthetermsofthePartnershipDeed,F&CwasentitledtoashareofprofitfromISISEPLLP.Theshareoftheprofitwhich
theGroupwasentitledtowasacascadecalculationofbothafixedandvariableelementofanyprofitarising,afterprioritywas
giventothefixedshareofprofitattributabletotheothermembersofthepartnership.Accordingly,theGroup’s19.99%interestin
ISISEPLLPdidnotequatetotheactualprofitentitlementoftheGroup.
TheinvestmentinISISEPLLPattheendof2006,andtheamountincludedinotherreceivablesattheendof2007,reflectsthe
shareofprofitentitlementfortheyearinquestionnotreceivedasatthebalancesheetdate.
UnderthetermsoftheDeedofRetirementfromISISEPLLP,F&Creceived»1.0minrespectoftheBcapitalandthefullnominal
amountrelatingtotheAvotingcapitalpriortoyear-end,andceasedtobeamember.Thebalanceofthe»1.5mBcapitalis
includedwithintradeandotherreceivablesat31December2007;»1misduetobereceivedin2008andtheremaining»0.5m
in2009.
Inaddition,theDeedofRetiremententitlesF&Ctoapotentialfurtherdistributiondependingontheimpactoftheoutcomeofany
legalproceedingchallengingtheVATstatusofVentureCapitalTrusts.ThemaximumamountdistributabletoF&Cinthisrespectis
»1.5m.Thismatterhasbeendisclosedasacontingentassetinnote34.
16. Acquisitionanddisposalofsubsidiariesandassociates
(a) AcquisitionofF&CGroup(Holdings)Limited
FollowingthereviewoftheCompletionAccountsandsubsequentfairvalueadjustmentstothepurchaseconsiderationforthe
acquisitionofF&CGroup(Holdings)Limitedon11October2004,thereisanestimatedfurtherconsiderationof»2.9mpayableto
EurekoB.V.at31December2007(31December2006:»2.9m).
(b) Disposalofassociates
TheGroupincurredthefollowinglossondisposal:
2007
»m
2006
»m
LossondisposalofCardinalCapitalPartnersLimited ^ (0.1)
Lossondisposalofassociates ^ (0.1)
17. Deferredacquisitioncosts
2007
»m
2006
»m
At1January 11.3 11.4
Costsdeferredintheyear 3.6 2.5
Amortisationintheyear (3.0) (2.6)
At31December 11.9 11.3
2007
»m
2006
»m
Splitasfollows:
Non-currentassets 8.1 7.9
Currentassets 3.8 3.4
At31December 11.9 11.3
DeferredacquisitioncostsrepresentthecommissionpaidtogainnewassetinflowsintoOEICs.Thesecostsareamortisedoverthe
expectedtermsofthecontacts,inlinewiththeinitialfeesreceivedfrominvestors,asdisclosedinnote28.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
82 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
18. Deferredtaxassetsandliabilities
Deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesareattributabletothefollowing:
(a) Recogniseddeferredassetsandliabilities
31December2007 31December2006
Assets
»m
Liabilities
»m
Net
»m
Assets
»m
Liabilities
»m
Net
»m
Employeebenefits* 10.8 ^ 10.8 14.6 ^ 14.6
Share-basedpayments 10.6 ^ 10.6 12.6 ^ 12.6
Unusedtaxlosses 1.8 ^ 1.8 2.5 ^ 2.5
Property,plantandequipment 3.7 ^ 3.7 1.8 ^ 1.8
Receivables,payables&provisions 2.1 ^ 2.1 1.9 ^ 1.9
Intangibleassets ^ (71.0) (71.0) ^ (85.0) (85.0)
Revaluationofunrealisedfairvalue
gainsonavailableforsaleassets ^ (0.9) (0.9) ^ (0.5) (0.5)
Unremittedoverseasearnings ^ (1.5) (1.5) ^ (0.6) (0.6)
Netdeferredtaxassets/(liabilities) 29.0 (73.4) (44.4) 33.4 (86.1) (52.7)
* Includes»7.4m(31December2006:»12.8m)relatingtodeferredtaxondefinedbenefitpensionobligations.
(b) Movementintemporarydifferencesduringtheyear
1January
2007
»m
Recognised
inincome
»m
Recognised
inequity
»m
Revaluation
inyear
»m
Pension
transfer
»m
31December
2007
»m
Employeebenefits 14.6 (0.7) (4.0) 0.1 0.8 10.8
Share-basedpayments 12.6 (2.0) ^ ^ ^ 10.6
Unusedtaxlosses 2.5 (0.7) ^ ^ ^ 1.8
Property,plantandequipment 1.8 1.9^^^ 3.7
Receivables,payables&provisions 1.9 0.2^^^ 2.1
Intangibleassets (85.0) 17.5 ^ (3.5) ^ (71.0)
Revaluationofunrealisedfairvalue
gainsonavailableforsaleassets (0.5) 0.1 (0.5) ^ ^ (0.9)
Unremittedoverseasearnings (0.6) (0.9) ^ ^ ^ (1.5)
(52.7) 15.4 (4.5) (3.4) 0.8 (44.4)
1January
2006
»m
Recognised
inincome
»m
Recognised
inequity
»m
Revaluation
inyear
»m
Transferred
togoodwill
»m
31December
2006
»m
Employeebenefits 17.1 (1.1) (1.4) ^ ^ 14.6
Share-basedpayments 9.1 3.5^^^ 12.6
Unusedtaxlosses 4.7 (2.2) ^ ^ ^ 2.5
Property,plantandequipment 1.6 0.2^^^ 1.8
Receivables,payables&provisions 1.5 0.4^^^ 1.9
Intangibleassets (124.5) 30.4 ^ 1.0 8.1 (85.0)
Revaluationofunrealisedfairvalue
gainsonavailableforsaleassets (0.6) (0.1) 0.2 ^ ^ (0.5)
Unremittedoverseasearnings (0.2) (0.4) ^ ^ ^ (0.6)
(91.3) 30.7 (1.2) 1.0 8.1 (52.7)
TheDirectorsbelieveitisappropriatetorecogniseadeferredtaxassetbecauseitisconsideredprobablethattherewillbesuitable
taxableprofitsfromwhichtheunderlyingtemporarydifferencescanbededucted.
DeferredtaxhasbeenprovidedontheunremittedearningsoftheGroup’sforeignoperationstotheextentthatitisplannedfor
thesecompaniestodistributeprofitsintheforeseeablefuture.
83 18. Deferredtaxassetsandliabilities(cont’d)
(c) Unrecogniseddeferredtaxassetsandliabilities
TheGrouphasunrecognisedtaxlosseswhicharoseintheUKof»0.2m(31December2006:»0.1m)thatareavailableindefinitely
foroffsetagainstfuturetaxableprofitsofthecompaniesinwhichthelossesarose.Deferredtaxassetshavenotbeenrecognisedin
respectoftheselossesastheycannotbeusedtooffsettaxableprofitselsewhereintheGroup,andtheyhavearisenincompanies
thathavenothadtaxableprofitsforsometime.
19. Financialinstruments
(a) Analysisofbalancesheetassets
FinancialinvestmentsheldinrelationtotheactivitiesoftheGroup’sinsurancesubsidiaryhavebeenclassifiedasfairvaluethrough
profitorlosswithincurrentassets.
Stocksofunitsandsharesareheldinrelationtofundmanagementactivitiesandareclassifiedasheldfortradingcurrentassets.
Financialinvestmentsincludedwithinnon-currentassetsareclassifiedasavailableforsaleandarecarriedatfairvalue(or
amortisedcostiffairvaluecannotbemeasuredreliably).Loansreceivableincludedwithinnon-currentassetsarecarriedat
amortisedcost.
(i) Designatedasfairvaluethroughprofitorloss
Notes
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Financialinvestmentsinrespectofunit-linkedcontracts (1) 1,034.2 1,125.0
Otherfinancialinvestments (2) 8.6 3.8
1,042.8 1,128.8
(1) Financialinvestmentsinrespectofunit-linkedcontracts:
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Equitysecurities
Listed 713.2 772.9
UnittrustsandOEICs 14.8 3.7
Totalequitysecurities 728.0 776.6
Debtandfixedincomesecurities
Governmentbonds 109.7 111.6
Otherlistedfixedinterestsecurities 100.7 132.0
Indexlinkedgilts 34.0 35.5
Participationinpooledinvestments 61.8 69.3
Totaldebtandfixedincomesecurities 306.2 348.4
Totalunit-linkedfinancialinvestmentsdesignatedasfairvaluethroughprofitorloss 1,034.2 1,125.0
Financialinstrumentsrelatingtounit-linkedcontracts
TheGroup’sinsurancesubsidiary,F&CManagedPensionFundsLimited,providesunitlinkedpensionwrappers.FromF&C’s
perspective,therisksandrewardsofmanagingtheseassetsarethesameasotherassetsundermanagement,asthefinancial
risksandrewardsattributabletotheassetsinvestedfalltobeborneby,ortothebenefitof,theGroup’sclients.Hence,whilea
numberofsignificantfinancialinstrumentsarerecognisedintheBalanceSheetinrespectofthissubsidiary,thekeyrisktothe
Groupistheimpactonthelevelofmanagementfeeswhichareearnedfromthisentityandwhicharedirectlyaffectedbythe
underlyingvalueofpolicyholderassets.WhileF&CManagedPensionFundsLimitedhassomeinsurancerisks,theserisksarefully
reinsured,therebynegatinganyinsurancerisktotheGroup’sequityholders.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
84 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
19. Financialinstruments(cont’d)
TheamountsincludedintheConsolidatedBalanceSheetinrespectofassetsandliabilitiesheldwithinunit-linkedfundsare
asfollows:
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Fairvaluethroughprofitorloss:
Financialinvestmentsdesignatedasfairvaluethroughprofitorloss 1,034.2 1,125.0
Loansandreceivables:
Deferredacquisitioncosts 0.6 0.6
Tradeandotherreceivables 0.4 0.6
Cashandcashequivalents 58.2 53.3
Tradeandotherpayables (3.3) (4.4)
Totalunit-linkedassetslessliabilities 1,090.1 1,175.1
Theseunit-linkedassetsarematchedbytheassociatedinvestmentcontractliabilitiesdisclosedinnote29.
(2) Otherfinancialinvestmentscomprise:
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
NIChedge 3.3 2.8
Corporatebonds 3.0 ^
PurchasedEquityPlan 1.2 ^
Bonuses^managedfunds 1.1 1.0
8.6 3.8
TheNIChedgerepresentsaninvestmentinequitiesmadeviaatrustforthepurposeoffundingfuturenationalinsurance
contributions(NIC)paymentsontheDeferredInvestmentPlanandDeferredInvestmentOptionPlan.TheprovisionforNICis
separatelyrecognised.
CorporatebondsrepresentsinvestmentsincorporatebondsheldbyF&CManagedPensionFundsLimited.
ThePurchasedEquityPlanrepresentsinvestmentsheldbyanEmployeeBenefitTrustinF&Cfundsforthepurposeoffuture
settlementofPurchasedEquityPlanawards.Acorrespondingliabilityisrecognisedoverthevestingperiod;detailsaregivenin
note27(v)(b).
‘Bonuses^managedfunds’representsaninvestmentinmanagedfundsinrespectofthefuturesettlementofbonuses.Theliability
forthesebonusesisseparatelyrecognised.
Thecorporatebondshavethefollowingmaturitydates:
Maturitydate
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
2011 1.7 ^
2012 0.3 ^
2014 0.4 ^
2037 0.6 ^
3.0 ^
85 19. Financialinstruments(cont’d)
(ii) Heldfortrading
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Stockofunitsandshares 0.8 0.7
TheGroupholdsastockofsharesandunitsinrespectofitsOEICandunittrustbusiness.Thisstockofsharesandunitsis
commonlyreferredtoasthe‘Manager’sBox’.TheGroup’sstockofsharesandunitsisvaluedusingquotedmarketvalues.The
Groupisthereforeexposedtomarketvaluemovementsinthevalueoftheseassets.
(iii) Classifiedasloansandreceivables
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Cashandcashequivalents 274.4 267.6
Tradeandotherreceivables:
Loantoassociate ^ 2.5
Tradedebtors 11.0 10.1
Accruedincome 45.3 36.3
Otherdebtors 25.6 25.5
Amountsowedbyassociate ^ 1.3
AmountsowedbyEurekoGroup 6.5 4.8
AmountsowedbyFriendsProvidentGroup 1.5 ^
364.3 348.1
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
86 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
19. Financialinstruments(cont’d)
(b) Fairvalues
SetoutbelowisacomparisonbycategoryofcarryingamountsandfairvaluesofalltheGroup’sfinancialinstrumentsthatare
carriedinthefinancialstatements.
Carryingamount Fairvalue
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Financialassets
Otherfinancialinvestments 3.8 2.1 3.8 2.1
Loantoassociate ^ 2.5 ^ 2.5
Financialinvestmentsatfairvaluethroughprofitorloss 1,042.8 1,128.8 1,042.8 1,128.8
Reinsuranceassets 2.3 2.4 2.3 2.4
Stockofunitsandshares 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.7
Cashandcashequivalents 274.4 267.6 274.4 267.6
Financialliabilities
Interestbearingloansandborrowings:
Fixed/FloatingRateSubordinatedNotes2026 (257.9) (257.7) (239.9) (258.3)
PreferenceSharecapital (0.8) (0.8) (0.6) (0.7)
Revolvingcreditfacilities ^ (5.0) ^ (5.0)
Investmentcontractliabilities (1,090.1) (1,175.1) (1,090.1) (1,175.1)
Insurancecontractliabilities (2.3) (2.4) (2.3) (2.4)
Thefairvaluesofshort-term‘tradeandotherreceivables’and‘tradeandotherpayables’havebeenexcludedfromtheabovetable
astheircarryingamountsareareasonableapproximationoftheirfairvalue.
Thefollowingsummarisesthemajormethodsandassumptionsusedinestimatingthefairvaluesoffinancialinstrumentsreflected
inthetable:
Securities
Thefairvalueoflistedinvestmentsisbasedonquotedmarketpricesatthebalancesheetdatewithoutanydeductionfor
transactioncosts.
ThefairvalueofunlistedinvestmentshasbeenvaluedinaccordancewithInternationalPrivateEquityandVentureCapital
ValuationGuidelinesandinaccordancewiththeunderlyinglimitedpartnershipagreements.
Interestbearingloansandnon-equityshares
ThefairvalueoftheSubordinatedNotesisbasedonquotedmarketpriceatthebalancesheetdate.
Thefairvalueofborrowingshasbeencalculatedbydiscountingtheexpectedfuturecashflowsatprevailinginterestrates.The
valuationshaveconsideredsimilarinstrumentsavailableinthemarketandtheliquidityofassetsandliabilities.
Wherediscountedcashflowtechniquesareused,estimatedfuturecashflowsarebasedonmanagement’sbestestimatesandthe
discountrateisamarketrelatedrateforasimilarinstrumentatthebalancesheetdate.Whereotherpricingmodelsareused,
inputsarebasedonmarketrelateddataatthebalancesheetdate.
87 20. Reinsuranceassets
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Reinsurers’shareofinsurancecontractliabilities 2.3 2.4
Totalreinsuranceassets^currentassets 2.3 2.4
21. Tradeandotherreceivables
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Current:
Tradedebtors 11.0 10.1
VATrecoverable 1.1 ^
Accruedincome 45.3 36.3
Otherdebtors 24.8 25.5
Prepayments 6.5 8.2
AmountsowedbyFriendsProvidentGroup 1.5 ^
Amountsowedbyassociate ^ 1.3
AmountsowedbyEurekoGroup 6.5 4.8
96.7 86.2
Tradedebtorsarenon-interestbearingandaregenerallyreceivablewithin30days.
Non-current:
Otherdebtors 0.8 ^
Loantoassociate ^ 2.5
0.8 2.5
Assetoutinnote15,asat31December2007theGroupnolongerheldanyinvestmentinISISEPLLPandthereforeitisnolonger
anassociatecompany.»1moftheloan(representingBclasscapital)wasrepaidin2007,»1mwillbereceivedin2008andthe
final»0.5min2009.Theseamountsareincludedwithinotherdebtors.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
88 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
22. Cashandcashequivalents
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Policyholders
Cashatbankandinhand 8.8 21.7
Short-termdeposits 49.4 31.6
58.2 53.3
Shareholders
Cashatbankandinhand 9.8 20.0
Short-termdeposits 206.4 194.3
216.2 214.3
Totalcashandcashequivalents 274.4 267.6
CashandcashequivalentsareheldbytheGroupforthepurposeofmeetingshort-termcashcommitmentsratherthanfor
investmentorotherpurposes.Allitemsabovearereadilyconvertibletoaknownamountofcashandarenotsubjecttosignificant
riskofchangesinvalue.
Cashatbankearnsinterestatfloatingratesbasedondailybankdepositrates.Short-termdepositsaremadeforvaryingperiods
ofbetweenonedayandthreemonthsdependingontheimmediatecashrequirementsoftheGroupandearninterestatthe
respectiveshort-termdepositrates.Thefairvalueofcashandcashequivalentsat31December2007is»274.4m(31December
2006:»267.6m).
Restrictionsonuseofcash
Thepolicyholders’cashisnotavailableforgeneralusebytheGroup.Thesefundsareheldonbehalfofpolicyholdersofunit
linkedinsurancecontractswhichareconsolidatedwithintheresultsoftheGroup.At31December2007thisamountedto»58.2m
(31December2006:»53.3m)ofthetotalcashandcashequivalentsbalance.
Borrowingfacilities
TheGrouphasborrowingfacilitiesavailabletoit.Theundrawncommittedfacilitiesavailableattheyear-endareasfollows:
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Expiringinoneyearorless:
Bankoverdraftfacilities 2.0 2.0
RevolvingcreditfacilitywithFriendsProvidentGroup ^ 45.0
2.0 47.0
89 23. Interestbearingloansandborrowings
ThecontractualtermsoftheGroup’sinterestbearingloansandborrowingsareasfollows:
Contractualterms
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
PreferenceSharecapital:
DividendsaresetatLIBOR+2%andarepayableeachhalf-yearinarrears.
PreferenceShares’rightsaredescribedinnote31. 0.8 0.8
»260mFixed/FloatingRateSubordinatedNotes2026:
Interestrateof6.750%perannumforperiod20December2006^19December2016,payableannually
inarrears.
Issuerhastheoptiontoextendthenotesbeyond20December2016.
Interestrateof2.69%above3monthLIBORfortheperiod20December2016^20December2026,
payablequarterlyinarrears. 257.9 257.7
»50mrevolvingcreditfacilitywithFriendsProvidentplc:
Amountdrawndown,at3monthSterlingLIBORplus0.6%margin. ^ 5.0
258.7 263.5
TherevolvingcreditfacilitywithFriendsProvidentwasterminatedwhenthe»5.0mdrawndownwasrepaidtoFriendsProvidenton
28March2007.
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Repaymentperiods
Amountsrepayable:
Inoneyearorless,orondemand ^ 5.0
Inmorethanoneyearbutnotmorethantwoyears ^ ^
Inmorethantwoyearsbutnotmorethanfiveyears ^ ^
Inmorethanfiveyears 258.7 258.5
258.7 263.5
AdditionalinformationabouttheGroup’sexposuretointerestriskisprovidedinnote37.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
90 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
24. Tradeandotherpayables
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Amountsduewithinoneyear:
Tradecreditors 3.1 4.4
AmountsowedtoFriendsProvidentGroup ^ 0.1
AmountsowedtoEurekoGroup 2.9 2.9
VAT ^ 0.2
SocialSecurityandPAYE 5.1 0.9
Accruals 18.8 21.5
Othercreditors 29.0 32.2
58.9 62.2
Amountsdueoutwithoneyear:
Accruals 5.8 2.4
Othercreditors 1.4 1.6
7.2 4.0
Tradecreditorsarenon-interestbearingandaresettledinaccordancewiththeindividualcontractualarrangements.
25. Provisions
Onerous
premises
contracts
»m
NIConshare
schemes
»m
Long-term
sickness
»m
Guaranteed
product
»m
Long-term
service
award
»m
Investment
Trust
VAT
»m
Total
»m
At1January2006 13.2 4.2 1.6 0.3 0.1 ^ 19.4
Providedduringtheyear0.5 3.0 0.4^^^ 3.9
Utilisedduringtheyear (3.6) (0.8) ^^^^ (4.4)
Reversedduringtheyear (0.3) ^ ^ (0.1) ^ ^ (0.4)
At31December2006 9.8 6.4 2.0 0.2 0.1 ^ 18.5
Providedduringtheyear 2.3 2.2 ^ 0.1 ^ 3.9 8.5
Utilisedduringtheyear (3.5) (3.1) ^ (0.1) ^ ^ (6.7)
At31December2007 8.6 5.5 2.0 0.2 0.1 3.9 20.3
At31December2007
Non-current 6.8 1.3 1.8 0.2 0.1 ^ 10.2
Current 1.8 4.2 0.2 ^ ^ 3.9 10.1
At31December2006
Non-current 6.7 0.4 1.8 0.2 0.1 ^ 9.2
Current 3.1 6.0 0.2^^^ 9.3
91 25. Provisions(cont’d)
Onerouscontracts
TheGroupholdsallpropertiesunderoperatingleases.Thisincludesanumberofvacantorsub-letpropertieswhichwereeither
previouslyoccupiedbytheGrouporareonlypartiallyoccupiedbytheGroup.Provisionhasbeenmadefortheresiduallease
commitmentswheresignificant,aftertakingintoaccountexistingandexpectedsub-tenantcontractualarrangements.The
remainingtermsareforupto14years,althoughasignificantelementofthisprovisionrelatestoleaseincentivearrangementsand
isexpectedtobeutilisedwithin3years.Assumptionshavebeenmadeastowhethereachleaseholdpropertymaybesub-letor
assignedinthefuture.Allleases,andthemajorityofsub-leases,areforminimumguaranteedrentals.Onesub-leaseinvolvesthe
possiblereceiptofcontingentrent.Anycontingentrentreceivedinexcessoftheanticipatedamountisrecognisedasincome
duringtheperiod.Theprovisionissubjecttouncertaintiesovertimeincludingmarketrentreviewsandbreak-optionswithinthe
leasearrangements.
NIConshareoptions
TheprovisionforNationalInsuranceContributions(NIC)onshareschemesrepresentsthepotentialNICliabilitiesinrespectofa
numberofshare-basedpaymentschemesoperatedbytheGroup.Theprovisionissubjecttouncertaintiesinrespectoftheextent
towhichperformanceconditionsaremet,movementsintheCompany’sshareprice,theextenttowhichawardslapseand,where
eligible,thetimingofwhenemployeeschoosetoexerciseoptions.ThecurrentelementoftheprovisionforNIConshareschemes
relatestoawardswhichareexpectedtovestwithinoneyear.At31December2007»3.3m(31December2006:»2.8m)offinancial
investmentswereheldbytheGrouptopartiallyfundtheNICliabilityontheDeferredInvestmentPlanandDeferredInvestment
OptionPlan.Thisisdisclosedinnote19.
Long-termsickness
TheGrouphaslong-termsicknessinsurancearrangementswhichcoverthecostofabsencefromworkofallcurrentemployees.
However,thecostofemployeeswhowentonlong-termabsencepriortothesearrangementsbeingestablishedareself-insuredby
theGroup.Theprovisionrepresentsthepresentvalueofincomeprotectionpaymentsduetotheseindividuals.
Thisprovisionhasbeenquantifiedontheassumptionthatallemployeescurrentlyonlong-termsickleavedonotreturntothe
employmentoftheGroup.Thediscountrateandsalarygrowthassumptionsusedineachyearareidenticaltothoseusedforthe
purposesofdeterminingdefinedbenefitpensionobligations.
Guaranteedproduct
Theprovisionfortheguaranteedproductrepresentstheactuariallyassessedcostofmeetingpotentialobligationsundercertain
investmentproductswhichhaveaguaranteedpayoutintheeventofdeathoftheinvestor.Thisprovisionissubjecttouncertainties
inrespectofmovementsinmarketlevelsandthemortalityratesofinvestors.Theunderlyinginvestmentplanwasclosedtonew
investorsduring2004.
Long-termserviceaward
Thisprovisionrepresentsthenon-currentobligationinrespectoflong-termservicebenefitstowhichsomeemployeesareentitled,
includingincrementalholidayentitlementandlong-termserviceawards.
InvestmentTrustVAT
HMRevenueandCustoms(HMRC)decidedon5November2007nottocontesttheEuropeanCourtofJusticerulingregardingthe
JPMorganClaverhouseInvestmentTrust/AssociationofInvestmentCompanies(Claverhouse)casethatmanagementservicesto
UKInvestmentTrustCompanies(ITCs)shouldbeexemptfromVAT.Asaresult,theGroupnolongerappliesVATtoinvestment
managementfeeschargedtoUKinvestmenttrustclients.AnumberofGroupcompanies,incommonwithotherassetmanagersin
theUK,nowfaceclaimsfromITCsfortherepaymentofVATchargedtothemforperiodsdatingbackto1990.
WhiletheGroupchargedVATinaccordancewithapplicableUKlawatthetime,aprovisionhasbeenrecognisedtotheextentthat
theexpectedpaymentstobemadetoITCsaregreaterthantheexpectedamountrecoverablefromHMRC.Theprovisionof»3.9m
representstheestimateofthenetcosttotheGroup.
SignificantuncertaintyremainsastothefinalquantificationofamountsrecoverablefromHMRCandtheactualquantumpayable
toITCsforthisperiod.Inaddition,uncertaintyexistsastotherepaymentmethodologytobeappliedbyHMRCaswellasthetiming
ofanyrepaymentsbothfromHMRCandtotheGroup’sinvestmenttrustclients.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
92 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
26. Employeebenefits^Pensionschemeobligations
TheGroupoperatesadefinedbenefitschemeintheUnitedKingdom,oneinTheNetherlands,oneintheRepublicofIreland,and
participatesinoneinPortugal.TheUKschemeisclosedtonewentrants.AllnewUKemployeesareeligibletobenefitfromdefined
contributionarrangements,whichprovidegreatercertaintyoverthefuturecosttotheGroup.
On31March2007theF&CManagementPensionPlanwasmergedintotheISISAssetManagementplcPensionFundaspartofa
rationalisationofUKemploymentarrangements.ThenewschemewasrenamedtheF&CAssetManagementPensionPlan.
Inthepast,wheretheGroupwasunabletoseparatelyidentifyitsshareofassetsandliabilitiesinoverseasmulti-employerdefined
benefitschemes,theseschemeswereaccountedforasdefinedcontributionplans.
PriortothemergerofF&CandISISin2004,employeebenefitsinIrelandwereprovidedthroughthemulti-employerFriendsFirst
pensionscheme.In2006aseparatepensionplanwasestablishedandin2007employeesdecidedwhethertotransferintothenew
plan,oracceptadefinedcontributionalternative.Thenewplanmaintainedtheexistingbenefitsenjoyedpreviouslybyemployees
inIreland.Untilthememberdecisionshadbeenfinalised,thepensionplaninIrelandwasaccountedforasadefinedcontribution
(multi-employer)scheme.TheF&Cshareofassetsandliabilitiesforthisschemeisnowseparatelyidentifiableandisincludedasa
definedbenefitschemefrom1January2007.
AseparateexercisewasconductedtomakeanassessmentofanyfinaltransfervaluereceivablefromEurekoinrespectofthe
non-UKschemesacquiredaspartoftheacquisitionin2004.TheexerciseisnowcompleteandEurekopaidthecompany»2.4min
January2008.Thisamounthasbeenrecognisedwithinotherincomein2007.
TheChairmanoftheGroup,MrRWJenkins,hasapensionentitlementof»100,000perannum,commencingonhis60thbirthday.
ThispensionwillbeindexedinlinewiththeRetailPriceIndexon1Januaryeachyearwitheffectfrom11October2004,thedateof
thepensionaward.TheGrouphasnotearmarkedanyassetstodatewithrespecttothisliability.
Thepensionobligationsarerecognisedundernon-currentliabilitiesintheBalanceSheetandarestatedgrossoftherelated
deferredtaxasset.
Theresultsofthelatestfullactuarialvaluationswereupdatedat31December2007byqualifiedindependentactuaries.
Thepensiondeficits/(surpluses)oftheGrouparesummarisedasfollows:
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
F&CManagementPensionPlan ^ 21.9
F&CAssetManagementPensionPlan 21.4 18.3
F&CPortugalpensionobligation (0.1) 0.2
F&CNetherlandspensionobligation 2.9 2.6
F&CIrelandpensionobligation 0.2 ^
RWJenkinspensionobligation 2.4 2.4
Totalpensiondeficit 26.8 45.4
93 26. Employeebenefits^Pensionschemeobligations(cont’d)
DisclosurerelatingtotheGroup’sdefinedbenefitobligations
Theinformationgivenin(1)to(4)belowreflectstheaggregatedisclosuresinrespectofallGroupdefinedbenefitpension
arrangements.
(1) Planassetsandexpectedrateofreturn
Planassets
31December
2007
»m %
31December
2006
»m %
Equities 100.0 66 92.5 69
Gilts 1.8 1 17.3 13
Corporatebonds ^^ 13.2 10
LDIPools 37.2 25 ^^
Cash 2.4 2 4.0 3
Other 9.2 6 7.4 5
Totalfairvalueofplanassets 150.6 100 134.4 100
Planassetsinclude»63.4m(31December2006:»77.4m)ofunderlyinginvestmentsheldbytheGrouppensionsschemesvia
transferableinvestmentcontractswithF&CManagedPensionFundsLimited,theGroup’sunit-linkedpooledpensionbusiness.
OtherassetsconsistofassetsheldininsurancecontractsinrespectofTheNetherlandsschemeandsomepropertyassets.
TheplanassetsdonotincludeOrdinarySharesissuedbytheCompanyorFriendsProvidentplc.
Expectedlong-termratesofreturnappliedtoallfundeddefinedbenefitobligationsareasfollows:
Expectedlong-termrateofreturnonplanassets*
31December
2007
31December
2006
Equities 7.00% 7.00%
Gilts 5.00% 5.00%
Corporatebonds 5.60% 5.00%
LDIPools 4.50% n/a
Cash 4.50% 4.50%
Other 7.00% 7.00%
* ExpectedreturnsareshownforUKobligationsonly.
Basisusedtodeterminetheexpectedrateofreturnonplanassets
Todeveloptheexpectedlong-termrateofreturnonassetsassumption,theGroupconsideredthecurrentlevelofexpectedreturns
onrisk-freeinvestments(primarilygovernmentbonds),thehistoricallevelofriskpremiumassociatedwiththeotherassetclassesin
whichtheportfolioisinvested,andtheexpectationsforthefuturereturnsofeachassetclass.Theexpectedreturnforeachasset
classwasthenweighted,basedonthetargetassetallocation,todeveloptheexpectedlong-termrateofreturnonassets
assumptionfortheportfolio.
(2) Majorassumptionsusedbyschemes’Actuariesinrespectofbenefitobligations
(i) Mortalityassumptions
ThemortalityassumptionsusedforthemainUKdefinedbenefitschemeandtheunfundedUKobligationare:
31December
2007
31December
2006
Mortalitytableformalesretiringinthefuture PMA92MCYOB^1 PMA92B1965MC^1
Mortalitytableforfemalesretiringinthefuture PFA92MCYOB^1 PFA92B1965MC^1
Mortalitytableforcurrentmalepensioners PMA92MCYOB^1 PMA92B1935MC^1
Mortalitytableforcurrentfemalepensioners PFA92MCYOB^1 PFA92B1935MC^1
InTheNetherlandsthemortalityassumptionwasupdatedtothePrognosetafel2008-2050.Thecorrespondingassumptionusedat
31December2006wastheindustrystandardtableColl2003.Thechangeinassumptionleadtoanincreaseofapproximately
2.5%inliabilitiesforTheNetherlandsscheme.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
94 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
26. Employeebenefits^Pensionschemeobligations(cont’d)
(ii) Impactofmortalityassumptions
Todemonstratewhatthesemortalityassumptionsmean,theexpectedagesatdeathofmembersretiringatage60areasfollows:
31December
2007
Years
31December
2006
Years
Expectedageatdeathforamaleretiringinthefutureatage60 89 88
Expectedageatdeathforafemaleretiringinthefutureatage60 92 91
Expectedageatdeathforacurrentmalepensioneraged60 88 86
Expectedageatdeathforacurrentfemalepensioneraged60 91 89
(iii) Costofannuities
Thetablebelowsummarisesthecostofprovidingannuitiesof»1perannum(withassociateddeathbenefitsandpension
increases)formembersaged60basedontheassumptionsusedforthepensiondisclosures:
31December
2007
»
31December
2006
»
Maleannuity 23.50 24.50
Femaleannuity 24.00 25.00
Theseratesassumeamonthlypaymentsmodelwithadiscountrateof5.6%(2006:5.00%)basedontheiBoxxover15year
AAcorporatebondindexof5.82%(2006:5.12%).Theratesalsoassumetwothirdsofthemembers’benefitwillbepaidtothe
spouse;a5-yearguaranteeisprovided;andpensionsinexcessofGMPwillincreaseby3.3%(2006:3.00%)perannum.
(iv) Discountandgrowthassumptions
Therangeofassumptionsusedtodeterminebenefitobligationsareasfollows:
31December
2007
31December
2006
Discountrate 5.50%^5.60% 4.60%^5.00%
Rateofsalaryincrease 2.50%^4.55% 2.50%^4.25%
Rateofinflationincrease 2.00%^3.30% 1.75%^3.00%
Therangeofassumptionsusedtodeterminenetpensioncostfortheyearareasfollows:
2007 2006
Discountrate 4.60%^5.00% 4.25%^4.70%
Weightedaverageexpectedlong-termreturnonplanassets 3.90%^6.45% 5.50%^6.50%
Rateofinflationincrease 1.75%^3.00% 1.75%^2.75%
Rateofsalaryincrease 2.50%^4.25% 2.75%^4.00%
(v) Sensitivities
Anestimateofthesensitivitiesregardingtheprincipalassumptionsusedtomeasuretheschemes’liabilitiesaresetoutbelow:
Assumption Changeinassumption Estimatedimpactonschemeliabilities
Inflation Increase/decreaseby0.1% Increase/decreaseby1.7%
Salaries Increase/decreaseby0.1% Increase/decreaseby0.4%
Pensions Increase/decreaseby0.1% Increase/decreaseby1.2%
Discountrate Increase/decreaseby0.1% Decrease/increaseby2.4%
Lifeexpectancy Increase/decreaseby1year Increase/decreaseby2.1%
95 26. Employeebenefits^Pensionschemeobligations(cont’d)
(3) ProfileofSchemes’Membership
TheprofileofthecurrentmembershipofdefinedbenefitarrangementsintheGroupisasfollows:
31December2007 31December2006
%oftotal
membership
Average
age
%oftotal
membership
Average
age
Activemembers 22% 42 21% 42
Deferredmembers 68% 42 69% 42
Pensioners 10% 65 10% 65
100% 100%
TheprofileoftheliabilitiesofdefinedbenefitarrangementsthroughouttheGroupisasfollows:
2007
»m
2006
»m
Activemembers 50.4 56.8
Deferredmembers 82.1 83.4
Pensioners 44.9 39.6
Benefitobligationat31December 177.4 179.8
(4) Aggregatedisclosureobligations
2007
»m
2006
»m
Changeinbenefitobligation
Benefitobligationat1January 179.8 164.1
Foreignexchangemovements 1.3 ^
Currentservicecost 4.1 3.6
Pastservicecost* 0.5 0.3
Interestcostonpensionliabilities 9.0 8.1
Members’contributions ^ 0.2
Actuarialgains (13.3) (4.3)
TransferinrespectofTheNetherlandsscheme ^ 10.7
TransferinrespectoftheIrelandscheme 1.4 ^
Settlements (0.1) ^
Benefitspaid (5.3) (2.9)
Benefitobligationat31December 177.4 179.8
*Thepastservicecostrelatestothere-linkingofpastservicetosalariesforemployeesreinstatedtotheUKPlanandaugmentationofpensionentitlementsfor
certainemployees.
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Analysisofdefinedbenefitobligation
Plansthatarewhollyorpartlyfunded 175.0 177.4
Plansthatarewhollyunfunded 2.4 2.4
177.4 179.8
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
96 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
26. Employeebenefits^Pensionschemeobligations(cont’d)
2007
»m
2006
»m
Changeinplanassets
Fairvalueofplanassetsat1January 134.4 116.1
Foreignexchangemovements 1.0 (0.1)
Expectedreturnonplanassets 8.9 7.8
Actuarial(losses)/gains (1.6) 2.1
TransferinrespectofTheNetherlandsscheme ^ 6.8
TransferinrespectoftheIrelandscheme 0.8 ^
Employercontributions 12.5 4.4
Membercontributions ^ 0.2
Settlements (0.1) ^
Benefitspaid (5.3) (2.9)
Fairvalueofplanassetsat31December 150.6 134.4
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Fundedstatus (26.8) (45.4)
Netdeficitrecognised (26.8) (45.4)
2007
»m
2006
»m
Componentsofpensioncost
Currentservicecost 4.1 3.6
Pastservicecost 0.5 0.3
Interestcostonpensionliabilities 9.0 8.1
Expectedreturnonpensionplanassets (8.9) (7.8)
TotalpensioncostrecognisedintheIncomeStatement 4.7 4.2
Notes
2007
»m
2006
»m
PensioncostsareincludedintheIncomeStatementasfollows:
Operatingexpenses 4.6 3.9
Financerevenue 7 (8.9) (7.8)
Financecosts 8 9.0 8.1
TotalpensioncostrecognisedintheIncomeStatement 4.7 4.2
2007
»m
2006
»m
ActuarialgainsimmediatelyrecognisedintheSORIE* (11.1) (2.5)
ThecumulativeactuariallossesrecognisedintheSORIEsincetransitiontoIFRS 20.1 31.2
* TheactuarialgainsincludesthetransferintotheIrishschemeofplanassetsandbenefitobligations(2006:includestransferintoTheNetherlandsscheme).
2007
»m
2006
»m
Actualreturnonplanassets 7.3 9.9
97 26. Employeebenefits^Pensionschemeobligations(cont’d)
Fiveyearhistory
2007
»m
2006
»m
2005
»m
2004
»m
2003*
»m
Benefitobligationsat31December (177.4) (179.8) (164.1) (114.5) (37.5)
Fairvalueofplanassetsat31December 150.6 134.4 116.1 96.8 29.7
Totalpensiondeficit (26.8) (45.4) (48.0) (17.7) (7.8)
Differencebetweenexpectedandactualreturn
onplanassets
Amount (1.6) 2.1 11.5 1.7 2.2
Percentageofplanassets (1%) 2% 10% 2% 7%
Experiencegainsandlossesonbenefitobligations
Amount (3.4) (1.6) (0.4) (0.5) ^
Percentageofbenefitobligations (2%) 1% ^% ^% ^%
Totalgainsandlosses
Amount 11.7 2.5 (30.7) (2.9) 0.8
Percentageofbenefitobligations 6% 1% (19%) (3%) 2%
* OnanFRS17:RetirementBenefitsbasis.
(5) Pensionschemes’details
F&CAssetManagementPensionPlan(‘FCAMPlan’)previouslycalledISISAssetManagementplcPensionFund
Dateoflastactuarialvaluation 31March2005
SchemeActuary MercerLimited
Methodofvaluation ProjectedUnit
Marketvalueofassetsatlastvaluationdate »33.6m
Leveloffunding 80%
TheF&CManagementPensionPlanmergedintotheISISAssetManagementplcPensionFund(‘‘ISISFund’’)on31March2007.
TheenlargedschemewasrenamedtheF&CAssetManagementPensionPlanonthesamedate.
Priortothemergerofthetwoplans,contributionscheduleswereagreedbytheCompanyandtherelevantTrustees.Ascheduleof
contributionsforthemergedplanwasagreedinMay2007.TheCompanyhaspaidcontributionsattherateof»0.2mpermonth
during2007withanadditional»8.0memployercontributionduringtheyear.TheCompanyhasagreedtopaycontributionsofa
minimumof25%ofPensionableSalariesinrespectofformerISISFundmembersand29.9%ofPensionableSalariesforformer
F&CManagementPensionPlanmembersuntiltheearlieroftheimplementationofanewscheduleofcontributionsorApril2011.
EmployeecontributionsarepayableviaasalarysacrificeschemeinadditiontotheCompanycontributions.Theratesofemployee
contributionspayableareincreasingonaphasedbasisuntilMarch2009.Contributionsaresubjecttoreviewatfutureactuarial
valuations.Theminimumestimatedcontributionexpectedtobepaidintotheplanduringthecurrentfinancialyearis»2.8m.
AstheFCAMPlanisaclosedscheme,undertheprojectedunitmethodthecurrentservicecostwilltendtoincreaseasa
percentageofpensionablesalariesastheaverageageofmembersincreases.
Thescheme’sassets,whicharemanagedbyF&C,areheldunderthecontroloftheTrusteesandareusedtosecurebenefitsfor
themembersoftheschemeandtheirdependantsinaccordancewiththeTrustDeedandRules.
TrusteeboardoftheFCAMPlan
TheappointmentofTrusteesisdeterminedbytheFCAMPlan’strustdocumentation.TheTrusteeboardcurrentlyconsistsof
threeemployer-appointedTrustees,threemember-selectedTrusteesandtwoIndependentTrustees,oneofwhomiscurrentlythe
ChairmanoftheTrusteeboard.Ofthecurrentemployer-appointedandmember-selectedTrustees,fiveareemployeesofF&Cand
activemembersoftheFCAMPlan,whileoneisretiredandreceivingapensionfromtheFCAMPlan.
RelationshipbetweenF&CandtheTrusteesoftheFCAMPlan
TheFCAMPlan’sassetsareheldinaseparateTrustee-administeredfundtomeetlong-termpensionliabilitiestopastandpresent
employees.TheTrusteesofthePlanarerequiredtoactinthebestinterestsofthePlan’sbeneficiaries.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
98 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
26. Employeebenefits^Pensionschemeobligations(cont’d)
Otherpensionschemes
AsaresultofthemergerofISISandF&Cin2004,employeesinTheNetherlandsandIrelandwerenolongerabletocontinueto
participateintheexistingplans.SeparatelyidentifiableplanshavebeensetupinTheNetherlandsandIrelandandtheassetsand
liabilitiesfortheseemployeestransferredtothenewplans.
F&CPortugalSA
CertainemployeesinPortugalparticipateinthemulti-employerschemeFundodePensoesdoGrupoBancoCommercial
Portugue “s.Theassetsandliabilitiesoftheschemeareseparatelyidentifiable.TherearenoTrustees,andtheCompanycontrols
theassetsrelatingtotheF&Cmembersofthescheme.
F&CNetherlandsBV
TheGroupinsurestheschemeliabilitiesinTheNetherlandswithaninsurancecompany.TherearenoTrustees,butthe
WorksCouncilhasinputintonegotiationsonpotentialchangestotheplan.
F&CIrelandLimited
EmployeebenefitsinIrelandwereprovidedthroughtheFriendsFirstRetirementandDeathBenefitsPlan,inwhichF&C
participatedtogetherwithFriendsFirst.This,untilthestartof2007,wasaccountedforasamulti-employerplanonadefined
contributionbasis.
F&CIrelandLimitedsetupaseparatedefinedbenefitplanin2006,butdecisionsonmemberstransferringwerenotmadeuntil
2007.TheassetsandliabilitiesweretransferredintotheF&CIrelandPensionFundin2007fromtheFriendsFirstRetirementand
DeathBenefitsPlan.
(6) Futurefundingrequirements
UKschemes
TheTrusteesoftheISISFundandF&CManagementPensionPlanmergedtheschemeson31March2007intotheFCAMPlan.
ThiswasachievedbythetransferofallofthedefinedbenefitassetsandliabilitiesfromtheF&CManagementPensionPlaninto
theISISFund.Theassetsandliabilitiesweremergedonaco-mingledbasis(i.e.theywillnotbeseparatelyidentifiableinto
F&CManagementFundorISISFundsections).Inconjunctionwiththismerger,specialemployercontributionstotalling»8.0mwere
paidintotheFCAMPlanaroundthetimeofthemergerwithaviewtoimprovingthefundinglevelofthemergedscheme.
Followingthemerger,aformalactuarialvaluationwasinitiated,dated31March2007.Thisactuarialvaluationisstillongoing.This
valuationwillbesubjecttotherequirementsoftheschemefundingregulationsintroducedunderthePensionsAct2004andthe
fundingprinciplesaretobeagreedbetweentheTrusteesofthemergedschemeandF&C.Theresultsofthisformalvaluationwill
helptodeterminethefuturelevelofemployercontributionstothemergedscheme.Untilsuchtimeasanyrevisiontoemployer
contributionsisagreed,itisanticipatedthatemployercontributionswillcontinue.
Overseasschemes
Giventherecentestablishmentofnewschemes,thereissomeuncertaintyoverthefuturelevelofemployercontributionsthatmay
berequired.Thefiguresinthetablebelowassumethatcontributionsatthelevelpaidin2007willcontinuefortheoverseas
schemes.
Contributionstodefinedbenefitschemes
AmountspaidintotheGroup’sdefinedbenefitschemesinthepasttwoyearsandexpectedfuturepaymentsoverthenext
fiveyearsareasfollows:
Contributionspaid »m
2006 4.4
2007 12.5
Expectedfuturecontributions »m
2008 4.2
2009 4.3
2010 4.4
2011 4.4
2012 4.4
99 26. Employeebenefits^Pensionschemeobligations(cont’d)
(7) Riskmanagement
(a) UKschemes
TheTrusteessetgeneralinvestmentpolicybutdelegatetheresponsibilityfortheselectionofspecificinvestments(otherthan
investmentsinrespectofmembers’voluntarycontributions)totheinvestmentmanager.
TheTrusteesregularlymonitorthePlan’sinvestments.TheTrusteesseekadvicefromtheirinvestmentadviserandbelievethey
havesufficientskillsandexpertisetomakeinvestmentdecisionsbasedonthisadvice.
TheTrusteeshavesetperformanceandrisktargetsfortheinvestmentmanager.Theperformanceobjectivesarelong-term,
however,theTrusteesmonitortheinvestmentmanageronaregularbasisinordertoensurethattheschemeisontracktomeetits
long-termobjectives.
Priortothemergerofthetwoschemes,bothsetsofTrusteesconductedanasset-liabilityreview.Thesestudieswereusedtoassist
theTrusteesandtheGrouptodeterminetheoptimallong-termassetallocationwithregardtotheliabilitieswithintheschemes,
subjecttoanacceptablefundingcosttotheGroup.TheresultsofthestudieswerealsousedtoassisttheTrusteesandtheGroup
inmanagingvolatilityintheunderlyinginvestmentperformanceandriskofasignificantincreaseintheschemes’deficitsby
providinginformationusedtodeterminetheschemes’investmentstrategy.Afurtherasset-liabilityreviewisbeingundertaken
alongsidetheactuarialvaluationofthemergedplan.
Assetallocation
Followingthepre-mergerasset-liabilityreviews,bothsetsofTrusteesagreedwithF&CthattheywouldimplementaLiabilityDriven
Investment(LDI)approachtotheirinvestmentstrategy.InbothcasesthisinvolvestheuseofpooledLDIproductsmanagedby
F&C.Theexactdetailsoftheinvestmentstrategyandassetallocationforthemergedplanforthefuturearestillbeingconsidered.
Interestrateandinflationrisk
TheLDIpoolsareintendedtohelpprovideadegreeofmatchingtotheliabilitiesofthescheme.Eachpoolcompriseszerocoupon
derivativeswiththesamematurityastheexpectedcashflowsofthescheme.Eachpoolhasleveragedexposureofvarying
amountstoinflationandinterestrates.
Thepoolsarevaluedusingthemarketvaluesoftheunderlyingsecurities.
Currencyrisk
Inordertoincreasethediversificationoftheequityportfolio,theplaninvestsinoverseasassets.However,theplan’sliabilitiesare
denominatedentirelyinSterlingandthereforethereisariskthattheappreciationofSterlingagainstothercurrencieswillreduce
thereturnfromoverseasequities.
Operationalrisk
TheinvestmentmanagersdonotdirectlyholdanyofthePlan’ssecurities.Theseareheldbyanexternalcustodian.
TheassetsareringfencedfromF&C’screditorsandthereforetransferable.
(b) Overseasschemes
TheplaninTheNetherlandsisinsured.Thevalueoftheplanassetsisthevalueofthereservewhichtheinsurancecompanyholds
tomatchguaranteedpensionliabilities.Thesereservesare,ineffect,fixedinterestinstruments,soprovideareasonablematchto
pensionliabilities.
TheplaninPortugalispartofanindustry-widebankingsectorplan.Eachparticipantcompanyholdsashareoftheassets,which
areinvestedusingthesameassetallocationastheoverallplanassets.F&CPortugalistheassetmanagerfortheoverallscheme.
TheplaninIrelandinvestsinpooledunitisedfunds,withreturnsreflectingtheperformanceoftheunderlyingassets.
At31December2007,theassetsofboththePortugalandIrelandplanswereinvestedindiversifiedportfoliosthatconsisted
primarilyofdebtandequitysecurities.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
100 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
26. Employeebenefits^Pensionschemeobligations(cont’d)
(8) Costofdefinedcontributionplans(includingrestructuringcosts)
2007
»m
2006
»m
Grouppersonalpensionplans 3.3 2.2
Otherdefinedcontributionschemes 1.1 0.8
4.4 3.0
TheGrouphad»0.1mofpensioncontributionsoutstandingasat31December2007(31December2006:»0.1m).
27. Employeebenefits^Share-basedpayments
TheGroupoperatesseveralshare-basedpaymentarrangementsaspartofitstotalemployeecompensation.Thedetailsofeach
schemearedisclosedbelow.
Detailsofoptionpricingmodelsandkeyassumptionsusedtoobtainthefairvalueofservicesreceived,orthefairvalueofthe
equityinstrumentsgranted,havebeendisclosedonlyforawardsgrantedduringtheyearended31December2007.Detailsof
awardsgrantedinpreviousaccountingperiodsaredisclosedinthenotesofpreviousyears’financialstatements.
Theweightedaveragesharepriceduring2007was»1.93(2006:»2.01).
(i) 2002ExecutiveShareOptionScheme
The2002ExecutiveShareOptionScheme(’2002ESOS’)wasactivatedinMarch2003.Thevestingperiodforeachawardis
threeyearsandoptionsaresettledbyanallotmentofsharestoindividuals.Nocashalternativeisavailable.
Iftheoptionsremainunexercisedafteraperiodof10yearsfromthedateofaward,theoptionsexpire.Furthermore,optionsare
forfeitediftheemployeeleavestheGroupbeforetheoptionsvest.Employeeswhoaredeemed‘‘goodleavers’’areentitledto
exercisetheiroptionsforaperiodofoneyearaftertheyleave,dependentontheachievementofperformanceconditionsattheir
departuredate.
ThevestingofoptionsgrantedundertheSchemewillbedependentontheachievementbytheGroupofspecifiedthresholdsof
underlyingearningspersharegrowthinexcessofthegrowthintheRetailPriceIndex(‘‘RPI’’)overathreeyearperformanceperiod
commencingonthefirstdayoftheaccountingperiodinwhichthegrantwasmade.
AnoptionwillnotbecomeexercisableunlessthegrowthintheunderlyingEPSoftheGroupovertheperiodexceedsthegrowthin
theRPIoverthesameperiodby9%.Wherethat9%targetisachieved,onehalfofthenumberofOrdinarySharesformingthe
optionwillbecomeexercisable.
Foranoptiontobecomeexercisableinfull,thegrowthintheunderlyingEPSoftheGroupovertheperiodmustexceedthegrowth
intheRPIoverthesameperiodbyaminimumof24%.ThenumberofOrdinarySharessubjecttooptionwhichwillbecome
exercisablewillincreaseonaslidingscaleifthegrowthintheunderlyingEPSexceedsthegrowthintheRPIbybetween9%and
24%overtheperformanceperiod.TheunderlyingEPSmeasureischosenbecauseitisdesignedtoenabletheSchemetoreward
sustainedimprovementintheGroup’sfinancialperformance.
Thenumberandweightedaverageexerciseprices(WAEP)ofshareoptionsareasfollows:
2007 2006
No.
WAEP
» No.
WAEP
»
Outstandingat1January 1,880,376 1.83 4,000,302 1.71
Exercisedduringtheyear (573,017) 1.39 (1,341,353) 1.39
Forfeitedduringtheyear (79,132) 2.27 (778,573) 2.01
Outstandingat31December 1,228,227 1.99 1,880,376 1.83
Exercisableat31December 1,228,227 1.99 1,122,876 1.44
The9March2004awardvestedon9March2007.Allthe2002ESOSoptionshavenowvested.Theoptionsexercisedduring2007
and2006relatetoamixtureof‘‘goodleavers’’andvestedoptions.
101 27. Employeebenefits^Share-basedpayments(cont’d)
At31December2007thefollowingoptionsgrantedunderthe2002ESOStoacquireOrdinaryShareswereoutstanding:
Grantdate
No.ofoptions
outstanding
Earliest
exercisedate
Exercisable
before
Exercise
price
19March2003 500,692 19March2006 19March2013 139.00p
9March2004 727,535 9March2007 9March2014 240.83p
Theoptionsoutstandingat31December2007haveaweightedaverageoutstandingtermof5.8years(2006:6.7years).
Thefairvalueofservicesreceivedinreturnforshareoptionsgrantedismeasuredbyreferencetothefairvalueofshareoptions
granted.TheestimateofthefairvalueofoptionsgrantedismeasuredbasedonaBinomialmodel.Thecontractuallifeofthe
option(10years)isusedasaninputtothismodel.Expectationsofearlyexerciseareincorporatedintothemodel.Thecumulative
expensewas‘‘truedup’’duringthevestingperiodandattheendofthevestingperiodafterallowingforactualforfeituresandthe
outturnonunderlyingEPS.
(ii) 2002ShareSaveScheme
The2002ShareSaveSchemeisan‘‘all-employeesharescheme’’whichwasactivatedinMarch2003.Theoptionsgrantedentitle
theholderstoacquireOrdinaryShares,whetherbysubscriptionorpurchase,atapriceperOrdinarySharedeterminedbythe
Directorspriortotheissueofinvitations.Thepriceatwhichoptionscanbeofferedcannotbelessthan80%ofthemiddle-market
quotationofanOrdinaryShareatthedateofgrant.Nocashalternativeisavailable.
Aspartoftheapplicationprocess,aparticipantisrequiredtoenterintoasavingscontractwithasavingsprovider(presently
YorkshireBuildingSociety),andagreetomake36(inthecaseofa3-yearsavingscontract)or60(inthecaseofa5-yearcontract)
monthlysavingscontributionsofafixedamount.Attheendofthesavingscontract,theparticipantmaychoosetoapplyfor
repaymentofhisorhersavingscontributions,inadditiontoataxfreebonus.
Anoptionmayonlybeexercisedonceandnormallyonlyduringtheperiodofsixmonthsafterthedateonwhichtheparticipant
firstbecomesentitledtorepaymentofhisorhersavingscontributionsplusbonus.
Theoptionwillgenerallylapseafteraperiodofsixmonthsfollowingtheendofthesavingscontract.
Employeeswhoaredeemed‘‘goodleavers’’areentitledtoexercisetheiroptions,forwhichtheyhaveaccruedsavingstodate,fora
periodofuptosixmonthsaftertheyleave.
Thenumberandweightedaverageexerciseprice(WAEP)ofshareoptionsareasfollows:
2007 2006
No.
WAEP
» No.
WAEP
»
Outstandingat1January 1,448,752 1.66 1,398,425 1.55
Grantedduringtheyear 663,307 1.44 564,830 1.71
Exercisedduringtheyear (104,874) 1.74 (277,570) 1.19
Forfeitedduringtheyear (349,218) 1.69 (236,933) 1.70
Outstandingat31December 1,657,967 1.56 1,448,752 1.66
Exercisableat31December 11,191 1.71 6,730 1.51
Theoptionsexercisedduring2007relatetoboththevestingofthe19April2004(3year)awardand‘‘goodleavers’’.Theoptions
exercisedduring2006relatetoboththevestingofthe9May2003(3year)awardand‘‘goodleavers’’.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
102 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
27. Employeebenefits^Share-basedpayments(cont’d)
At31December2007thefollowingoptionsgrantedunderthe2002ShareSaveSchemetoacquireOrdinaryShareswere
outstanding:
Grantdate
No.ofoptions
outstanding
Earliest
exercisedate
Exercisable
before
Exercise
price
9May2003(5year) 256,474 9May2008 9Nov2008 114.0p
19April2004(3year) 5,332 19April2007 1May2008 181.0p
19April2004(5year) 102,955 19April2009 19Oct2009 181.0p
29April2005(3year) 197,180 29April2008 29Oct2008 186.6p
29April2005(5year) 122,334 29April2010 29Oct2010 186.6p
18April2006(3year) 238,050 18April2009 18Oct2009 171.0p
18April2006(5year) 117,033 18April2011 18Oct2011 171.0p
25April2007(3year) 436,163 25April2010 25Oct2010 144.3p
25April2007(5year) 182,446 25April2012 25Oct2012 144.3p
Theoptionsoutstandingat31December2007haveaweightedaverageoutstandingtermof2.0years(2006:2.6years).
Thefairvalueofservicesreceivedinreturnforshareoptionsgrantedismeasuredbyreferencetothefairvalueofshareoptions
granted.TheestimateofthefairvalueofoptionsgrantedismeasuredbasedonaBinomialmodel.Thecontractuallifeofthe
option(3.5or5.5years)isusedasaninputtothismodel.Expectationsofearlyexerciseareincorporatedintothemodel.
ThekeyassumptionswhichhavebeenusedintheBinomialmodeltoascertainthefairvalueofoptionsareasfollows:
2007grant
(3year)
2007grant
(5year)
Fairvalueatmeasurementdate(peroption) 64.0p 70.0p
Numberofoptionsgranted 478,592 184,715
Sharepriceatgrantdate 189.0p 189.0p
Exerciseprice 144.3p 144.3p
Vestingperiod 3years 5years
Fulltermofoption 3.5years 5.5years
Expectedvolatility(i) 30.0% 30.0%
Riskfreerateatgrantdate(ii) 5.24% 5.24%
Expecteddividendyield 2.75% 2.75%
Expectedforfeiturerate(perannum) 5.0% 5.0%
(i) TheexpectedvolatilityisbasedonthehistoricvolatilityoftheCompany’ssharepriceoveraperiodequaltothetermof
theoptionpriortothedateofgrant,adjusted,ifapplicable,foranyexpectedchangestofuturevolatilityduetotrendsin
thedata.
(ii) TheriskfreerateatgrantdateisbasedonUKtreasurybondswithanappropriateterm.
Thecumulativeexpenseis‘‘truedup’’duringthevestingperiodandattheendofthevestingperiodafterallowingforactual
forfeitures.
103 27. Employeebenefits^Share-basedpayments(cont’d)
(iii) TheRe-InvestmentPlan
TheRe-InvestmentPlanwasestablishedtoallowemployeespreviouslyemployedbyF&CGroupHoldingsGroup(F&CGH)priorto
the2004mergertovoluntarilyre-investonehalfoftheirentitlementundertheF&CGHShadowEquityPlanintoOrdinarySharesin
F&CAssetManagementplc,andrightstoreceivefurtherOrdinarySharesinF&CAssetManagementplc.
Forfeituretableinrelationto‘‘InvestmentShares’’
Timebetween11October2004andvoluntaryresignation
ordismissal
PercentageofsharesheldintheRe-InvestmentPlan
forfeited
Lessthan12months 100%
Between12monthsand24months 50%
Morethan24months Nil
Toencouragere-investment,andinrecognitionofthefactthattheInvestmentSharescarriedforfeitureprovisions,after
threeyears,participantsreceiveduptooneMatchingShareforeachInvestmentShare(subjecttocontinuedemploymentand
achievementofperformanceconditions).OnethirdofMatchingShareshavenoperformancecriteria,whiletheremaining
two-thirdsvestedinlinewiththeschedulebelow.
Theperformancecondition,describedbelow,isbasedongrowthintheunderlyingEPSoftheGroup.Thismeasurewaschosenby
theBoardforitstransparencytoparticipantsandtoincentiviseExecutivestodeliverthebenefitsofthemerger.
UnderlyingEPSgrowth2003^2006 Percentagebecomingunconditional
PI+9%orlesscumulativeoverthreeyears Nil
PI+24%ormorecumulativeoverthreeyears 100%
Inbetweenpoints Straight-linepro-ratabetween0%and100%
(WherePIstandsforanappropriateindexofpriceinflation^theRetailPriceIndex).
ForlevelsofunderlyingEPSperformancebetweenthoseshowninthetableabove,thenumberofMatchingSharesawarded
variedonastraight-linebasisbetweentheminimumandmaximumlevelshown.
Thecash-settledelementoftheawardsisbasedondividendspayableonthesharesduringthevestingperiod,priortobecoming
unconditional,beingnotionallyre-investedinF&CAssetManagementplcshares.Oncetheawardsharesvest,thevalueofthe
notionalsharesispaidtotheemployeeincash.
ThenumberofInvestmentSharesandMatchingShareawardsareasfollows:
2007 2006
Investment
Shares
Matching
Shares
Investment
Shares
Matching
Shares
No. No. No. No.
Outstandingat1January 47,907 7,903,160 4,625,626 9,533,741
Exercisedduringtheyear (47,907) (7,819,584) (4,408,520) (485,821)
Forfeitedduringtheyear ^ (83,576) (169,199) (1,144,760)
Outstandingat31December ^^ 47,907 7,903,160
ThefirstandsecondtranchesoftheInvestmentSharesvestedduring2005and2006respectively.TheMatchingSharesvestedin
2007.AllMatchingSharesexercisedduring2006relatedto‘‘goodleavers’’.
Thefairvalueofservicesreceivedinreturnforshareawardsgrantedismeasuredbyreferencetothefairvalueofshareawards
granted.Novaluationmodelwasusedasawardsweregrantedatfullmarketvalue.PartoftheRe-InvestmentPlanawardswere
settledinequitysharesandpartincash.Thecashelementrelatestothevalueofaccrueddividendsatthedateofvesting.
Thecumulativeexpenseis‘‘truedup’’duringthevestingperiodandattheendofthevestingperiodafterallowingforactual
forfeituresandtheunderlyingEPSachieved.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
104 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
27. Employeebenefits^Share-basedpayments(cont’d)
(iv) TheLong-TermRemunerationPlan(LTRP)
TheLTRPistheprimarylong-termincentivearrangementoftheGroup.AwardsoftheseoptionsareatthediscretionoftheBoard.
(a) RestrictedShareAwards
VestingoftheOrdinarySharesthatarecurrentlythesubjectofanawardundertheLTRPwillbedependentuponspecified
performanceconditionsandconditionsofcontinuedservice.TheperformanceconditionsappliedtotheLTRParedeterminedby
theBoardandaremeasuredoverathreeyearperformanceperiod.50%ofanyawardrelatestotheachievementoftotal
shareholderreturn(TSR)targetsand50%oftheawardrelatestorealunderlyingEPSgrowthassetoutbelow:
TSRtarget(applyingto50%ofanyaward)
TheGroup’sTSRrelativetoFTSE250 Percentageofawardvesting
BelowMedian Nil
Median 35%
UpperQuartile 100%
UnderlyingEPStarget(applyingto50%ofanyaward)
GrowthinGroup’sEPSoverthreeyearperformanceperiod Percentageofawardvesting
BelowPI+9% Nil
PI+9% 50%
PI+24%orhigher 100%
(WherePIstandsforanappropriateindexofpriceinflation^theRetailPriceIndex).
TheTSRtargetisdependentupontheTSRoftheGroupcomparedtotheTSRoftheothercompanieswhoformedthe
FTSE250Indexatthestartofeachperformanceperiod(thecomparatorcompanies)overathreeyearperformanceperiod
commencingonthefirstdayoftheaccountingperiodinwhichtheawardwasmade.Attheendoftheperformanceperiod,the
Groupandeachofthecomparatorcompanies(thecomparatorlist)arelistedandrankedinaccordancewiththeirTSRoverthe
performanceperiod.ThenumberofOrdinaryShareswhichvestwoulddependupontherankingoftheGroupinthecomparator
list,inaccordancewiththevestingtableabove,describedasfollows:ForbelowmedianTSRperformance,noawardswouldvest;
forTSRperformancebetweenthemedianandupperquartile(125thand63rdpositioninthecomparatorlistindex),awardswould
vestonastraight-linebasisbetween35%formedianand100%forupperquartile.TheTSRmeasurereflectsthemovementinthe
valueofsharesplusanydividendsdeclaredduringtherelevantperiod.ItwaschosenastheperformancemeasurefortheLTRPas
itisdirectlyrelatedtomovementsinshareholdervalue.
ForlevelsofbothTSRandunderlyingEPSperformancebetweenthoseshowninthetablesabove,anyawardthatvestsunderthe
LTRPwillvaryonastraight-linebasisbetweentheminimumandmaximumlevelsshown.
Thecash-settledelementoftheawardsisbasedondividendspayableonthesharesduringthevestingperiod,priortobecoming
unconditional,beingnotionallyre-investedinF&CAssetManagementplcshares.Oncetheawardsharesvest,thevalueofthe
notionalsharesispaidtotheemployeeincash.
Thenumberofrestrictedshareawardsisasfollows:
2007
No.
2006
No.
Outstandingat1January 6,506,759 5,952,988
Grantedduringtheyear 327,548 1,482,046
Exercisedduringtheyear (2,771,901) ^
Forfeitedduringtheyear (3,209,750) (928,275)
Outstandingat31December 852,656 6,506,759
TheEPSelementoftheawardgrantedon15November2004awardvestedinfullon15November2007.TheTSRelementofthe
awardwasnotachieved.
105 27. Employeebenefits^Share-basedpayments(cont’d)
At31December2007thefollowingrestrictedshareawardsgrantedundertheLTRP(restricted)wereoutstanding:
Grantdate
No.ofawards
outstanding
Earliest
exercisedate*
Exercise
price
17May2006 525,108 17May2009 0.0p
16March2007 327,548 16March2010 0.0p
* assumingperformancecriteriasatisfied.
Theawardsoutstandingat31December2007haveaweightedaverageoutstandingtermof1.7years(2006:1.2years).
Thefairvalueofservicesreceivedinreturnforshareoptionsgrantedismeasuredbyreferencetothefairvalueofshareawards
granted.TheestimateofthefairvalueofawardsgrantedismeasuredatfullmarketvaluefortheEPScriteriaandnovaluation
modelisusedforthiselement.MonteCarloSimulationisusedtovaluetheTSRcriteria.Thecontractuallifeoftheaward(3years)
isusedasaninputtotheTSRmodel.Thevalueofdividendpaymentshasbeenseparatedasthesearesettledincash.
Thekeyassumptionswhichhavebeenusedinthemodeltoascertainthefairvalueof2007awardsareasfollows:
2007grant^TSR 2007grant^EPS
Equity Cash Equity Cash
Fairvalueatmeasurement
date(peraward) 65.0p 6.0p 160.0p 14.0p
Numberofawardsgranted 163,774 163,774
Sharepriceatgrantdate 173.0p 173.0p
Exerciseprice 0.0p 0.0p
Vestingperiod 3years 3years
Fulltermofaward 3years 3years
Expectedvolatility(i) 30.0% N/A
Riskfreerateatgrantdate(ii) 5.02% N/A
Expecteddividendyield 2.75% 2.75%
EPSperformancehurdle N/A 75.0%
Expectedforfeiturerate 5.0% 5.0%
(i) TheexpectedvolatilityisbasedonthehistoricvolatilityoftheCompany’ssharepriceoveraperiodequaltothetermofthe
awardpriortothedateofgrant,adjusted,ifapplicable,foranyexpectedchangestofuturevolatilityduetotrendsin
thedata.
(ii) TheriskfreerateatgrantdateisbasedonUKtreasurybondswithanappropriateterm.
Thecumulativegrantexpenseis‘‘truedup’’,duringthevestingperiodandattheendofthevestingperiod,afterallowingforactual
forfeituresandtheunderlyingEPSachieved.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
106 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
27. Employeebenefits^Share-basedpayments(cont’d)
(b) DeferredShareAwards
TheLongTermRemunerationPlanallowsdeferredawardstobegrantedtoemployeesbelowExecutiveDirectorlevel,subjectonly
toatime-vestingperiodofthreeyears.
Thecash-settledelementofthedeferredawardsisbasedondividendspayableonthesharesduringthevestingperiod,priorto
becomingunconditional,beingnotionallyre-investedinF&CAssetManagementplcshares.Oncetheawardsharesvest,thevalue
ofthenotionalsharesispaidtotheemployeeincash.
Thenumberofdeferredshareawardsisasfollows:
2007
No.
2006
No.
Outstandingat1January 3,446,624 ^
Grantedduringtheyear 5,911,422 3,634,418
Exercisedduringtheyear (89,712) ^
Forfeitedduringtheyear (654,310) (187,794)
Outstandingat31December 8,614,024 3,446,624
Exercisableat31December 43,220 ^
Theawardsexercisedduring2007andexercisableat31December2007relateto‘‘goodleavers’’.
At31December2007thefollowingawardsgrantedundertheLTRP(deferred)wereoutstanding:
Grantdate
No.ofawards
outstanding
Earliest
exercisedate
Exercise
price
17May2006 3,002,337 17May2009 0.0p
1September2006 96,969 1September2009 0.0p
16March2007 5,383,828 16March2010 0.0p
16April2007 130,890 16April2010 0.0p
Theawardsoutstandingat31December2007haveaweightedaverageoutstandingtermof1.9years(31December2006:2.4years).
Thefairvalueofservicesreceivedinreturnforshareoptionsgrantedismeasuredbyreferencetothefairvalueofshareawards
granted.Theestimateofthefairvalueofawardsgrantedismeasuredatfullmarketvalueandnovaluationmodelisused.The
valueofdividendpaymentshasbeenseparatedfromthevaluationasthesearesettledincash.
Thekeyassumptionswhichhavebeenusedinthevaluationtoascertainthefairvalueofawardsmadeduring2007areasfollows:
16March2007 16April2007
Equity Cash Equity Cash
Fairvalueatmeasurementdate(peraward) 160.0p 14.0p 176.0p 15.0p
Numberofawardsgranted 5,780,532 130,890
Sharepriceatgrantdate 173.0p 191.0p
Exerciseprice 0.0p 0.0p
Vestingperiod 3years 3years
Fulltermofaward 3years 3years
Expecteddividendyield 2.75% 2.75%
Expectedforfeiturerate(perannum) 5.0% 5.0%
Thecumulativegrantexpenseis‘‘truedup’’duringthevestingperiodandattheendofthevestingperiodafterallowingforactual
forfeitures.
107 27. Employeebenefits^Share-basedpayments(cont’d)
(v) PurchasedEquityPlan
(a) F&CAssetManagementplcshares
ThePurchasedEquityPlanoperatesinconjunctionwiththediscretionarybonusschemeandisintendedtoencourage
shareholdingbymanagementandemployeesoftheGroupbyprovidingfor:
. Thecompulsorypurchaseofsharesusingannualbonusaboveathresholdlevel;and
. Voluntarypurchaseofsharesusingannualbonus,withassociatedMatchingShares.NoVoluntaryPurchasedEquity
awardshavebeengranted.
Onanannualbasis,eligibleemployeeswhoareawardedinafinancialyearanaggregatebonusinexcessofathresholdlevelof
»75,000(»100,000inrespectoftheyearended31December2007)willberequiredtodeferonethirdoftheelementexceeding
»75,000(»100,000inrespectoftheyearended31December2007)intoshares(comprisingeitherarangeofinvestmentproducts
managedbytheGrouportheCompany’sShares)(CompulsoryPurchasedEquity)forthreeyears.
TheCompulsoryPurchasedEquitywillnotbenefitfromanyformofmatchingawardandissubjecttoforfeitureintheeventthatthe
employeeleavestheGroupforanyreason(otherthanasa‘‘goodleaver’’)inthethreeyearretentionperiod.
Thecash-settledelementoftheawardsisbasedondividendspayableonthesharesduringthevestingperiod,priortobecoming
unconditional,beingnotionallyre-investedinF&CAssetManagementplcshares.Oncetheawardsharesvest,thevalueofthe
notionalsharesispaidtotheemployeesincash.
ThenumberofCompulsoryPurchasedEquityPlanshareawardsisasfollows:
2007 2006
Awards Awards
No. No.
Outstandingat1January 1,401,112 684,425
Grantedduringtheyear 1,131,097 857,462
Exercisedduringtheyear (30,475) (80,491)
Forfeitedduringtheyear (30,146) (60,284)
Outstandingat31December 2,471,588 1,401,112
Exercisableat31December 57,822 ^
Theawardsexercisedduring2007and2006andexercisableat31December2007relateto‘‘goodleavers’’.
At31December2007thefollowingawardsgrantedunderthePurchasedEquityPlantoacquireOrdinaryShareswereoutstanding:
Grantdate
No.ofawards
outstanding
Earliest
exercisedate*
Exercise
price
24March2005 525,640 24March2008 0.0p
24March2006 815,749 24March2009 0.0p
13April2007 1,130,199 13April2010 0.0p
* assumingperformancecriteriasatisfied.
Theawardsoutstandingat31December2007haveaweightedaverageoutstandingtermof1.5years(2006:1.9years).
Novaluationmodelisrequiredasawardsaregrantedatfullmarketvalue.Thevalueofdividendpaymentsisseparatedout,as
thesearesettledincash.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
108 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
27. Employeebenefits^Share-basedpayments(cont’d)
Thekeyassumptionswhichhavebeenusedtoascertainthefairvalueofawardsmadeduring2007areasfollows:
2007award
CompulsoryPurchasedEquity
Equity Cash
Fairvalueatmeasurementdate(peraward) 168.0p 14.0p
Numberofawardsgranted 1,131,097
Sharepriceatgrantdate 182.0p
Exerciseprice 0.0p
Vestingperiod 3years
Fulltermofaward 51months
Expectedforfeiturerate(perannum) 5.0%
Thecumulativegrantexpenseis‘‘truedup’’duringthevestingperiodandattheendofthevestingperiodafterallowingfor
actualforfeitures.
(b) F&CInvestmentFunds
AnewelementwasintroducedintothePurchasedEquityPlanin2007wherebythecashbonusisdeferredonamandatorybasis
intocertainF&CFunds(CompulsoryPurchasedEquity)subjecttocontinuedserviceovereitherthreeorfouryears.Thisoptionis
nowavailableinadditiontotheCompulsoryPurchasedEquityintoF&CAssetManagementplc(‘‘FCAMplc’’)shares.Themain
benefitofthisarrangementistoincentivisefundmanagerstoinvestinthefundstheymanage,therebyfurtheraligningemployee
interestswiththoseofclients.
ThesettlementofawardsfromtheCompulsoryPurchasedEquity(F&CInvestmentFunds)ismadebyrealisationoftheholding
inthefundatthevestingdateandpurchaseofFCAMplcsharesatthatdate.ThevalueoftheinvestmentinF&CFunds,the
FCAMplcsharepriceandhencetheultimatenumberofFCAMplcsharestobesettledisonlyknownwithcertaintyatthevesting
date.AnydividendspaidduringthevestingperiodareusedtobuyfurtherunderlyingF&CInvestmentFundsshares.
AlthoughtheawardsmeetthecriteriaofIFRS2‘‘Share-basedPayment’’astheawardsareultimatelysettledinFCAMplcshares,it
isnotconsideredpossibletoreliablyestimatethefairvalueoftheseawardsatthegrantdate.Thisisduetothenumberofmarket
basedcriteriawhichultimatelycombinetodeterminethenumberandvalueofFCAMplcsharessettled.Settlementoftheseawards
toemployeesissatisfiedbythepurchaseofFCAMplcsharesinthemarket.
Thefairvalueoftheseawardsattheyearendhasbeendeterminedbymeasurementoftheequityinstrumentsatintrinsicvalue,
beingthequotedpriceoftherelevantF&CFunds,bothatthegrantdateandateachsubsequentbalancesheetdate.Theintrinsic
valueisthenspreadoverthevestingperiod.Thevalueoftheservicesprovidedismeasuredusingtheultimatevalueofawards
whichvest.
Awardstotalling»1.2mweremadeon13April2007.Theseawardswereinvestedintoatotalof26eligibleF&CInvestmentFunds,
comprisingOEICsandInvestmentTrusts.
TheunderlyinginvestmentsareheldwithinanEmployeeBenefitTrust.Furtherdetailsoftheinvestmentsaredisclosedinnote
19(a)(i).
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
ValueofF&CInvestmentsheldwithinthePurchasedEquityPlan(intrinsicvalue) 1.2 ^
No. No.
NumberofFCAMplcshareswhichwouldbesettledasatbalancesheetdate
(basedonyearendFCAMplcshareprice) 597,294 ^
109 27. Employeebenefits^Share-basedpayments(cont’d)
(vi) DeferredShareAward
TheGrouphasmadesomedeferredshareawardswhicharenotsubjecttoongoingperformanceconditions,buthavea
time-vestingperiod.
Thecash-settledelementofthedeferredawardisbasedondividendspayableonthesharesduringthevestingperiod,priorto
becomingunconditional,beingnotionallyre-investedinF&CAssetManagementplcshares.Oncetheawardsharesvest,thevalue
ofthenotionalsharesispaidtotheemployeeincash.
Thenumberofshareawardsisasfollows:
2007 2006
No. No.
Outstandingat1January 154,838 ^
Grantedduringtheyear 1,096,539 154,838
Outstandingat31December 1,251,377 154,838
Noawardswereexercisableateither31December2007or31December2006.
At31December2007thefollowingawardsgrantedundertheDeferredShareAwardwereoutstanding:
Grantdate No.ofawardsoutstanding
Earliest
exercisedate
Exercise
price
21December2007 593,747 22November2008 0.0p
21December2007 502,792 21December2008 0.0p
9August2006 154,838 9August2009 0.0p
Theawardsoutstandingat31December2007haveaweightedaverageoutstandingtermof1.0year(31December2006:2.6years).
Thefairvalueofservicesreceivedinreturnforshareoptionsgrantedismeasuredbyreferencetothefairvalueofshareawards
granted.Theestimateofthefairvalueofawardsgrantedismeasuredatfullmarketvalueandnovaluationmodelisused.The
valueofdividendpaymentshasbeenseparatedfromthevaluationasthesearesettledincash.
Thekeyassumptionswhichhavebeenusedinthevaluationtoascertainthefairvalueoftheawardsmadeon21December2007
areasfollows:
Equity Cash Equity Cash
Fairvalueatmeasurementdate(peraward) 186.3p 8.2p 185.6p 8.9p
Numberofawardsgranted 593,747 502,792
Sharepriceatgrantdate 194.5p 194.5p
Exerciseprice 0.0p 0.0p
Vestingperiod 11months 12months
Fulltermofawards 11months 12months
Expecteddividendyield 4.65% 4.65%
Expectedforfeiturerate(perannum) 0.0% 0.0%
Thecumulativeexpenseis‘‘truedup’’duringthevestingperiodandattheendofthevestingperiodafterallowingforactual
forfeiture.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
110 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
27. Employeebenefits^Share-basedpayments(cont’d)
(vii) TheExecutiveDirectors’RemunerationPlan
TheExecutiveDirectorRemunerationPlan(‘‘EDRP’’)wasapprovedatthe2007AGM.AnyExecutiveDirectoroftheCompanyis
eligibletoparticipateintheEDRP.TheEDRPprovidesforthegrantoftwodifferentformsofaward,RestrictedShareAwardsand
DeferredShareAwards.
(a) RestrictedShareAwards
ThevestingoftheRestrictedShareAwardsaredependentonthesatisfactionofpre-determinedperformanceconditionsrelatingto
theUnderlyingEarningsPerShare(‘‘UnderlyingEPS’’)performanceoftheGroupmeasuredoveraperiodofthreeconsecutive
financialyears,commencingwiththefinancialyearinwhichtheawardisgranted.Underthiscondition,aRestrictedShareAward
willonlyvestiftheGroup’sUnderlyingEPSovertheperformanceperiodequalsorexceedsthespecifiedtargetfortheyearending
31December2009.Onachievementofthespecifiedtarget,100%oftheawardwillvest.Theparticipantcanachieveamaximum
enhancedlevelofvestingof140%oftheawardbyachievinganextremelystretchingconditionofUnderlyingEPS.Wherethe
actualUnderlyingEPSexceedstheminimumvestingconditionsbutislessthanthemaximumenhancedlevelofvesting,thenthe
percentageoftheawardthatvestswillbecalculatedona‘‘straight-line’’basisbetween100%and140%.
The2007RestrictedShareAwardissubjecttothefollowingEPShurdle:
UnderlyingEPSfortheFinalFinancialYearinthethreeyearvestingperiod PercentageofRestrictedShareawardsVesting
18.1p 100%
25.2p 140%
18.1p^25.2p Pro-ratabetween100%and140%ona
straight-linebasis
RestrictedShareAwardvestedplanshareswillbeheldbyTrustees,inanomineecapacity,throughoutafixedholdingperiodatthe
endofwhichthesharesmaybetransferredtotheparticipant.Theholdingperiodapplicableto50%ofsuchvestedplanshares
willendonannouncementofthe2010yearendresults;thebalanceofvestedplanshareswillbesubjecttoafurthersixmonth
holdingperiod.Duringtheholdingperiodtheparticipantwillbeeligibletoreceivedividendsandexercisevotingrights.
Thecash-settledelementoftheawardsisbasedondividendspayableonthesharesduringthevestingperiod,priortobecoming
unconditional,beingnotionallyre-investedinF&CAssetManagementplcshares.Oncetheawardsharesvest,thevalueofthe
notionalsharesispaidtotheparticipantincash.
ThenumberofRestrictedShareAwardsisasfollows:
3years 3.5years
2007
No.
2006
No.
2007
No.
2006
No.
Grantedduringtheyearandoutstandingat31December
(i)
2,002,000 ^ 2,002,000 ^
(i) Thisrepresentsthemaximumnumberofrestrictedshareswhichcouldbeachievedbytheparticipants(i.e.140%).
Noawardswereexercisedduring2007orareexercisableat31December2007.
111 27. Employeebenefits^Share-basedpayments(cont’d)
At31December2007thefollowingawardsgrantedundertheEDRPRestrictedShareAwardswereoutstanding:
Grantdate No.ofawardsoutstanding Earliestexercisedate Exerciseprice
21May2007 2,002,000 10May2010 0.0p
21May2007 2,002,000 10November2010 0.0p
Theawardsoutstandingat31December2007haveaweightedaverageoutstandingtermof2.6years.
Thefairvalueofservicesreceivedinreturnforshareoptionsgrantedismeasuredbyreferencetothefairvalueofshareawards
granted.TheestimateoffairvalueofawardsgrantedismeasuredatfullmarketvalueforEPScriteriaandnovaluationmodelis
used.Thevalueofdividendpaymentshasbeenseparatedfromthevaluationasthesearesettledincash.
Thekeyassumptionswhichhavebeenusedinthevaluationtoascertainthefairvalueofthe2007awardsareasfollows:
Restricted^EPS(3years) Restricted^EPS(3.5years)
Equity Cash Equity Cash
Fairvalueatmeasurementdate(peraward) 178.0p 15.0p 175.0p 18.0p
Numberofawardsgranted 2,002,000 2,002,000
Sharepriceatgrantdate 193.0p 193.0p
Exerciseprice 0.0p 0.0p
Vestingperiod 3years 3years
Fulltermofawards 3years 3.5years
EPSperformancehurdle 50.0% 50.0%
Expectedforfeiturerate 0.0% 0.0%
Thecumulativegrantexpenseis‘‘truedup’’duringthevestingperiodandattheendofthevestingperiodafterallowingforactual
forfeitures.
(b) DeferredShareAwards
Awardsvestattheendofathreeyearperiodfromgrantdate,subjecttothecontinuedemploymentoftheparticipantwithinthe
Group.Therearenoperformancecriteriaattachedtothedeferredsharesandthevestedsharestransfertotheparticipantassoon
aspossibleaftervesting.
Thecash-settledelementoftheawardsisbasedondividendspayableonthesharesduringthevestingperiod,priortobecoming
unconditional,beingnotionallyre-investedinF&CAssetManagementplcshares.Oncetheawardsharesvest,thevalueofthe
notionalsharesispaidtotheparticipantincash.
ThenumberofDeferredShareAwardsisasfollows:
3years
2007
No.
2006
No.
Grantedduringtheyearandoutstandingat31December 1,500,574 ^
Noawardswereexercisedduring2007orareexercisableat31December2007.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
112 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
27. Employeebenefits^Share-basedpayments(cont’d)
At31December2007thefollowingawardsgrantedundertheEDRPDeferredShareAwardswereoutstanding:
Grantdate No.ofawardsoutstanding Earliestexercisedate Exerciseprice
21May2007 1,500,574 10May2010 0.0p
Theawardsoutstandingat31December2007haveanoutstandingtermof2.4years.
Thefairvalueofservicesreceivedinreturnforshareoptionsgrantedismeasuredbyreferencetothefairvalueofshareawards
granted.Theestimateoffairvalueofawardsgrantedismeasuredatfullmarketvalueandnovaluationmodelisused.Thevalueof
dividendpaymentshasbeenseparatedfromthevaluationasthesearesettledincash.
Thekeyassumptionswhichhavebeenusedinthevaluationtoascertainthefairvalueofthe2007awardareasfollows:
Deferred^3years
Equity Cash
Fairvalueatmeasurementdate(peraward) 178.0p 15.0p
Numberofawardsgranted 1,500,574
Sharepriceatgrantdate 193.0p
Exerciseprice 0.0p
Vestingperiod 3years
Fulltermofaward 3years
Expecteddividendyield 2.75%
Expectedforfeiturerate 0.0%
Thecumulativegrantexpenseis‘‘truedup’’duringthevestingperiodandattheendofthevestingperiodafterallowingforactual
forfeitures.
(viii) 1995ExecutiveShareOptionScheme
IFRS2‘Share-basedPayment’isonlyappliedtograntsofshares,shareoptionsorotherequityinstrumentsthatweregrantedafter
7November2002andhadnotvestedbefore1January2005(i.e.theeffectivedateofIFRS2).
The1995ExecutiveShareOptionScheme(‘‘1995ESOS’’)lastgrantedoptionsbefore7November2002andisnotthereforesubject
tothefulleffectsofIFRS2intermsofrecognisinganexpenseinprofitorloss.Thestandarddoes,however,requirecertain
disclosurestobemadeinrespectofthisscheme.
The1995ESOSisanunapprovedshareoptionscheme,whereparticipationwasentirelyatthediscretionoftheDirectors.The
lifespanoftheSchemeistenyearsfromthedateonwhichitwasapprovedbyshareholdersandaccordinglynofurtheroptions
canbegrantedundertheSchemeafter1September2005.Thevestingperiodisthreeyears.Optionsaresettledbygrantofshares
toindividuals.Nocashalternativeisavailable.
Iftheoptionsremainunexercisedafteraperiodoftenyearsfromthedateofgrant,theoptionsexpire.Furthermore,optionsare
forfeitediftheemployeeleavestheGroupbeforetheoptionsvest.Employeeswhoaredeemed‘‘goodleavers’’areentitledto
exercisetheiroptionsforaperiodofoneyearaftertheyleave,regardlessofwhetherthevestingrequirementshavebeenmet.
Theoptionpriceshallnotbelessthanthemarketvalueofashareonthedealingday(oraveragedoverthethreedealingdays)
beforetheoptionisgranted.
TheexerciseofoptionsgrantedundertheSchemewillbedependentontheachievementbytheCompanyofspecifiedthresholds
ofunderlyingearningspershare.Optionscannotbeexercisedbeforethethirdanniversaryofthedateofthegrant.Thereafterthey
canbeexercised(inwholeorinpart)onlywhentheunderlyingEPSpercentageincreaseineachthreeconsecutiveyearsexceeds
theRPIbyatleast2%perannum.
113 27. Employeebenefits^Share-basedpayments(cont’d)
Thenumberandweightedaverageexerciseprice(WAEP)ofshareoptionsareasfollows:
2007 2006
No. WAEP
»
No. WAEP
»
Outstandingat1January 2,031,927 2.63 2,693,131 2.64
Exercisedduringtheyear (194,036) 2.04 ^^
Forfeitedduringtheyear (504,844) 2.48 (661,204) 2.67
Outstandingat31December 1,333,047 2.77 2,031,927 2.63
Exercisableat31December 1,333,047 2.77 2,031,927 2.63
Theoptionsexercisedduring2007relateto‘‘goodleavers’’.
At31December2007thefollowingoptionsgrantedunderthe1995ESOStoacquireOrdinaryShareswereoutstanding:
Grantdate
No.ofoptions
outstanding Datevested
Exercisable
before
Exercise
price
9June1998 321,490 24March2006 9June2008 203.83p
16July1999 340,158 24March2006 16July2009 232.50p
28April2000 323,659 24March2006 28April2010 214.00p
20October2000 18,740 24March2006 20October2010 320.17p
1March2001 329,000 24March2006 1March2011 455.83p
Theoptionsoutstandingat31December2007haveaweightedaverageoutstandingtermof1.9years(2006:2.7years).
Summaryofshare-basedpaymentschemes
TheGrouprecognisedtotalexpenses,excludingNationalInsuranceContributions,relatedtoshare-basedpaymentschemes
asfollows:
Note
2007
»m
2006
»m
2002ESOS 0.1 0.6
2002ShareSavescheme 0.2 0.2
TheRe-investmentPlan 5.2 10.6
TheLong-TermRemunerationPlan(restrictedshares) 2.5 4.7
TheLong-TermRemunerationPlan(deferredshares) 4.6 1.3
PurchasedEquityPlan^FCAMplcshares 1.7 1.0
PurchasedEquityPlan^F&Cinvestmentfunds 0.5 ^
ExecutiveDirectorsRemunerationPlan 1.3 ^
DeferredShareAwards 0.3 ^
Totalshare-basedpaymentexpensesrecognisedintheIncomeStatement 5 16.4 18.4
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Totalcarryingamountofcash-settledliabilities 1.4 3.2
Thetotalexpenserecognisedduringtheyearinrespectofshare-basedpaymentschemesissplitasfollows:
2007
»m
2006
»m
Equity^settled 13.0 15.7
Cash^settled 3.4 2.7
Totalshare-basedpaymentexpensesrecognisedintheIncomeStatement 16.4 18.4
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
114 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
28. Deferredincome
2007
»m
2006
»m
At1January 17.9 18.0
Incomedeferredintheyear 5.0 3.9
Amortisationintheyear (6.5) (4.0)
At31December 16.4 17.9
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Splitasfollows:
Non-currentliabilities 12.1 13.7
Currentliabilities 4.3 4.2
16.4 17.9
DeferredincomeprimarilycomprisesinitialfeesarisingoninvestmentsmadebyOEICinvestors.Thesefeesareinitiallyrecognised
asdeferredincomeandreleasedtoincomeovertheestimatedperiod(2007:7years;2006:7years)forwhichtheinvestmentis
expectedtobeheld.
29. Investmentcontractliabilities
Investmentcontractliabilitiesinrespectofpolicyholderinvestmentsatthestartandendoftheyearandananalysisofmovements
duringtheyearareasfollows:
2007
»m
2006
»m
Liabilityasat1January 1,175.1 1,006.9
Contributionsreceived 96.7 198.7
Investmentreturnapplied 45.0 106.7
Chargeslevied (3.9) (5.7)
Repayments (215.3) (140.2)
Movementinreinsuranceceded (7.5) 8.7
Liabilityasat31December 1,090.1 1,175.1
Allinvestmentcontractliabilitieshavebeendisclosedasduewithinoneyearasthisisconsideredtobeappropriatetotherightsof
policyholderswhohavetherighttowithdrawtheirinvestmentsatshortnotice.
TheDirectorsexpectthatthemajorityoftheinvestmentcontractliabilitieswillberepayableoutwithoneyear.However,asthe
investmentcontractsarerepayableondemandofthepolicyholderstheyhavebeendisclosedwithincurrentliabilities.
115 30. Insurancecontractliabilities
Insurance contract liabilities include life assurance liabilities in respect of lifetime guarantees provided with certain investment
products, and annuity liabilities in respect of pension investment contracts where the investor has retired. These liabilities
and related reinsurance balances at the start and end of the year, together with an analysis of movements in the year, are
as follows:
2007 2006
Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net
Insurancecontractliabilities »m »m »m »m »m »m
At1January 2.4 2.4 ^ 2.6 2.6 ^
Claimspaid (0.2) (0.2) ^ (0.1) (0.1) ^
Changeineconomicassumptions ^^^ (0.1) (0.1) ^
Unwindingofdiscountrate 0.1 0.1 ^ 0.1 0.1 ^
Otherchangesinyear ^^^ (0.1) (0.1) ^
At31December 2.3 2.3 ^ 2.4 2.4 ^
ThereinsuranceliabilitiesrelatetoannuitybusinessreinsuredwithFriendsProvidentPensionsLimited.
Aliabilityadequacytestwascarriedoutatpolicylevelandresultedinnoadditionalprovisionforeither2007or2006.Nosignificant
gainorlossaroseonreinsurancecontractsinceptedin2007or2006.
Assumptions
Theprincipalassumptionsusedindeterminingtheinsurancecontractliabilitiesandthereinsurers’shareoftheseliabilities,andthe
processadoptedtoarriveattheseassumptionsareasfollows:
Mortalityrates 2007 2006
Annuitiesinpayment 81-94%PCXA00 67-95%PXA92
(i) Projectedthereafterusing100%oftheaverageofmediumandlongcohortimprovementfactorsformales(75.0%for
females)subjecttoaminimumannualrateofimprovementof1.5%formales(1.25%forfemales).
Duetothesmallnumberofannuitypolicies,themortalityassumptionsreflectrecentexperienceofthereinsurertogetherwithan
allowanceforfuturemortalityimprovement.Experienceanalysisformortalityisperformedannuallybythereinsurer.
Discountrate
Thediscountrateusedis4.75%(2006:4.56%)basedoncurrentfixedinterestgrossredemptionyields,withaprudentadjustment
forrisk.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
116 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
31. Sharecapital
(a) Ordinarysharecapitalof0.1p
31December2007 31December2006
Numberof
shares »m
Numberof
shares »m
Authorised:
Equityinterests
OrdinarySharesof0.1p 800,000,000 0.8 800,000,000 0.8
Allotted,calledupandfullypaid:
Equityinterests
OrdinarySharesof0.1p 495,705,530 0.5 484,775,590 0.5
No.ofOrdinaryShares
2007 2006
Issuedat1January 484,775,590 483,434,237
Issueofsharesatpartosettleshare-basedpaymentawards 10,162,887 ^
Shareoptionsexercisedduringtheyear 767,053 1,341,353
Issuedat31December 495,705,530 484,775,590
TheholdersofOrdinarySharesareentitledtoreceivedividendsasdeclaredfromtimetotimeandareentitledtoonevoteper
shareatmeetingsoftheCompany.
Duringtheyearthefollowingshareoptionswereexercised,inlinewiththerulesoftheappropriatescheme,andOrdinaryShares
allotted:
Exercisedate
Executive
Share
Option
Scheme
No.of
Ordinary
Shares
Exercise
price
4January2007 1995ESOS 16,557 203.83p
24January2007 1995ESOS 177,479 203.83p
22March2007 2002ESOS 158,632 139.00p
10April2007 2002ESOS 198,020 139.00p
24May2007 2002ESOS 13,489 139.00p
3October2007 2002ESOS 30,215 139.00p
11October2007 2002ESOS 120,000 139.00p
25October2007 2002ESOS 52,661 139.00p
767,053
Inaddition,thefollowingshareswereallotted,atparvalue,tosettleshare-basedpaymentawards.Therewasnoexerciseprice
associatedwiththeseawards.
Issuedate Share-basedpaymentscheme No.ofOrdinaryShares
11October2007 Re-InvestmentPlan:Matchingaward 7,443,069
15November2007 Long-termRemunerationPlan:2004awards 2,719,818
10,162,887
117 31. Sharecapital(cont’d)
TheGroupheldthefollowingsharesinEmployeeBenefitTrusts(EBTs).Thesearecategorisedasownsharesheld,andare
deductedfromshareholders’funds:
31December
2007
No.
31December
2006
No.
ISISEmployeeBenefitTrust 1,357,922 1,467,551
TheIvory&SimeEmployeeBenefitTrust 562,857 665,111
F&CManagementLimitedEmployeeBenefitTrust 1,512,449 339,840
3,433,228 2,472,502
TheaggregatenominalvalueofownsharesheldbyEBTsat31December2007was»3,000(31December2006:»2,000).The
marketvalueofthesesharesat31December2007was»6.6m(31December2006:»5.2m).
Duringtheyear,theGrouppurchased1,279,618ofitsownOrdinaryShares(2006:563,205)of0.1ptosatisfytheexercisesof
awardsgrantedunderthesharesaveschemeinrespectof‘‘goodleavers’’andtoholdasownshares.Theconsiderationpaidfor
theshareswas»2.4m(2006:»1.1m).ThecostofthistotheGroup,afterexercisepricemoniespaidbytheemployees,was»2.2m
(2006:»0.4m).
(b) PreferenceSharecapitalof»1each
31December2007 31December2006
Numberof
shares »m
Numberof
shares »m
Authorised,allotted,calledupandfullypaid 800,000 0.8 800,000 0.8
TheissuedCumulativePreferenceSharesareclassifiedasfinancialliabilities.Thekeytermsandconditionsrelatingtothese
PreferenceSharesareasfollows:
^ DividendsontheCumulativePreferenceSharesarepaidinprioritytoanypaymentofdividendonanyotherclassofshares.
^ Onareturnofassetsonliquidation,theassetsoftheCompanyavailablefordistributionshallbeappliedfirstinrepayingthe
holdersoftheCumulativePreferenceSharestheamountspaiduporcreditedaspaiduponsuchshares,togetherwithany
arrearsofthedividend.
^ HoldersofCumulativePreferenceSharesareentitledtoonevoteininstanceswherethedividendissixmonthsinarrearsor
intheeventthataresolutionputtothemeetingvariesorimpactstherightsandprivilegesattachedtotheseshares.
ThetermsoftheCumulativePreferenceSharesconfertherighttoreceiveavariableratedividendontheamountpaidupor
creditedaspaidupontheCumulativePreferenceSharesattherateof2%perannumabovetheLondonInter-BankOfferRate
(LIBOR)expressedasarateperannumatthecommencementofeachhalf-yearlydividendpaymentperiod.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
118 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
32. Reserves
Reconciliationofmovementinreserves
Ordinary
share
capital
Share
premium
account
Merger
reserve
Foreign
currency
translation
reserve
(1)
Fair
value
reserve
(1)
Special
distri-
butable
reserve
(1)
Other
reserves
(1)
Retained
earnings
Minority
interests
Total
equity
»m »m »m »m »m »m »m »m »m »m
Balanceat1January2006 0.5 30.7 606.1 0.6 1.5 50.2 (0.1) 56.4 (0.5) 745.4
ItemsreportedintheConsolidatedStatementof
RecognisedIncomeandExpense ^ ^ ^ (4.4) (0.4) ^ 0.1 (21.9) 1.0 (25.6)
Realisedelementofmergerreservetooffset
amortisationandimpairmentofintangibleassets ^ ^ (85.4) ^ ^ ^ ^ 85.4 ^ ^
Sharecapitalallottedonexerciseofoptions ^ 1.9 ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 1.9
Purchaseofownshares ^^^^^ ^ ^ (0.7) ^ (0.7)
Settlementproceedsreceivedonexerciseof
shareoptions ^^^^^ ^ ^ 0.3 ^ 0.3
Final2005dividendpaid ^^^^^ ^ ^ (33.5) ^ (33.5)
Interim2006dividendpaid ^^^^^ ^ ^ (19.2) ^ (19.2)
Transferfromspecialdistributablereserve
inrelationtodividends ^^^^^ (50.2) ^ 50.2 ^ ^
Share-basedpaymentchargescredited
toequity ^^^^^ ^ ^ 15.7 ^ 15.7
Allocationtominorityinterestinexcess
ofprofits ^^^^^ ^ ^ (0.4) 0.4 ^
Distributionstominorityinterest ^^^^^ ^ ^^ (0.5) (0.5)
Balanceat31December2006 0.5 32.6 520.7 (3.8) 1.1 ^ ^ 132.3 0.4 683.8
ItemsreportedintheConsolidatedStatementof
RecognisedIncomeandExpense ^ ^ ^ 14.9 1.4 ^ ^ 24.2 1.6 42.1
Realisedelementofmergerreservetooffset
amortisationofintangibleassets ^ ^ (21.4) ^ ^ ^ ^ 21.4 ^ ^
Sharecapitalallottedonexerciseofoptions ^ 1.2 ^^^ ^ ^^^ 1.2
Purchaseofownshares ^^^^^ ^ ^ (2.4) ^ (2.4)
Settlementproceedsreceivedonexerciseof
shareoptions ^^^^^ ^ ^ 0.2 ^ 0.2
Final2006dividendpaid ^^^^^ ^ ^ (33.8) ^ (33.8)
Interim2007dividendpaid ^^^^^ ^ ^ (9.7) ^ (9.7)
Share-basedpaymentchargescredited
toequity ^^^^^ ^ ^ 13.0^ 13.0
Distributionstominorityinterest ^^^^^ ^ ^^ (0.9) (0.9)
Balanceat31December2007 0.5 33.8 499.3 11.1 2.5 ^ ^ 145.2 1.1 693.5
Cumulativedefinedpensionschemeactuariallossesrecognisedasat31December2007are»20.1mwhichareincludedinretained
earnings(31December2006: »31.2m).Seenote26.
(1)
Thetotalofforeigncurrencytranslationreserve,fairvaluereserve,specialdistributablereserveandotherreservesconstitutes‘Otherreserves’asdisclosed
intheConsolidatedBalanceSheetandamountstoacreditof»13.6m(31December2006:debitof»2.7m).
119 32. Reserves(cont’d)
Natureandpurposeofreserves
Sharepremiumaccount
Thesharepremiumaccountisusedtorecordtheissueofsharecapitalinexcessofparvalue.
Mergerreserve
Themergerreserveisusedtorecordsharepremiumonsharesissuedbywayofconsiderationinrespectofacquisitions.The
elementofthemergerreservewhichrelatestoamortisationandimpairmentofintangibleassetschargedtotheIncomeStatement
isconsideredtoberealised.Atransferismadefromthemergerreservetoretainedearningstorecognisetheextenttowhichthe
mergerreservehasbeenrealised,therebyoffsettingthecorrespondingelementoftheintangibleamortisationcharge.
Foreigncurrencytranslationreserve
Theforeigncurrencytranslationreserveisusedtorecordexchangedifferencesarisingfromthetranslationofthefinancial
statementsofforeignoperationsandnon-Sterlingdenominatedintangibleassets.
Fairvaluereserve
Thisreserverecordsfairvaluechangesonavailableforsaleinvestmentsuntiltheinvestmentsarederecognised.
Specialdistributablereserve
Thespecialdistributablereservewascreatedbythecancellationofsharepremium,followingCourtapprovalandwastransferred
toretainedearningsinrespectofdividendspaid.
Otherreserves:
^ Capitalredemptionreserve
Thecapitalredemptionreservewascreatedoncancellationofsharecapital.
^ Non-distributablereserve^associate
ThisreservecomprisedtheGroup’sshareofassociateexpenseswhichwerewrittenofftosharepremium.
Retainedearnings
Retainedearningscomprises:
^ netprofitsandlossesrecognisedthroughtheIncomeStatement;
^ actuarialgainsandlossesrecognisedonthepensionliability;
^ deferredtaxonactuarialgainsandlosses;
^ transactionsrelatingtoequity-settledshare-basedpayments,anddeferredtaxmovementsonshare-basedpayments
reflectedthroughequity;
^ thepurchaseandsaleofownshares;and
^ transferfrommergerreserve.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
120 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
33. Notestothecashflowstatement
(a) Analysisofcashflowstatementmovements
2007 2006
»m »m
Adjustmentsfornon-cashitems:
Depreciationofproperty,plantandequipment 3.7 3.0
Amortisationofintangibleassets 43.2 43.7
Impairmentofintangibleassets ^ 58.5
Lossondisposalofinvestments ^ 0.1
Share-basedpaymentexpenses 13.0 14.1
59.9 119.4
Changesinworkingcapitalandprovisions:
(Increase)/decreaseintradeandotherreceivables (9.0) 6.2
Increaseintradeandotherpayables 3.0 5.7
Increaseinotherassets(stockofunitsandshares) (0.1) (0.1)
(Decrease)/increaseinotherliabilities (1.1) 0.4
(Decrease)/increaseininvestmentcontractliabilities (77.5) 159.5
Increaseinemployeebenefitliabilities 2.9 2.9
(Increase)/decreaseindeferredacquisitioncosts (0.6) 0.1
Decreaseindeferredincome (1.5) (0.1)
Definedbenefitpensioncontributionspaidlesspensionoperatingprofitcharge (7.9) (0.5)
Increaseinprovisionsforliabilitiesandcharges 0.2 1.1
Decrease/(increase)infinancialinvestments 90.8 (133.8)
(0.8) 41.4
(b) Property,plantandequipment
DuringtheperiodtheGroupacquiredproperty,plantandequipmentwithanaggregatecostof»2.2m(2006:»4.7m).Cash
paymentsof»2.2m(2006:»4.1m)weremadetopurchaseproperty,plantandequipmentduringtheyear.
(c) Cashandcashequivalents
Note22providesdetailsofcashandcashequivalentbalances,adescriptionofcashandcashequivalents,restrictionsonuseof
cash,anddetailsofborrowingfacilities.
34. Contingencies
Contingentasset:
OndisposaloftheGroup’sinvestmentinISISEPLLP,theGrouphaspotentialentitlementtocontingentprofitsharefromthis
formerassociateentity.Detailsofthiscontingentassetaregiveninnote15.
Contingentliabilities:
Inthenormalcourseofitsbusiness,theGroupissubjecttomattersoflitigationordispute.Whiletherecanbenoassurances,at
thistimetheDirectorsbelieve,basedontheinformationcurrentlyavailabletothem,thatitisnotprobablethattheultimateoutcome
ofanyofthesematterswillhaveamaterialadverseeffectonthefinancialconditionoftheGroup.
121 35. Commitments
Operatingleases
TheGrouphadthefollowingfutureminimumrentalspayableinrespectofnon-cancellableoperatingleasesandothercontractsat
theyear-end:
Premises OtherContracts
31December
2007
31December
2006
31December
2007
31December
2006
»m »m »m »m
Withinoneyear 10.3 9.5 2.0 4.3
Afteroneyearbutnotmorethanfiveyears 42.0 40.9 1.3 2.3
Morethanfiveyears 63.3 72.9 ^ ^
115.6 123.3 3.3 6.6
ObligationsinrespectofOtherContractsarestatedgrossandexcludeamountspotentiallyrecoverablefrombrokersunder
commissionsharingarrangements.
Commitmentsinrespectofpremisesleasesexcludesservicechargesandothercosts,whicharevariableinnature,andcannotbe
reliablyestimated.
Sub-leasereceivables
Futureminimumrentalsreceivableundernon-cancellableoperatingleasesattheyearendareasfollows:
Premises
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Withinoneyear 4.0 2.2
Afteroneyearbutnotmorethanfiveyears 10.1 5.5
Morethanfiveyears 8.4 8.9
22.5 16.6
Acontingentleasepayment,basedonapercentageofrevenue,isreceivableinadditiontotheminimumleasepaymentsinrespect
ofoneproperty.Themaximumamountreceivableunderthisarrangementis»0.6m(31December2006:»0.6m)perannum.
Capitalcommitments
Theamountscontractedforintermsofcapitalexpenditure,butnotprovidedforinthefinancialstatementsat31December2007,
total»1.1m(31December2006:»0.6m).
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
122 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
36. Financialriskmanagement
Overview
TheGrouphasexposuretoanumberofbusinessrisks.TheBoardofDirectorshasoverallresponsibilityfortheGroup’srisk
managementarrangements,buthasdelegatedtheimplementationandoperationoftheBoardpoliciestoManagement.The
Group’sriskmanagementpoliciesandtheriskmanagementframeworkforidentifying,monitoringandmanagingrisksacrossthe
Group,includingstrategicandoperationalrisks,aredetailedintheDirectors’ReportonCorporateGovernanceonpages39and40.
Asanassetmanagementbusiness,theDirectorsconsideritappropriatetodifferentiatebetweenthosefinancialriskswhichdirectly
impacttheGroupandthosewhichindirectlyimpacttheGroupduetotherisksbornebyourclientsandthesubsequentimpacton
theGroup’srevenues.TheGroup’sdirectorindirectexposuretofinancialinstrumentsarisesfromthefollowingfinancialrisks:
. Marketrisk
. Creditrisk
. Liquidityrisk
ThisnotepresentsinformationontheGroup’sdirectorindirectexposuretoeachoftheaboverisks,theGroup’sobjectives,policies
andprocessesformeasuringandmanagingriskandthemanagementoftheGroup’scapital.Note37providesnumericalanalysis
oftheGroup’sfinancialinstrumentexposure,includingrelevantsensitivityanalysis,atthebalancesheetdate.
Indirectearningsriskthroughclientassets
AsanactivefundmanagertheGroupisresponsibleformanagingassetsinaccordancewiththemandatesspecifiedbyourclients.
TheassetsmanagedbytheGrouparesubjecttovaryingfinancialrisks(market,creditandliquidity).Whiletheseriskscouldresultin
financiallossorgainthroughachangeinassetvalue,theserisksandrewardsarefullyborneby,orfalltothebenefitof,ourclients.
However,asthemajorityoftheGroup’srevenuesarequantifiedasapercentageofassetsundermanagement(generallyona
quarterlyormonthlybasis),theGroup’sincomeisimpactedbymovementsinclientassetswhicharecausedbytheexposureto
financialrisks.Asaresultofthedirectlinkofrevenuestothevalueofclientassets,theGroup’sinterestsarealignedtothoseof
ourclients.
Akeyrisktoourbusinessisthatofpoorinvestmentperformance,whichcouldleadtothesubsequentlossofclientmandates.
AkeyroleoftheHeadofInvestmentsistomonitorthefundperformanceachievedbyourinvestmentprofessionals.Whereitis
necessary,actionsaretakentochangeprocessorpersonnelwithaviewtoattainingtopquartileperformance.TheGrouphasthe
abilitytoearnperformancefeesfromanumberofourclients,whereout-performanceofthebenchmarkorsetobjectiveis
achieved.ThesearrangementsreinforcethealignmentoftheGroup’sinterestswiththoseofourclients.
Thekeycomponentsoffinancialrisktowhichourclientsareexposedare:
Marketrisk^theriskoffinanciallossarisingfromchangesinthemarketpricesofassets.Marketrisksincludeexposuretoallasset
classes,includingequities,fixedincomeproductsandpropertyaswellascurrencyriskandinterestraterisk.
Creditrisk^theriskoffinanciallossifacounterpartytoafinancialinstrumentfailstomeetitscontractualobligationsinrespectof
assetsheldwithinclientportfolios.Creditriskcanvarybyassetclassandindividualinstrument.
Liquidityrisk^theriskoffinanciallosstoclientportfoliosbecauseaclientdoesnothavesufficientfinancialresourcesavailable
andisunabletorealiseassetsinordertomeetitsobligationsastheyfalldue,orcanonlyrealiseassetsbysufferingfinancialloss.
TheGroupdoesnothedgeitsrevenueexposuretomovementsinthevalueofclientassetsarisingfromanyoftheserisks.
Directearningsandcapitalexposure
TheGrouphasdirectexposuretothefollowingrisksinrespectoffinancialinstrumentsontheConsolidatedBalanceSheet:
. Marketrisk^theriskthatthefairvalueorfuturecashflowsoffinancialinstrumentswillfluctuatebecauseofchangesin
marketprices.Marketriskcomprisesthreetypesofrisk:currencyrisk,interestrateriskandpricerisk.
. Creditrisk^theriskoffinanciallossifacounterpartytoafinancialinstrumentfailstomeetitscontractualobligationsin
respectoffinancialinstrumentsheldbytheGroup.Creditriskincludesinvestmentcreditrisk,counterpartyrisks,depositand
loanrisksandcountryrisks.
. Liquidityrisk^LiquidityriskisthefailureoftheGrouptomaintainadequatelevelsoffinancialresourcestoenableittomeet
itsfinancialobligationsastheyfalldue.LiquidityriskarisesbecauseofthepossibilitythattheGroupcouldberequiredto
payitsliabilitiesearlierthanexpectedorbecauseofanyinabilitytorealiseassetsinordertomeetobligationsastheyfall
dueorisonlyabletorealiseassetsbysufferingfinancialloss.
AfulleranalysisofthefinancialrisksassociatedwiththeGroup’sfinancialinstruments,togetherwiththeobjectives,policiesand
processestomanagetheGroup’sexposurefollows.
123 36. Financialriskmanagement(cont’d)
Unit-linkedassets
AsignificantelementofthevalueoftheGroup’sfinancialassetsrelatestotheGroup’sunit-linkedpooledpensionbusiness.As
outlinedinnote19,FinancialInstruments,therisksandrewardsassociatedwiththeseassets,whichareheldbytheGroup’s
insurancesubsidiary,falltobeborneby,ortothebenefitof,theunderlyingpolicyholders.Asaresult,theinvestmentcontract
liabilitiesreflectedontheGroupBalanceSheetareequalandoppositeinvaluetotheassetswhichareheldonbehalfofunit-
linkedpolicyholders.TheGrouphasnodirectexposuretofluctuationsinthevalueoftheassetsarisingfromchangesinmarket
pricesorcreditdefault,althoughtherevenuestreamearnedfrommanagingtheseassetsvariesinlinewiththemovementinassets
heldonbehalfofclients.
Thefinancialriskmanagementdisclosuresspecificallyexcludepolicyholders’unit-linkedassetsandliabilitiesrelatingto
F&CManagedPensionFundsasthereisnodirectrisktotheGroupfromtheassociatedfinancialinstruments.
Otherfinancialinvestments
RecognisingthattheGroup’srevenuestreamhassignificantfinancialexposuretofluctuationsinassetsmanagedonbehalfof
clients,akeyprincipleoftheGroupTreasuryPolicysetbytheBoardistorestrictinvestmentoftheGroup’sassetsintolowrisk
depositsormoneymarketinstrumentswheretheriskofcapitallossislow,therebyseekingtoprotecttheGroup’scapital.
AdvancedBoardapprovalisrequiredforanyinvestmentwhichdoesnotfollowthisgeneralprinciple.
InNovember2007theBoardamendedtheGroupTreasuryPolicytoallowupto»20moftheGroup’scashresourcestobeutilised
asseedcapitaltosupportthelaunchofnewinvestmentfunds.Thepolicypermitsseedcapitaltobeinvestedinamaximumof
twofundsatanypointintime,restrictsthemaximuminitialinvestmentto»10minanyonefundandtargetsdivestmentofseed
capitalnolaterthan12monthsfromthedateofinvestment.Whilenosuchinvestmentswereheldatthebalancesheetdate,a
C13.3minvestmentwasmadeinJanuary2008tofacilitatethelaunchofF&CZircon,anewsinglestrategyhedgefund.Aforward
exchangecontractwasalsoenteredintowithaviewtoseekingtominimiseanyfinanciallossarisingfromexposuretocurrency
riskontheinitialinvestment.
‘Otherfinancialinvestments’classifiedasfairvaluethroughprofitorloss,detailedonpages84and85,primarilycompriseassets
heldinconnectionwithcurrentorhistoricemployeeremunerationarrangements.TheGrouphasnonetfinancialexposureto
‘PurchasedEquityPlan’and‘Bonus-managedfunds’investmentsastherisksandrewardsofallmovementsinthevalueofthese
financialassetsfalltothebeneficiaryandareoffsetbyequalandoppositemovementinGroupliabilities,whichaccrueoverthe
vestingperiod.The‘NIChedge’economicallyhedgestheGroup’sexposuretomovementsinfutureNationalInsurance
ContributionsobligationsinrespectofcertainassetsheldbytheGroup’sEmployeeBenefitTrusts.
‘Otherfinancialinvestments’classifiedasavailableforsalereflectthevalueoftheGroup’sprivateequityinvestments.These
primarilyreflect‘carriedinterestentitlement’whicharisesfromtheGroup’shistoricalownershipofprivateequitybusinesses.The
Boarddoesnotseektomanageanyofthefinancialrisksassociatedwiththeseinvestmentsandrecognisesthatuncertaintyexists
astothequantumandtimingoffuturedistributionswhichmayarisefromtheseinvestments.
Stockofunitsandshares
TheGroupoperatesandmanagesanumberofOpenEndedInvestmentCompanies(OEICs)whosefunds,intowhichretailand
institutionalinvestorscaninvest,haveawiderangeofinvestmentobjectives.TheGroupholdsastockofunitsandsharesinthese
OEICfundsinordertofacilitatethecreationandredemptionofunitsbyinvestors.TheGroup’sriskmanagementpolicyspecifically
limitstheoverallmagnitudeoftheunitsheldbytheGroupto»1.5mandtheamountwhichmaybeheldinanysinglefundto»0.05m.
Tradedebtorsandaccruedincome
TradedebtorsandaccruedincomerepresentamountsrecognisedwithinnetrevenueintheIncomeStatement,butwhichhavenot
beensettledincash.ThenatureofF&C’sbusinessissuchthatassetmanagementfeesaccruebasedondaily,month-endor
quarter-endassetvalues,whichonceknown,arebilledtoclientsandareduetobesettledinlinewithindividualcontractualterms.
Asaresult,theaggregatevalueofdebtorsandaccruedincomecantypicallyrepresentupto4monthsofrevenueatanypointin
time.Inaddition,asmostoftheperformancefeesearnedbytheGroupaccrueinrespectofthecalendaryearandcanonlybe
billedsubsequently,thequantumofaccruedincomeatthebalancesheetdateisgenerallyhigherthanatotherperiodsandis
sensitivetothemagnitudeofperformancefeesrecognised.
BeforetheGrouptakesonnewclients,itundertakestherequired‘‘KnowYourClient’’procedures.AstheGroupmanagesassets
onbehalfofclientsandmanagementfeesaretypicallychargedtoandpaidfromtheunderlyingfundswemanage,thereisa
relativelylowriskofdefaultonmanagementfees.TheGroupdoesnotholdanycreditinsurance.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
124 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
36. Financialriskmanagement(cont’d)
DuetothescaleofsomeofF&C’slargerclients,theGroupisexposedtoaconcentrationofcreditriskfromlargeclientsorgroups
ofconnectedclients,arisingfromtimingdifferencebetweentherecognitionofincomeandthereceiptofmanagementfees
outlinedabove.Veryfewclientshaveexternalcreditratings.
WheremanagementfeesaredenominatedinacurrencyotherthanSterling,theGroupisexposedtocurrencyrisk.TheGroup
doesnothedgeitsexposuretomonetaryassetsdenominatedinforeigncurrency.
Otherdebtors
Otherdebtorsinclude‘Trusteedebtors’and‘debtorsduefrominvestorsinrespectofthepurchaseofunits’.Inoperatingand
managingOEICs,theGroupseekstomatchthepurchaseandsaleofinvestmentstoaligntothereceiptorpaymentoffundsfrom
ortoinvestors.However,iftheseobligationsarenotmatchedthenthereisarequirementfortheGrouptofundanyshortfallfrom
itscorporatecashresources.Theriskrelatingtounsettledtransactionsisconsideredsmallduetotheshortsettlementperiod
involved.Intheeventthatinvestorsdefaultonsumsdue,thentheGroupisentitledtoreimbursementofcostsfromtheinvestor.
Cashandcashequivalents
F&Cadoptsalowriskapproachtotreasurymanagementandseekstoensurethatitscapitalispreservedandfinancialrisksare
managedappropriately.
TheGrouptreasuryoperationsaremanagedbytheFinancefunctionwithinparametersdefinedbytheBoard.Theregulatory
capitalandtreasurypositionoftheGrouparereportedtotheBoardonaregularbasis.
TheGroup’scashandcashequivalentassetsareexposedtoanumberoffinancialrisksinthenormalcourseofitsbusiness.The
policyadoptedisdesignedtomanageriskandrecognisesthattreasurymanagementoperationsarespecificallynottreatedasa
profitcentre.Thekeyaspectsofthispolicyanditsimplementationaredetailedbelow:
. Fundsondepositwillonlybeplacedonashorttermbasis(maximumterm90days)tohelpmaximiseregulatorycapital.
. DepositsmayonlybeplacedwithcounterpartiesapprovedbytheF&CCreditCommittee,andtheBoardhasseta»25mlimit
forthemaximumexposuretoanysinglecounterparty.TheF&CCreditCommittee’sprimaryfocusistoassessthecredit
positionofcounterpartiespriortoplacinganyclientassetswiththemtogetherwiththemonitoringofcreditriskthereafter.
. Exposuretocashandcashequivalentbalancesheldinforeigncurrencyismanagedtoreducetheriskofmovementsin
exchangerates,wherepossible,bytherepatriationofsurplusforeigncurrencyintoSterling.Thisisachievedinpracticevia
theregularsettlementoftheGroup’stransferpricingarrangementsandthroughthepaymentofdividendsfromforeign
subsidiaries,havingregardtotheirrespective,legal,regulatoryandworkingcapitalrequirements.
. Cashanddepositbalancescanbeexposedtointerestratemovements.TheGrouputilisestheexperienceandskillsofits
professionaldealingteamtoobtainthebestinterestrates,ensuringtheexpectedmaturitydatesofdepositsarealignedto
theGroup’sworkingcapitalrequirements.
Reinsuranceassets
TheGroupunit-linkedpooledpensionsubsidiaryisaninsurancecompanyandhassomeexposuretoinsurancecontract
liabilities,asoutlinedinnote30.TheseliabilitiesarefullyreinsuredastheGroupseekstohavenonetinsuranceexposure.The
reinsuranceassetsrepresenttheexpectedamountsrecoverabletomeetinsuranceliabilitiesastheyfalldue.TheGrouphas
exposuretobothcreditandliquidityriskontheseassets.
Definedbenefitpensiondeficit
TheGroup’sdefinedbenefitpensionobligationrepresentsthediscountedvalueoffuturepensionobligationsinexcessofplan
assets,detailsofwhicharegiveninnote26.
TheGrouphasexposuretothemovementsinthemarketvalueoftheplanassets,whichincludeequitiesandLDIfixedinterest
pools.Approximately25%oftheassetsheldinrespectoftheUKschemeareheldinLDIpools,withmaturityprofileswhich
matchtheexpectedmaturityprofileofpensionobligations.ThemarketvaluesoftheLDIpoolsareimpactedbymovementsin
interestrates.
Thevalueofdefinedbenefitpensionobligationsisquantifiedanddiscountedusingcorporatebondrates.Movementsinthese
ratescanhaveasignificantimpactonthepensionliabilitiesandhencethequantumoftheGroup’spensiondeficit.
125 36. Financialriskmanagement(cont’d)
Managementofcapital
WhileF&Cconsidersitscapitaltobeitstotalequity,thisiseffectivelymanagedviathenetassetstowhichitrelates.
TheCompany’sOrdinarySharesarelistedontheLondonStockExchange.TheBoardmonitorssignificantmovementsinthe
compositionofitsshareholderbase.Detailsofsubstantialinterestsinsharecapitalareshownonpage29.Intheordinarycourse
ofbusinesstheonlymovementsintheabsolutenumberofsharesinissuewouldbethroughtheissueofneworownsharesto
satisfyobligationsundershare-basedpaymentarrangementsorthroughthepurchaseofownsharestosatisfyfutureshare
schemeobligations.TheDirectorsgivecarefulconsiderationtotheappropriatefundingstructureforfinancingallacquisitions,
whichhistoricallyhaveincludedbothequityanddebtfundedtransactions.
In2007theDirectorsrebasedthedividendtoensureadividendcoverof1.5timesunderlyingprofit,therebyseekingtofund
additionalinvestmentinthebusinesstosupportthethree-yearplan.
Theoverallobjectiveofshareholderliquidityriskmanagementistoensurethatthereissufficientliquidityovershortandmedium
timehorizonstomeettheneedsofthebusiness.Thisincludesliquiditytocover,amongotherthings,capitalexpenditure,servicing
debtandequitycapitalaswellasworkingcapitaltofundtheGroup’sday-to-dayrequirements.
NoneoftheGroup’sassetsareheldascollateral.
Workingcapital
Workingcapitalismonitoredonadailybasistoensurethatsettlementtermsofallforthcomingliabilitiescanbemet.Thisactivity
includestimelycollectionofdebtorsandmonitoringofcashondeposit,havingregardtoregulatorycapitalrequirements,as
outlinedbelow.TheGroup’sFinancefunctionincludesaTreasuryteamwhichensurestheshort-termcash-flowrequirementsof
theGrouparemetwhileseekingtomaximisetheamountofcashondeposit.
TheGroupalsohasbankoverdraftfacilitiesavailabletoitwhichprovidesomeprotectionagainstanyshort-termcash-flow
requirements.Theundrawncommittedfacilitiesavailableatthebalancesheetdateareshowninnote22.In2006theGroupissued
»260mfixedrateSubordinatedNotesforwhichtheearliestrepaymentdateis2016,butthiscanbeextendedattheoptionofthe
Groupuntil2026.TheGrouphastheoptiontodeferinterestpaymentsonthisdebt,butifitelectstodosothennodividendcanbe
paidtoordinaryshareholdersuntilthecumulativeamountofanyunpaidinterestdueonthedebtissettledinfull.Nosuchinterest
paymentshavebeendeferred.
TheGroupdoesnotroutinelyuseahedgingstrategytomanagefinancialrisks.Assuch,theBoardReservedListprohibitstheuse
ofderivativesincludingfutures,optionsandforwardcontracts,inrespectoftheGroup’snetassets,withoutpriorBoardapproval.
Regulatorycapitalrequirements
TheGroupisrequiredtomaintainaminimumlevelofcapitalinaccordancewiththeCapitalRequirementsDirective(CRD)
prescribedintheUKbytheFinancialServicesAuthority(FSA).
In2006,theGroupobtainedfromtheFSAawaiverfrommeetinganyminimumcapitalrequirementsundertheconsolidated
supervisionrulesoftheCRD.Thiswaivertookeffectfrom1January2007anddoesnotneedtobereneweduntil2011.
Atthebalancesheetdate,therewere14regulatedcompaniesintheGroup,ofwhich11areregisteredintheUnitedKingdomand
aresubjecttoregulationbytheFSA.ThisincludesF&CManagedPensionFundsLimitedwhich,beingaregulatedinsurancefirm,
asopposedtoaregulatedinvestmentfirm,isnotpartofF&C’sconsolidationgroupforregulatorycapitalreportingpurposesbutis
partoftheFriendsProvidentregulatorygroup.Overseasregulatedcompanies,registeredintheRepublicofIreland,The
NetherlandsandPortugalaresubjecttoregulatorycapitalrequirementssetoutbytheirlocalregulatoryauthorityasembedded
withinthelegislationofthosejurisdictions.
RegulatoryrulessetoutthemeasurementofCapitalResourcesandCapitalResourcesRequirements(CRR)todeterminethe
regulatorycapitalsurplusordeficit.ThisCRRisreferredtoasthePillar1capitalrequirementsunderCRD.
FortheUKregulatedinvestmentfirms;theCRRisthehigherof:
. Thesumofthecreditriskcapitalrequirementandthemarketriskcapitalrequirement;and
. thefixedoverheadrequirement.
Creditriskrepresentstheriskofapartybeingunabletomeetitsobligationstoafirm,calculatedusingriskweightedpercentages
appliedtothevariousexposureamounts.ThemarketriskforF&Crepresentstheriskoflossfromfluctuationsinexchangerates,
calculatedasapercentageofthetotalofthelongorshortpositions,denominatedinforeigncurrencies,whicheveristhegreater.
Thefixedoverheadsrequirementiscalculatedasaquarterofafirm’srelevantfixedannualexpenditureinthepreviousyear’s
auditedfinancialstatements.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
126 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
36. Financialriskmanagement(cont’d)
TheregulatedcompaniesarerequiredtosubmitfinancialreturnstotheFSA,orthelocalregulatoryauthorityforoverseas
companies,settingoutthecalculationoftheregulatorycapitalsurplus(ordeficit).TheGroup’sregulatedcompaniesarerequired
tosubmitreturnsquarterlyorsemi-annuallyandtheGroupmustsubmitaconsolidatedreturnsemi-annually.
TheCRDrequirestheGrouptoconductanInternalCapitalAdequacyAssessmentProcess(ICAAP),referredtoasPillar2capital
requirements.Theobjectiveofthisprocessistoensurethatfirmshaveadequatecapitaltoenablethemtomanagetheirrisksnot
deemedtobeadequatelycoveredunderthePillar1minimumrequirements.Thisisaforwardlookingexercisewhichincludes
stresstestingonmajorrisks,consideringhowthefirmwouldcopewithasignificantmarketdownturnforexample,andan
assessmentoftheGroup’sabilitytomitigatetherisks.
AlloftheGroup’sregulatedentitiesmaintainedsurplusesofregulatorycapitalthroughouttheyear.
37. Theextentofrisksarisingfromfinancialinstruments
Note36presentsdetailsoftheGroup’sdirectorindirectexposuretofinancialrisksarisingfromfinancialinstrumentsandthe
Group’sobjectives,policiesandprocessesformeasuringandmanagingriskandthemanagementoftheGroup’scapital.This
noteprovidesnumericalanalysisoftheGroup’sdirectexposuretosuchfinancialrisk,includingrelevantsensitivityanalysis,at
eachbalancesheetdate.
Thedisclosuresinthisnoteexcludeanypolicyholderunit-linkedassetsandliabilitiesinrespectoftheGroup’sinsurance
subsidiary,astherisksandrewardsrestprimarilywiththepolicyholders.
(a) Creditrisk
(i) Maximumexposuretocreditrisk
ThecarryingamountoffinancialassetsrepresentstheGroup’smaximumexposuretocreditrisk.Themaximumexposureofeach
classoffinancialassetis:
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Financialassetsatfairvaluethroughprofitorloss
Otherfinancialinvestments 8.6 3.8
Availableforsalefinancialassets
Otherfinancialinvestments 3.8 2.1
Loansandreceivables
Loantoassociate ^ 2.5
Tradedebtors 11.0 10.1
Accruedincome 45.3 36.3
Otherdebtors 25.6 25.5
AmountsowedbyFriendsProvidentGroup 1.5 ^
Amountsowedbyassociate ^ 1.3
AmountsowedbyEurekoGroup 6.5 4.8
Cashandcashequivalents^shareholders 216.2 214.3
318.5 300.7
Theaccruedincomebalanceishigherthantheaveragemonthlybalanceduringtheyear.Thisisprimarilyduetothelevelof
performancefeesrecognisedat31December2007.
127 37. Theextentofrisksarisingfromfinancialinstruments(cont’d)
Thecreditriskofthefinancialassetsanalysedbythecreditratingsofthecounterparties,issetoutbelow:
AAA AA A
Other
rated
Not
rated Total
Asat31December2007 »m »m »m »m »m »m
Financialassetsatfairvaluethroughprofitorloss
Otherfinancialinvestments 0.4 2.3 ^ 0.3 5.6 8.6
Availableforsalefinancialassets
Otherfinancialinvestments ^^^^ 3.8 3.8
Loansandreceivables
Tradedebtors ^ ^ 0.9 ^ 10.1 11.0
Accruedincome ^ ^ 20.5 ^ 24.8 45.3
Otherdebtors ^^^^ 25.6 25.6
AmountsowedbyFriendsProvidentGroup ^ ^ 1.5 ^ ^ 1.5
AmountsowedbyEurekoGroup ^ ^ 6.5 ^ ^ 6.5
Cashandcashequivalents^shareholders 6.5 179.1 30.6 ^ ^ 216.2
6.9 181.4 60.0 0.3 69.9 318.5
Asat31December2006
Financialassetsatfairvaluethroughprofitorloss
Otherfinancialinvestments ^^^^ 3.8 3.8
Availableforsalefinancialassets
Otherfinancialinvestments ^^^^ 2.1 2.1
Loansandreceivables
Loantoassociate ^^^^ 2.5 2.5
Tradedebtors ^ ^ 1.8 ^ 8.3 10.1
Accruedincome ^ ^ 14.3 ^ 22.0 36.3
Otherdebtors ^^^^ 25.5 25.5
Amountsowedbyassociate ^^^^ 1.3 1.3
AmountsowedbyEurekoGroup ^ ^ 4.8 ^ ^ 4.8
Cashandcashequivalents^shareholders 8.0 130.5 75.8 ^ ^ 214.3
8.0 130.5 96.7 ^ 65.5 300.7
(Basedonexternalcreditratings)
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
128 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
37. Theextentofrisksarisingfromfinancialinstruments(cont’d)
(ii) Analysisoffinancialassetspastduebutnotimpaired
Theanalysisoffinancialassetswhicharereceivablebuthavenotbeenimpairedisasfollows:
Neither
pastdue
nor
impaired
Lessthan
30days
Between
30and90
days
Between
90days
and1year
Beyond
1year Total
Asat31December2007 »m »m »m »m »m »m
Financialassetsatfairvaluethroughprofitorloss
Otherfinancialinvestments 8.6^^^^ 8.6
Availableforsalefinancialassets
Otherfinancialinvestments 3.8^^^^ 3.8
Loansandreceivables
Tradedebtors 3.2 2.6 4.3 0.9 ^ 11.0
Accruedincome 45.3^^^^ 45.3
Otherdebtors 25.5 0.1^^^ 25.6
AmountsowedbyFriendsProvidentGroup 1.5^^^^ 1.5
AmountsowedbyEurekoGroup 4.1^^^ 2.4 6.5
Cashandcashequivalents^shareholders 216.2^^^^ 216.2
308.2 2.7 4.3 0.9 2.4 318.5
Asat31December2006
Financialassetsatfairvaluethroughprofitorloss
Otherfinancialinvestments 3.8^^^^ 3.8
Availableforsalefinancialassets
Otherfinancialinvestments 2.1^^^^ 2.1
Loansandreceivables
Loantoassociate 2.5^^^^ 2.5
Tradedebtors 2.3 3.2 1.7 2.9 ^ 10.1
Accruedincome 36.3^^^^ 36.3
Otherdebtors 24.6 0.8 0.1 ^ ^ 25.5
Amountsowedbyassociate 1.3^^^^ 1.3
AmountsowedbyEurekoGroup 4.8^^^^ 4.8
Cashandcashequivalents^shareholders 214.3^^^^ 214.3
292.0 4.0 1.8 2.9 ^ 300.7
BasedonpastexperienceandthenatureoftheGroup’sbusiness,theDirectorsbelievethatnoadditionalimpairmentprovisionis
necessaryat31December2007inrespectoftradedebtors.
The»2.4mowedbytheEurekoGroupat31December2007wassettledpostyear-end.
129 37. Theextentofrisksarisingfromfinancialinstruments(cont’d)
(iii) Impairmentlosses
Detailsofimpairmentoffinancialassetsat31Decemberareasfollows.
Tradedebtorsprovision:
2007
»m
2006
»m
Balanceat1January 0.9 0.1
Baddebtchargeintheyear 0.2 0.8
Utilisedintheyear (1.0) ^
Balanceat31December 0.1 0.9
Grossimpairedtradedebtors 0.1 0.9
(iv) Concentrationrisk
Thespecificconcentrationofriskinrespectofamountsreceivablefromanyoneclientorgroupofconnectedclientsis»1.0mor
moreatthebalancesheetdateisgivenbelow:
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
AmountsduefromFriendsProvidentGroup 4.0 ^
AmountsduefromEurekoGroup 12.8 8.9
Amountsduefrom ISISEPLLP 1.6 5.2
AmountsduefromOEICTrustee(JPMorganCazenove) 7.7 12.7
Amountsduefromothersignificantclients^2007:11clients(2006:9) 30.1 17.7
56.2 44.5
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
130 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
37. Theextentofrisksarisingfromfinancialinstruments(cont’d)
(b) Liquidityrisk
TheGrouphasborrowingfacilitiesavailabletoit.Theundrawncommittedfacilitiesavailableat31December2007and2006are
showninnote22.
ThefollowingarethematuritydatesoftheGroup’sfinancialliabilities:
Within1year,
orrepayable
ondemand
Within
1-2years
Within
2-5years
Morethan
5years Total
Asat31December2007 »m »m »m »m »m
»260.0mfixed/floatingSubordinatedNotes2026 ^ ^ ^ 260.0 260.0
PreferenceSharecapital ^ ^ ^ 0.8 0.8
Tradeandotherpayables
Tradecreditors 3.1^^^ 3.1
Othercreditors^short-term 29.0^^^ 29.0
^long-term ^ 0.1 0.5 0.8 1.4
Accruals^short-term 18.8^^^ 18.8
^long-term ^ 0.4 1.1 4.3 5.8
50.9 0.5 1.6 265.9 318.9
Asat31December2006
»260.0mfixed/floatingSubordinatedNotes2026 ^ ^ ^ 260.0 260.0
PreferenceSharecapital ^ ^ ^ 0.8 0.8
»50.0mrevolvingcreditfacility(»5.0mdrawndown) 5.0^^^ 5.0
Tradeandotherpayables
Tradecreditors 4.4^^^ 4.4
AmountsowedtoFriendsProvidentGroup 0.1^^^ 0.1
Othercreditors^short-term 32.2^^^ 32.2
^long-term ^ 0.2 0.4 1.0 1.6
Accruals^short-term 21.5^^^ 21.5
^long-term ^ ^ ^ 2.4 2.4
63.2 0.2 0.4 264.2 328.0
ThematuritydatesoftheGroup’sfinancialliabilitieshavebeendeterminedbyreferencetotheearliestcontractualdatewhichthe
thirdpartycoulddemandpaymentandrepresentsundiscountedcashflows.
131 37. Theextentofrisksarisingfromfinancialinstruments(cont’d)
(c) Marketrisk
(i) Marketpricerisk
Theanalysisoffinancialassetswhichareexposedtomarketpriceriskisasfollows:
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Financialassetsatfairvaluethroughprofitorloss
Otherfinancialinvestments 8.6 3.8
Stockofunitsandshares 0.8 0.7
9.4 4.5
DetailsoftheassetsheldbytheGroup’sdefinedbenefitpensionschemes,whicharealsoexposedtomarketpriceriskaregivenin
note26.
(ii) Otherpricerisk
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Availableforsalefinancialassets
Otherfinancialinvestments 3.8 2.1
(iii) Currencyrisk
TheGroupisexposedtocurrencyriskatthebalancesheetdateinrespectof:
(i) financialassetsandliabilitiesdenominatedinforeigncurrencies;and
(ii) theforeigncurrencyriskofnetassetsofforeignoperations.
Thenetmonetaryassetsandnetinvestmentinforeignoperations,inSterling,whichareattributabletotheequityholdersand
whicharedenominatedinforeigncurrenciesare:
Euro USDollar Other Total
»m »m »m »m
31December2007 81.0 3.2 0.1 84.3
31December2006 107.0 1.3 ^ 108.3
Theabovetableexcludesintangibleassets.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
132 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
37. Theextentofrisksarisingfromfinancialinstruments(cont’d)
(iv) Interest-raterisk
ThefollowingtablessetoutthecarryingamountandmaturityprofileoftheGroup’sfinancialinstrumentsthatareexposedto
interestraterisk:
Within
1year
Within
1-2years
Within
2-5years
Morethan
5years
Yearended31December2007 »m »m »m »m
Fixedrate
»260.0mfixed/floatingSubordinatedNotes2026 ^ ^ ^ (260.0)
Otherfinancialinvestments^corporatebonds ^ ^ 2.0 1.0
Floatingrates
Cashandcashequivalents^shareholder 216.2^^^
PreferenceSharecapital ^ ^ ^ (0.8)
216.2 ^ 2.0 (259.8)
Yearended31December2006
Fixedrate
»260.0mfixed/floatingSubordinatedNotes2026 ^ ^ ^ (260.0)
Floatingrates
Tradeandotherreceivables(Loantoassociate) 2.5^^^
Cashandcashequivalents^shareholder 214.3^^^
»50.0mRevolvingcreditloan(»5.0mdrawndown) (5.0) ^ ^ ^
PreferenceSharecapital ^ ^ ^ (0.8)
211.8 ^ ^ (260.8)
133 37. Theextentofrisksarisingfromfinancialinstruments(cont’d)
(v) Sensitivityanalysis
TheGrouphasquantifiedtheimpactofspecificchangesinitssignificantmarketriskvariables.Thisanalysismeasuresthechange
infairvalueandcashflowsoftheGroup’sfinancialinstruments.
Thesensitivityanalysis,whichisforillustrativepurposesonly,ispreparedbasedonfinancialinstrumentsthatarerecognisedatthe
balancesheetdates.Thesensitivityassumeschangesincertainmarketconditions.Theseassumptionsmaydiffermateriallyfrom
theactualoutturnduetotheinherentuncertaintiesinglobalfinancialmarkets.Inpractice,marketrisksrarelychangeinisolation
andarelikelytobeinterdependent.Themethodsandassumptionsusedarethesameforbothreportingperiods.
Changesinmarketinterestratesassumeanincreaseordecreaseof1.0%intherateappliedtoaveragecashbalancesintheyear.
Theestimatedchangesinfairvaluesofinvestmentsassumea10.0%increaseordecreaseinthefairvaluesofinvestmentsatthe
reportingdate,withallothervariablesremainingconstant.
Changesinexchangeratesassumeaninstantaneousincreaseordecreaseof10.0%forforeigncurrencytosterlingratesatthe
reportingdate,withallothervariablesremainingconstant.
Themarketrisksensitivitiesoftheriskvariables,aftertaxation,aresummarisedbelow:
Profitorloss Profitorloss Equity Equity
sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity
Asat31December2007 »m »m »m »m
Exchangeratemovement +10% -10% +10% -10%
Currency
Sterling/Euroexchangerates 1.0 (1.2) 7.0 (8.5)
Sterling/USDexchangerates 0.2 (0.3) 0.2 (0.3)
Fairvaluemovement +10% ^10% +10% ^10%
Investments
Sterlingequityprices 0.6 (0.6) 0.9 (0.9)
Interestratemovement +1% ^1% +1% ^1%
Sterlingmarketinterestrates 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5)
Asat31December2006
Exchangeratemovement +10% ^10% +10% ^10%
Currency
Sterling/Euroexchangerates 1.8 (2.1) 7.2 (8.7)
Sterling/USDexchangerates 0.1 (0.1) 0.1 (0.1)
Fairvaluemovement +10% ^10% +10% ^10%
Investments
Sterlingequityprices 0.4 (0.4) 0.5 (0.5)
Interestratemovement +1% ^1% +1% ^1%
Sterlingmarketinterestrates 1.1 (1.1) 1.1 (1.1)
Thesensitivityanalysishasbeenpreparedbasedontheimpactapercentageincreaseordecreaseinthemarketconditionswould
haveontheprofitorlossandontotalequity.
Themethodusedisforillustrativepurposesonlyandmaybeunrepresentativeofactualchangesinmarketconditions.Often
marketconditionsareinter-dependentandtheactualimpactofapercentagechangeinmarketconditionsmayhaveother
impactsonprofitorlossorequity.
Impairmentoffinancialassetscanalsobeaffectedbychangesintherelevantunderlyingrisk.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
134 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
37. Theextentofrisksarisingfromfinancialinstruments(cont’d)
(d) Capital
AsummaryoftheGroup’scapitalandthenetassetswhichitrepresentsisshownbelow:
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Sharecapital 0.5 0.5
Sharepremiumaccount 33.8 32.6
Mergerreserve 499.3 520.7
Otherreserves 13.6 (2.7)
Retainedearnings 145.2 132.3
Minorityinterests 1.1 0.4
Totalequity 693.5 683.8
Netassets 693.5 683.8
38. Insuranceriskmanagement
TheGroup’sinsurancecontractsareallannuitycontractswhichguaranteepaymentduringthelifetimeoftheannuitantata
specifiedlevelorwithaspecifiedescalationfactor.Theyareall100%reinsuredtoFriendsProvidentPensionsLimited.
TheonlyriskthattheGroupissubjecttoinrespectofthesecontractsisthecreditriskofthereinsurer.Giventhesmallamountat
risk(»2.3mat31December2007;»2.4mat31December2006)thisisnotconsideredsignificant.
39. Subsidiaryundertakings
Theprincipalentitiescontrolledbytheparentundertakingareasfollows:
Percentage
interestand
votingrights
Countryof
registrationor
incorporation Natureofbusiness
(i)UnitedKingdom
FPAssetManagementHoldingsLimited
(1)
100 England Holdingcompany
F&CPropertyAssetManagementplc
(1)
100 England Propertyinvestmentmanagement
F&CAssetManagementServicesLimited
(1)
100 Scotland Employeeservicecompany
ISISEquityPartnersHoldingsLimited
(1)
100 England Holdingcompany
ISISInvestmentManagerplc
(1)
100 England Investmentmanagement
F&CManagedPensionFundsLimited
(1)
100 England Unit-linkedpooledpensionsbusiness
F&CTreasuryLimited
(1)
100 England Treasurymanagementcompany
F&CGroup(Holdings)Limited
(1)
100 England Holdingcompany
F&CGroupESOPTrusteeLimited
(1)
100 Scotland ESOPTrustee
F&CInvestmentBusinessLimited
(1)
100 Scotland InvestmentTrustmanagement
FPFundManagersLimited
(2)
100 England Investmentmanagement
F&CAssetManagersLimited
(2)
100 England Investmentmanagement
F&CPropertyLimited
(2)
100 England Propertyinvestmentmanagement
F&CPropertyInvestmentsLimited
(3)
100 England Propertyinvestmentmanagement
F&CFundManagementLimited
(3)
100 England OEICinvestmentmanagement
F&CManagersLimited(formerlyISISInvestment
ManagementLimited)
(3)
100 England Investmentmanagement
WAMHoldingsLimited
(4)
100 England Holdingcompany
F&CUnitManagementLimited
(5)
100 England OEICinvestmentmanagement
FCEMHoldings(UK)Limited
(5)
100 England Holdingcompany
F&C(CI)Limited
(6)
100 England Investmentcompany
F&CInvestmentServicesLimited
(6)
100 England Investmentmanagement
F&CManagementLimited
(6)
100 England Investmentmanagement
F&CAlternativeInvestments(Holdings)Limited
(7)
100 England Investmentholdingcompany
F&CGroupManagementLimited
(7)
100 England Holdingcompany
F&CEmergingMarketsLimited
(8)
100 England Investmentmanagement
F&CHoldingsLimited
(9)
100 England Holdingcompany
135 39. Subsidiaryundertakings(cont’d)
Percentage
interestand
votingrights
Countryof
registrationor
incorporation Natureofbusiness
(i)UnitedKingdom(cont’d)
F&CPartnersLLP
(10)
60 England Hedgefundinvestmentmanagement
F&CPrivateEquityNomineesLimited
(11)
100 England Investmentcompany
F&CEuropeanCapitalPartners(GP)Limited
(1)
100 Scotland GeneralPartner
F&CEuropeanCapitalPartners(Founder
Partner)LP
(1)
50 Scotland FounderPartner
(ii)Overseas
F&CChannelIslandsLimited
(5)
100 Jersey Employeeservicescompany
F&CNetherlandsB.V.
(7)
100 TheNetherlands Investmentmanagement
F&CIrelandLimited
(7)
100 RepublicofIreland Investmentmanagement
F&CPortugalGestaodePatrimoniosS.A.
(7)
100 Portugal Investmentmanagement
F&CLuxembourgS.A.
(7)
100 Luxembourg Investmentmanagement
F&CManagementLuxembourgS.A.
(7)
100 Luxembourg Investmentmanagement
(1)
OwnedbyF&CAssetManagementplc
(2)
OwnedbyFPAssetManagementHoldingsLimited
(3)
OwnedbyWAMHoldingsLimited
(4)
OwnedbyF&CTreasuryLimited
(5)
OwnedbyF&CManagementLimited
(6)
OwnedbyF&CHoldingsLimited
(7)
OwnedbyF&CGroup(Holdings)Limited
(8)
OwnedbyFCEMHoldings(UK)Limited
(9)
OwnedbyF&CGroupManagementLimited
(10)
OwnedbyF&CAlternativeInvestments(Holdings)Limited
(11)
OwnedbyF&C(CI)Limited
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
136 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
40. Relatedpartytransactions
Intheordinarycourseofbusiness,theCompanyanditssubsidiaryundertakingscarryouttransactionswithrelatedparties,as
definedbyIAS24‘RelatedPartyDisclosures’.Materialtransactionsfortheyeararesetoutbelow.
TheprincipalsubsidiaryundertakingsoftheCompanyareshowninnote39anditsinterestsinassociatesareshowninnote15.
Duringtheyear,theGroupenteredintothefollowingtransactionswithrelatedparties:
(a) CompensationofkeymanagementpersonneloftheGroup
Inaggregatethesearesetoutbelow:
Total
compensation
Outstandingat
31December
Total
compensation
Outstandingat
31December
2007 2007 2006 2006
»m »m »m »m
Short-termemployeebenefits 9.6 5.3 6.4 3.4
Post-employmentbenefits 1.4 ^ 1.0 ^
Terminationbenefits ^^ 0.4 ^
Share-basedpayments:
^ recurringarrangements 3.8 ^ 0.5 ^
^ Re-InvestmentPlan 5.4 ^ 5.6 ^
Total 20.2 5.3 13.9 3.4
Wherekeymanagementpersonnelparticipateindefinedbenefitpensionschemeswhichhavebeenaccountedforassuchunder
IAS19,theamountincludedascompensationreflectsthecurrentserviceand/orpastservicecostfortherelevantyear.Wherekey
managementpersonnelaremembersofmulti-employerdefinedbenefitarrangementsordefinedcontributionschemes,thebenefits
shownreflectthecontributionspayableforeachyear.
Theshare-basedpaymentsdisclosedinthetableabovereflectthevalueofanyshare-basedpaymentsvestingduringtheyear.
Thisisquantifiedastheaggregateofcashpaymentsplusthefairvalueofsharesonthedateofvesting(excludingany
considerationpayableonexercise)ofsuchshare-basedpaymentawards.
(b) TransactionswithkeymanagementpersonneloftheGroup
Appropriationsofprofitspaidtokeymanagementareasfollows:
2007
»m
Outstandingat
31December
2007
»m
2006
»m
Outstandingat
31December
2006
»m
Ordinarydividendspaid 0.1 ^ 0.1 ^
DistributionspaidtoMinorityinterests 0.9 1.1 0.5 0.4
137 40. Relatedpartytransactions(cont’d)
(c) Transactionsandbalanceswithrelatedparties
Transactionswithrelatedpartiesduring2007and2006andoutstandingbalanceswiththesepartiesasat31December2007and
31December2006aregivenbelow,byeachgroupofrelatedparties.
(i) RelatedpartytransactionswiththeFriendsProvidentGroup(FPGroup)
FriendsProvidentplcistheparentundertakingandultimatecontrollingpartyoftheF&CGroup.
CompanieswithintheF&CGroupprovideinvestmentmanagementservicestocompaniesintheFPGroupandareentitledto
receivemanagementfeesinlinewiththecontractualtermsofrelevantinvestmentmanagementagreements.
CompanieswithintheFPGroupprovide,undertheSharedServicesAgreement,servicesinrespectofaccountingandother
professionalservices.Feesarepaidmonthlyinarrears.TheSharedServicesAgreementisterminableonsixmonths’writtennotice
byeitherparty.TheinvestmentmanagementagreementswiththeFPGroupareterminablewithtwelvemonths’notice,butrevertto
long-termcontractsofbetween5and10years,frominception,ifFriendsProvident’sshareholdingintheCompanyweretofall
below50%.
Totalinvoiced
andaccrued
during2007
Outstandingat
31December
2007
Totalinvoiced
andaccrued
during2006
Outstandingat
31December
2006
»m »m »m »m
Managementfees
Managementfees 35.8 2.5 33.4 (0.6)
Amountsoutstandingat31Decemberareincludedwithin
tradedebtorsandaccruedincomeorothercreditors
asappropriate.
Sharedservicesandadministrationservices
Sharedservicefees 0.3 ^ 0.3 ^
Administrationservicefees 0.7 ^ 0.7 0.1
Amountsoutstandingat31Decemberareincludedwithin
accruals.
Otherrecharges
OtherrechargestotheFPGroup 2.5 2.4 0.5 ^
OtherrechargesfromtheFPGroup 0.3 (0.9) 0.1 (0.1)
Otherrechargesincludeschargesmadetoorfromthe
FPGroupforpremises,staffcostsandotherrelatedexpenditure.
Amountsoutstandingat31Decemberareincludedwithin
amountsowedby/toFriendsProvidentGroup.
Dividendsandinterestpayable
Ordinarydividends 22.8 ^ 27.6 ^
DividendsonPreferenceShares 0.1 ^ 0.1 ^
Loaninterest 0.1 ^ 12.1 ^
Amountsoutstandingat31Decemberareincludedwithin
amountsowedtoFPGroup.
Othertransactions
Reinsurancepremiums (1.9) ^ (0.2) ^
Reinsuranceclaims 0.1 ^ 0.1 ^
NetinvestmentinpropertyfundsrepresentsamountsinvestedthroughthePropertyFundofFriendsProvidentLifeAssurance
Limited,asubsidiaryundertakingofFriendsProvidentplc.
TheGroup’sinsurancecontractsareallannuitycontractsandare100%reinsuredtoFriendsProvidentPensionsLimited,a
subsidiaryundertakingofFriendsProvidentplc.
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
138 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
40. Relatedpartytransactions(cont’d)
OEICsandprivateequitySPVs
WheretheFPGroupcontrolsanF&CmanagedOEICorprivateequityspecialpurposevehicle,itisrequiredtoconsolidatethem
andhencetheinvestmentmanagementfeesreceivedbyF&Carerelatedpartytransactions.
Totalinvoiced
andaccrued
during2007
Outstandingat
31December
2007
Totalinvoiced
andaccrued
during2006
Outstandingat
31December
2006
»m »m »m »m
Investmentmanagementfees 10.7 0.9 8.5 0.7
Carriedinterestreceipts ^^ 2.4 ^
LoansduetotheFPGroup
DetailsofloansduetotheFPGroupareshowninnote23.
(ii) RelatedpartytransactionswithEurekoB.V.andsubsidiarycompanies(EurekoGroup)
SincetheacquisitionofF&CGroup(Holdings)Limitedin2004,theEurekoGrouphasheldinexcessof10%oftheOrdinary
SharesoftheCompanyandisentitledtoBoardrepresentation.Consequently,transactionsbetweentheF&CGroupandthe
EurekoGroupareconsideredtoberelatedpartytransactions.
CompanieswithintheF&CGroupprovideinvestmentmanagementservicestotheEurekoGroup.F&CGrouphasentitlementto
receivemanagementfeesinlinewiththecontractedtermsofrelevantinvestmentmanagementagreements.TheAchmeaGroup
investmentmanagementagreementsreferredtobelowaredeemedsignificant.Theseagreementsaresubjecttolongterm
contractsterminableon12months’noticefallingonoraftertheninthanniversaryoftheircommencementdate(typically
October2004).IntheeventofachangeofcontrolwherebyathirdpartyacquiresacontrollinginterestinF&C,whetherdirectlyor
indirectly(asaresultofachangeofcontroloccurringwithinFriendsProvident),immediateterminationispossiblewith
compensationpayabletoF&CbytheAchmeaGroupbasedonrevenuestream.
CompanieswithintheEurekoGroupprovide,undertheTransitionalServicesAgreement,servicesinrespectofinvestment
accountingandotheradministrationservices.
Totalinvoiced
andaccrued
during2007
Outstandingat
31December
2007
Totalinvoiced
andaccrued
during2006
Outstandingat
31December
2006
»m »m »m »m
Sharedservicesandadministrativeservices:
FriendsFirst 0.1 ^ 0.1 0.1
AchmeaGroup 0.3 ^ 1.3 ^
Amountsoutstandingat31Decemberareincludedwithin
tradecreditorsandaccruals
Managementfees:
AchmeaGroup 32.4 5.9 29.1 3.6
FriendsFirst 3.8 0.3 4.1 0.4
Imperio 0.4 0.1 0.4 0.1
Amountsoutstandingat31Decemberareincludedwithin
tradedebtorsandaccruedincome.
DividendsandloaninterestpayabletoEurekoB.V.:
Ordinarydividends 7.5 ^ 10.9 ^
Loaninterest ^^ 0.5 ^
Amountsowedfrom/toEureko
Inadditiontotheabove,theGroupwasowed»6.5mat31December2007(31December2006:»4.8m)byEurekoB.V.andits
subsidiaries.TheGroupowedEurekoB.V.»2.9mat31December2007(31December2006:»2.9m)asdisclosedinnote16(a).
TheGroupalsoowedEurekoB.V.»3.8mat31December2007(31December2006:»3.8m)inrespectoftaxationbalances.
139 40. Relatedpartytransactions(cont’d)
(iii) Relatedpartytransactionswithassociates
ISISEPLLP
Totalinvoiced
andaccrued
during2007
Outstandingat
31December
2007
Totalinvoiced
andaccrued
during2006
Outstandingat
31December
2006
AmountschargedbytheGrouptoISISEPLLP »m »m »m »m
Sharedservicecosts 0.6 n/a 1.0 1.2
Otherrecharges 0.4 n/a 0.2 0.1
Profitshare 0.6 n/a 1.4 1.4
InaccordancewiththeTerminationAgreement,ISISEPLLPrepaid»1.0mofthenon-voting,non-participatingBclasscapitalin2007.
At31December2007»1.5moftheBclasscapitalisduetoberepaidinfutureperiods,togetherwith»0.1mofundistributedprofitshare.
(iv) Post-employmentbenefitplans
PensionSchemes
TheGroupoperatesandparticipatesinseveralpost-employmentbenefitplansasdetailedinnote26.
TheGroupcontributedamountstothedefinedbenefitplansandhadamountsoutstandingat31Decembereachyearasfollows:
2007 2006
Employer Outstandingat Employer Outstandingat
contributions 31December contributions 31December
»m »m »m »m
F&CManagementLimitedPensionFund 0.2 ^ 1.2 ^
F&CAssetManagementPensionPlan
(formerlyISISAssetManagementplcPensionFund) 10.6 ^ 2.3 ^
F&CPortugal
(1)
0.5 ^ 0.3 ^
F&CNetherlands 0.8 ^ 0.6 ^
F&CIreland
(2)
0.4 ^ 0.1 ^
12.5 4.5
(1)
incorporatedwithintheFundodePenso ‹ esdoGrupoBancoComercialPortugue “sscheme.
(2)
incorporatedwithintheFriendsFirstRetirementandDeathBenefitsPlanin2006.
Inadditiontotheabove,theGrouphasanunfundedobligationtoprovidetheChairman,MrRWJenkins,withapensionas
detailedinnote26.
TheGroupmanagestheassetsoftheF&CAssetManagementplcPensionPlan(formerlytheISISAssetManagementplcPension
Fund).Theassetsoftheschemetotalled»139.9mat31December2007(31December2006:»124.8mwhichincludesthe
F&CManagementPensionPlan).Inaddition,theGroupmanages»978.8m(31December2006:»779.1m)ofinvestmentsinrespect
ofFriendsProvident’smaindefinedbenefitpensionscheme.TheGroupreceivedthefollowinginvestmentmanagementfeesfrom
theseschemes:
2007 2006
Fees Outstandingat Fees Outstandingat
receivable 31December receivable 31December
»m »m »m »m
F&CManagementPensionPlan 0.2 ^ 0.2 0.1
F&CAssetManagementPensionPlan 0.2 ^ 0.2 ^
FriendsProvidentPensionScheme 0.9 0.2 0.9 0.2
NotestotheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
140 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
41. CapitalRequirementsDirective
UnderPillar3oftheCapitalRequirementsDirective,prescribedintheUKbytheFinancialServicesAuthority,theGroupisrequired
todiscloseinformationrelatingtoitsrisksanditscapitalandriskmanagementobjectivesandpolicies.TheGroup’sPillar3
disclosuresaregivenontheCompany’swebsite.
42. PostBalanceSheetevents
On31January2008,FriendsProvidentplc,theCompany’s52percentmajorityshareholder,announcedtheresultsofitsstrategic
review.AmongtheconclusionsannouncedbyFriendsProvidentwasthatwealthmanagementwasnolongercoretoitsstrategy
andasaresultitmayseektodivestofitsshareholdinginF&C.TheF&CBoardisworkingwithFriendsProvidenttofindasolution
whichwillmeettheneedsofallparties.
TheDirectorsdonotbelievethisannouncementhasanymaterialfinancialimpactonthefinancialpositionoftheGroupat
31December2007,asreportedherein.Whilstnocertaintyexistsastothepotentialoutcome,itispossiblethatacourseofaction
couldtriggerchangeofcontrolclauseswhichexistwithinanumberoftheGroup’scontractualarrangements.
43. Parentundertakingandcontrollingparty
IntheopinionoftheDirectors,theGroup’sultimateparentundertakingandcontrollingpartyisFriendsProvidentplc.
FriendsProvidentplcisincorporatedinEnglandandWales.CopiesoftheFriendsProvidentAnnualReportandAccounts
canbeobtainedfromtheCompanySecretary,PixhamEnd,Dorking,SurreyRH41QA.
141 Historicalsummaries
InternationalFinancialReportingStandards(‘‘IFRS’’)hasbeenadoptedfortheyearsending31December2004,2005,2006and
2007.Fortheyearending31December2003theGroupFinancialStatementswerepreparedunderUKGAAP.Thefiveyear
historicalsummariesthereforearenotdirectlycomparable.Themainchangeswhichwouldberequiredfortheyearended
31December2003tocomplywithIFRSrelatetobothpresentationalandmeasurementitems.TheFiveYearRecordisnotpartof
theauditedfinancialstatements.
Groupprofitandlossaccount
UKGAAP
2003
#
»m
Turnover
Groupturnover 110.6
Sellingexpenses (2.7)
Netrevenue 107.9
Administrativeexpenses
Expenses,excludingamortisationofgoodwill (73.5)
Amortisationofgoodwill (22.2)
Totaladministrativeexpenses (95.7)
Otheroperatingincome 1.1
Groupoperatingprofit 13.3
Exceptionalcosts (12.3)
Gainondisposalofsubsidiaryundertaking 1.0
Otherfinanceincome/(expenditure) (0.2)
Interestandinvestmentincomereceivable 1.0
Interestpayable (11.4)
Lossonordinaryactivitiesbeforetaxation (8.6)
Taxonlossonordinaryactivities (3.1)
Lossonordinaryactivitiesaftertaxation (11.7)
DividendonCumulativePreferenceShares ^
Lossattributabletoordinaryshareholders (11.7)
Interimdividend (6.0)
Finaldividend (10.5)
Transferredfromreserves (28.2)
UnderlyingearningsperOrdinaryShare 12.04p
LossperOrdinaryShare (7.83)p
DilutedlossperOrdinaryShare (7.83)p
Dividends
InterimdividendperOrdinaryShare 4.00p
FinaldividendperOrdinaryShare 7.00p
11.00p
Dividendcover (0.71)
Dividendcoverbeforeamortisationofgoodwill,gainondisposalofsubsidiaryundertakingandexceptionalcosts 1.10
#
Thefinancialstatementsfortheyearended31December2003areasrestatedtocomplywithUITF38‘AccountingforESOPTrusts’.
FiveYearRecord
142 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
ConsolidatedIncomeStatements
IFRS*
2004
»m
IFRS
2005
»m
IFRS
2006
»m
IFRS
2007
»m
Revenue
Investmentmanagementfees 154.5 277.3 257.6 267.2
Otherincome 3.3 0.7 3.7 10.6
Totalrevenue 157.8 278.0 261.3 277.8
Feeandcommissionexpenses (5.9) (10.9) (10.5) (13.3)
Netrevenue 151.9 267.1 250.8 264.5
Netgainsandinvestmentincomeonunit-linkedassets 93.6 162.6 106.7 45.0
Movementsinfairvalueofunit-linkedliabilities (92.4) (161.3) (105.0) (43.9)
Operatingexpenses
Operatingexpenses (101.4) (150.7) (159.4) (183.8)
InvestmentTrustVATexpense ^ ^ ^ (4.2)
Re-InvestmentPlancosts (5.4) (22.2) (11.6) (6.4)
Amortisationofintangibleassets^managementcontracts (20.8) (55.8) (43.0) (42.4)
Impairmentofintangibleassets^managementcontracts ^ (111.5) (58.5) ^
Totaloperatingexpensesbeforerestructuringcosts (127.6) (340.2) (272.5) (236.8)
Operatingprofit/(loss)beforerestructuringcosts 25.5 (71.8) (20.0) 28.8
Restructuringcosts:
^ ReorganisationcostspostacquisitionofF&CGHGroup (18.3) (22.4) (9.7) ^
^ Operationsoutsourcing (0.9) (2.2) ^ ^
Operatingprofit/(loss)afterrestructuringcosts 6.3 (96.4) (29.7) 28.8
Financerevenue 4.6 15.6 20.6 23.8
Financecosts (15.0) (19.5) (22.0) (27.3)
Impairmentinassociatesandotherfinancialinvestments ^ (5.0) (0.8) ^
Lossondisposalofsubsidiariesandassociates ^ (0.7) (0.1) ^
Shareof(loss)/profitofassociates (0.3) (0.3) 1.5 0.6
(Loss)/profitbeforetax (4.4) (106.3) (30.5) 25.9
Tax^Policyholders (0.4) (0.1) (0.9) (0.6)
Tax^Shareholders 1.3 29.1 8.9 (6.6)
Taxincome/(expense) 0.9 29.0 8.0 (7.2)
(Loss)/profitfortheyear (3.5)(77.3)(22.5) 18.7
Attributableto:
Equityholdersoftheparent (3.5) (77.3) (23.5) 17.1
Minorityinterests ^ ^ 1.0 1.6
(Loss)/profitfortheyear (3.5)(77.3)(22.5) 18.7
UnderlyingEarningsperOrdinaryShare 12.76p 15.90p 12.80p 10.37p
Basic(loss)/earningsperOrdinaryShare (1.60)p (16.36)p (4.91)p 3.54p
Diluted(loss)/earningsperOrdinaryShare (1.60)p (16.36)p (4.91)p 3.43p
Dividends
Memo
Finaldividendfor2003,2004,2005and2006 10.5 32.9 33.5 33.8
Interimdividendfor2004,2005,2006and2007 6.0 18.9 19.2 9.7
16.5 51.8 52.7 43.5
FinaldividendperOrdinarySharefor2003,2004,2005and2006 7.0p 7.0p 7.0p 7.0p
InterimdividendperOrdinarySharefor2004,2005,2006and2007 4.0p 4.0p 4.0p 2.0p
Dividendcover
  (0.21) (1.58) (0.45) 0.39
Dividendcoverbeforeamortisationandimpairmentofintangibles,
BCPcompensationreceipt,restructuringcosts,InvestmentTrustVATexpenseand
thecostoftheRe-InvestmentPlan
  1.72 1.45 1.17 1.15
* asrestatedforIFRS.
  basedonthedividendspaidduring2004,2005,2006and2007.
143 TheseFinancialStatementshavebeenpreparedinaccordancewithUKGAAP.
TheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsoftheF&CAssetManagementGroup,givenon
pages52to141,havebeenpreparedinaccordancewithIFRS.
F&CAssetManagementplc
CompanyFinancialStatements
fortheyearended31December2007
144 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
CompanyBalanceSheet
asat31December2007
Notes
Asat
31December
2007
»m
Asat
31December
2006
»m
Fixedassets
Intangiblefixedassets 4 ^ 1.1
Tangiblefixedassets 5 3.5 4.3
Investmentsinsubsidiaries 6 1,103.4 1,092.1
Otherinvestments 7 7.9 1.6
1,114.8 1,099.1
Currentassets
Debtors^amountsfallingdue:
Withinoneyear 8 152.8 239.3
Outwithoneyear 8 61.9 3.2
Cashandshort-termdeposits 1.8 0.1
216.5 242.6
Creditors(amountsfallingduewithinoneyear) 9 (12.6) (22.5)
Netcurrentassets 203.9 220.1
Totalassetslesscurrentliabilities 1,318.7 1,319.2
Creditors(amountsfallingdueoutwithoneyear) 9 (258.7) (258.5)
Provisionsforliabilities 10 (5.5) (5.8)
Netassetsexcludingpensiondeficit 1,054.5 1,054.9
Pensiondeficit 13 ^ (12.8)
Netassetsincludingpensiondeficit 1,054.5 1,042.1
Capitalandreserves
Calledupordinarysharecapital 14,15 0.5 0.5
Sharepremiumaccount 15 33.8 32.6
Mergerreserve 15 912.7 912.7
Otherreserves 15 59.8 45.4
Profitandlossaccount 15 47.7 50.9
Totalshareholders’funds 15 1,054.5 1,042.1
ThefinancialstatementswereapprovedbytheBoardofDirectorsandauthorisedforissueon20March2008.Theyweresignedonits
behalfby:
RobertJenkins AlainGrisay
Chairman ChiefExecutive
145 Basisofpreparation
TheseparatefinancialstatementsoftheCompanyarepresentedasrequiredbytheCompaniesActandarepreparedunderthe
historicalcostconventionandinaccordancewithapplicableaccountingstandardsintheUnitedKingdom.
InaccordancewithSection230oftheCompaniesAct1985aseparateProfitandLossAccountfortheCompanyisnotpresented.
TheCompanyhasadoptedFRS29(IFRS7)‘FinancialInstrumentDisclosure’duringtheyear.
TheCompanyhastakenadvantageoftheexemptioninFRS29‘FinancialInstruments:DisclosureandPresentation’andhasnot
disclosedtheinformationrequiredbythatstandardbecausetheCompanyisincludedintheConsolidatedFinancialStatements
whicharepubliclyavailableandincludedisclosuresgivenunderIFRS7‘FinancialInstruments:Disclosures’.
Turnover
Turnovercomprisesincomefrominvestmentmanagementservices.
Assetmanagementfees,investmentadvisoryfeesandotherrevenuegeneratedbytheCompany’sinvestmentmanagement
activitiesarerecognisedintheProfitandLossAccountovertheperiodforwhichtheseinvestmentmanagementservices
areprovided.
Performancefeesarerecognisedwhenthequantumofthefeecanbeestimatedreliably,whichiswhentheperformanceperiod
ends,whenthisoccursonorbeforethereportingdate,orwherethereisaperiodoflessthansixmonthsremainingtotheendof
theperformanceperiodandthereisevidenceatthereportingdatewhichsuggeststhatthecurrentperformancewillbe
sustainable.
Dividendrecognition
Dividendsreceivableanddividendspayablearerecognisedonlywhentheyhavebeendeclaredandapprovedoratthedateof
paymentforinterimdividends.
Intangiblefixedassets
Intangiblefixedassetsacquiredseparatelyaremeasuredoninitialrecognitionatcost.Followinginitialrecognition,intangiblefixed
assetsarecarriedatcostlessaccumulatedamortisationandanyaccumulatedimpairmentlosses.
Theusefullivesofmanagementcontractsarefiniteandareamortisedonastraight-linebasisovertheirestimatedcontractterm,
dependingonthenatureofthecontract,withamortisationbeingchargedtotheProfitandLossAccount.Theamortisationperiod
isreviewedateachfinancialyear-end.Theestimatedusefulliveshavebeenassessedasbeing20yearsfromdateofacquisition.
Investmentsinsubsidiaries
Investmentsinsubsidiariesarecarriedatcostlessimpairment.Thecostincludestheupliftarisingfromtheequity-settled
share-basedpaymentscalculatedinaccordancewithFRS20(IFRS2)‘Share-basedPayment’,wherenocashcontributionsare
madebythesubsidiaries.Theupliftiscreditedtoacapitalcontributionreserveinequity.TheCompanyrechargescertainnon-UK
subsidiarieswhenitsatisfiestheseequity-settledawards.
Tangiblefixedassets
Tangiblefixedassetsarestatedatcostlessaccumulateddepreciationandaccumulatedimpairmentlosses.
Expenditureontangiblefixedassetsiscapitalisedoninitialrecognition.Subsequentexpenditureisonlycapitalisedwhenitis
probablethattherewillbefutureeconomicbenefitsassociatedwiththeexpenditurewhichcanbemeasuredreliably.Allother
expenditureisrecognisedintheProfitandLossAccountasanexpenseasincurred.
Tangiblefixedassetsaredepreciated,usingthestraight-linemethod,towriteoffthecostofassetsovertheirestimatedusefullives,
asfollows:
Leaseholdimprovements ^ 10years
Officefurniture&equipment ^ 3-5years
Computerequipment ^ 3years
Thecarryingvalueofassetsandtheirusefullivesarereviewedateachreportingdate.Ifanindicationofimpairmentexists,the
assetsarewrittendowntotheirrecoverableamountandtheimpairmentischargedtotheProfitandLossAccountintheyearin
whichitarises.
CompanyAccountingPolicies
146 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
Financialinstruments
Whenfinancialinstrumentsarerecognisedinitiallytheyaremeasuredatfairvalueplusdirectlyattributabletransactioncosts.
Thefairvalueofinstrumentsthatareactivelytradedinorganisedfinancialmarketsisdeterminedbyreferencetoquotedmarket
bidprices(midpriceforOpenEndedInvestmentCompanies)atthecloseofbusinessonthebalancesheetdate.
Financialinstrumentsareclassifiedintothecategoriesdescribedbelow:
(i) AvailableforsalefinancialassetsarecarriedatfairvalueintheBalanceSheet.Inrespectofunquotedinstruments,orwhere
themarketforafinancialinstrumentisnotactive,fairvalueisestablishedbyusingrecognisedvaluationmethodologies,in
accordancewithInternationalPrivateEquityandVentureCapitalValuationGuidelines.
Forunquotedinvestmentsinearlystageenterprisesandenterpriseswithrevenuesbutwithoutsignificantprofitsor
significantpositivecashflows,fairvalueisdeterminedusingthe‘‘PriceofaRecentInvestment’’method.Repaymentsare
treatedasreductionstocarryingvalue.Afteranappropriateperiod,anassessmentismadeastowhetherthe
circumstancesoftheinvestmenthavechangedsuchthatanothervaluationmethodologyisappropriateorthereisany
evidenceofdeteriorationorstrongdefensibleevidenceofanincreaseinvalue.Intheabsenceoftheseindicators,fairvalue
isdeterminedtobethatreportedatthepreviousbalancesheetdate.
Unquotedinvestmentswithrevenues,maintainableprofitsand/ormaintainablecashflowsarevaluedbyderivingan
EnterpriseValueoftheunderlyingbusiness.
Movementsinfairvalue,otherthanimpairmentlossesandforeignexchangemovementsonmonetaryassets,aretakento
thefairvaluereserveinequityuntilderecognitionoftheasset,atwhichtimethecumulativeamountinthisreserveis
recognisedintheProfitandLossAccount.Thefollowingassetsareclassifiedasavailableforsale:
. Fixedassets
^ Otherinvestments
(ii) Financialinstrumentsatfairvaluethroughprofitorlossincludeinvestmentswhichhavebeenspecificallydesignatedas‘at
fairvaluethroughprofitorloss’.ThesearecarriedintheBalanceSheetatfairvalueandmovementsinfairvaluearetaken
totheProfitandLossAccountintheperiodinwhichtheyarise.Thefollowingassetsareclassifiedasfinancialinstruments
atfairvaluethroughprofitorloss:
. Fixedassets
^ Otherinvestments
(iii) Loansandreceivablesaremeasuredoninitialrecognitionatfairvalueplusanyincrementalcostsincurred.Subsequentto
initialrecognition,loansandreceivablesaremeasuredatamortisedcostusingtheeffectiveinterestratemethod.Gainsand
lossesarerecognisedintheProfitandLossAccountwhenloansandreceivablesarederecognisedorimpaired,aswellas
throughtheamortisationprocess.Thefollowingassetsandliabilitiesareclassifiedasloansandreceivables:
. Fixedassets:
^ Otherinvestments
. Currentassets:
^Debtors
^ Cashandshort-termdeposits
(iv) Thefollowingliabilitiesareclassifiedasfinancialliabilities:
. Creditors(amountsfallingduewithinoneyear)
. Creditors(amountsfallingdueoutwithoneyear)
147 Financialinstruments(cont’d)
Financialliabilitiesarerecognisedatamortisedcostusingtheeffectiveinterestmethodafterinitialrecognition.
TheCompanyhasadopted‘‘tradedate’’accountingforpurchasesorsalesoffinancialassetsunderacontractwhoseterms
requiredeliveryoftheassetswithinthetimeframeestablishedinthemarketplaceconcerned.Accordingly,suchfinancial
instrumentsarerecognisedonthedatetheCompanycommitstothepurchaseoftheinvestments,andarederecognisedonthe
dateitcommitstotheirsale.
Derecognitionoffinancialassetsandliabilities
Financialassets
Afinancialassetor,whereapplicable,apartofafinancialasset,isderecognisedwhentherightstoreceivecashflowsfromthe
assethaveexpired.
Financialliabilities
Afinancialliabilityisderecognisedwhentheobligationundertheliabilityiseitherdischarged,cancelledorexpires.
Impairmentoffinancialassets
TheCompanyassessesateachbalancesheetdatewhetherafinancialassetorgroupoffinancialassetsisimpaired.
Assetscarriedatamortisedcost
Ifthereisobjectiveevidencethatanimpairmentinloansandreceivablescarriedatamortisedcosthasoccurred,theamountofthe
impairmentlossismeasuredasthedifferencebetweentheasset’scarryingamountandthepresentvalueofestimatedfuturecash
flowsdiscountedatthefinancialasset’soriginaleffectiveyield.Thecarryingamountoftheassetwouldbereducedandthe
amountofthelossrecognisedintheProfitandLossAccount.
If,inasubsequentperiod,theamountoftheimpairmentlossdecreasesandthedecreasecanberelatedobjectivelytoanevent
occurringaftertheimpairmentwasrecognised,thepreviouslyrecognisedimpairmentlossisreversed.Anysubsequentreversalof
animpairmentlossisrecognisedintheProfitandLossAccounttotheextentthatthecarryingvalueoftheassetdoesnotexceed
itsamortisedcostatthereversaldate.
Availableforsalefinancialassets
Ifanavailableforsaleassetisimpaired,anamountcomprisingthedifferencebetweenitscost(netofanyprincipalpaymentand
amortisation)anditscurrentfairvalue,lessanyimpairmentlosspreviouslyrecognisedintheProfitandLossAccount,is
transferredfromreservestotheProfitandLossAccount.Reversalsinrespectofequityinstrumentsclassifiedasavailableforsale
arenotrecognisedintheProfitandLossAccount.Reversalsofimpairmentlossesondebtinstrumentsaretakenthroughthe
ProfitandLossAccount,iftheincreaseinfairvalueoftheinstrumentcanbeobjectivelyrelatedtoaneventoccurringafterthe
impairmentlosswasrecognisedintheProfitandLossAccount.
Deferredtaxation
Deferredtaxisrecognisedinrespectofalltimingdifferencesthathaveoriginatedbutnotreversedatthebalancesheetdatewhere
transactionsoreventshaveoccurredatthatdatethatwillresultinanobligationtopaylessorreceivemoretax,withthefollowing
exceptions:
. Provisionismadefortaxongainsarisingfromtherevaluation(andsimilarfairvalueadjustments)offixedassets,orgains
ondisposaloffixedassetsthathavebeenrolledoverintoreplacementassets,onlytotheextentthat,atthebalancesheet
date,thereisacommitmenttodisposeoftheassetsconcerned.However,noprovisionismadewhere,onthebasisofall
availableevidenceatthebalancesheetdate,itismorelikelythannotthatthetaxablegainwillberolledoverinto
replacementassetsandchargedtotaxonlywhenthereplacementassetsaresold.
. Provisionismadefordeferredtaxthatwouldariseonremittanceoftheretainedearningsofoverseassubsidiariesonlyto
theextentthat,atthebalancesheetdate,dividendshavebeenaccruedasreceivable.
. DeferredtaxassetsarerecognisedonlytotheextentthattheDirectorsconsiderthatitismorelikelythannotthattherewill
besuitabletaxableprofitsfromwhichtheunderlyingtimingdifferencescanbededucted.
Deferredtaxismeasuredonanon-discountedbasisatthetaxratesthatareexpectedtoapplyintheperiodsinwhichtiming
differencesreverse,basedontaxratesandlawsenactedorsubstantivelyenactedatthebalancesheetdate.
CompanyAccountingPolicies
148 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
Operatingleases
RentalspaidunderoperatingleasesarechargedtotheProfitandLossAccountonastraight-linebasisovertheleaseterm.
LeaseincentivesarerecognisedbytheCompanyasareductionoftherentalexpense,allocatedonastraight-linebasis,overthe
shorteroftheleasetermandaperiodendingonadatefromwhichitisexpectedtheprevailingmarketrentalwillbepayable.
AccountingforEmployeeBenefitTrusts(‘EBTs’)
UITF38requiresthatownsharesarisingthroughanEBTbedeductedinarrivingatshareholders’fundsuntiltheyvest
unconditionallytotheemployees.Considerationpaidandreceivedforthepurchaseorsaleofthesesharesisincludedin
shareholders’fundsandnogainorlossisrecognised.OtherassetsandliabilitiesoftheEBTsarerecognisedasassetsand
liabilitiesofthesponsoringCompany.
OrdinarysharesoftheCompanyareheldbyEBTsinordertosatisfyanumberofF&CGroupshare-basedpaymentplansand
futureexercisesofoptionsandawardstoemployeesofsubsidiarycompanies.Thecostrelatingtotheshare-basedpaymentplans
isrecognisedinthesubsidiarycompanieswhichemploythestaffinreceiptofawardsandtheCompanyrecognisesanyfreshissue
ofsharesorre-issueofownshareswhenitoccurs.ThesesharesareincludedinthefinancialstatementsoftheCompanyas
adeductionfromshareholders’funds.TheTrusteesoftheEBTshavewaivedtheirrighttothedividendentitlementonsomeof
theseshares.
Provisions
AprovisionisrecognisedintheBalanceSheetwhentheCompanyhasalegalorconstructiveobligationasaresultofapastevent
anditisprobablethatanoutflowofeconomicbenefitswillberequiredtosettletheobligation.Iftheeffectismaterial,provisionsare
determinedbydiscountingtheexpectedfuturecashflowsatapre-taxratethatreflectscurrentmarketassessmentsofthetime
valueofmoneyand,whereappropriate,therisksspecifictotheliability.Noprovisionisestablishedwhereareliableestimateofthe
obligationcannotbemade.
WheretheCompanyexpectssomeorallofaprovisiontobereimbursed,thereimbursementisrecognisedasaseparateassetbut
onlywhenthereimbursementisvirtuallycertain.
WheretheCompanyhasobligationsunderpropertyleasesandwherethespacehasceasedtobeusedforthepurposesofthe
business,fullprovisionismadeforfuturenetoutstandingliabilitiesundersuchleasesaftertakingintoaccounttheeffectofany
expectedsub-lettingarrangements.
Pensioncosts
TheCompanyoperatedapensionschemeprovidingbenefitsonfinalpensionablesalary.Thepensionschemeassetswere
measuredusingmarketvalue.Pensionschemeliabilitiesweremeasuredusingtheprojectedunitmethodanddiscountedatthe
currentrateofreturnonahighqualitycorporatebondofequivalenttermandcurrencytotheliability.Pastservicecostsarose
whentheCompanymadeacommitmenttoprovideahigherlevelofbenefitthanpreviouslypromised.Pastservicecostswere
recognisedintheProfitandLossAccountonastraight-linebasisovertheperiodinwhichtheincreasesinbenefitvested.
Thesurplusordeficitinadefinedbenefitschemeistheexcessorshortfallofthevalueoftheassetsintheschemecomparedtothe
presentvalueoftheschemeliabilitiesandisrecognisedasanassetorliabilityoftheCompany.
Anyschemeassetreflectstheamountthatcanberecoveredthroughreducedcontributionsinthefuture,beingthepresentvalue
oftheliabilityexpectedtoarisefromfutureservicebycurrentschemememberslessthepresentvalueoffutureemployee
contributions.Thepresentvalueofthereductioninfuturecontributionswasdeterminedusingthediscountrateappliedtomeasure
thedefinedbenefitliability.Thedeferredtaxrelatingtothedefinedbenefitassetorliabilitywasoffsetagainstthedefinedbenefit
assetorliabilityandnotincludedwithotherdeferredtaxassetsorliabilities.
TheincreaseinthepresentvalueoftheliabilitiesoftheCompany’sdefinedbenefitpensionschemeexpectedtoarisefrom
employeeserviceintheperiodwaschargedtooperatingprofit.Theexpectedreturnsontheschemeassetsandtheincrease
duringtheperiodinthepresentvalueoftheschemeliabilitiesarisingfromthepassageoftimewereincludedinotherfinance
incomeandexpenditurerespectively.Actuarialgainsandlosseswererecogniseddirectlyinreserves.
Relatedpartydisclosures
FRS8,‘RelatedPartyDisclosures’requiresdisclosureofthedetailsofmaterialtransactionsbetweenthereportingentityandrelated
parties.TheCompanyhastakenadvantageoftheexemptioninFRS8nottodisclosetransactionsbetweenF&CGroupcompanies
whicheliminateonconsolidation.
149 Foreigncurrencies
TheCompany’sfinancialstatementsarepresentedinpoundsSterling,theCompany’sfunctionalandpresentationcurrency.
Transactionsinforeigncurrenciesaretranslatedtothefunctionalcurrencyattheexchangeraterulingatthedateofthe
transaction.Monetaryassetsandliabilitiesdenominatedinforeigncurrenciesatthebalancesheetdatearetranslatedatthe
exchangeraterulingatthebalancesheetdate,andanyexchangedifferencesarisingaretakentotheProfitandLossAccount.
Non-monetaryassetsandliabilitiesmeasuredathistoricalcostinaforeigncurrencyaretranslatedusingtheexchangerateatthe
dateoftransactionandarenotsubsequentlyrestated.Non-monetaryassetsandliabilitiesstatedatfairvalueinaforeigncurrency
aretranslatedattheexchangerateatthedatethefairvaluewasdetermined.Whenfairvaluemovementsinassetsandliabilities
arereflectedintheProfitandLossAccount,thecorrespondingexchangemovementsarealsorecognisedintheProfitandLoss
Account.Conversely,whenfairvaluemovementsinassetsandliabilitiesarereflecteddirectlyinreserves,thecorresponding
exchangemovementsarealsorecogniseddirectlyinreserves,withtheexceptionofavailableforsaledebtinstruments,whichare
reflectedintheProfitandLossAccount.
Sharecapital
Whensharesareissued,anycomponentthatcreatesafinancialliabilityoftheCompanyispresentedasaliabilityintheBalance
Sheet,measuredinitiallyatfairvalue,netoftransactioncostsandthereafteratamortisedcostuntilextinguishedonconversion
orredemption.
Theremainderoftheproceedsonissueisallocatedtotheequitycomponentandincludedinshareholders’funds,netof
transactioncosts.
Preferencesharecapital
TheCompany’sissuedpreferencesharecapitalisclassifiedasaliability.ItiscarriedatamortisedcostintheBalanceSheet.
PreferencedividendsarerecognisedintheProfitandLossAccountasaninterestexpenseastheyaccrue.
OrdinarySharecapital
WhenOrdinarySharesarerepurchased,theamountsofconsiderationpaid,includingdirectlyattributablecosts,arerecognisedin
theownsharereserveincludedwithinretainedearningsandareclassifiedasdeductionsinequity.Dealingsinownsharesare
reflectedthroughequity.DividendsonOrdinarySharesarerecognisedonthedateofpayment,orifsubjecttoapproval,thedate
approvedbytheshareholders.ThedividendsoncertainownsharesheldbyEmployeeBenefitTrustsarewaivedbytheTrustees.
Cashflowstatement
TheCompanyhastakenadvantageoftheexemptionsinFRS1(revised)‘CashFlowStatements’andhaselectednottoprepare
itsownCashFlowStatementasitisincludedwithintheConsolidatedCashFlowStatementintheConsolidatedFinancial
StatementsofF&CAssetManagementplc.
CompanyAccountingPolicies
150 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
NotestotheCompanyFinancialStatements
1. Auditors’remuneration
AmountsreceivedbytheCompany’sauditorsinrespectofservicestotheCompanyhavenotbeendisclosedastheinformationis
insteadrequiredtobedisclosedonaconsolidatedbasisintheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsoftheGroup.
2. Directors’remuneration
DetailsofDirectors’remunerationareasfollows:
2007
»m
2006
»m
Aggregateemoluments 2.5 2.7
Companycontributionspaidtodefinedcontributionpensionscheme 1.1 0.7
AggregatevalueofgainsmadebyDirectorsonexerciseofshareoptions 3.2 0.2
Atotalof194,036options(31December2006:161,870)havebeenexercisedbyaformerDirectorduringtheyear,realisingagain
of»22,000(2006:»123,000).
2007
Number
2006
Number
Membersofdefinedcontributionpensionscheme 2 2
Membersofdefinedbenefitspensionscheme ^ 2
FulldisclosureofDirectors’remunerationisshownonpages47to49.
TheCompanyhasnoemployees(includingDirectors)undercontractofemployment,allF&CGroupemployeesbeingemployedby
severalsubsidiarycompanies.
3. Dividends
Detailsofdividendsaredisclosedinnote10totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsonpage74.
4. Intangiblefixedassets
Management
contracts
»m
Cost:
At1January2006and31December2006 1.2
Disposal (1.2)
At31December2007 ^
Amortisation:
At1January2006 ^
Amortisationfortheyear 0.1
At31December2006 0.1
Disposal (0.1)
At31December2007 ^
Netbookvalue:
At31December2007 ^
At31December2006 1.1
Themanagementcontractwastransferredtoasubsidiarycompanyon1March2007.
151 5. Tangiblefixedassets
Leasehold
improvements
»m
Office
furnitureand
equipment
»m
Computer
equipment
»m
Total
»m
Cost:
At1January2007 3.9 0.6 6.0 10.5
Additions ^ ^ 0.7 0.7
Disposals ^ ^ (0.3) (0.3)
At31December2007 3.9 0.6 6.4 10.9
Depreciation:
At1January2007 1.2 0.4 4.6 6.2
Depreciationchargefortheyear 0.4 0.1 0.9 1.4
Disposals ^ ^ (0.2) (0.2)
At31December2007 1.6 0.5 5.3 7.4
Netbookvalues:
At31December2007 2.3 0.1 1.1 3.5
At31December2006 2.7 0.2 1.4 4.3
6. Investmentsinsubsidiaries
»m
Cost:
At1January2007 1,094.4
Additions 5.7
Additionsinrespectofshare-basedpaymentawards 13.0
Rechargeinrespectofshare-basedpaymentawards (6.7)
At31December2007 1,106.4
Impairment:
At1January2007 2.3
Impairmentlosses 0.7
At31December2007 3.0
Netbookvalues:
At31December2007 1,103.4
At31December2006 1,092.1
Detailsofsubsidiaryundertakingsaresetoutinnote39totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsonpages135and136.
Additionsrepresenttheissueof»5.7mOrdinarySharesbyF&CInvestmentBusinessLimited,asubsidiaryundertaking.
Includedwithintheabovenetbookvalueis»50.6m(31December2006:»44.3m)inrespectofequity-settledshare-basedpayment
awardsmadebysubsidiaryundertakings.
NotestotheCompanyFinancialStatements
152 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
7. Otherinvestments
Theclassificationofinvestmentsat31Decemberisasfollows:
Note
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Availableforsale (a) 3.4 1.6
Fairvaluethroughprofitorloss (b) 4.5 ^
7.9 1.6
(a) Availableforsale
Unquoted
»m
At1January2007 1.6
Fairvaluemovementinyear 1.8
At31December2007 3.4
Theseinvestmentsrepresentcarriedinterestentitlementinprivateequityfunds.
(b) Fairvaluethroughprofitorloss
Purchased
EquityPlan
»m
NICHedge
»m
Total
»m
At1January2007 ^^^
Transferinfromasubsidiaryundertaking ^ 2.8 2.8
Purchasedintheyear 1.2 0.3 1.5
Fairvaluemovementinyear ^ 0.2 0.2
At31December2007 1.2 3.3 4.5
Thecostofquotedinvestmentsasat31December2007was»2.9m(31December2006:»2,000).
Thevaluationofquotedinvestmentsasat31December2007was»3.1m(31December2006:»2,000)
Securities
Thefairvalueofquotedinvestmentsisbasedonquotedmarketpricesatthebalancesheetdatewithoutanydeductionfor
transactioncosts.
ThefairvalueofunquotedinvestmentshasbeenvaluedinaccordancewithInternationalPrivateEquityandVentureCapital
ValuationGuidelinesissuedbytheBritishVentureCapitalAssociationandinaccordancewiththelimitedpartnershipagreements
wherepossible.
153 8. Debtors
Note
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Amountsduewithinoneyear:
Tradedebtors 0.7 1.9
Accruedincome 0.3 4.9
Amountsowedbysubsidiaryundertakings 2.8 17.5
Amountsowedbyparentundertaking 2.4 ^
Loantosubsidiaryundertaking 139.9 210.0
Prepayments 1.7 2.9
VATrecoverable 0.2 0.3
Groupreliefreceivable 1.0 ^
Otherdebtors 3.8 1.8
152.8 239.3
Amountsdueoutwithoneyear:
Loantosubsidiaryundertaking 60.0 ^
Loantoinvesteecompany ^ 2.5
Otherdebtors 0.5 ^
Deferredtax 12 1.4 0.7
61.9 3.2
Theloantothesubsidiaryundertakingbearsinterestat3monthLIBORminus0.25%andistoF&CTreasuryLimited.
TheCompanywillgivewrittennoticeofaminimumofoneyeartoseekrepaymentof»60m.The»139.9misrepayableondemand.
InDecember2007theCompanyceasedtobeaninvestorinISISEPLLPandreceivedrepaymentof»1.0mofthe»2.5mpreviously
investedinthisentity.Thebalanceof»1.5misincludedinotherdebtorsat31December2007;»1.0misduetobereceivedin2008
andtheremaining»0.5min2009.
NotestotheCompanyFinancialStatements
154 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
9. Creditors
Note
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Amountsduewithinoneyear:
Tradecreditors 0.1 2.1
Bankoverdrafts ^ 0.3
Accruals 3.3 4.6
Corporationtaxpayable ^ 1.2
Amountsowedtosubsidiaryundertakings 3.0 7.4
Othercreditors 4.1 4.8
Loanfromsubsidiaryundertaking 11 2.1 2.1
12.6 22.5
Amountsdueoutwithoneyear:
Preferencesharecapital 0.8 0.8
Fixed/FloatingRateSubordinatedNotes2026 11 257.9 257.7
258.7 258.5
Othercreditorsat31December2007includes»2.9m(31December2006:»2.9m)ofestimatedfurtherconsiderationpayablein
respectoftheacquisitionofF&CGroup(Holdings)Limitedon11October2004.
10. Provisionsforliabilities
Investment
TrustVAT
Onerous
premises
contracts
Deferred
tax Total
»m »m »m »m
At1January2006 ^ 2.2 0.6 2.8
Leaseobligationtransferredfromsubsidiaryundertaking ^ 3.5 ^ 3.5
Providedduringtheyear ^ 0.4 ^ 0.4
Utilisedduringtheyear ^ (0.7) (0.2) (0.9)
At31December2006 ^ 5.4 0.4 5.8
Providedduringtheyear 1.4 0.3 0.7 2.4
Utilisedduringtheyear ^ (2.5) (0.2) (2.7)
At31December2007 1.4 3.2 0.9 5.5
Onerouscontracts
TheCompanyholdsallpropertiesunderoperatingleases.Thisincludesanumberofvacantorsub-letpropertieswhichwereeither
previouslyoccupiedbytheCompanyorarepartiallyoccupiedbytheCompany.Provisionhasbeenmadefortheresiduallease
commitmentswheresignificant,aftertakingintoaccountexistingandexpectedsub-tenantcontractualarrangements.The
remainingtermsareforupto13years.Assumptionshavebeenmadeastowhethereachleaseholdpropertymaybesub-letor
assignedinthefuture.Allleasesandsub-leasesareforminimumguaranteedrentals.Theprovisionissubjecttouncertaintiesover
timeincludingmarketrentreviewsandbreak-optionswithintheleasearrangements.
InvestmentTrustVAT
HMRevenueandCustoms(HMRC)decidedon5November2007nottocontesttheEuropeanCourtofJusticerulingregardingthe
JPMorganClaverhouseInvestmentTrust/AssociationofInvestmentCompanies(Claverhouse)casethatmanagementservicesto
UKInvestmentTrustCompanies(ITCs)shouldbeexemptfromVAT.IncommonwithotherassetmanagersintheUK,theCompany
nowfacesclaimsfromITCsfortherepaymentofVATchargedtothemforperiodsdatingbackto1990.
WhiletheCompanychargedVATinaccordancewithapplicableUKlawatthetime,aprovisionhasbeenrecognisedtotheextent
thattheexpectedpaymentstobemadetoITCsaregreaterthantheexpectedamountrecoverablefromHMRC.Theprovisionof
»1.4mrepresentstheestimateofthenetcosttotheCompany.
155 10. Provisionsforliabilities(cont’d)
SignificantuncertaintyremainsastothefinalquantificationofamountsrecoverablefromHMRCandtheactualquantumpayable
toITCsforthisperiod.Inaddition,uncertaintyexistsastotherepaymentmethodologytobeappliedbyHMRCaswellasthetiming
ofanyrepaymentsbothfromHMRCandtotheCompany’sformerinvestmenttrustclients.
Deferredtax
Thedeferredtaxprovisionrelatestoshort-termtimingdifferenceswhichhaveoriginatedbutnotreversedatthebalancesheet
date.Theprovisionissubjecttouncertaintiesinrespectofthetimingofthereversalofthetimingdifferences.
Thedeferredtaxprovisionrelatestotherevaluationofavailableforsaleassetsandisrecognisedasaseparatecomponent
ofreserves.
Deferredtaxationisdisclosedinnote12.
11. Loans
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Amountsrepayable:
»260.0mFixed/FloatingRateSubordinatedNotes2026(i) 257.9 257.7
US$4.0mloan;whollyrepayableondemand(ii) 2.1 2.1
260.0 259.8
(i) The»260.0mFixed/FloatingRateSubordinatedNotes2026bearinterestat6.75%perannumfortheperiod20December
2006^19December2016,payableannuallyinarrearsandat2.69%above3monthLIBORfortheperiod20December
2016^20December2026,payablequarterlyinarrears.TheCompanyhastheoptiontoextendthenotesbeyond
20December2016.
(ii) TheUS$4.0mloanisduetoFriendsIvory&SimeNorthAmericaInc,anoverseassubsidiary.Theloanmayberepaidbythe
Companybygivingtenbankingdays’noticeinwritingtoFriendsIvory&SimeNorthAmericaInc.
Note
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Amountsrepayable:
Inoneyearorless,orondemand 9 2.1 2.1
Inmorethanoneyearbutnotmorethantwoyears ^ ^
Inmorethantwoyearsbutnotmorethanfiveyears ^ ^
Inmorethanfiveyears 9 257.9 257.7
260.0 259.8
NotestotheCompanyFinancialStatements
156 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
12. Deferredtaxation
2007
»m
2006
»m
At1January 0.3 (0.2)
Adjustmentsinrespectofpreviousperiods 0.4 0.1
Providedduringtheyear (0.2) 0.4
At31December 0.5 0.3
Note
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Deferredtaxationprovidedintheaccountsisasfollows:
Revaluationofavailableforsaleassets (0.9) (0.4)
Depreciationinadvanceofcapitalallowances 0.7 0.3
Othertimingdifferences 0.7 0.4
0.5 0.3
Disclosedintheaccountsasfollows:
Debtors 8 1.4 0.7
Provisionforliabilities 10 (0.9) (0.4)
Netdeferredtaxasset 0.5 0.3
157 13. Pensioncommitments
TheISISAssetManagementplcPensionFund(‘ISISFund’)
Until31March2007,theCompanyoperatedadefinedbenefitpensionscheme(‘‘TheISISAssetManagementplcPensionFund’’)in
theUK,whichprovidedbenefitsbasedonfinalpensionablesalary.
Thesponsoringcompanyandprincipalemployerfortheschemechangedon31March2007.Consequentlythepensionobligation
wastransferredtoF&CAssetManagementServicesLimitedonthatdateandF&CAssetManagementplcceasedtoincuradirect
chargeinrespectofthescheme.Theschemewasclosedtonewentrantsfrom31December1995.Theassetsoftheschemewere
heldindependentlyfromthoseoftheCompanybutaremanagedbyF&C.Thecontributionsaredeterminedbyanindependent
qualifiedactuaryonthebasisoftriennialvaluationsusingtheattainedagemethod,sincetheschemeisnowclosedtonew
members.Themostrecenttriennialvaluationwasat31March2005.
Theresultsofthefullactuarialvaluationcarriedoutat31March2005wereupdatedto31March2007byaqualifiedindependent
actuaryforthepurposesofFRS17‘‘RetirementBenefits’’.
Dateoflastactuarialvaluation 31March2005
Schemeactuary MercerLimited
Methodofvaluation ProjectedUnit
Marketvalueofassetsatlastvaluationdate »33,550,000
Leveloffunding 80%
AcontributionschedulewasagreedbytheCompanyandTrusteesinMay2006.TheCompanyagreedtopaycontributionsofa
minimumof25%ofbasicsalariesuntilApril2011.EmployeecontributionswereintroducedwitheffectfromApril2004andtheseare
payableinadditiontotheCompanycontributions.Contributionsaresubjecttoreviewatfutureactuarialvaluations.During2007
theCompanypaidcontributionsof»100,000permonthuntil31March2007.
TheF&CManagementPensionFundmergedwithTheISISAssetManagementplcPensionFundon31March2007.Themerged
schemewasrenamedtheF&CAssetManagementPensionPlan(FCAMPlan).OnthesamedateallUKemploymentcontracts
weretransferredintoF&CAssetManagementServicesLimited.F&CAssetManagementServicesLimited,beingtheprincipal
employingcompanyinrespectofthisscheme,hasagreedtoassumeallhistoricassetsandliabilitiesandfutureobligationsofthe
mergedschemesinexchangeforapaymentbasedontheeconomicliabilityassumedatthedateofthemerger.Thistransferwas
effectivefrom31March2007.
TheCompanywasconsideredtobethesponsoroftheschemeasitwastheprincipalemployingcompanyinrespectofthis
scheme.WhiletheCompanyitselfhadnoemployees,therewereasignificantnumberofdeferredpensionersinthescheme.
Thescheme’sassets,whicharemanagedbyF&C,areheldunderthecontroloftheTrusteesandusedtosecurebenefitsforthe
membersoftheschemeandtheirdependantsinaccordancewiththeTrustDeedandRules.
TheappointmentofTrusteesisdeterminedbytheplan’strustdocumentation.Until31March2007theTrusteeboardconsistedof
3employer-appointedTrusteesand2member-selectedTrustees.
TheFCAMPlanassetsareheldinaseparateTrustee-administeredfundtomeetlong-termpensionliabilitiestopastandpresent
employees.TheTrusteesoftheplanarerequiredtoactinthebestinterestsoftheplan’sbeneficiaries.
ThemajorassumptionsusedbytheactuariesforthepurposesofFRS17were:
31December
2007
31December
2006
31December
2005
Rateofincreaseinsalaries N/A 4.25% 4.00%
Rateofincreaseofpensionsinpayment(range) N/A 3.00%^3.50% 2.75%^3.50%
Discountrate N/A 5.00% 4.70%
Inflationassumption N/A 3.00% 2.75%
NotestotheCompanyFinancialStatements
158 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
13. Pensioncommitments(cont’d)
Theassetsintheschemeandtheexpectedratesofreturnusedontheschemeare:
(i) Expectedlong-termratesofreturn
31December
2007
31December
2006
31December
2005
Equities N/A 7.00% 7.00%
Gilts N/A 5.00% 5.00%
Corporatebonds N/A 5.00% 4.70%
Cash N/A 4.50% 4.00%
(ii) Valueofassetsinthescheme
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
31December
2005
»m
Equities ^ 34.2 30.8
Gilts ^ 6.5 6.0
Corporatebonds ^ 3.3 2.3
Cash ^ 1.0 0.7
Totalmarketvalueofschemeassets ^ 45.0 39.8
Actuarialvalueofschemeliabilities ^ (63.3) (62.2)
Deficitinthescheme ^ (18.3) (22.4)
Deferredtaxassetondeficit ^ 5.5 6.7
Netpensiondeficit ^ (12.8) (15.7)
(iii) Analysisofamountrecognisedinreserves
2007
»m %
2006
»m %
Actualreturnlessexpectedreturnonassets (a) (1.1) (2) 1.2 3
Experiencegainsandlossesonliabilities (b) (0.1) ^ (0.7) (1)
Changesinassumptions 3.3 2.5
Actuarialgainrecognisedinreserves (b) 2.1 4 3.0 5
Theamountsshownfor2007representmovementsintheperiodto31March2007,beingthedateofthepensionschememerger.
Thepercentagesshownforeachyeararecalculatedasfollows:
(a) Percentageoftheschemeassetsat31March2007(31December2006).
(b) Percentageofthepresentvalueoftheschemeliabilitiesat31March2007(31December2006).
159 13. Pensioncommitments(cont’d)
(iv) Movementindeficitduringtheyear
2007
»m
2006
»m
Deficitinschemeat1January (18.3) (22.4)
Movementsinyear:
Currentservicecosts (0.2) (0.9)
Pastservicecosts ^ (0.1)
Contributions 4.4 2.3
Expectedreturnonpensionschemeassets 0.7 2.7
Interestonpensionliabilities (0.8) (2.9)
Transferredtosubsidiaryundertaking 12.1 ^
Actuarialgainrecognisedinreserves 2.1 3.0
Deficitinschemeat31December ^ (18.3)
(v) Historyofexperiencegainsandlosses
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
Differencebetweentheexpectedandactual
returnonschemeassets:
amount(»m) (1.1) 1.2 3.6 0.3 2.2
percentageofschemeassets (2%) 3% 9% 1% 7%
Experiencegainsandlossesonschemeliabilities:
amount(»m) (0.1) (0.7) (1.8) 0.2 ^
percentageofthepresentvalueoftheschemeliabilities ^% (1%) (3%) 1% ^%
Totalamountrecognisedinreserves:
amount(»m) 2.1 3.0 (12.9) (1.7) 0.8
percentageofthepresentvalueoftheschemeliabilities 4% 5% (21%) (4%) 2%
14. Ordinarysharecapital
(a) Ordinarysharecapitalof0.1p
31December2007 31December2006
Numberof
shares »m
Numberof
shares »m
Authorised:
Equityinterests
OrdinarySharesof0.1p 800,000,000 0.8 800,000,000 0.8
Allotted,calledupandfullypaid:
Equityinterests
OrdinarySharesof0.1p 495,705,530 0.5 484,775,590 0.5
No.ofOrdinaryShares
2007 2006
Issuedat1January 484,775,590 483,434,237
Issueofsharesatpartosettleshare-basedpaymentawards 10,162,887 ^
Shareoptionsexercisedduringtheyear 767,053 1,341,353
Issuedat31December 495,705,530 484,775,590
TheholdersofOrdinarySharesareentitledtoreceivedividendsasdeclaredfromtimetotimeandareentitledtoonevoteper
shareatmeetingsoftheCompany.
Detailsofshareoptionsexercisedduringtheyeararedisclosedinnote31totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsonpage117.
TheconsiderationreceivedinrespectoftheOrdinarySharecapitalissuedduringtheyearended31December2007was»1.2m
(yearended31December2006:»1.9m).
NotestotheCompanyFinancialStatements
160 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
14. Ordinarysharecapital (cont’d)
TheGroupoperatesseveralshare-basedpaymentschemeswhichhaveacontingentrighttotheallotmentofsharesinthe
Company.
At31December2007thecontingentrighttotheallotmentofshareswasasfollows:
Scheme
No.ofawards
outstanding
Exercise
price(p) Exercisable/vested
2002ExecutiveShareOptionScheme 500,692 139.00 1January2008^19March2013
2002ExecutiveShareOptionScheme 727,535 240.83 1January2008^9March2014
2002ShareSaveScheme 256,474 114.00 9May2008^9November2008
2002ShareSaveScheme 108,287 181.00 1January2008^19October2009
2002ShareSaveScheme 319,514 186.60 29April2008^29October2010
2002ShareSaveScheme 355,083 171.00 18April2009^18October2011
2002ShareSaveScheme 618,609 144.30 25April2010^25October2012
Long-TermRemunerationPlan(restricted) 852,656 0.00 17May2009^16March2010
Long-TermRemunerationPlan(deferred) 8,614,024 0.00 17May2009^16April2010
PurchasedEquityPlan(F&CShares) 2,471,588 0.00 24March2008^13April2010
PurchasedEquityPlan(F&CFunds) 597,294 0.00 13April2010^13April2011
DeferredShareAward 1,251,377 0.00 22November2008^9August2009
ExecutiveDirectorsRemunerationPlan 5,504,574 0.00 10May2010^10November2010
1995ExecutiveShareOptionScheme 321,490 203.83 1January2008^9June2008
1995ExecutiveShareOptionScheme 340,158 232.50 1January2008^16July2009
1995ExecutiveShareOptionScheme 323,659 214.00 1January2008^28April2010
1995ExecutiveShareOptionScheme 18,740 320.17 1January2008^20October2010
1995ExecutiveShareOptionScheme 329,000 455.83 1January2008^1March2011
23,510,754
ThefollowingsharesareheldinEmployeeBenefitTrusts(EBTs).Thesearecategorisedasownshares,anddeductedfrom
shareholders’funds:
31December
2007
Number
31December
2006
Number
TheIvory&SimeEmployeeBenefitTrust 562,857 665,111
F&CManagementLimitedEmployeeBenefitTrust 1,512,449 ^
ISISEmployeeBenefitTrust 1,357,922 1,467,551
3,433,228 2,132,662
TheCompanyassumedresponsibilityasthesponsoringcompanyforF&CManagementLimitedEmployeeBenefitTrust
during2007.
TheaggregatenominalvalueofownsharesheldbyEBTsat31December2007was»3,000(31December2006:»2,000).The
marketvalueofthesesharesat31December2007was»6.6m(31December2006:»4.5m).
Duringtheyear,theCompanypurchased1,279,618ofitsownOrdinaryShares(2006:60,629)of0.1ptosatisfytheexercisesof
awardsgrantedunderthesharesaveschemeinrespectof‘goodleavers’.Theconsiderationpaidfortheshareswas»2.4m
(2006:»0.1m).ThecostofthistotheCompany,afterexercisepricemoniespaidbytheemployees,was»2.2m(2006:creditof»0.3m).
(b) CumulativePreferenceSharesof»1each
DetailsofCumulativePreferenceSharesaredisclosedinnote31totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsonpage118.
161 15. Reserves
Reconciliationofmovementinreserves
Ordinary
share
capital
»m
Share
premium
account
»m
Merger
reserve
»m
Fair
value
reserve
(1)
»m
Special
distri-
butable
reserve
(1)
»m
Capital
contribution
reserve
(1)
»m
Profitand
loss
account
»m
Total
share-
holders’
funds
»m
Balanceat1January2006 0.5 30.7 912.7 1.4 50.2 28.6 15.0 1,039.1
Sharecapitalallottedonexerciseofoptions ^ 1.9 ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 1.9
Settlementproceedsreceivedonexerciseof
shareoptions ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 0.3 0.3
Actuarialgain,netofdeferredtax ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 2.1 2.1
Retainedlossfortheyear ^ ^ ^ (0.3) ^ ^ (16.7) (17.0)
Transferfromspecialdistributablereservein
relationtodividends ^ ^ ^ ^ (50.2) ^ 50.2 ^
Equitysettledshare-basedpaymentgrants ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 15.7 ^ 15.7
Balanceat31December2006 0.5 32.6 912.7 1.1 ^ 44.3 50.9 1,042.1
Sharecapitalallottedonexerciseofoptions ^ 1.2 ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 1.2
Purchaseofownshares ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ (2.4) (2.4)
Settlementproceedsreceivedonexerciseof
shareoptions ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 0.2 0.2
Actuarialgain,netofdeferredtax ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 1.5 1.5
Retainedlossfortheyear ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ (1.8) (1.8)
Fairvaluegain ^ ^ ^ 1.8 ^ ^ ^ 1.8
Corporationtaxratechange ^ ^ ^ 0.1 ^ ^ ^ 0.1
Taxonfairvaluegain ^ ^ ^ (0.5) ^ ^ ^ (0.5)
Equitysettledshare-basedpaymentgrants ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 13.0 ^ 13.0
Transferofemployeebenefittrustown
sharesfromsubsidiaryundertaking ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ (0.7) (0.7)
Balanceat31December2007 0.5 33.8 912.7 2.5 ^ 57.3 47.7 1,054.5
(1) TheFairvaluereserve,SpecialdistributablereserveandCapitalcontributionreserveconstitute‘Otherreserves’asdisclosedintheBalanceSheetand
amountto»59.8mat31December2007(31December2006:»45.4m).
TheprofitaftertaxoftheCompanyfortheyear,beforedividends,was»41.7m(2006:»36.0m).
16. Financialcommitments
TheCompanyhadthefollowingannualcommitmentsinrespectofnon-cancellableoperatingleasesandothercontracts:
Premises Othercontracts
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
31December
2007
»m
31December
2006
»m
Commitmentsexpiringwithinoneyear ^ ^ ^ ^
Commitmentsexpiringwithintwotofiveyears ^ ^ 0.1 0.1
Commitmentsexpiringoutwithfiveyears 4.6 4.7 ^ ^
4.6 4.7 0.1 0.1
Thepremisesfinancialcommitmentsdisclosedabovedonotincludeanysub-leasingarrangementswhichtheCompanymayhave
inplace.Theamountsshownreflectgrosscommitmentsatthebalancesheetdates.
17. Capitalcommitments
Theamountscontractedforintermsofcapitalexpenditure,butnotprovidedforinthefinancialstatementsat31December2007,
amountto»nil(31December2006:»0.3m).
18. SubsidiaryUndertakings
Detailsoftheprincipalsubsidiaryundertakingsaredisclosedinnote39totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsonpages135
and136.
NotestotheCompanyFinancialStatements
162 AnnualReport&FinancialStatements2007
19. Contingencies
Contingentasset:
OndisposaloftheCompany’sinvestmentinISISEPLLP,theCompanyhaspotentialentitlementtocontingentdistributionsfrom
thisformerinvestment.Detailsofthiscontingentassetaregiveninnote15totheConsolidatedFinancialStatements.
Contingentliabilities:
Inthenormalcourseofitsbusiness,theCompanyissubjecttomattersoflitigationordispute.Whiletherecanbenoassurances,
atthistimetheDirectorsbelieve,basedontheinformationcurrentlyavailabletothem,thatitisnotprobablethattheultimate
outcomeofanyofthesematterswillhaveamaterialadverseeffectonthefinancialconditionoftheCompany.
20. PostBalanceSheetevents
On31January2008,FriendsProvidentplc,theCompany’s52percentmajorityshareholder,announcedtheresultsofitsstrategic
review.AmongtheconclusionsannouncedbyFriendsProvidentwasthatwealthmanagementwasnolongercoretoitsstrategy
andasaresultitmayseektodivestofitsshareholdinginF&C.TheF&CBoardisworkingwithFriendsProvidenttofindasolution
whichwillmeettheneedsofallparties.
TheDirectorsdonotbelievethisannouncementhasanymaterialfinancialimpactonthefinancialpositionoftheCompanyat
31December2007,asreportedherein.Whilstnocertaintyexistsastothepotentialoutcome,itispossiblethatacourseof
actioncouldtriggerchangeofcontrolclauseswhichexistwithinanumberofthecontractualarrangementsoftheCompany
anditssubsidiaries.
21. Parentundertakingandcontrollingparty
ThesmallestgroupofwhichtheCompanyisamemberandforwhichConsolidatedFinancialStatementsarepreparedis
F&CAssetManagementplc.
IntheopinionoftheDirectors,theCompany’sultimateparentundertakingandcontrollingpartyisFriendsProvidentplc.
FriendsProvidentplcisincorporatedinEnglandandWales.CopiesoftheGroupReportandAccountscanbeobtainedfromthe
CompanySecretary,PixhamEnd,Dorking,SurreyRH41QA.
163 164
Notice is hereby given that the twenty-eigth Annual General
Meeting of F&C Asset Management plc will be held at Butchers
Hall, 87 Bartholomew Close, London EC1 on Tuesday 13 May
2008 at 12 noon (UK time) for the following purposes:
Ordinary Business
To be proposed as ordinary resolutions:
1. To receive the Financial Statements and the Reports of the
Directors and the Independent Auditors for the year ended 
31 December 2007.
2. To declare a final dividend of 4.0 pence per share on the
ordinary shares of the Company.
3. Elect Nick MacAndrew, who retires at the first Annual General
Meeting following his appointment, as a Director.
4. Elect Gerhard Roggemann, who retires at the first Annual
General Meeting following his appointment, as a Director.
5. Elect Sir Adrian Montague, who retires at the first Annual
General Meeting following his appointment, as a Director.
6. Re-elect Keith Bedell-Pearce, who retires by rotation, as a
Director.
7. Re-elect Dick de Beus, who retires by rotation, as a Director.
8. Re-elect Jeff Medlock, who retires by rotation, as a Director.
9. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year
ended 31 December 2007.
10. Appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company to hold
office until the conclusion of the next General Meeting at which
Financial Statements are laid before the Company and to
authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Special Business
To be proposed as ordinary resolutions:
11. Re-approve and renew the authorisation of the terms of the
Relationship Agreement between the Company and Friends
Provident plc dated 4 October 2004, such approval and renewal
to expire on the earlier of (i) the conclusion of the Annual General
Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009 or (ii) Friends
Provident’s interest in the ordinary shares of the Company falling
below 30 per cent.
12. THAT, in substitution for any existing authority under section
80 of the Companies Act 1985 (the “Act”), but without prejudice
to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the
Directors of the Company be and they are hereby generally and
unconditionally authorised, pursuant to section 80 of the Act, to
allot relevant securities (as defined in section 80(2) of the Act) up
to an aggregate nominal amount of £164,074.92 such authority to
expire on the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the
Company to be held in 2009, unless previously revoked, varied or
extended by the Company in general meeting, save that the
Company may, at any time prior to the expiry of such authority,
make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might
require relevant securities to be allotted after the expiry of such
authority and the Directors of the Company may allot relevant
securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such
authority had not expired.
13. THAT the proposed amendments to the rules of The 
F&C Asset Management plc Long Term Remuneration Plan
summarised in the appendix to this notice be and are hereby
approved and the Directors be and are hereby authorised to do
all such things as may be necessary to carry the same into effect.
To be proposed as special resolutions:
14. That the Articles of Association be amended by making the
alterations marked on the print of the Articles of Association
produced to the meeting marked “A” and initialled by the
chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification.
15. That, with effect from 1 October 2008 or such later date as
section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 shall be brought into
force, the Articles of Association be amended by making the
alterations relating to Directors’ interests marked on the print of
the Articles of Association produced to the meeting marked “B”
and initialled by the chairman of the meeting for the purpose of
identification.
16. THAT, in substitution for any existing power under section 95
of the Companies Act 1985 (the “Act”), but without prejudice to
the exercise of any such existing power prior to the date hereof,
the Directors of the Company be and are hereby empowered,
pursuant to section 95(1) of the Act, (a) to allot equity securities
(as defined in section 94(2) of the Act) for cash pursuant to the
authority under section 80 of the Act conferred on the Directors of
the Company and contained in resolution 12 as set out in the
notice convening the Annual General Meeting of the Company at
which this resolution is proposed and (b) sell relevant shares (as
defined in section 94(5) of the Act) in the Company if immediately
before the sale, such shares are held by the Company as treasury
shares (as defined in section 162A(3) of the Act) (“treasury
shares”) for cash (as defined in section 162D(2) of the Act), in
each case as if section 89(1) of the Act did not apply to any such
allotment or sale, up to an aggregate nominal amount of
£164,074.92, such power to expire on the conclusion of the
Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009,
unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in
general meeting, provided that such power shall be limited to the
allotment of equity securities and the sale of treasury shares:
(i) in accordance with the terms of the Relationship Agreement
between the Company and Friends Provident plc dated 4 October
2004, provided that resolution 11 relating to the re-approval and
renewal of such Relationship Agreement as set out in the notice
convening the Annual General Meeting of the Company at which
this resolution is proposed is passed;
(ii) in order to satisfy options or awards under any share scheme
for employees or share incentive plan approved by the Company
in general meeting;
(iii) in connection with an offer of equity securities open for
acceptance for a period fixed by the Directors of the Company to
the holders of ordinary shares in the share capital of the Company
on a fixed record date in proportion (as nearly as practicable) to
their respective holdings of such ordinary shares (but subject to
Notice of Annual General Meeting 165
such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors of the
Company may consider necessary or expedient to deal with legal
problems under or resulting from the application or apparent
application of the laws of any territory or the requirements of any
regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or in
connection with fractional entitlements or otherwise howsoever);
and 
(iv) other than pursuant to sub-paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of this
resolution, up to an aggregate nominal amount of £24,785.28;
save that the Company may, at any time prior to the expiry of
such power, make an offer or enter into an agreement which
would or might require equity securities to be allotted or treasury
shares to be sold after the expiry of such power and the Directors
of the Company may allot equity securities or sell treasury shares
in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such power had
not expired.
17. THAT, in substitution for any existing power under section
166 of the Companies Act 1985 (the “Act”), but without prejudice
to the exercise of any such power prior to the date hereof, the
Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally
authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with section 166 of the
Act, to make market purchases (within the meaning of section
163(3) of the Act) of fully paid ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each
in the capital of the Company (“ordinary shares”), provided that:
(i) the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby
authorised to be purchased is 49,227,399 (being
approximately 10 per cent. of the issued ordinary share capital
of the Company (excluding treasury shares as defined in
section 162A(3) of the Act) as at 20 March 2008);
(ii) the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is
0.1 pence (exclusive of expenses); and
(iii) the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid
for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per cent. of
the average of the middle market quotations (as derived from
the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange) for the
ordinary shares for the five business days immediately
preceding the date of purchase;
such authority to expire on the earlier of the date falling 15
months after the date of the passing of this resolution and the
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be
held in 2009, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed by the
Company in general meeting, save that the Company may at any
time prior to the expiry of such authority enter into a contract or
contracts to purchase ordinary shares under such authority which
will or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after the
expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary
shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
By order of the Board
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
20 March 2008
Notes
(i) A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to
appoint one or more proxies to attend and speak and vote on his/her behalf. 
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy is
appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares. A member may not
appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share. A
proxy need not be a member of the Company.
(ii) A Form of Proxy for use by Ordinary Shareholders in connection with the
meeting is enclosed with these Accounts. To be valid, the Form of Proxy should
be completed and signed and sent or delivered, together with any power of
attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is signed or an extract from the
Books of Council and Session or a notarially certified copy or a copy certified in
accordance with the Powers of Attorney Act 1971 of such power or authority, in
accordance with the instructions contained therein, so as to reach the
Company’s registrars, at the address stated thereon, not later than 12 noon
(UK time) on 11 May 2008.
(iii) The Company has made provision for shareholders who would like to lodge their
proxy electronically, details of how to lodge a proxy electronically are set out on
page 38.
(iv) Completing and returning a Form of Proxy will not prevent an Ordinary
Shareholder from attending in person at the meeting referred to above and
voting should he or she wish to do so.
(v) Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the
Company specifies that only those Ordinary Shareholders entered on the
register of members of the Company as at 6 p.m. (UK time) on 11 May 2008 or,
in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members at 6 p.m.
(UK time) on the day falling two days before the date of any adjourned meeting,
shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of
Ordinary Shares registered in their name at that time. Changes to the entries on
the register of members after 6 p.m. (UK time) on 11 May 2008 or, on the event
that the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members at 6 p.m. (UK time) on
the day falling two days before the date of any adjourned meeting, shall be
disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the
meeting, notwithstanding any provisions in any enactment, the articles of
association of the Company or other instrument to the contrary.
(vi) If you are not a member of the Company but you have been nominated by a
member of the Company to enjoy information rights, you do not have a right to
appoint a proxy. See note (vii) below.
(vii) If you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 of the
Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights:
• You may have a right under an agreement between you and the member of
the Company who has nominated you to have information rights (Relevant
Member) to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for
the meeting.
• If you either do not have such a right or if you have such a right but do not
wish to exercise it, you may have a right under an agreement between you
and the Relevant Member to give instructions to the Relevant Member as to
the exercise of voting rights.
(viii) In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting,
arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that (i) if a corporate
shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate
representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions
of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting,
then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the
Chairman and the Chairman will vote (or withhold a vote) as corporate
representative in accordance with those directions; and (ii) if more than one
corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting
but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as
its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be
nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a
poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting instructions to that
designated corporate representative. Corporate shareholders are referred to the
guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on
proxies and corporate representatives (www.icsa.org.uk) for further details of this
procedure. The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the
Chairman is being appointed as described in (i) above.
(ix) As at 20 March 2008 (being the latest practicable date prior to publication of
this notice) the Company's issued share capital consisted of 492,273,990
ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each, carrying one vote each and 800,000
cumulative preference shares of £1 each, carrying no right to attend or vote at
the meeting which is the subject of this notice. Therefore, total voting rights in
the Company as at 20 March 2008 are 492,273,990.
(x) Copies of the following documents will be made available for inspection at the
registered office of the Company and at the Company’s head office during
normal business hours on any week day (Saturdays, Sundays and public
holidays excepted) from the date of this notice until the close of the meeting,
and at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to and during the
continuance of the meeting:
(a) the amended rules of the F&C Asset Management plc Long Term
Remuneration Plan;
(b) the articles of association of the Company marked "A";
c) the articles of association of the Company marked "B"; and
(d) the executive Directors' service contracts and non-executive Directors'
letters of appointment.
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 166
1. Introduction
Under the rules of the LTRP, the Board can grant two different
forms of awards, namely:
(i) awards that are subject to performance targets which must be
satisfied if they are to vest (“Performance Awards”); and
(ii) awards that are not subject to such performance targets
(“Deferred Awards”).
Under the rules of the LTRP, no Deferred Awards can be granted
to F&C’s executive directors.
2. Current LTRP provisions relating to cessation of a
participant’s employment
Currently, the provisions of the LTRP relating to the cessation of a
participant’s employment with the F&C Group can be summarised
as follows: 
(i) If a participant leaves the F&C Group’s employment for any
reason (other than as specified below) prior to the vesting of
any award (which will normally take place on the third
anniversary of grant) then his awards will lapse immediately. 
(ii) If, prior to vesting, the participant dies or ceases employment
by reason of injury, ill-health or disability then his awards will
vest immediately (provided that, in the case of a Performance
Award, such vesting will only occur if, and to the extent that,
the applicable performance targets have been satisfied at that
time).
(iii) If, prior to vesting, the participant ceases employment by
reason of redundancy, retirement at normal retirement age or
because the participant’s employing company or part of the
business in which he is employed is transferred out of the 
F&C Group, or any other reason at the discretion of the Board,
then his awards will continue to vest on the third anniversary of
grant. In the case of a Performance Award, such vesting will
only occur if, and to the extent that, the applicable
performance conditions have been satisfied. In addition, the
amount of an award which vests in these circumstances will
normally be reduced in line with the proportion of the vesting
period that had elapsed at the time the participant ceased to
be employed by the F&C Group.
3. Proposed amendments to provisions relating to
cessation of a participant’s employment
The provisions summarised at paragraph 2 above will be
amended so as to provide that if, prior to vesting, a participant
ceases employment with the F&C Group:
(i) by reason of redundancy; or
(ii) in any other circumstance which the Board considers makes it
appropriate for the following provisions to be applied, 
then any Deferred Awards subject to these amended provisions
(see below) which are held by that participant will vest
immediately in full and the Ordinary Shares to which he becomes
entitled as a result of such vesting will be released to him as soon
as reasonably practicable thereafter.  For the avoidance of doubt,
any Performance Awards held by a participant who ceases
employment in the above circumstances will continue to vest on
the third anniversary of grant (if and to the extent that the
applicable performance targets have been satisfied) and will
normally be reduced to reflect the fact that the individual ceased
employment during the vesting period.
For the avoidance of doubt, no other amendments will be made
to the provisions summarised at paragraph 2 above.
4. Application of proposed amendments
The amendments summarised at paragraph 3 above will apply to
all Deferred Awards granted on or prior to 31 December 2008.
Deferred Awards granted after 31 December 2008 will normally
be subject to the provisions summarised at paragraph 2 above.
The Board will, however, have the discretion to specify (at the
date of grant) that a Deferred Award granted after 31 December
2008 will instead be subject to the amended provisions described
at paragraph 3.
Defined terms
In this appendix, the following words and expressions bear the
following meanings unless the context requires otherwise:
“Board” the board of directors of F&C, or a duly authorised
committee thereof;
“F&C” F&C Asset Management plc;
“F&C Group” the group of companies of which F&C is the
holding company; 
“LTRP” The F&C Asset Management plc Long Term
Remuneration Plan; and
“Ordinary Shares” ordinary shares of 0.1p each in the capital 
of F&C.
APPENDIX
Summary of the proposed amendments to The F&C Asset 
Management plc Long Term Remuneration Plan  167
Directors
Robert Jenkins, Chairman‡
Alain Grisay, Chief Executive
Dick de Beus, Non-executive‡
Keith Bedell-Pearce, Senior Independent Non-executive*†
John Heywood, Non-executive*†
Brian Larcombe, Non-executive*†‡
David Logan, Chief Financial Officer
Nick MacAndrew, Non-executive†
Jeff Medlock, Non-executive
Sir Adrian Montague, Non-executive‡
Gerhard Roggemann, Non-executive
Jim Smart, Non-executive
*Member of Remuneration Committee
†Member of Audit & Compliance Committee
‡Member of Nomination Committee
Head Office
Exchange House
Primrose Street
London
EC2A 2NY
Telephone 020 7628 8000
Facsimile 020 7628 8188
Email: enquiries@fandc.com
Secretary and Registered Office
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
80 George Street
Edinburgh
EH2 3BU
Telephone 0131 718 1000
Facsimile 0131 225 2375
Solicitors
Norton Rose LLP
3 More London Riverside
London
SE1 2AQ
Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP
Saltire Court
20 Castle Terrace
Edinburgh
EH1 2ET
Principal Bankers
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
142-144 Princes Street
Edinburgh
EH2 4EQ
Stockbrokers
JPMorgan Cazenove
20 Moorgate
London
EC2R 6DA
Citigroup Global Markets Limited
Citigroup Centre
Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London
E14 5LB
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
Saltire Court
20 Castle Terrace
Edinburgh
EH1 2EG
Registrar and Transfer Office
Equiniti Limited
PO Box 28448
Finance House
Orchard Brae
Edinburgh
EH4 1WQ
Corporate information
F&C Asset Management plc
Registered in Scotland
Company Registration Number 73508
Website
Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website www.fandc.com
Corporate Information
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Expect excellence
