 F&C Asset Management plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 1 F&C Asset Management Contents 01
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
This Annual Report and Financial Statements may
contain certain “forward-looking statements” with
respect to certain of the Group’s plans and its
current goals and expectations relating to its future
financial condition, performance, results, strategy
and objectives. Statements containing the words
“believes”, “intends”, “expects”, “plans”, “seeks”
and “anticipates”, and words of similar meaning,
are forward-looking.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to
future events and circumstances which are beyond
the Group’s control including among other things,
UK domestic and global economic and business
conditions, market related risks such as
fluctuations in market indices, interest rates and
exchange rates, and the performance of financial
markets generally; the policies and actions of
regulatory authorities, the impact of competition,
inflation and deflation; the timing, impact and other
uncertainties of future acquisitions or combinations
within relevant industries; and the impact of
changes in capital, solvency or accounting
standards, and tax and other legislation and
regulations in the jurisdictions in which the
Group operates.
As a result, the Group’s actual future financial
condition, performance and results may differ
materially from the plans, goals, and expectations
set forth in the Group’s forward-looking
statements. F&C undertakes no obligation to
update the forward-looking statements contained
in this Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Nothing in this publication should be considered
as a profit forecast.
“F&C, FCAM, Group or Company” F&C Asset
Management plc and its subsidiaries
“FP”, “FP Group” Friends Provident plc and its
subsidiaries
“F&CGH” F&C Group (Holdings) Limited and its
subsidiaries
“F&C REIT” F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
and its subsidiaries
“REIT” REIT Property Asset Management LLP
and its subsidiaries
“Sherborne or the Sherborne Group” Sherborne
Investors (Guernsey) GP , LLC (‘Sherborne GP’),
SIGA, LP (‘SIGA’), Sherborne Investors (Guernsey)
A Limited, Sherborne Investors Management
(Guernsey) LLC and Sherborne Investors LP .
“Thames River” or “TRC” Thames River Capital
Group Limited and its subsidiaries or limited liability
partnerships (‘LLPs’) which are consolidated within
the Group.
Forward-looking statements Definitions
Business Review
Our year in brief 02
Welcome from the Chairman 03
Chief Executive’s Report 04
This is F&C 07
Managing risk 10
Our strategy 11
Our view of the market 14
Our trading performance and outlook 15
Our financial performance 16
Our strategic approach and
commitment to corporate responsibility 19
Governance
Company Directors 21
Report of the Directors 22
Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance 26
Directors’ Remuneration Report 32
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 39
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report 40
Consolidated Income Statement 41
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 42
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 43
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 44
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 45
Accounting Policies 46
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 55
Five Year Record 126
Key Performance Indicators 127
Company Balance Sheet 128
Company Accounting Policies 129
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 133
Shareholder Information
Notice of Annual General Meeting 143
Notice to US Shareholders 147
Corporate Information 148
F&C Asset Management plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 1 02 Business Review Our year in brief F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Net revenue
£243.2m
Underlying profit before taxation (ex FX)
£40.3m
Underlying earnings per share (ex FX)
5.9p
Total dividend per share
3.0p
2010 Financial and business highlights
• Successful acquisition and integration of Thames River Capital
• Assets under management increase to £105.8 billion (2009: £97.8 billion)
• £6.1 billion of gross new business (2009: £3.5 billion) and return to net inflows excluding insurance
• Average net management fee margin (excluding performance fees) increases to
22.6 basis points (2009: 21.8 basis points)
• Group operating margin (ex FX) improves to 28.5% (2009: 26.6%)
• Underlying earnings per share (ex FX) of 5.9 pence (2009: 5.8 pence)
Net revenue
£243.2m 2010
£225.1m 2009
Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share
(3.3)p 2010
3.2p 2009
Group operating margin (ex FX)
28.5% 2010
26.6% 2009
Assets under management
 
£105.8bn 2010
£97.8bn 2009
Total dividend per ordinary share
3.0p 2010
6.0p 2009
Underlying earnings per ordinary share
5.6p 2010
4.6p 2009
5.9p 2010 (ex FX)
5.8p 2009 (ex FX)
Underlying profit after taxation (ex FX)
£29.4m 2010
£28.3m 2009
Reported (loss)/profit after tax
£(13.4)m 2010
£18.7m 2009
Calculations of key performance indicators are given on page 127.
Reconciliations between reported (loss)/earnings and underlying earnings
and between basic (loss)/earnings per share and underlying earnings per
share are given in note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

As at the end of the reporting period.
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 2 F&C Asset Management Business Review 03
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
This is my first statement as Chairman having been appointed to 
the role following my election as a Director at the General Meeting
on 3 February 2011. 
At the same General Meeting Ian Brindle and Derham O’Neill were
also elected to the Board while Nick MacAndrew, the previous
Chairman, and Brian Larcombe ceased to be Directors. Separately,
Gerhard Roggemann has indicated his intention to retire as a
Director at the Annual General Meeting in May.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to express our thanks to
Messrs. MacAndrew, Larcombe and Roggemann for their service 
to F&C over a number of years.
In the brief period since becoming Chairman of F&C, I have met a
significant number of staff from across the Group, including portfolio
managers at Thames River and F&C REIT. I have been impressed
with the calibre of people I have met and, in particular, the strong
sense of commitment to clients. This reinforces my confidence in
F&C’s prospects because asset management is without doubt a
people business and the Group possesses a strong reservoir of
talented professionals who want F&C to be successful.
Important progress has been achieved in a number of areas in 
laying solid foundations for a turnaround in F&C’s fortunes. In
particular, three year investment performance track records are
competitive and 2010 saw encouraging trends in funds flows.
Further detail on developments during 2010 is provided in the 
Chief Executive’s report.
Our focus now is to build on the things that work well at F&C and to
improve the Group’s financial performance, which will create value
for shareholders. Working with the Executive Management team, the
Board has therefore embarked on a review of strategy. We will
endeavour to minimise the time required for this process consistent
with producing the right long-term plan for F&C. In the meantime, it
will be business as usual for our investment professionals and client
servicing teams.
Results and Dividend
The Group’s underlying profit after tax (excluding foreign exchange
gains and losses) was £29.4 million compared to £28.3 million in
2009. This represents underlying earnings per share of 5.9 pence 
for 2010 and 5.8 pence for 2009. 
On a statutory reporting basis, which includes exceptional and 
non-cash items, the Group made a loss after tax of £13.4 million,
compared to a profit after tax of £18.7 million in 2009. This
represents a basic loss per share of 3.3 pence compared to
earnings per share of 3.2 pence in the previous year.
After considering the results for the year and consistent with the
decision to rebase the interim dividend, the Board is recommending
a final dividend of 2.0 pence per share, payable on 27 May 2011 to
shareholders on the register at 1 April 2011. This brings full-year
dividends to 3.0 pence per share.
The Board’s dividend policy is to achieve dividend cover of at least
150 per cent. of underlying earnings per share.
Conclusion 
It is a privilege to have been appointed as Chairman of F&C. 
The Group has a strong brand, dedicated professionals and many
other strengths. However, these have not been reflected in its share
price and financial performance in recent years. By accelerating
momentum in things that are working well and creating greater 
long-term focus on those areas that will generate the most value,
the prospects for F&C are excellent. 
I look forward to working with the Board, management team and
staff to develop the strategy and operational plan for the business
so that F&C reaches its full potential.
Edward Bramson
Chairman
9 March 2011
Welcome from the Chairman
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 3 Market Overview
As we anticipated in our 2009 Annual Report, 2010 saw a slow
recovery in the economy after the recession of the previous year,
with progress dogged by concerns over rising inflation and the
potentially stifling impact of deficit reduction measures on growth. 
Despite the challenging macroeconomic backdrop, equity markets
continued to make strong progress for a second calendar year in
succession with the FTSE 100 Index posting a total return of 
12.6 per cent. and numerous indices returning to pre-credit crisis
levels. This strong performance from equity markets reflected the
healthy position of many companies having strengthened their
balance sheets and the relative attractiveness of dividends
compared to government bond yields. 
In contrast, fixed income markets and the Euro currency were
overshadowed by the spectre of government indebtedness and the
risk of defaults in European countries such as Greece, Ireland and
Portugal. This prompted European Union rescue packages for both
Greece and Ireland and the introduction of severe austerity
measures across Europe.
Against this mixed market backdrop the Group saw its assets under
management rise to £105.8 billion (31 December 2009: £97.8
billion) which included £4.2 billion from the acquisition of Thames
River Capital in September 2010. We saw positive returns across all
major asset classes – equities, fixed income and property – while
foreign currency movements had a negative impact on AUM across
the year given our exposure to Eurozone based clients. 
Investment Performance
Relative investment performance was positive across most teams
during the year, with three year track records continuing to be
competitive. On an asset-weight basis 72 per cent. of fixed income,
63 per cent. of equities and 100 per cent. of property assets are
above agreed benchmarks over three years.
Business Flows
Having rebuilt three year investment track records and significantly
improved our position with investment consultants, 2010 saw a
turnaround in business flows with a return to net positive inflows,
excluding insurance assets. This was underpinned by a 77.5 per
cent. increase in gross new business, excluding insurance, to £6.1
billion (2009: £3.5 billion) and much reduced outflows, which were
at their lowest level in several years. We ended the year with an
additional pipeline of institutional mandates totalling £1.5 billion
awaiting funding. Key institutional products included liability driven
investment mandates, equity-linked bond funds, emerging market
debt and global convertibles. We also raised significant
commitments for German property mandates, ranking as the top
capital raiser for property Spezialfonds (source: BVI). We expect to
see the majority of these funds invested during 2011.
The quality of new institutional business continued to improve
reflecting our focus on specialist products, with the average fee
margin on institutional inflows some 39 per cent. higher than 
those on outflows. 
In the UK retail market we continued to focus primarily on our multi-
manager and lifestyle funds while building the profile of our property,
UK and European equity products.
Encouragingly, we saw £621 million of gross sales into Thames
River products during the four months post-completion which
included the first institutional mandate win for their Water &
Agriculture team.
Business Flows ex. Insurance
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m £m
Inflows 6,140 3,459 3,925 6,454 6,496
Outflows (5,868) (7,200) (10,165) (10,445) (15,109)
Net flows –
ex. Insurance 272 (3,741) (6,240) (3,991) (8,613)
Financial Results
Net revenues were £243.2 million (2009: £225.1 million). This
included performance related management fees of £12.9 million
(2009: £18.7 million). 
Operating costs, excluding amortisation of intangible assets,
exceptional items and foreign exchange losses, were £175.0 million
(2009: £166.6 million). These include the additional cost base of
£12.6 million arising from the acquisition of Thames River, 
£6.0 million of which was in respect of distributions payable to
Thames River members. Continuing the downward trend of the last
three years core operating expenses in the legacy F&C business
were further reduced by £4.2 million compared to 2009.
The Group also incurred a number of exceptional and non-recurring
cost items which are excluded from our underlying results. These
included corporate advisory costs associated with the acquisition of
Thames River and the aborted acquisition of C-Quadrat, costs
associated with the subsequent integration of Thames River, legal
expenses and certain share-based payment costs. Offset against
these, and also excluded from underlying results, are gains from
foreign exchange movements and exceptional gains from
restructuring our pension benefits. 
As a result of increased revenues and reduced costs, the Group
increased its underlying operating profit (excluding foreign exchange
movements) for 2010 to £69.2 million (2009: £59.9 million), resulting
in an increased underlying operating margin of 28.5% (2009:
26.6%).
Underlying earnings per share for the year were 5.9 pence 
(2009: 5.8 pence).
On a statutory basis, which includes amortisation and exceptional
items, the Group made a loss after tax of £13.4 million (2009: profit
of £18.7 million). A substantial element of the year-on-year
movement is attributable to the exceptional gain of £27.9 million on
the 2009 debt exchange transaction.
04 Business Review F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Chief Executive’s Report
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 4 Statement of Financial Position
The Group closed the year with £178.8 million of shareholders’ cash
reserves and net debt of £95.9 million. A significant proportion of the
shareholders’ cash reserves are held in our regulated subsidiaries
against their capital requirements.
Gross debt of £275 million (2009: £265 million) comprises 
£125 million of subordinated loan notes and £150 million of senior
loan notes, neither of which include any financial covenants. The
£150 million senior loan notes include a £20 million issue
undertaken in September 2010 to repay a loan facility provided 
to part-finance the acquisition of Thames River.
As part of our strategy we intend to reduce net debt over 
the medium term.
Business Developments
F&C manages significant assets for insurance-led clients under
contractual arrangements which carry certain exclusivity rights
extending out to between October 2013 and October 2015 at which
point they typically revert to notice periods of between 6 and 12
months. During the year we set out three medium-term strategic
priorities for the Group ahead of the maturity of these contracts:
• Grow new revenues and further diversify the Group beyond its
insurance client base
• Create a more flexible cost base that will adjust more readily to
any changes in our business mix
• Improve capital strength by targeting the reduction of debt on
our balance sheet
A key development in our revenue diversification strategy was the
completion of our acquisition of Thames River in September 2010.
Following the Thames River acquisition, on a run-rate basis some 
75 per cent. of revenues are now derived from non-insurance clients
and we believe the organic growth potential of the Group has 
been enhanced.
Thames River has provided the Group with complementary product
and distribution capabilities. In particular it has added expertise in
absolute return strategies, principally through UCITS III fund
structures, has enabled a step-change in the scale of our multi-
manager business and has added proven distribution in the wealth
management sector, an area where our presence had been limited.
UCITS absolute return funds and retail multi-manager products are
two areas of the funds industry experiencing strong growth.
Thames River has been successfully integrated into the Group and
is now positioned as “the Funds Business” of F&C with responsibility
for the distribution of all open-ended fund products from across the
Group into the retail and wholesale client channels. A trade paper
advertising campaign commenced in the fourth quarter, along with a
series of marketing roadshows in the UK and Europe.
A key project was the merger of the F&C and Thames River retail
multi-manager ranges, which completed in December, removing one
of the few areas of direct product overlap. The UK fund of funds
segment has been growing at twice the rate of the broader market
and our recently combined multi-manager business, with assets of
£1.5 billion, is the second largest in the UK IFA market. This leaves
us well positioned to help IFAs address some of the challenges
arising from the Financial Services Authority’s Treating Customers
Fairly initiative and the implementation of the recommendations of
the Retail Distribution Review by providing adviser firms with a
robust investment process which provides their clients with access
to best of breed funds from across the industry. We expect to see
IFAs increasingly advising clients to transfer existing portfolios of
individual funds into multi-manager products, as well as greater use
of multi-manager funds for new investments.
Progress has also been made introducing Thames River capabilities
to the institutional market, with initial interest focused on the Global
Bond, Water & Agriculture and Funds of Alternative Investment
Funds products. 
Thames River generated £1.8 million of performance fees in its first
four months as part of the Group. At 31 December 2010 some 65
per cent. of Thames River funds which incorporate performance fee
structures were at, or within 5 per cent. of, their high water marks.
In our 2009 Annual Report we confirmed that we had completed the
major infrastructure projects initiated in 2007, including the
consolidation of our operations onto a single platform. Following this
and the acquisition of Thames River we have undertaken significant
work to develop a new operational model that will more readily
adjust to future changes in F&C’s business mix as we focus on
diversifying the business and cater for evolving client needs. 
As part of the implementation of this model, we have reached
Heads of Terms with a leading specialist provider on an outsourcing
arrangement for certain back office and middle office functions. We
expect to reach a definitive agreement by the end of the second
quarter of 2011. The outsourcing project is expected to reduce our
operations staff headcount by around 70 per cent. as well as
reorganise certain other functions around the new model. This
restructuring programme, which does not affect the staffing of
investment, distribution or client servicing functions, will create an
operational cost base that varies with assets under management
and transaction levels and is expected, once fully implemented, to
generate annualised savings of at least £12 million, including 
£3 million from reduced premises costs. We anticipate the first of
these savings will be realised later this year, with the full savings
achieved in 2013.
F&C Asset Management Chief Executive’s Report  Business Review 05
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 5 06 Business Review Chief Executive’s Report F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Outlook and Summary
In our view the macroeconomic outlook continues to be challenging
and we therefore see the potential for continued volatility in global
markets. Growth remains anaemic in the UK and high public deficits
across the developed world are multi-year problems that have only
just begun to be tackled. Inflation is a growing concern across the
globe and rising commodity prices add to the risk of social and
political unrest in developing markets, such as we have seen
recently across North Africa and the Middle East. These
uncertainties are a timely reminder of the importance of being a 
well diversified business by sources of revenue and asset class and
with a product set that can take advantage of the opportunities
available at various points in the cycle as client needs and risk
appetites change. 
On 6 January 2011 the Board wrote to shareholders with notice of a
General Meeting requisitioned on behalf of funds managed by
Sherborne Investors GP , LLC. The purpose of the General Meeting
was to vote on Resolutions to remove two Directors, including the
then Chairman, and elect three new Directors. At the General
Meeting on 3 February all these Resolutions were supported 
by shareholders.
With the Board having been reconstructed in accordance with the
wishes of shareholders and the appointment of Ed Bramson as
Chairman, the Board and management team are focused on the
future success of the business.
Major building blocks for a recovery in our underlying profitability
have been put in place, with progress in diversifying our sources of
revenue, improved fund flows at higher average fee margins and the
planned migration to a new operational model which will lower our
expense base and generate future cost flexibility. Furthermore, to
maximise the delivery of shareholder value, the Board is conducting
a review of the Group’s strategy which we will report on in due
course. In the meantime, our operational focus for 2011 will be to
sustain competitive investment track records, gather momentum in
improving fund flow trends and accelerate the cross-selling of
products between F&C and Thames River. 
Alain Grisay
Chief Executive
9 March 2011
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 6 F&C Asset Management Business Review 07
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
This is F&C
F&C is a leading asset management company providing solutions 
that deliver superior performance and service.
With offices in 8 countries we are a global business with a strong
presence in Europe. Our clients are both retail and institutional
investors, representing over three million individuals – for whom we
manage approximately £106 billion.
The Board has prepared this review on pages 2 to 20 in accordance
with the requirements of Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006
and it forms part of the Directors’ Report. The law requires the
Company’s auditors to report on whether the information given in
the Directors’ Report and Business Review is consistent with the
Financial Statements. The auditor’s opinion is included in their report
on page 40.
The purpose of this review is to provide shareholders with a
snapshot summary setting out the business objectives of the
Company, the Board’s strategy to achieve those objectives, the risks
faced, the regulatory environment and the key performance
indicators (‘KPIs’) used to measure performance.
What we do
F&C’s sole activity is asset management. We are not a bank. We are
not an insurance company. We are an active international investor
with a client focus on the UK and Continental Europe. 
We operate across multiple locations, with a physical presence in
eight countries. Our organisational philosophy has two key
parameters – to seek to avoid duplication by, for example, managing
each asset class from only one location, and to place client service
functions where appropriate in order to meet client requirements.
Our values
• Client focus
• Accountable performance
• Commercial innovation
• Mutual respect
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 7 08 Business Review  This is F&C F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Our clients
Our clients comprise a wide range of insurance, institutional and
retail investors, across multiple geographies and jurisdictions, for
whom we manage a diverse spread of investments including
equities, fixed income, property and alternative asset classes. 
How we manage money
With over 285 investment professionals, F&C has one of the largest
investment teams in Europe. Our scale gives us a competitive edge
in research resources and access to the most senior management
at companies. We believe individuals work best as part of a small,
focused team. Our investment professionals are therefore organised
into dedicated teams, focused on specific products or market
segments. We provide them with a high degree of autonomy over
their investment process. We do this in order to foster a strong
culture of enterprise and accountability for delivering performance.
This approach – of being both large in terms of resource, but
entrepreneurial in structure – is what we describe as a ‘multi-
specialist’ fund management model. 
Responsible investments
We seek to deliver strong investment performance through active
management. However, as a shareholder representative, we seek to
engage with the companies in which we invest, aiming to enhance
and protect long-term shareholder value. Our approach is to have
constructive dialogue with companies. We cast votes on
shareholder resolutions globally, and disclose this to our clients on
our website.
Key risks (see page 10)
In addition to the “normal risks” facing the business relating to the
market, interest rates and foreign currency, the Board has identified
the following as the key risks facing the business:
• The regulatory environment
• Litigation
• Loss of key clients
• Loss of key employees
Our objective is simple: to create value by delivering first quartile
performance in everything our clients expect from us. 
2009 2010
£bn £bn
1 Insurance Funds 57.2 59.5
2 Institutional Funds 27.7 29.3
3 Sub-Advisory 4.0 3.0
4 Investment Trusts 5.1 5.9
5 Open Ended Funds (UK Onshore) 2.5 3.5
6 Open Ended Funds (Offshore) 1.3 4.6
2009 2010
(restated)
£bn £bn
1 Fixed Interest 57.8 62.0
2 Equities 24.6 28.7
3 Property 8.0 8.2
4 Other Alternative Investments 1.4 2.4
5 Money Market 6.0 4.5
Assets Under Management by Client Category
as at 31 December
Assets Under Management by Asset Class
as at 31 December
1
2
3
4
56
1
2
3
4
56
2010
£105.8bn
2009
£97.8bn
1
2
3
4
5
1
2
3
4
5
2009
£97.8bn
2010
£105.8bn
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 8 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT
1Alain Grisay
Chief Executive Officer
2 David Logan
Chief Financial Officer
3 Jeremy Charles
Chief Operating Officer, Thames River
4 Nick Criticos
Chief Executive, F&C REIT
5 Jacob deWit
Head of Fixed Income
6 Cristobal Mendez de Vigo
Head of Distribution and Business Development
7 Charlie Porter
Chief Executive, Thames River
8 Fernando Ribeiro
Chairman of F&C Portugal
9 Richard Wilson
Head of Equities
F&C Asset Management This is F&C  Business Review 09
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Executive Directors and Executive Committee
Messrs Grisay and Logan are the Executive Directors of the
Company. These Executive Directors, together with Messrs Charles,
Criticos, deWit, Mendez de Vigo, Porter, Ribeiro and Wilson form
the Executive Committee (‘EXECOM’). EXECOM is accountable and
responsible for implementing Board strategy, proposing
development of new elements of strategy and for the day-to-day
running of the business. In addition to overseeing the
implementation of the strategy, EXECOM regularly reviews business
issues and matters not reserved for the Board as a whole. EXECOM
has reserved lists to assist it in carrying out its functions.
Examples of matters reserved for EXECOM as delegated authorities
from the Board: 
• The approval of day-to-day business issues linked to the strategy
or the annual budget and including the launch of new products.
• The approval of contractual commitments.
• The approval of expenditure and the management of any issue
that could have a potential legal or reputational impact on 
the Group.
2010 Key Awards
1 23
45 6
7
89
SRI provider of the year
LIPPER
FUND AWARDS 2010
EUROPE
LIPPER
FUND AWARDS 2010
UK
LIPPER
FUND AWARDS 2010
NETHERLANDS
LIPPER
FUND AWARDS 2010
FRANCE
LIPPER
FUND AWARDS 2010
SPAIN
LIPPER
FUND AWARDS 2010
ITALY
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 9 10 Business Review F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
The regulatory environment
Key Risk  Significant changes in regulatory frameworks and the
increased trend in regulatory scrutiny across the financial services
industry present both opportunities and challenges for the Group. 
Mitigation  The F&C Compliance team ensures that key regulatory
changes are identified at the earliest opportunity. Their impact is
then assessed to allow practical guidance on the proper application
and interpretation of any changes to be provided to all relevant
business areas. This is especially critical given the current 
regulatory environment. 
Litigation
Key Risk  The Company is currently involved in a significant legal
dispute, the detail of which is set out on page82. An adverse
outcome in this case would result in financial loss and potential
reputational damage. 
Mitigation This dispute is being closely monitored on an ongoing
basis by members of the EXECOM together with two independent
Directors of the Board to ensure that an appropriate strategy is
pursued by external legal advisers in the conduct of the dispute and
in relation to any opportunities that may arise for settlement.
In conjunction with the respective legal teams, we have completed
an assessment of this case and a provision within our Financial
Statements has been made to allow for the expected outcome of
this case. 
Loss of key clients
Key Risk  The success of the Group depends on the relationships
it has with its clients. The retention of clients and the winning of new
mandates is often driven by historical performance and the quality of
client service. 
Mitigation Long-term contracts are in place with our key strategic
clients and dedicated relationship management teams ensure
continued quality of service. In addition to this, it is our objective to
continue to grow new revenues through momentum in existing
business lines, whilst the acquisition of Thames River will allow for
focus on growth in retail and wholesale markets. 
Loss of key employees
Key Risk  The success of the Group depends on the support of its
employees. The loss of key employees could lead to client outflows
and the loss of key mandates, may prevent the Group from winning
new business and potentially expose the Group to greater risk of
regulatory, financial or operational failure.
Mitigation The Group operates competitive share plans and
benchmarks total compensation to market data. All employees
receive an annual appraisal which reviews their performance against
clearly defined objectives with the aim of encouraging strong
performance. Reliance on key front office individuals is mitigated by
the Group’s team based approach to investment management.
Moreover, we seek to reduce our dependence on key staff through
ongoing learning and development initiatives, and the recruitment of
skilled individuals.
Managing risk
The Directors are committed to a strong control environment
throughout the Group. F&C has a culture that emphasises the
importance of rigorous disciplines and procedures to safeguard the
interests of our clients and other key stakeholders.
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 10 F&C Asset Management Business Review 11
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Client service
2010 key points
• Successfully integrated the Thames River and F&C sales and
client servicing teams so that Thames River is now focused on
the Group’s retail and wholesale clients and F&C exclusively on
institutional clients
• Won the Incisive Media Gold Standard Award for Fund
Management for the fifth year in succession
• Achieved a Four Star Rating in the Financial Adviser 
Service Awards
• Overall Winner of the Top 50 Call Centres for Customer 
Services Awards
2011 key priorities
• Complete the outsourcing of key operations functions without
disrupting client service
• Sustain overall strong investment performance across 
the business 
• Continue to broaden the range of products rated by investment
consultants and fund rating agencies
• Retain key investment personnel 
Key performance indicators 
Corporate Health – The Board considers a report on the Group’s
Operations and IT systems, Human Resources, and Audit, Risk and
Compliance functions at each Board Meeting.
Investment performance
2010 key points
• 72 per cent. of fixed income assets were ahead of agreed
benchmarks or targets over three years as at year end
• 63 per cent. of equity assets were ahead of agreed benchmarks
or targets over three years as at the year end
• Aggregate performance of all property portfolios monitored by
Investment Performance Databank (‘IPD’) ranked F&C REIT in
the 19th percentile over three years with 100 per cent. of IPD
monitored portfolios ahead of benchmark
• 65 per cent. of products managed by Thames River which
incorporate performances fee structures were at or within 5 per
cent. of their high water marks at year end
• £12.9 million performance fees earned across the Group
Key performance indicators
Average percentage of Fixed Income assets above benchmark 
or peer group on an asset weighted basis
% (3 years)
72 2010
72 2009
Average percentage of Equity assets above benchmark 
or peer group on an asset weighted basis
% (3 years)
63 2010
72 2009
Average percentage of Property assets above benchmark 
or peer group on an asset weighted basis
% (3 years)
100 2010
100 2009
Our strategy
• Deliver strong investment performance and client service
• Grow new revenues and further diversify the client base 
• Focus on higher margin and specialist areas for new business 
• Create greater flexibility in our cost base
• Improve capital strength
Deliver strong investment performance and client service
We seek to define and deliver top quartile performance in everything we do. Our strategy is grounded in our belief in a virtuous circle: delivering
excellent performance will be validated by organic growth which will, in turn, translate into earnings growth and stock price performance.
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 11 12 Business Review  Our strategy F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Grow new revenues and further diversify the 
client base
We actively seek to be a well diversified business by asset class,
client type and geography and investment capabilities. We are
focused primarily on the UK and Continental Europe, however, we
will increasingly seek to expand distribution into other regions. Our
priorities are organic growth and to further diversify our revenues
beyond our core insurance clients.
2010 key points
• Good progress with institutional investment consultants, with 
43 product buy ratings achieved by the end of the year
• Generated £6.1 billion of new business (ex. Insurance flows),
with a further pipeline of £1.5 billion in institutional mandates
awaiting funding 
• Net inflows, ex. insurance, of £272 million after four years of 
net outflows 
• Thames River generated £310 million of net new business and
gross sales of £621 million in its first four months as part of 
the Group
• Proportion of run-rate revenues generated by non-insurance
clients has increased to circa 75 per cent. following Thames
River acquisition 
2011 key priorities
• Capitalise on improved position with investment consultants to
significantly accelerate institutional inflows with the goal of
generating annualised gross institutional inflows of £6 billion by
the end of 2013
• Deliver on our target of achieving gross sales of £2 billion in the
retail/wholesale channels over the 16 month period ending 
31 December 2011
Key performance indicators
Gross institutional new business
£bn
3.9 2010
2.5 2009
Net sales in third-party mutual funds
£m
425 2010
64 2009
Focus on higher margin and specialist areas for 
new business
We are targeting net new business in higher margin and specialist
areas. These include retail, alternatives and specialist institutional
mandates.
2010 key points
• Average basis points (excluding performance fees) increased
from 21.8 in 2009 to 22.6 in 2010
• Acquisition of Thames River has increased our presence in
higher fee product lines and client channels, with the average net
fee margin on Thames River products (post acquisition) being
86.3 basis points (excluding performance fees)
• Average fee margin on new institutional business won during
2010 was 39 per cent. higher than on outflows
• Key institutional products include emerging market debt, equity-
linked bond funds, governance & sustainable investments,
liability driven investments and real-estate
• In the UK retail market key focus remains multi-manager and the
‘Lifestyle’ funds
• In the wholesale segments key products included global bonds,
global credit and global convertibles
2011 key priorities
• Gather momentum in the cross-selling of Thames River products
into the institutional market and expansion of presence in the
retail/wholesale markets 
• Rationalise product range to focus on key strengths and most
profitable opportunities 
• Expand the range of higher fee products with investment
consultant ratings
• Launch new absolute return products focused on European
equities and global emerging markets
Key performance indicators
Average basis points earned on assets under management*
22.6 2010
21.8 2009
22.9 2008
22.5 2007
21.6 2006
*excluding performance fees
Performance fees earned
£m
12.9 2010
18.7 2009
7.9 2008
20.8 2007
9.5 2006
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 12 Create greater flexibility in our cost base
We will continue with a disciplined approach to cost control and also
increasingly align costs with sources of revenue. A strategic priority
is to enhance the flexibility of our cost base so that it better adjusts
to changes in our business mix.
2010 key points
• Underlying operating costs reduced by £4.2 million
• Commenced a Group-wide efficiency and business 
simplification project
• Completed the merger of the Thames River and F&C retail multi-
manager ranges in December
• Initiated a project to outsource certain back and middle office
functions to create an operational cost base that will adjust with
assets under management and transaction levels. Annualised
cost savings, once implemented, expected to be £12 million
2011 key priorities
• Conclude the operational outsourcing agreement
• Explore opportunities to rationalise our product range
Key performance indicators
Operating margin (ex FX)
%
28.5 2010
26.6 2009
25.8 2008
Improve capital strength
We will actively manage our financial position to ensure the business
is resilient and has the flexibility to respond to changes in the 
market environment.
2010 key points
• Rebased dividend to a level which meets the Board policy of
achieving at least 150 per cent. cover on underlying earnings,
enabling us to allocate free capital towards debt reduction over
the medium term
• Retained investment grade credit rating from Standard 
& Poors
2011 key priorities 
• Grow revenues while controlling costs
• Reduce net debt
Key performance indicators
Net debt
£m
95.9 2010
78.5 2009
F&C Asset Management Our strategy  Business Review 13
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 13 The aftermath of the credit crisis of 2008 continues to cast a long
shadow over the global economy, with an ongoing dichotomy
between prospects in the developed and emerging economies.
Central banks have continued to maintain interest rates and
monetary conditions at emergency levels but the burden of excess
public and private sector debt still weighs heavily on medium term
growth. We expect the pace of recovery to continue to be
protracted across developed economies as the stimulus packages
introduced during the recessions of 2009 have given way to
austerity plans. These plans, comprising of a combination of
aggressive spending cuts and tax rises, are necessary as
governments seek to repair their bloated Balance Sheets.
The spectre of rising inflation is a further concern both in the
developed and emerging economies. Much of the rise in global
inflation levels is being transmitted through buoyant commodity
prices, which are particularly problematic for the developing
economies. In the UK inflation has risen to well above the Bank of
England’s official target and we expect that this will bring an end to a
prolonged period of record low interest rates with hikes beginning
during 2011. The start of a normalisation policy will add further
pressure on the recovery against the backdrop of higher taxes,
public spending cuts, weak credit and money supply growth and
high unemployment.
After a period of strong relative performance for the emerging
economies, inflation is also dampening growth prospects for these
markets, alongside a managed slowdown in China. In addition to
creating challenges for economic policy makers, soaring commodity
and food prices are compounding the risks of political and social
instability, as we have recently seen across North Africa and the
Middle East. The prospect of supply disruption in major oil
producing countries is now manifesting itself in higher oil prices
which will, in turn, risk future global growth.
Despite two strong years for equity returns and the continuing
economic uncertainties, we remain positive on equities. We regard
equities as fair value, with attractive yields versus other asset
classes and inflation-hedging characteristics. 
Within the asset management industry, we expect to see a
continuation of the trend for managers to deleverage their balance
sheets to reflect both increased client focus on financial strength
and the more conservative regulatory backdrop. Consolidation will
continue to be a theme in the industry, though principally through
the absorption of specialist asset managers and boutiques into
bigger groups, rather than large scale integrations. The drivers
behind this will be the increased costs of regulation on smaller firms,
institutional demand for absolute return and specialist capabilities
and restructuring at financial conglomerates.
We also expect to see continued polarisation between providers of
low-cost passive investment strategies and active managers.
Amongst active managers there will be convergence between
alternative and traditional asset managers as demand for absolute
return products moves into the mainstream, including the retail
funds market through UCITS 3 fund structures which provide daily
pricing and liquidity. 
In the UK retail market, the timetable for the introduction of the
recommendations of Retail Distribution Review (‘RDR’) remains
unchanged despite the structural changes in regulation that followed
the election of the Coalition government during 2010. RDR presents
UK Independent Financial Advisers (‘IFAs’) with significant
challenges to their business models and we expect to see further
consolidation in the IFA market and the repositioning of IFA business
models ahead of the implementation of RDR in 2012. We believe
this will underpin the growth of assets into multi-manager products
and the use of risk-based funds as outsourced investment solutions.
We also anticipate closer partnerships between IFA firms and
discretionary wealth managers.
A further factor impacting asset managers operating in the UK retail
market is the growth in market share from platforms and fund
supermarkets. While there are many benefits arising from these
distribution channels, a by-product is that asset managers are
becoming further removed from the end investor.
In the institutional market we expect to see rapid growth in the
Defined Contribution (‘DC’) pension market as Defined Benefit 
(‘DB’) schemes continue to close. This trend presents both
opportunities and challenges for asset managers, as does the
development of the National Employment Savings Trust (‘NEST’) in
the UK. The latter is effectively a state-backed DC scheme into
which employees who do not automatically have access to an
occupational pension scheme will gradually be automatically
enrolled between October 2012 and 2017. NEST will add 
to competitive pressure on charging structures on DC 
pension funds. 
In the broader pensions market, we see the trend towards solutions-
based investment approaches continuing both in terms of
governance models and de-risking. We see further growth in
Fiduciary Management (asset manager led) and Implemented
Consulting (investment consultant led) services, both of which seek
to provide governance models for pension schemes incorporating
advice on asset allocation, risk budgeting and manager selection
into an integrated service. The trend towards de-risking solutions will
manifest itself in momentum for liability driven investments, inflation
protection strategies and the pension buy-out market. 
Finally, our view is that the long-term prospects for the asset
management industry remain attractive. Across the developed world
governments are under pressure to pull back from universal welfare
provision and to encourage individuals to make appropriate
commitments for their retirement through pensions and investments.
Meanwhile, in the fast-growing emerging economies, populations
are much younger than the developed world and wealth is
spreading rapidly. Both these multi-year macro trends provides
considerable opportunities for asset managers.
14 Business Review  F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Our view of the market
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 14 F&C Asset Management Business Review 15
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Insurance
F&C manages significant assets for insurance groups across a
number of jurisdictions. Our major insurance clients are Achmea 
(The Netherlands), BCP-Fortis (Portugal), Friends First (Ireland) and
Friends Provident (UK). At 31 December 2010 assets under
management in insurance funds were £59.5 billion (2009: 
£57.2 billion) representing 56 per cent. of our total assets 
under management. 
Partially due to the maturity profile of some of the underlying funds
we manage for our insurance clients there has been a longstanding
trend of annual net outflows from insurance funds. Across 2010 net
insurance outflows were £780 million (2009: £2.2 billion), the lowest
level in several years. 
Portfolios managed for our insurance clients invest across multiple
asset classes but with a strong bias to fixed income.
Institutional
F&C is a major provider of services to pension schemes and other
institutional clients located in a number of countries. We provide
both portfolio management in multi-asset and single asset class
mandates and, increasingly, investment solutions such as liability
hedging strategies and shareholder engagement programmes.
Our largest markets for institutional asset management are The
Netherlands, the UK and Germany. Institutional assets under
management were £29.3 billion at 31 December 2010 (2009: £27.7
billion) representing 28 per cent. of our assets under management.
The institutional asset management business is heavily
intermediated through firms of investment consultants who advise
pension schemes on manager selection and asset allocation.
Following F&C’s demerger from Friends Provident in July 2009,
which brought to an end a prolonged period of ownership
uncertainty, our position with investment consultants has improved
considerably with 43 consultant product ratings as at the end of
2010 compared to 30 at the time of the de-merger. Products with
consultant support include liability driven investments, equity-linked
bond funds, emerging market debt, real-estate and sustainable
investments. 
Our improved position with investment consultants and competitive
performance contributed to a 56 per cent. increase in gross sales to
£3.9 billion during 2010 (2009: £2.5 billion). This, coupled with a 34
per cent. decrease in outflows, resulted in net institutional inflows of
£761 million. Additionally, at 31 December 2010 the business had
won a further £1.5 billion of pipeline of institutional new business
that had yet to be funded.
In line with our strategy of focusing on higher margin and specialist
products, new institutional mandates won during 2010 were on
average at fee margins some 39 per cent. higher than those on
mandates lost during the year.
Sub-Advisory
For certain of our insurance-led strategic partners based in
Eurozone countries we provide portfolio management services on a
sub-advisory basis to their in-house open-ended fund ranges. We
do not act as distributor for these funds. Sub-advisory assets under
management were £3.0 billion at 31 December 2010 (2009: 
£4.0 billion). Net outflows from sub-advisory funds were £543 million
during the year.
Investment Trusts
Assets under management in investment trusts and other closed
end listed funds increased to £5.9 billion (2009: £5.1 billion)
benefiting from the recovery in equity markets during the year and
the addition of TR Property Investment Trust plc and the Thames
River Multi-Hedge PCC Limited vehicles following the acquisition of
Thames River. 
A net outflow of £371 million from investment trusts reflected a
combination of the termination of the mandates to manage Foreign 
& Colonial Eurotrust plc and Pacific Assets Trust plc, the wind up 
of F&C UK Select Trust plc and share buyback activity by 
individual trusts.
Open Ended Funds (UK Onshore)
OEICs are the principal form of mutual fund that we distribute
through UK-based Independent Financial Advisers, although wealth
managers and institutional investors may also invest through OEICs.
Most of our OEIC funds offer share classes targeted specifically at
retail and institutional investors, with different fee structures.
Assets under management in UK domiciled open-ended funds
increased 40 per cent. to £3.5 billion (2009: £2.5 billion) as a result
of improved markets and sentiment, the addition of Thames River’s
UK multi-manager range and the launch of a series of equity-linked
bond funds specifically targeted at institutional clients. We
generated £712 million of gross sales during the year, including a
four month contribution from Thames River, and net sales of 
£220 million.
The institutional equity-linked bond funds were a significant driver of
inflows while much of the focus in the UK retail market has been
multi-manager and Lifestyle funds where we see strong distribution
opportunities in the run up to the implementation of the Retail
Distribution Review (‘RDR’).
Open Ended Funds (Offshore)
Our offshore open-ended product range comprises F&C’s
Luxembourg SICAV platform, the Thames River Dublin-domiciled
OEIC range (Traditional Funds Plc) and a number of Cayman Islands
domiciled alternative investment funds. 
SICAV funds and Dublin domiciled OEICs are distributed primarily
through UK and Continental European based wealth managers 
and wholesale relationships with private banks, multi-managers 
and platforms. 
Assets under management in offshore open ended funds increased
by 254 per cent. to £4.6 billion at 31 December 2010 (2009: 
£1.3 billion) following the acquisition of Thames River whose product
set predominantly falls in this category. Across 2010, including four
months contribution from Thames River, we delivered gross sales of
£994 million in offshore open ended funds and net inflows of £205
million. Sales were strong in the Thames River Global Bond and
Global Credit products and F&C’s Convertible Bond fund. We saw
outflows in Germany from F&C HVB Stiftungsfonds, a conservative
fund which aims to generate a yield of 1 per cent. over Euribor, as
investors allocated to higher yielding products. 
Our trading performance and outlook
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 15 Total return
We view share price total return (including dividends) as a key
performance measure. Our total shareholder return for the year
ended 31 December 2010 was 20 per cent. In the same period, the
total shareholder return on the FTSE 250 index was 27 per cent.
and the FTSE 100 was 13 per cent. 
Strategic background
Whilst the macroeconomic environment remained challenging during
2010, financial markets faired better, with the FTSE 100 index
closing the year at 5900, having opened at 5413. Investors risk
appetite increased over the year, with greater allocations to higher
risk asset classes, such as equities and property, underpinned by
medium term inflationary concerns. There is also, however,
indication that investors are increasingly seeking absolute, rather
than benchmark relative returns from equity and other asset classes.
Retail investor sentiment also significantly improved during 2010,
with industry statistics reporting a significant increase in open-ended
fund sales compared to 2009.
We have positioned the Group to benefit from these trends; the
acquisition of Thames River during the year provides us with
enhanced fund distribution and a greater range of absolute return
products. Additionally, we also launched a variety of products to
benefit from these emerging trends – these included, for example,
property funds in the UK and Germany and a range of equity-linked
bond funds targeted at corporate pension schemes which combine
interest rate hedging features with equity market exposure. 
Presentation of financial results
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) require our
Financial Statements to consolidate the results of our Managed
Pension Funds (‘MPF’) business on a line-by-line basis, impacting
the presentation of both our Income Statement and Statement of
Financial Position. Our MPF business provides certain clients with
asset management services inside an insurance product wrapper.
The requirement to consolidate this business has a significant effect
on the financial investments and investment contract liabilities
captions included in our Statement of Financial Position, the risks of
which are substantially borne by the clients of this business. In
addition, our Statement of Financial Position includes some £23.4m
of cash also attributable to policyholders of this business and which
is not available for corporate purposes. 
Furthermore, during 2010, we acquired a number of new
subsidiaries as a result of our purchase of Thames River. The results
of these new subsidiaries are included in our Consolidated Financial
Statements from the date of their acquisition. Further details of the
impact of the acquisition on our financial results and position are set
out in the remainder of this report. 
Thames River acquisition
The acquisition of Thames River, for an initial consideration of
£33.6m, completed on 1 September 2010. The purchase was
funded by proceeds from an equity issue, borrowings obtained
under a loan facility and the Group’s existing cash resources. 
While the Group acquired 100 per cent. equity ownership of Thames
River, certain Thames River personnel, principally senior fund
managers, are entitled to a profit share through their membership
interests in limited liability partnerships (‘LLPs’) which form part of
Thames River.
In addition to the initial consideration of £33.6m, and estimated
additional cash consideration of £7.5m payable as a result of
acquired Thames River assets exceeding targets, further amounts
may become payable to the vendors, members or employees of
Thames River. Payment of any of these additional amounts is
generally dependent on Thames River achieving stretching financial
targets or creating further value for the Group. Details of potential
amounts payable and the related targets are set out below. 
Firstly, as a condition of the acquisition, the Group established a
Management Retention Plan (‘MRP’) to retain and incentivise certain
key individuals within Thames River. Under this plan the Group
agreed to award some 21.7 million F&C shares, which will be issued
and vest to employees in September 2013. At the date of
announcing the acquisition, these share awards had a value of
some £15m. The value of the share awards at the date of grant will
be treated as an expense over the vesting period. A cost of £1.7m
under this plan has been recognised in the 2010 results.
Secondly, the Group also established a Management Incentive Plan
(‘MIP’), allowing for a maximum of some 29 million shares, with a
value of £20m at the date of announcing the acquisition, to be
issued to certain key individuals within Thames River. The issue of
these shares is dependent on the achievement of three performance
conditions; a profit target measured at 31 December 2011, a further
profit target measured at 30 June 2012 and the cumulative
profitability of Thames River over the 48 months ended 31 March
2014. Each of these targets has an upper and lower threshold; if
profitability is below the lower threshold for a target no shares
related to that target are issued; if profitability is above the upper
threshold, the full amount of shares related to that target are issued
and if profitability lies between the thresholds a proportion of the
shares related to that target are issued. Details of each of the targets
are set out further in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements on page 96. 
Under relevant accounting rules, we are required to assess whether
we believe the MIP targets will be met and, if so, the number of
shares that may be issued. The value of those shares is then treated
as an expense, and allocated over the vesting period. At 31
December 2010, the Board estimate that the first two performance
conditions will be partially met, resulting in a total expense under the
MIP of £1.0m, of which £0.1m is recognised in 2010.
Thirdly, under the acquisition agreement the Group committed 
to pay additional consideration to the vendors of Thames River
based on achievement of the same 31 December 2011 and 
30 June 2012 profits targets as for the MIP . The maximum 
potential amount of additional consideration payable is £20m; at 
31 December 2010, the Board has estimated that £7.5m may be
payable and provision for this amount is included in the year end
Statement of Financial Position. The acquisition agreement provides
for this amount to be settled by the issue or transfer of shares in 
the Company.
At the time of the acquisition, the Group entered into agreements
(‘the Commutation Arrangements’) with the individual members of
the Thames River partnerships. Under the Commutation
Arrangements, the Group committed, under certain circumstances,
to purchase part of the individual members profit share in return for
an issue of F&C shares. As the Commutation Arrangements can
only be exercised by members who are still actively involved in the
Thames River business and they must continue in the business for a
16 Business Review  F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Our financial performance
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 16 F&C Asset Management Our financial performance Business Review 17
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
further two years to receive the full amount of their consideration,
IFRS requires the value of the shares which may be issued under
the Commutation Arrangements to be treated as an expense,
recognised over the period in which the member must remain in the
business. The total expense recognised in 2010 under the
Commutation Arrangements is £6.2m, of which £1.4m is a cash
payment in respect of commutations exercised in 2010.
Net revenue
Net revenue for the year was £243.2m (2009: £225.1m). This
included £12.9m (2009: £18.7m) of performance fee income. Net
new business of £0.3 billion, excluding insurance flows, was funded
during the year (2009: net outflows of £3.7 billion). The combination
of improved market levels, partially offset by adverse exchange rate
variances, added a net £4.3 billion to our assets under management
during 2010 and the acquisition of Thames River added a further
£4.2 billion. 
Net funds flows and related annualised revenues represent a key
performance indicator and are indicative of the growth potential of
the business. In that regard, it is pleasing to report that after several
years of net outflows, as set out above, 2010 represented a return
to net inflows in our third-party business. In addition, the fees
earned on our institutional business continue to improve, with fee
margins on new business gained during 2010 some 39 per cent.
greater than fee margins on outflows during the same period. 
During 2010 our performance fee income was £12.9m; a reduction
from the 2009 level of £18.7m, despite a contribution of some
£1.8m from Thames River. Whilst this reduction in performance fee
income reflects our performance in those mandates in which we can
earn a performance fee, it is also impacted by other factors, such as
the contractual basis of calculation of fees in such mandates. 
Revenue margin
Our revenue margin excluding performance fees, measured as our
net management fee income divided by average assets under
management, increased from 21.8 basis points in 2009 to 22.6
basis points in 2010. This measure shows progress against our
target of migrating our business towards higher margin products. It
has also been affected by the acquisition of Thames River which, as
a pooled fund business primarily serving wholesale and retail clients,
carries a higher fee margin than our legacy business. Stripping out
the acquisition of Thames River, our revenue margin would have
been broadly unchanged.
Operating expenses
Our total operating expenses, excluding amortisation of intangible
assets and exceptional items, were £175.7m in 2010, compared to
£163.6m in 2009. After excluding exchange gains and losses, which
are substantially outwith the control of management, our operating
expenses were £175.0m in 2010, compared to £166.6m in 2009.
The cost base of Thames River included in these results for 2010
was some £12.6m including £6.0m of proft share payable to LLP
members; accordingly operating costs in the legacy Group business
reduced by some £4.2m during 2010. 
One of the key costs for an asset management business is
remuneration costs, which are correlated to personnel numbers. At
31 December 2010, our headcount, on a full-time equivalent basis,
was 962 compared to 868 at 31 December 2009. However, 2010
headcount includes some 118 staff added on the Thames River
acquisition. Total staff costs, prior to the impact of the Thames
River acquisition, remained broadly flat on 2009 levels. Thames
River variable compensation costs are directly correlated to the
profitability of that business, with many of the senior fund
management personnel receiving a share of profits of the LLPs, in
their capacity as members.
During 2010, we incurred a number of exceptional operating costs,
which are excluded from our underlying results. These include
corporate advisory fees, Thames River integration expenses and
certain legal costs. In addition, we have excluded certain items of
operating income from our underlying results. Each of these is
discussed further below. 
Corporate advisory fees of £9.9m principally represent £7.5m of
advisory and other transaction costs incurred in the acquisition of
Thames River and £2.0m of costs incurred in respect of the aborted
acquisition of the C-Quadrat group during the first half of 2010.
While the costs relating to the Thames River acquisition resulted ina
capital investment by the Company, IFRS requires that these costs
are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement. 
The Thames River integration costs are amounts incurred after 
the acquisition in aligning certain of its activities within the F&C
Group. They include product rationalisation costs and staff
redundancy costs.
As disclosed in the 2009 Financial Statements, the Group has
received put option notices under a Limited Liability Partnership
Agreement from the two individual members of F&C Partners LLP
(‘Partners’), the Group’s majority owned fund of hedge funds
business. There has been related litigation, details of which are given
in note 6(b) in the Financial Statements. The Company vigorously
denies the validity of these notices and related claims and has been
engaged in litigation during the course of 2010 in respect of these
matters. Some £6.0m of associated legal and related expenses
have been charged to the Income Statement for the year ended 
31 December 2010.
During 2010, the Group implemented a number of actions to alter
the profile of the benefits payable under its UK defined benefit
pension scheme. These resulted in a reduction in pension liabilities
of some £4.0m. This amount, net of £1.5m of redundancy and
related pension costs incurred during the year, has been treated as
an exceptional employment credit. 
A foreign exchange gain of some £1.3m was recognised in the
Income Statement during 2010 as a result of the Group liquidating
one of its overseas subsidiaries. As this item is non-recurring 
in nature, it has been excluded from the calculation of 
underlying earnings. 
In addition, each of the MIP , MRP and Commutation expenses have
also been excluded in calculating underlying earnings.
Operating margin
The Group’s operating margin (ex FX) for 2010 was 28.5 per cent.
compared to 26.6 per cent. in 2009. This represents one of
management’s key performance indicators, and is measured as
adjusted operating profits as a percentage of net revenues.
For this purpose, adjusted operating profits represent operating
profits before the impact of exceptional items but after adjusting 
for variable compensation payable to members of Thames 
River partnerships. The tables on page 127 show how the Group’s
key performance indicators are quantified.
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 17 18 Business Review  Our financial performance F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets
Under IFRS, when an acquisition is made, there is a requirement to
recognise separately the fair value attributed to intangible assets, in
our case, management contracts. The excess of consideration over
the fair value of net assets acquired represents the business value
and infrastructure and is recognised as goodwill. 
As a result of the acquisition of Thames River, the Group recognised
additional goodwill of £16.8m and additional management contract
intangible assets of £23.0m in 2010. 
Management contracts are separated by client type and are
amortised over their estimated useful lives. Where an indicator of
impairment occurs, such as greater than anticipated fund losses, we
are required to review the carrying value of these contracts.
No such indicators of impairment arose during 2010 and accordingly
no impairment charges were recognised. 
We are also required to conduct an annual impairment review of the
carrying value of goodwill. This review demonstrated that there was
no impairment and hence no requirement to write-down goodwill.
Foreign exchange
A large proportion of the Group’s business is conducted outside the
UK and, consequently, the Group has significant exposure to foreign
exchange rate movements. The main areas which are potentially
exposed to exchange rate fluctuations are our revenues and our
assets and liabilities. Approximately 50 per cent. of the Group’s
assets under management are denominated in Euros and,
accordingly, a significant proportion of the Group’s revenues are
earned in Euros. During 2008 the Company entered into a series of
forward currency contracts to partially hedge Euro-denominated
cash flows; the final contract matured in H1 2010 and therefore, 
no unrealised gain or loss has been recognised in the 2010 
Financial Statements.
During 2010, exchange losses of some £0.7m were incurred,
comprising a gain of £0.9m on a forward currency contract offset by
a £1.6m exchange loss on the retranslation of assets and liabilities
held in foreign currencies. As these amounts do not reflect the
ongoing profitability of the business, they have been excluded from
underlying earnings.
F&C REIT
Our minority interest partners currently own 30 per cent. of F&C
REIT, the Group’s property asset management business. In certain
circumstances, they can require F&C to purchase their interests at
future dates and, under IFRS, a liability for this potential obligation is
included in our financial statements. As this option requires to be
carried at its fair value, representing 30 per cent. of the value of F&C
REIT, it is revalued each year, with any revaluation gain or loss
reflected in the Income Statement. During 2010, this revaluation
resulted in a gain of £6.4m being included in the 2010 Income
Statement. This gain is excluded from underlying earnings. 
In addition to the arrangements described above, the F&C REIT
minority interest partners have the opportunity to increase their
ownership interest from 30 per cent. to 40 per cent. should F&C
REIT achieve certain stretching financial targets over agreed periods.
For accounting purposes, the valuation of the option provided by
the earn-out mechanism is treated as a share-based payment
expense and included in the Income Statement. As a result of a
re-assessment of the likelihood of these financial targets being
achieved, a credit of £0.3m was recognised in the Income
Statement during 2010 and, consistent with prior years, this amount
has been excluded from underlying earnings. 
Underlying earnings
The Board utilises underlying earnings per share as one of its key
metrics in assessing financial performance. The reconciliation
between underlying earnings and statutory earnings is provided in
note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Underlying
earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2010 were 5.9p
(2009: 5.8p) excluding the impact of all foreign exchange gains and
losses and 5.6p (2009: 4.6p) after the inclusion of realised exchange
gains and losses. 
Dividends
Our dividend policy is to achieve at least 150 per cent. cover on
underlying earnings, and where possible, to grow the dividend. As
set out above, our underlying earnings for the year were 5.9p per
share. An interim dividend of 1p per share was paid during the year.
After a review of the results for the year, the market conditions that
prevailed during the year and the business outlook for 2011, the
Board has declared a final dividend of 2p per share. If approved by
Shareholders, this dividend, together with the interim dividend, will
result in a total dividend for the year of 3p per share.
Cash resources
The Group has gross debt of some £275m (2009: £265m). During
the year, the Group repaid the remaining vendor loan notes of £10m
issued in connection with the REIT acquisition. In addition, the
Group entered a new loan facility agreement with HSBC Bank plc,
which provided a loan facility for the acquisition of Thames River and
a £20m revolving credit facility. On 1 September, £15m was drawn
under the acquisition loan facility. This was subsequently repaid by
an issue of £20m of 9 per cent. senior loan notes prior to year end.
The revolving credit facility has not been drawn down. 
Therefore, at 31 December 2010, the Group’s borrowings comprise
£125m of remaining subordinated loan notes and some £150m of
senior loan notes. Neither the subordinated loan notes nor the
senior loan notes include any financial covenants. 
At 31 December 2010, the Group held cash resources of £202m, of
which some £23m relates to policyholders and is not available for
corporate purposes. A significant portion of cash is held in our
regulated subsidiaries against their capital requirements. As asset
management is a cash generative business, we should not require
significant cash for working capital purposes beyond our regulatory
capital requirements. 
Our borrowings carry fixed rates of interest. The subordinated loan
notes currently bear interest at 6.75 per cent. and the senior loan
notes carry a fixed 9 per cent. interest rate. Our cash resources earn
interest based on bank deposit rates. 
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 18 CR commitment
The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of
governance and corporate citizenship. We recognise that in addition
to our responsibilities to clients and shareholders we also have
responsibilities to employees, suppliers, the environment, the
companies in which we invest and the wider community in which 
we operate.
CR strategy
The Company has two overarching strategic ambitions:
• To enable our clients to respond effectively to changing dynamics
in the world economy through our products and through
influencing companies to improve business performance.
• To ensure that we meet the highest practicable standards of
corporate responsibility in our own operations.
We have defined four key categories supporting our strategic
ambitions: Marketplace, Environment, Workplace and Community.
We are committed to monitoring and reporting on progress against
the targets set within each category, both internally (on a quarterly
basis) and externally (at least annually). F&C’s CR policies are guided
by a number of broadly accepted international standards and
benchmarks. Wherever practicable, we seek external validation of
our progress and publish these results.
F&C considers the following key external measures to validate our
relative CR performance.
External validation
2009 Existing 2011
position position target
BITC Corporate Gold Gold Platinum 
Responsibility Index status status status
EIRIS/FTSE4Good Inclusion Inclusion Inclusion
UN Global Inclusion Inclusion Inclusion
Compact CCP
Carbon Disclosure Member Member Member
Project
Principles for Founding Founding Founding
Responsible signatory signatory signatory
Investment
F&C identifies its key stakeholders as shareholders, clients,
employees, suppliers, government and non-government
organisations, the wider community, other asset management
companies and companies in which we invest. We engage widely
with stakeholder groups through regular dialogue tailored to meet
the requirements of each stakeholder group.
CR categories supporting the strategic ambitions
F&C has established key performance indicators (‘KPIs’) for each of
the CR categories detailed below, details of which can be found on
the Corporate Responsibility section of the Company’s website. A
summary of our objectives in each area is set out below.
Marketplace
F&C will use the influence of its clients’ assets to engage with
companies on all relevant CR matters where this will improve
business performance. F&C intends to increase the number of
milestones achieved (being an instance in which a company
improves its policies, procedures or practices following engagement
and where F&C’s participation has been a major factor) to 435 
by 2011.
F&C will issue voting instructions in line with its Corporate
Governance Operational Guidelines on 100 per cent. of global
resolutions that it is mandated to on behalf of clients and will publish
its voting history. F&C will contact 100 per cent. of companies
following an abstention or vote against management.
Environment
F&C is targeting carbon neutrality internally and is committed to
helping our clients and suppliers cut carbon emissions. Over the
next three years F&C will obtain 100 per cent. of its energy usage
from renewable sources, where such markets exist.
F&C will source 100 per cent. of its paper from chlorine free recycled
supplies, reduce waste to landfill by 20 per cent. and increase its
own recycling by 20 per cent.
F&C will actively embark on an internal education programme on the
effect that water and waste management has on the environment.
F&C, through its marketplace engagement activity, will widen its
influence to the companies in which it invests.
Some of our 2010 community or charity events
75 members of staff participated in the JPMorgan Chase Corporate
Challenge, held in Battersea Park, London, raising funds for Save
the Children.
Throughout 2010, over 100 members of staff based in London and
Edinburgh participated in a variety of volunteering events which
included renovation of gardens for a housing trust, painting
classrooms in local primary schools and regeneration of a children’s
adventure playground.
Every member of staff within the Company’s Irish office participated
in a volunteering day clearing and transforming an overgrown garden
at the Lantern Facility, run by the Peter McVerry Trust. The Lantern
Facility houses vulnerable men wanting to get off the streets.
In October, every member of staff within the Company’s Netherlands
office participated in their first volunteering day at Klaase Zevenster,
a home for elderly people some of whom suffer from dementia. A
variety of activities took place which included teaching computer
skills, painting and gardening.
F&C Asset Management Business Review 19
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Our strategic approach and commitment 
to corporate responsibility (‘CR’)
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 19 Corporate responsibility key performance indicators
Category KPI/statistic 2010 performance 2011 targets
Marketplace Number of resolutions voted on during the year 100% 100%
Proportion of companies contacted following an abstention 
or vote against management 100% 100%
reo® engagement successes in year 432 435
Community Staff participation in Give as You Earn 12% 15%
Employees participating in charitable events and charitable fundraising 487 475
Staff volunteering for community projects 29% 365 staff days
Environment Carbon neutrality Full Full
Reduction in paper consumption 5% 5%
Workplace Employee survey participation Top decile Top decile
Staff satisfaction 70% 75%
Diversity training (staff coverage) 100% 100%
20 Business Review  Our strategic approach and commitment to corporate responsibility F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Workplace
F&C is committed to ensuring good practices in managing its own
workplace issues.
F&C will undertake an employee survey and will, by 2011, target top
decile employee participation levels.
F&C always seeks to employ the best person for each job and does
not discriminate on grounds of gender, race, ethnicity, religion,
sexual orientation, age or physical disability. F&C will educate 100
per cent. of employees on the importance of recognising and
embracing diversity in the workplace and the community as a whole.
F&C encourages share ownership and will continue to operate all-
employee share schemes.
Community
F&C offers financial support and, wherever practicable, offers
employees time off work to support charitable activities.
In 2011 F&C is targeting 365 staff days of community work in 2011.
F&C targets 15 per cent. of employees participating in the Give As
You Earn scheme and will match employee contributions up to a set
monthly level.
How is Corporate Responsibility implemented 
by F&C 
The Board is ultimately responsible for CR within the Group.
Development of F&C’s policies on CR and their implementation
throughout the Group are co-ordinated by the CR Committee,
chaired by David Logan.
Alain Grisay David Logan
6 April 2011 6 April 2011
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 20 F&C Asset Management Governance 21
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Non-executive Directors
1 Edward Bramson
‡
Chairman  Age 60
Mr Bramson joined the Board and was
appointed Chairman in February 2011. He is
currently a partner of Sherborne Investors and
the chairman of Nautilus, Inc and was formerly
chairman of Spirent Communications plc,
Elementis plc, 4imprint Group plc and Ampex
Corporation. 
2 Keith Bedell-Pearce CBE, LLB, MSc *
†‡
Senior Independent Director  Age 66
Mr Bedell-Pearce, a solicitor, joined the Board in
December 2002. Until December 2001, 
Mr Bedell-Pearce was an executive director of
Prudential plc with over 30 years experience in
the financial services industry. He is currently
Chairman of 4D Data Centres Ltd and a member
of the Council of the University of Warwick.
3 Ian Brindle
Age 67
Mr Brindle joined the Board in February 2011.
Mr Brindle was UK Chairman of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and deputy
chairman of the Financial Reporting Review
Panel. He is currently the chairman of Sherborne
Investors (Guernsey) A Limited and a non-
executive director of Spirent Communications
plc, Elementis plc and 4imprint Group plc. 
4Kieran Poynter FCA *
†‡
Independent Director  Age 60
Mr Poynter joined the Board in June 2009. Prior
to his appointment, Mr Poynter was Chairman
and Senior Partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP having spent 37 years with the firm. He is a
Director of Nomura International plc,
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA and
British American Tobacco plc.
5 Derham O’Neill*
†
Independent Director  Age 67
Mr O’Neill joined the Board in February 2011.
Prior to his appointment, Mr O’Neill was a senior
partner of Clifford Chance LLP . He is currently
the chairman of Schroder Asian Property
Managers Limited (Bermuda) and was formerly
the chairman of Scotty Group plc and a non-
executive director of Cedar plc, Georgica plc,
and Schroder Venture Managers Limited
(Bermuda). 
6 Gerhard Roggemann Ass.iur *
†‡
Independent Director  Age 63
Mr Roggemann joined the Board in June 2007
as an Independent Director. He is currently vice
chairman of Hawkpoint Partners Europe and an
independent director of Resolution Limited and
Friends Provident Holdings plc. He is chairman
of the Supervisory Board of G P Guenter
Papenburg AG, deputy chairman of the
Deutsche Börse AG and a director of Deutsche
Beteiligungs AG and Fresenius SE & Co KG. He
spent much of his professional career with
financial services firm JP Morgan.
7Jeff Medlock*
†
B.Sc(Econ), FIA
Independent Director  Age 70
Mr Medlock joined the Board in October 2004.
Mr Medlock was Chief Executive Officer of
Eureko from its formation in 1992 until 1999
when he became Chief Financial Officer at
Achmea. He returned to the board of Eureko in
2002 shortly after its merger with Achmea and
Seguros e Pensoes as Chief Financial Officer
until his retirement in 2004. He is also a trustee
of the children’s charity Coram Life Education.
Executive Directors
8 Alain Grisay
Chief Executive  Age 57
Mr Grisay joined the Board in October 2004
having previously been Deputy Chief Executive
of F&CGH and head of the institutional business.
Prior to joining F&C in April 2001, Mr Grisay was
at JP Morgan for 20 years, serving as Managing
Director responsible for the investment bank’s
market client business in Europe.
9 David Logan BA, CA
Chief Financial Officer  Age 41
Mr Logan joined the Board on 31 July 2006.
Prior to his appointment, Mr Logan spent
seventeen years in the accounting profession,
including four years as a partner at Deloitte 
& Touche LLP and three years as a partner 
at Andersen.
‡
Member of the Nomination Committee
*Member of the Remuneration Committee
†
Member of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee
Company Directors
12 3 4 5
67
8
9
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 21 Results, business review and dividend
The Group’s results for the year ended 31 December 2010 are
shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 41. A
business review of the year ended 31 December 2010 and future
developments are covered on pages 2 to 20. This review, together
with the Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance on pages 26
to 31, forms part of the Report of the Directors.
The Group loss for the year, after tax, amounted to £13.4 million.
The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 2.0 pence per
share, amounting to £10.3 million, resulting in a total of 3.0 pence
and £15.4 million for the year.
The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 27 May 2011
to ordinary shareholders whose names are on the register on 
1 April 2011. No liability for the proposed dividends has been
recognised as at 31 December 2010, in accordance with IFRS.
Principal activity and status
The Group’s business is asset management. Details of the progress
of the business during the year and of future prospects are
contained in the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Report
and the Business Review on pages 2 to 20.
The Company is registered as a Public Limited Company in terms of
the Companies Act 2006 and is currently a constituent of the FTSE
250 Index. The Company is registered in Scotland, registered
number SC73508, and is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Details of the principal entities within the Group are contained in
Note 39 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. There are also
three branch offices in the Group outside the UK, in Germany,
France and Ireland.
Significant agreements
In addition to the significant management contracts with Friends
Provident plc and the Achmea Group, details of which are contained
in Note 40 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, F&C is party to
the following significant contracts that take effect, alter or terminate
upon a change of control of the Company:
Millennium BCP Group (‘BCP’)
The consequences of termination of the various agreements with
BCP related funds are regulated by an Umbrella Agreement with BCP
(‘the UA’) . The UA provides that compensation is payable if any of
these agreements are terminated before 29 June 2013. If a person
acquires an interest in the shares of F&C which is larger than the
aggregate interest of Friends Provident and Eureko, then the period
by reference to which compensation is payable by BCP to F&C on
termination of such an agreement is reduced. On 17 December 2010,
Sherborne Investors GP , LLC acquired an interest in the shares of
F&C which is greater than the aggregate interest of Friends Provident
and Eureko thereby reducing the period by reference to which
compensation would have been payable had an agreement been
terminated at that time from 42 months to 12 months. Further
communications from BCP have put F&C on notice that payments by
BCP in respect of F&C’s continued provision of services to BCP ,
constitutes payment in lieu of compensation and that the agreements
could be terminated by BCP at any time after 17 December 2011
without compensation or notice. As at the latest practicable date prior
to the publication of this Annual Report and Financial Statements,
none of the relevant agreements has been terminated and no notice
terminating such agreements has been received.
Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust Plc
The Investment Management Agreement in place with Foreign &
Colonial Investment Trust Plc can be terminated by the investment
trust on a minimum of six months’ notice expiring at the end of any
calendar month. In the event that there is a change of control in 
F&C (as defined in Section 1124 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010), 
then the investment trust is entitled to terminate the agreement 
on not less than three months’ notice to expire at the end of 
any calendar month.
F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
The Investment Management Agreement in place with F&C
Commercial Property Trust Limited can be terminated by the
investment trust on not less than six months’ notice. Early
termination can be undertaken by the investment trust, but only
subject to the payment of compensation to F&C based on revenue
stream. Immediate termination is possible by the investment trust in
the event that there is a change of control in F&C (as defined in
Section 1124 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010) which has not been
consented to by its Board.
F&C Partners LLP
The F&C Partners Limited Liability Partnership Agreement, dated 
3 December 2004, is between F&C Alternative Investments (Holdings)
Limited (‘FAIHL’), the two individual founder members and the LLP . 
The LLP Agreement provides that in the event of a change of control
of FAIHL it has the right within three months of such change of
control to declare to the individual members that such change of
control is a trigger event. Upon the declaration of a trigger event, the
individual members of the LLP have no right to require FAIHL to
purchase their interests for a period of twelve months thereafter.
Following the expiry of this twelve month period, the individual
members have a period of three months during which they can
choose to require FAIHL to purchase their interests.
F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
The F&C REIT Asset Management LLP (the ‘LLP’) Limited Liability
Partnership Agreement, dated 21 July 2008, is between F&C, the
two individual members and a separate company controlled by
discretionary trusts.
Where there is a change of control of F&C, F&C can elect to change
the arrangements for voting at LLP members’ meetings such that
F&C’s interests are represented by one vote and the REIT Parties’
aggregate interests are represented by one vote. If F&C does not so
elect, then F&C may be required to offer to sell its interests in the
LLP to the other members of the LLP at a price determined by an
independent valuer.
Thames River Capital
The Share Purchase Agreement relating to the acquisition of the
Thames River Capital Group provides for deferred consideration
payable in two instalments of up to £10 million each, subject to
certain financial targets being met. These payments are to be
22 Governance F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Report of the Directors
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 22 satisfied by the issue or transfer of F&C shares, the number of which
will be based on the average closing price of such shares for the
5 business days ended 2 business days prior to their issue or
transfer. If, however, amongst other things, a person obtains control
of F&C, then the deferred consideration will be satisfied in the form
of bank guaranteed loan notes. 
Property, plant and equipment
Details of changes in property, plant and equipment are disclosed in
Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. At 31 December
2010, there were no significant differences between the net book
and market values of property, plant and equipment.
Financial instruments
Details of financial instruments are disclosed in Notes 14 and 18 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements. The financial risk management
objectives and policies of the Group are contained in Note 36.
Share capital and directors’ interests
During the year the Company issued 1,952,528 ordinary shares in
respect of vested awards or options under the Company’s long term
incentive schemes.
Details of shares under option at 31 December 2010 are shown 
on page 139. Details of all shares issued during the year ended 
31 December 2010, are given in Note 31 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. The Directors who held office at the year end
and their interests (together with those of their connected persons)
in the share capital of the Company are shown below:
Ordinary Shares 31 Dec 10** 31 Dec 09**
Edward Bramson Beneficial Nil Nil
Non Beneficial
‡
96,329,200 Nil
Keith Bedell-Pearce Beneficial 51,285 51,285
Ian Brindle Beneficial Nil Nil
Alain Grisay Beneficial
†
2,062,657 1,304,847
Non Beneficial* 64,176 64,176
Brian Larcombe Beneficial 20,000 20,000
David Logan Beneficial 198,428 95,485
Non Beneficial* 64,176 64,176
Nick MacAndrew Beneficial 50,000 25,000
Jeff Medlock Beneficial 20,000 10,000
Derham O’Neill Beneficial Nil Nil
Kieran Poynter Beneficial 30,000 30,000
Gerhard Roggemann Beneficial Nil Nil
‡
Edward Bramson is an associate of of SIGA, LP , a member of the
Sherborne Group.
†
These shares include Mr Grisay’s participation in the Purchased Equity Plan.
Further details of this plan are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report
on pages 32 to 33.
* Alain Grisay and David Logan are Directors of F&C Group ESOP Trustee
Limited, a company incorporated in 1995 as a discretionary employee
benefit trust to encourage and facilitate the acquisition and holding of shares
in the Company by employees.
**Or date of appointment if later.
Since the year end, the following Directors’ dealings in the Company’s shares
have taken place:
On 15 March 2011, Mr Grisay sold 1,000,000 shares in the Company at a
price of 77.12 pence per share.
On 25 March 2011, Messrs Grisay and Logan received 740,740 shares and
284,900 shares respectively in the Company that vested under the terms of the
Company’s Executive Director Remuneration Plan, the details of which are set
out on page 34. On 31 March 2011 Mr Grisay sold 740,740 shares and Mr
Logan sold 147,354 shares in the Company at a price of 77.87 pence per share.
In addition, Mr Logan subscribes for £125 worth of shares each month under
the Company’s Share Incentive Plan, details of which are set out on page 33.
Directors’ and officers’ liability
The Group maintains insurance cover in respect of Directors’ and
officers’ liability.
The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity in accordance with
the Company’s Articles of Association at article 166 which is a
qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined in the
Companies Act 2006. 
Charitable and political contributions
During the year, the Group made contributions to charity of
£211,000 (2009: £86,000). No political donations were made during
the year (2009: £nil). Further details on the criteria for charitable
giving are contained on the Company’s website.
Payment policy and practice
It is the Group’s policy to ensure settlement of suppliers’ accounts in
accordance with the stated terms. In certain circumstances,
settlement terms are agreed prior to any business taking place. It is
our policy to abide by those terms.
At 31 December 2010, trade creditors represented the equivalent of
9 days (2009: 6 days) of the annual purchases invoiced by the
suppliers to the Group.
Substantial interests in share capital
The Company has been informed of the following substantial
interests, above 3 per cent. as at 6 April 2011:
Ordinary
Shares Percentage
Sherborne 98,853,454 18.6
Eureko B.V. 51,128,190 9.6
Aviva 45,797,939 8.6
Employee Benefit Trusts 17,177,070 3.2
Employees
At 1 March 2011, there were 898 full-time employees and 84
part-time employees within the Group (1 March 2010: 798 full-time
employees and 75 part-time employees).
Disabled employees
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment
from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be
adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Group’s policy
wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under normal
terms and conditions and to provide training, career development
and promotion to disabled employees wherever possible.
Employee involvement
During the year, the policy of providing employees with information
about the Group has been continued through internal presentations
by the Executive Directors and Executive Committee and the
internal publication of relevant information. Wherever appropriate,
employees are consulted to ensure that their views are taken into
account before decisions are taken which are likely to affect 
their interests.
F&C Asset Management Report of the Directors  Governance 23
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 23 Equal opportunities
The Group aims to provide equal opportunities for all, without
discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, marital status, 
age, sex, sexual orientation or disability. We recruit and promote
those best suited for the job. The Group respects the dignity of
individuals and their beliefs. The Group does not tolerate any sexual,
racial, physical or mental harassment of staff in the work place.
Share incentive schemes
During the year, employees participated directly in the business
through a number of Employee Share Schemes, details of which are
included within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 32 to
38 or the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages
90 to 100.
Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’)
The Company will hold its AGM on Tuesday, 3 May 2011 at The
Gibson Hall, 13 Bishopsgate, London EC2N 3BA. 
The Meeting will start at 11 a.m. (UK time). Details of all resolutions
being put to shareholders are set out in the Notice of Annual
General Meeting commencing on page 143.
Board changes
On 3 February 2011, at a General Meeting of the Company,
shareholders approved the appointment of Messrs Bramson,
Brindle and O’Neill to the Board and resolved that Messrs
MacAndrew and Larcombe be removed from the Board. 
Mr Roggemann has expressed his intention to retire on conclusion
of this year’s Annual General Meeting. The Nomination Committee
and the Board have commenced a search for two additional
independent Non-executive Directors. 
Information relating to the re-election of Directors at the Annual
General Meeting is set out in the Directors’ Report on Corporate
Governance on page 29.
Authority to allot ordinary shares and disapplication
of pre-emption rights 
Ordinary resolution 8 will be put to the AGM of the Company to
renew the Directors’ power to allot shares. The Directors currently
have a general authority to allot relevant securities up to a maximum
amount of £160,715.81 together with specific authorities to allot
shares to satisfy the consideration payable in connection with the
acquisition of Thames River and the related commutation
arrangements and for the settlement of awards made under the
management share plans (‘the Specific Authorities’). The resolution
proposes that a similar general authority be granted in substitution
of the existing general authority to allot securities up to a maximum
amount of £177,355.19, representing approximately 33.33 per cent.
of the Company’s total issued ordinary share capital (excluding
treasury shares) as at the date of this report. The Specific Authorities
will remain unaffected by the passing of this resolution.
In addition, in accordance with guidance issued by the Association
of British Insurers in December 2008, the Company is seeking
additional authority to allot securities in connection with a pre-
emptive rights issue up to a maximum amount of £90,562.02,
representing approximately 17.0 per cent. of the Company’s total
issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) as at the
date of this report. The benefit to the Company of obtaining such
authority on an annual basis is that it would allow the Company to
implement a rights issue of an amount equal to approximately 50.34
per cent. of the issued ordinary share capital without the need to call
an additional general meeting. This would shorten the
implementation timetable for such a rights issue. The Directors have
no present intention of exercising this authority. The authority will
expire at the end of the AGM to be held in 2012, unless previously
cancelled or varied by the Company in general meeting. It is the
intention of the Directors to renew this authority annually at each
AGM. To the extent that this authority is used by the Directors, all
Directors will offer themselves for re-election at the next General
Meeting of the Company.
Special resolution 9 will renew the present power to allot unissued
ordinary share capital and to sell ordinary shares held in treasury for
cash without first being required to offer such shares to existing
shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Such power will apply to the allotment of unissued ordinary shares
and treasury shares sold up to a maximum nominal amount of
£26,605.94 representing approximately 5 per cent. of the
Company’s issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this
report, except that: 
(1) the maximum nominal amount of shares that can be allotted in
connection with a pre-emptive rights issue is £267,917.21
representing approximately 50.34 per cent. of the Company’s
total issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) as
at the date of this report; and
(2) the maximum nominal amount of unissued ordinary shares that
can be allotted or treasury shares sold: 
(a) pursuant to any other pre-emptive offering (where legal or
regulatory requirements prevent the issue of shares wholly
on a pre-emptive basis); or
(b) in order to satisfy options or awards under any share
scheme for employees or share incentive plan approved by
the Company in general meeting, is £177,355.19,
representing approximately 33.33 per cent. of the
Company’s total issued ordinary share capital (excluding
treasury shares) as at the date of this report.
The Directors consider that the authority proposed to be granted by
resolution 8 and the power proposed to be granted by resolution 9
are necessary in order to take advantage of opportunities as they
arise and to retain flexibility. The Directors do not have any intention
of exercising such authority or power at the present time other than
for the purposes referred to in (2)(b) above.
Purchase of own shares
Special resolution 10 will be put to the AGM to renew the present
power to make market purchases of the Company’s own ordinary
shares. Pursuant to the renewed power, the maximum aggregate
number of ordinary shares which may be purchased pursuant to the
authority shall be 53,211,879 (being approximately 10 per cent. of
the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of
this report. The minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary
share shall be 0.1 pence (exclusive of expenses). The maximum
price for an ordinary share (again exclusive of expenses) shall be an
amount equal to 105 per cent. of the average of the middle market
quotations for the Company’s ordinary shares for the five business
24 Governance Report of the Directors F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 24 days immediately preceding the date of purchase. The power
conferred by this resolution will expire on the earlier of the date
falling 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution and
the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be
held in 2012.
As at the date of this report, the Company had 119,769,934 options
to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding (representing 22.51 per
cent. of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at the
same date, excluding treasury shares). If the buy-back authority is
renewed at the 2011 AGM and is then utilised in full, the options
outstanding at the date of this report would represent 25.01 per
cent. of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company (excluding
treasury shares). 
Any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority would
either be held as treasury shares or cancelled. While any shares are
held in treasury, voting rights are suspended and currently no
dividends (or any other distribution) are paid (or made) on such
shares. The Directors consider it appropriate to have in place the
facility to acquire shares in circumstances where they believe that
future shareholder returns can be enhanced by taking such action.
This authority, if renewed, will only be exercised if to do so would
result in an increase in earnings per ordinary share and if it is
considered to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Directors fees
Ordinary resolution 11 will be put to the AGM to increase the overall
limit on the fees paid to, and the benefits in kind received by, the
Directors of the Company for their services to the office of Directors
from £600,000 to £800,000 per annum. This increase is intended 
to provide the Board with the flexibility to make additional 
Non-executive appointments in the future.   
Proposed amendment to the Company’s Long Term
Remuneration Plan (‘LTRP’)
The Board believes the continued stability of the Company’s key
employees is fundamental to the successful achievement of the
Company’s strategy and places the highest priority on the retention
of the Company’s top performing executives. To reinforce retention
value the Company’s policy is to provide a strong emphasis on long-
term share-based awards that provide alignment of long-term
interest between employees and shareholders. The LTRP is the
Company’s principal long-term retention plan.
In accordance with their terms of reference and best market
practice, the Remuneration Committee and the Board keep the
terms and the effectiveness of the Company’s share schemes under
review. Having conducted a recent review, the Board’s assessment
is that in one important aspect the rules of the LTRP do not provide
the necessary retention value required during a period of uncertainty
within the business and as such should be amended.
Under the current rules of the LTRP , a participant whose
employment is terminated in certain “good leaver” circumstances
(namely, redundancy, retirement at normal retirement age, the
transfer of his employing business or company out of the F&C
group, or any other reason at the discretion of the Board) receives
only a pro-rata award (to reflect the period of service) and at a future
date, being the original vesting date of the award.
Resolution 12 is proposing to enhance the retention value of the
restricted share awards to the above categories of “good leavers” by
resolving, in respect of any awards made in 2011, that the Board has
the discretion to disapply the time pro-rating reduction that would
otherwise be applied to those awards. Thereafter the current rules
will apply. The Ordinary Shares of the Company to which the former
employee will become entitled as a result of a restricted award will
remain dependent on the performance conditions attached to the
award at the date of grant and will continue to be measured over the
performance period. The original vesting date of any awards made
(being three years after the date of award) will also continue to apply. 
Further details of the proposed amendments to the LTRP rules 
are set out in the appendix to the notice of meeting contained on
page 146. The LTRP rules, marked up to show the proposed
amendments, are available for inspection at the Company’s
Registered Office or Head Office.
Notice of General Meetings 
We are currently able to call general meetings (other than AGMs) on
14 days’ notice. We are proposing Special resolution 13 at the
Meeting so that we can continue to be able to do so. The flexibility
offered by this resolution will only be used where it is, in the opinion
of the Directors, appropriate in relation to the business to be
considered at the meeting and merited in the interests of the
Shareholders as a whole.
The authority being sought pursuant to Special resolution 13 will
expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2012. It is the
current intention of the Directors to renew this authority annually.
Auditors
KPMG have expressed their willingness to continue in office as
auditors and a resolution proposing their re-appointment and for the
Directors to determine their fees will be submitted at the AGM.
Details of the auditor’s remuneration is provided in Note 4(c) to the
Consolidated Financial Statements and further detail on how the
Board ensures the independence of the auditors is detailed on 
page 31 within the Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance.
Adequacy of the information provided to the auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approving this Directors’
Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no
relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is
unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he is obliged
to take as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is
aware of that information.
By order of the Board,
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
6 April 2011
F&C Asset Management Report of the Directors  Governance 25
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 25 The Company is committed to, and strives for, best practice in
corporate governance. The Board is accountable to the Company’s
shareholders for good corporate governance. This statement
describes how the principles of corporate governance set out in
section one of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance
issued in 2008 (‘the Code’) have been applied.
Statement of compliance
The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the 
year ended 31 December 2010 and up to the date hereof, applied
the principles and met the requirements of the Code with the
following exception: 
• Following the appointment of Edward Bramson as the
Company’s Chairman on 3 February 2011, the Board has not
been in compliance with Code provision A.3.1. in that Mr
Bramson, as a representative of the Company’s largest
shareholder, was not independent on appointment. 
The Chairmen of the Audit, Risk & Compliance, Remuneration and
Nomination committees will be available to answer questions at this
year’s Annual General Meeting to be held on Tuesday, 3 May 2011.
Going concern
The Code requires Directors to report, under the terms set out in the
relevant guidelines to the Code, on the appropriateness of adopting
the going concern basis in preparing Financial Statements.
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to
affect its future development, performance and position are set out
in the Business Review on pages 2 to 20. The financial position of
the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the
Business Review on pages 2 to 20. In addition, Note 36 to the
Financial Statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and
processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management
objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging activities;
and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-
term contracts with a number of clients across different geographic
areas and industries. After making enquiries, the Directors have a
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements.
The Board
The Board of Directors currently comprises the Chairman, two
Executive Directors and six Non-executive Directors, five of whom
the Board has identified as Independent Directors. Ian Brindle, a
representative of Sherborne, the Company’s largest shareholder,
does not meet the criteria of independence as set out in the
accepted guidance. 
The biographies of the Directors appear on page 21. These
demonstrate a range of experience, skills and personal standing
sufficient to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy,
performance, resources and standards of conduct which are vital to
the success of the Group. All Directors have access to the advice
and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the
Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that
applicable rules and regulations are complied with. The Board meets
formally on a regular basis and is responsible for approving the
Group’s objectives and policies. The Board focuses mainly on
strategy, investment and financial performance, the Group’s control
environment and executive management and Board succession. To
enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive
appropriate and timely information ensuring that they are properly
briefed on issues for consideration in advance of meetings. In
addition, all Directors have access to senior management and can
request, either during meetings or at other appropriate times, further
explanation or written papers on matters as they see fit.
The Board has a detailed list of matters specifically reserved to it –
the ‘Board Reserved List’. This is contained in ‘The Directors’
Guide’, a training and reference document issued to all Directors on
appointment and updated as appropriate. The Board Reserved List
is reviewed annually and clearly sets out that authority is delegated
from the Board to Board Committees and to management. This
ensures that matters of significance are overseen and reviewed by
the Board prior to implementation. Examples of matters reserved for
the Board as set out in the Board Reserved List are the approval of:
The Group strategy; the annual budget; the composition and terms
of reference of any of the Board Committees; the high level
organisational structure; and the review of the effectiveness of the
Group’s system of internal control.
The composition of the Board is reviewed annually.
The Board committees
The Board has established a number of standing committees to
facilitate the smooth transaction of business within the Group.
The terms of reference of each Board Committee, outlining its
authority and duties, are reviewed and approved annually by the
Board, published on the Company’s website and are available on
written request from the Company Secretary. The terms of reference
of each of the Board Committees provide the authority to take
independent professional advice, if necessary, at the 
Company’s expense.
26 Governance F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 26 F&C Asset Management Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance Governance 27
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
(A) Statement of the Nomination Committee
Purpose and Terms of Reference
The Committee leads the process, and makes recommendations to
the Board, for all new Board appointments and the appointment of
Non-executive Directors to any Board Committee. It is responsible
for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on
the Board and ensuring that a formal, rigorous and transparent
appointment process exists.
Membership
The Committee is chaired by Edward Bramson. The Committee
comprises the Chairman and three independent Non-executive
Directors. 
Members of the Nomination Committee: 
Edward Bramson (appointed Chairman on 3 February 2011), Keith
Bedell-Pearce, Kieran Poynter (appointed 1 March 2011) and
Gerhard Roggemann.
Nick MacAndrew and Brian Larcombe served as members of the
Committee throughout 2010 and up until their removal from the
Board on 3 February 2011. 
Activities and work of the Committee
Throughout 2010 external search consultants were engaged by the
Committee to conduct a search for an additional independent Non-
executive Director. The Committee identified a suitable candidate
and issued an offer letter to a preferred candidate but for personal
reasons the candidate chose not to join the Board. The Committee
resolved, in the final quarter of the year, to place this search on hold
until the Board had obtained greater clarity from Sherborne on their
longer term intentions for the Company. Following the General
Meeting in February 2011, and the resultant changes to the
composition of the Board, the Committee have recommenced the
search for two additional independent Non-executive Directors. 
As an integral part of its succession planning, the Committee
reviews the balance and composition of the Board including the
number of Directors serving thereon. 
On an annual basis the Committee reviews the terms and conditions
of appointment of Non-executive Directors set out in the standard
letter of appointment to ensure that they continue to meet the
requirements of the Code. This standard letter of appointment can
be inspected during normal working hours at the Company’s
registered office by contacting the Company Secretary. The
Committee considers, on an annual basis, the time required of Non-
executive Directors for the fulfilment of their duties and assesses the
contribution of the Directors, their independence and their suitability
for re-election prior to an appropriate resolution being put to
shareholders. All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at
the first opportunity after their appointment and to re-election at
least every three years.
For the Board
Edward Bramson
Chairman, Nomination Committee
6 April 2011
(B) Statement of the Audit, Risk and 
Compliance Committee
Purpose and Terms of Reference
The Committee vouchsafes the processes and controls surrounding
the production of the Group’s Financial Statements and provides the
Board with assurance that the processes and controls exist to facilitate
reporting on the Group’s risk management activities, including those
related to Social, Environmental and Ethical matters, internal control
and adherence to policies and procedures.
Membership
The Committee is chaired by Kieran Poynter. The Committee
comprises solely independent Non-executive Directors. 
Members of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee:
Kieran Poynter (appointed Chairman on 3 February 2011), Keith
Bedell-Pearce (Chairman of the Committee until 3 February 2011),
Jeff Medlock (appointed on 1 March 2011), Derham O’Neill
(appointed on 1 March 2011) and Gerhard Roggemann. 
Brian Larcombe served as a member of the Committee throughout
2010 and up until his removal from the Board on 3 February 2011.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Committee
has recent and relevant financial experience, a position that should
continue throughout 2011.
Activities and work of the Committee
The Committee normally discharges its responsibilities, as allocated
by its terms of reference, within a schedule of four meetings. Two
meetings are held early in the year, one to deal with matters of
governance (for example, compliance with the Code, the Financial
Services Act, the effectiveness of internal controls and risk
management systems, monitoring and reviewing the internal Audit
Risk & Compliance department and monitoring and reviewing the
independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external audit
process) and the other to consider the integrity of the year-end
Financial Statements and any formal announcements relating to the
Company’s and the Group’s financial performance, including any
significant financial reporting judgements contained therein. A similar
process is adopted at the interim reporting stage, with a final meeting
taking place late in the year to consider relevant year-end matters.
The Committee also considers and reviews other risk management or
control documentation including the Group’s policy on whistleblowing,
the results of internal and external audit and compliance reports or
management letters, and oversees the award of any non-audit related
consultancy work. On an annual basis the Committee considers and
makes a recommendation to the Board as to the appointment, re-
appointment or removal of the external auditors and approves their
remuneration and terms of engagement. Other meetings of the
Committee are called at the request of the Chairman to consider ad
hoc control issues that may emerge during the year as well as other
matters that the Board has asked the Committee to consider or
investigate.
For the Board
Kieran Poynter
Chairman, Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee
6 April 2011
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 27 (C) Statement of the Remuneration Committee
Purpose and Terms of Reference
Full details of the purpose, terms of reference, activities and work of
the Committee are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Membership
The Chairman of the Committee is Keith Bedell-Pearce. The
Committee comprises solely independent Non-executive Directors.
Members of the Remuneration Committee:
Keith Bedell-Pearce (appointed Chairman on 3 February 2011), Jeff
Medlock (appointed on 1 March 2011), Derham O’Neill (appointed
on 1 March 2011), Kieran Poynter (appointed on 3 February 2011),
and Gerhard Roggemann.
Brian Larcombe served as the Chairman of the Committee
throughout 2010 and up until his removal from the Board on 
3 February 2011. 
Attendees at the Remuneration Committee
Nick MacAndrew, the Company’s former Chairman, Alain Grisay, the
Chief Executive and the Group Head of Human Resources attended
all meetings of the Committee in 2010. Mr Medlock also attended all
Committee meetings in 2010.
Activities and work of the Committee
The Board is ultimately accountable for the Group’s remuneration
policy but delegates responsibility to the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee has resolved the following key issues
during the year:
• Revised the remuneration policy and ensured that it meets the
requirements of the FSA Remuneration Code (to the extent
applicable to the Company);
• Recommended the remuneration of the Executive Directors to
the Board;
• Reviewed and approved the remuneration of the Executive
Committee and FSA Code staff;
• Approved that the performance targets in relation to long-term
awards require no amendment at this stage;
• Overseen the Company’s remuneration policy as it applies to
executives, senior management and employees, including the
discretionary cash bonus scheme and awards under the long-
term incentive schemes;
• Verified that the remuneration policy does not encourage
excessive risk beyond that of the appetite of the Company;
• Completed the annual review of the Committee Terms of
Reference.
For the Board
Keith Bedell-Pearce
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
6 April 2011
Attendance at meetings
The following table identifies the number of Board and formal
committee meetings held in 2010 and the attendance record of the
individual Directors as members of committees of the Board. In
addition to the scheduled meetings detailed below a number of 
ad-hoc Directors’ meetings, sub-committees of the Board and
Board Committees were held.
Non-executive
Director
meetings Audit,
without Risk &
management Compliance Remuneration Nomination
Board present Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings
held 2010/(2009) 7(7) 2(2) 5(4) 6(6) 2(2)
Nick MacAndrew 71 – –2
Alain Grisay 7– –––
Keith Bedell-Pearce 72 562
Brian Larcombe 62 562
David Logan 7– –––
Jeff Medlock 7 2 –––
Kieran Poynter 7 2 5––
Gerhard Roggemann 72 542
Board Roles
Chairman
The Chairman of the Company is Edward Bramson. As Chairman, 
Mr Bramson is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring
the effective running and management of the Board. The role profile
of the Chairman includes the following specific responsibilities:
• Ensuring that the Board agenda for each meeting takes 
account of the issues and concerns of each Board member 
and that members of the Board receive accurate, timely and
clear information on the Company and related matters to 
enable them to monitor the Group’s performance and take 
sound decisions.
• Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and
ensuring that the Board develops an understanding of the views
of major investors.
• Ensuring that, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, a
formal induction and development process, including any
relevant internal and external training, exists for all Directors 
and the Board as a whole with a view to enhancing the 
Board’s effectiveness.
• Ensuring constructive relations between Executive and 
Non-executive Directors and an effective contribution from 
all Directors.
The performance of the Chairman is reviewed annually by the 
Non-executive Directors in a meeting chaired by the Senior
Independent Director.
28 Governance Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 28 F&C Asset Management Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance  Governance 29
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Chief Executive
The Chief Executive of the Company is Alain Grisay. As Chief
Executive, Mr Grisay is responsible for overseeing the
implementation of the strategy as set by the Board, providing
strategic vision and executive leadership to all the Group’s business
activities and ensuring the effective running of the business and the
Executive Committee.
Non-executive Directors
Messrs Bedell-Pearce, Brindle, Medlock, O’Neill, Poynter and
Roggemann are the Company’s Non-executive Directors. As Non-
executive Directors they are responsible for: promoting
entrepreneurial leadership and the highest standards of governance
within a framework of prudent and effective controls; constructively
challenging and helping develop strategic proposals; ensuring that
the Group has in place the necessary resources to meet its strategic
objectives; reviewing management performance; determining
appropriate levels of Executive Director Remuneration
(Remuneration Committee members), taking a prime role in
appointing, and where necessary removing, Executive Directors;
setting the Company’s values and standards to ensure its
obligations to its stakeholders are understood and met; and
reviewing communication with shareholders.
Board evaluation and professional development
A comprehensive and rigorous external evaluation of the
performance of the Board, its principal Committees and the
Chairman was conducted during the year. Each director was
interviewed by representatives from the external evaluator to extract
their views on the perceived composition, operation and
effectiveness of the Board and its Committees. The results of this
process were presented to the Board and areas of improvement
were identified. All recommendations made by the external evaluator
were accepted by the Board and the majority were addressed in
early 2011. Any remaining recommendations will be addressed
during 2011.
The Company has a full and formal induction process for all new
appointments to the Board. The Chairman, in consultation with the
Company Secretary and individual Directors, is responsible for
assessing the professional development needs of each Director. The
induction process and ongoing professional development is
facilitated by the Company Secretary who, in consultation with the
individual Director, identifies the most appropriate method of
ensuring professional development. The Company Secretary also
assists in organising attendance at internal or external courses to
develop familiarity with the Company’s business operations.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
From 1 October 2008, Directors have a statutory duty to avoid a
situation in which they have or can have an interest that conflicts or
possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company. A Director
will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has been
authorised in accordance with the Articles of Association by the
other Directors.
Directors and Directors’ re-election
The Directors who served at any time during the year ended 
31 December 2010 are as shown in the Directors’ Remuneration
Report on page 36. Details of the Executive Directors’ service
contracts and Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment can
be found on page 36.
Under the terms of the Company’s Articles of Association, any
Director who has held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs
of the Company and who did not retire at them, shall retire from
office and may offer himself for re-appointment. As Mr Roggemann
has expressed his intention to retire on conclusion of the Annual
General Meeting, Mr Medlock is the only Director required to retire
by rotation at this AGM. Mr Medlock, being eligible, will offer himself
for re-election.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, during 2010, the
Nomination Committee gave more detailed consideration to the
proposed re-election of Mr Medlock, given that he is currently
serving in his third three-year term of appointment. It has been
agreed that Mr Medlock will seek annual re-election from
shareholders. It was agreed during 2009 that Mr Bedell-Pearce
would seek annual re-election from shareholders as he is serving in
his third three-year term.
As a result of Eureko’s ordinary shareholding in the Company falling
below 10 per cent. the provision providing Eureko with the right,
under the Corporate Governance Agreement entered into with the
Company in 2004, to appoint a Director to the Board expired. As a
result of this change and having determined that Mr Medlock’s
independence has been demonstrated through the integrity,
objectivity and professionalism that he contributes to Board
discussions and debates, the Nomination Committee and the 
Board determined that Mr Medlock be considered an independent
Non-executive Director with effect from 1 March 2011.
In accordance with Sherborne’s letter to the Company’s
shareholders ahead of the General Meeting held in February, 
Mr Bramson, the Company’s Chairman, will stand for re-election
annually and accordingly will offer himself for re-election at the AGM.
The Nomination Committee has reviewed the structure, size and
composition of the Board, and has confirmed that all Directors
submitting themselves for re-election demonstrate the commitment
and devote sufficient time to perform their duties as members of 
the Board.
The Nomination Committee believes that all Directors submitting
themselves for re-election should be re-elected and can confirm that
all Non-executive Directors display the qualities expected of an
effective Non-executive Director.
Details of the Directors offering themselves for election or re-election
can be found on page 21.
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 29 Board succession planning
The Nomination Committee has a succession plan for the Board’s
Non-executive Directors. The plan was shaped by a skills profile,
projected and expected normal retirements, and the Company’s
commitment to corporate governance best practice. The plan is
approved annually by the Board.
Relations with shareholders
The Board as a whole acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring
satisfactory dialogue with shareholders and that communications
are given high priority. The Company welcomes the views of
shareholders and, where practicable, enters into dialogue with
institutional shareholders based on the need for mutual
understanding of objectives. The Company’s Chief Executive and
Chief Financial Officer regularly meet the largest institutional
shareholders and Company analysts following the announcement of
the year end and interim results; the Senior Independent Director
and all other Non-executive Directors have the opportunity to attend
these meetings. The Annual General Meeting of the Company
provides a forum, both formal and informal, for investors to meet
and discuss issues with Directors and senior management of 
the Company. 
At its Annual General Meeting, the Company complies with the
provision of the Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the
separation of resolutions and the attendance of the Committee
Chairmen. The results of the votes cast at the Annual General
Meeting are posted on the Company’s website.
The Company’s former Chairman and the Company’s Senior
Independent Director and Chief Executive met with a number of the
Company’s largest shareholders early in 2011 to present the
Company’s response to Sherborne’s requisition for a General
Meeting. The feedback from these meetings was presented to the
Directors. Unattributable feedback from a number of the Company’s
shareholders, facilitated by the Company’s brokers, is also
presented to the Board following management’s year-end 
results presentations.
Electronic communications
Copies of the 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements, the
Notice of Annual General Meeting, other corporate publications,
press releases and announcements are available on the Company’s
website. Shareholders are encouraged to take advantage of the
provisions allowing the Company to communicate electronically.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a regular basis.
Management’s role is to implement and operate the Board policies
on risk and risk management. The system of internal control is
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and
not absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
The Company, as required by the FSA Listing Rules, complied with
the Code provisions on internal control for the year ended 
31 December 2010.
The procedures that the Directors have established are designed to
provide effective control within the Group and accord with the
Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Code issued by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales “Internal
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code” (the
‘Turnbull Guidance’). Such procedures have been in place
throughout the year and up to 6 April 2011, the date of approval of
the Annual Report and Financial Statements. A high-level overview
of the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing
significant risks including social, environmental and ethical issues is
detailed below. This process is regularly reviewed by the Board to
ensure it complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
Control environment
The Group is committed to the highest standards of business
conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all areas of
the business. The Group has in place appropriate procedures for the
reporting and resolution of activities that do not meet the required
standards of business conduct.
The Group has an appropriate organisational structure for planning,
executing, controlling and monitoring business operations in order
to achieve its objectives. The structure is designed to provide clear
responsibilities and a control framework for key areas of the 
Group’s business.
Operational responsibility rests with the Chief Executive and is
devolved through a documented executive structure with clearly
delegated and appropriate levels of authority. Members of Group
management are, therefore, accountable for the operation of the
systems of internal controls within the Group’s business.
Business risks
The identification of major business risks is carried out by the Board
in conjunction with management and procedures to control these
risks, where possible, are reviewed and agreed.
Quarterly reports are prepared by each area of the business,
covering all key locations. These quarterly reports include issues of
material business risk which are discussed in detail by the Executive
Committee which includes both Executive Directors. All significant
items identified are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
The key risks facing the Group at the year-end and the mitigating
actions assigned to these risks are detailed in the Business Review
on page 10.
Monitoring and corrective action
There is a formal compliance function which, during 2010, was
integrated with the internal audit function and operational risk
function to form an Audit, Risk & Compliance department. The
Audit, Risk & Compliance department conducts regular monitoring
of various business areas in line with a plan agreed annually with the
Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee. Any issues of significance are
brought to the attention of the Board by the Audit, Risk &
Compliance department and through the regular reporting process.
Planned corrective actions are independently monitored for timely
completion and reviewed by the Audit, Risk & Compliance
Committee.
30 Governance Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 30 F&C Asset Management Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance  Governance 31
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
The Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee reviews the effectiveness
of the operation of this framework at least twice each year.
Independence of the auditors
The Board has in place rigorous systems for ensuring the
independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Group’s auditors
and has satisfied itself that during the year no aspect of their work
was impaired on these grounds. In maintaining a clear perception of
independence and balancing that with the best interests of the
Group, the Board has a clear policy that it follows when considering
the award of non-audit work to the Group’s auditors. The policy
applied during 2010 is detailed below.
The Company does not impose an automatic ban on the Group’s
auditors undertaking non-audit work. The Group’s aim is always to
have any non-audit work involving accountancy firms carried out in a
manner that affords value for money while taking into account
relevant ethical guidance. The firm must not be in a position of
conflict in respect of the work in question and must have the skill,
competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best interests
of the Group.
Auditors of the Company are permitted to perform non-audit work in
areas where, in the opinion of the Audit, Risk & Compliance
Committee, it is appropriate for them to do so and there are no
actual or perceived independence issues.
The Chairman of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee is
authorised to approve the use of auditors for non-audit work
provided that the cost does not exceed £50,000 and the aggregate
value does not exceed the audit fee for the financial year in question.
In other circumstances, the approval of the Audit, Risk &
Compliance Committee is required.
The performance, independence, competence and cost of the
auditors are reviewed annually by the Audit, Risk & Compliance
Committee. When the Committee considers it appropriate, the
provision of audit services will be formally market-tested through a
tender process involving those audit firms judged competent to
meet the needs of the Group. The frequency of this market-testing
will depend on the views of the Audit, Risk & Compliance
Committee, on the needs of the Group and prevailing leading
practice. The last competitive audit tender exercise was undertaken
in 2006.
During the year a number of accountancy firms, all of whom are
independent of KPMG, the external auditors, provided non-audit
related services to the Group. Details of fees paid to these firms
during 2010 are disclosed in Note 4(c) on page 58 of the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Future developments
The Board believes that the controls in place during 2010 have been
appropriate to the needs of the Group. Nevertheless, it is committed
to the highest standards of governance and business conduct and
will ensure that those controls continue to develop in line with the
requirements of the FSA and leading practice.
By order of the Board,
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
6 April 2011
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 31 Governance
In designing the total compensation arrangements for the Group
and in preparing this report, the Board and the Remuneration
Committee have complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate
Governance Code (‘the Code’), Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006,
the Large and Medium sized Companies and Group (Accounts and
Reports) Regulations 2008 and the FSA Listing Rules. An ordinary
resolution for the approval of this report will be put to shareholders
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Legislation requires the Group’s auditors to audit certain disclosures
within this report. Where disclosures have been audited they are
indicated as such.
The following policies represent the policies now adopted by the
Group for the forthcoming year and subsequent financial years.
The Committee has been established by the Board to:
(a) recommend to the Board the Group’s policy on 
Directors’ remuneration;
(b) ensure that the Executive Directors and senior employees are
fairly rewarded and that a significant proportion of Executive
Directors’ remuneration is linked to the Group’s corporate, and
their individual, performance;
(c) demonstrate to shareholders that the remuneration of Executive
Directors and senior employees of the Group is determined by a
committee of Board members which has no personal interest in
the level of remuneration of the Group’s Executive Directors or
senior employees and who will pay due regard to the interests of
shareholders and to the financial and commercial health of the
Group; and
(d) ensure that full consideration has been given to Section D and
Schedule A of the Code’s best practice provisions as annexed
to the Listing Rules.
A Statement of the Remuneration Committee detailing membership
of the Committee and the activities and work of the Committee is
set out on page 28.
Research and advice
During the year the Group Chief Executive provided regular briefings
to the Committee. The Committee also received advice from the
Group Head of Human Resources.
The Remuneration Committee received advice from Kepler
Associates during the year on general remuneration strategy, senior
executive pay benchmarking and on the Company’s LTRP . Kepler
Associates was appointed by the Committee in 2007 as its
independent adviser and provided no other services to the
Company during the year.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee also received
independent remuneration research undertaken by McLagan &
Partners, Deloitte and PricewaterhouseCoopers, leading firms of
executive remuneration consultants, to assess comparability of the
Group’s remuneration policies to the marketplace and in particular
the remuneration policies of the Group’s competitors.
Statement of the policy on Directors’ remuneration
The Company’s compensation policy detailed below is based upon
the following key principles:
a) Remuneration policies, procedures and practices should be
consistent with and promote sound and effective risk
management. The Policy should not incentivise risk-taking that
exceeds the approved risk appetite of F&C. 
b) The Remuneration Policy should be aligned with the business
strategy, objectives, values and long-term interests of F&C. 
c) The quantum of total variable remuneration should not limit the
ability of F&C to strengthen its capital base.
d) Total variable remuneration should in general reflect the financial
performance of the Group without jeopardising the ability to
attract, retain and motivate the key talent required to achieve 
its goals. 
In applying its policy the Group takes a total compensation
approach with a strong emphasis on variable pay. The Board
believes that shareholders’ interests are best served by containing
fixed costs and increasing the proportion of total compensation that
is directly performance related and thus aligned with shareholders’
interests. Total remuneration will comprise basic salary, pension
provision, annual bonus and any awards under the long term share 
incentive schemes.
The total cash component of compensation is benchmarked to
market median for solid performers and to upper quartile for
exceptional performers. A range of benchmark data is used, based
on comparable asset management businesses, with appropriate
data being used for each geographic location.
Policies on the individual elements of remuneration
and employment
(a) Salaries
The salaries of all employees, including Executive Directors, are
reviewed annually to ensure they remain appropriate and
competitive. Increases to salaries may be affected periodically
although not annually. Salaries are determined by reference to
relevant comparator Financial Services companies as reported by
external market data providers. The Remuneration Committee also
takes into account salary movements for staff across the Group
when setting Executive Director salaries.
The salary of the CEO was increased by 7% in 2010 – the first
increase since his appointment in 2005.
The salary of the CFO was increased by 10% in 2010 – the first
increase since he joined F&C in 2006.
(b) Discretionary Cash Bonus
The size and allocation of the annual discretionary cash bonus pool
is recommended by the Remuneration Committee to the Board for
approval.
The recommendations of the Committee are determined by the:
• performance of the Group relative to pre-agreed targets;
• motivation and retention of key employees;
• practice of market competitors;
• appropriate balance between fixed and variable pay.
Performance targets have been agreed by the Board and include
Investment Performance, Fund Flows, Profitability and a range of
other financial and corporate objectives.
All staff including Executive Directors are eligible for discretionary
cash bonus awards which recognise individual achievement and
contribution relative to agreed annual objectives.
A Purchased Equity Plan operates in conjunction with the
discretionary bonus scheme and is intended to encourage
32 Governance F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Directors’ Remuneration Report
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 32 F&C Asset Management Directors’ Remuneration Report Governance 33
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
shareholding by management and employees of the Group 
by providing for:
• the compulsory purchase of shares using annual bonus above a
threshold level; and
• voluntary purchase of shares using annual bonus, with
associated matching shares.
Under the terms of the Purchased Equity Plan, participation can
arise in two ways:
• on an annual basis, eligible employees who are awarded in a
financial year an aggregate bonus in excess of a threshold level
of £100,000 will be required to defer one third of the element
exceeding £100,000 into shares (comprising a range of
investment products managed by the Company or the
Company’s shares) (‘Compulsory Purchased Equity’) for three
years; and
• as and when determined by the Board, eligible employees may
be invited to elect to defer into shares in the Company any
remaining proportion of their gross cash bonus not subject to
deferral on a compulsory basis for three years (subject to a
minimum deferral of £1,500) (‘Voluntary Purchased Equity’).
The Compulsory Purchased Equity will not benefit from any form of
matching award and is subject to forfeiture in the event that the
employee leaves the Group for any reason (other than as a “good
leaver”) in the three-year retention period.
In the year ended 31 December 2010, the Compulsory Purchased
Equity element of the Purchased Equity Plan was applied to 1
employee (2009: 26 employees) in respect of performance in 2009.
Awards equivalent to £300,000 (2009: £1.1 million) were made
under the Compulsory Purchased Equity element of the Purchased
Equity Plan.
In 2010, the Board suspended the compulsory element of the
Purchased Equity Plan in relation to bonuses paid for the 2009
financial year for all staff other than the Chief Executive.
The Board has resolved to extend the suspension for another year,
i.e. in relation to bonuses paid in 2011 for performance in 2010, and
that the suspension be extended also to the Chief Executive. The
Remuneration Committee and the Board believe this action is
necessary to help ensure the continued motivation of key executives
who are essential in ensuring the success of the Group.
To encourage participants to defer their bonus on a voluntary basis,
a matching award will be made for Voluntary Purchased Equity. The
matching award will provide, at most, one share for every two
shares received as Voluntary Purchased Equity. Vesting of any
matching award is dependent on the satisfaction of performance
conditions and continued service. The conditions will relate to real
earnings per share growth measured over a three-year period as set
out below.
Growth in the Group’s Matching Purchased Equity
earnings per share* over awards for each
three-year period performance period
Below PI + 9% 1 for 5
PI + 9% 1 for 5
PI + 24% or higher 1 for 2
* Earnings per share (‘EPS’) is calculated by reference to underlying earnings of
the Group (where PI stands for an appropriate index of price inflation – the
Retail Price Index (‘RPI’)).
For levels of EPS performance between those shown in the table,
the Matching Purchased Equity award will vary on a straight-line
basis between the minimum and maximum levels shown.
Invitations to participate in the Voluntary Purchased Equity element
of the plan are at the discretion of the Board and will be offered only
when the Board considers it appropriate to do so. To date no such
invitations have been made.
(c) Savings-related share schemes
To foster a culture of share ownership throughout the Group, the
Board operates a Share Save Scheme (‘Share Save’) and a Share
Incentive Plan (‘SIP’) for all eligible employees. Both schemes are 
“all-employee share schemes” and all employees including
Executive Directors who meet certain criteria are eligible 
to participate. 
The SIP is a share scheme that enables employees to purchase
F&C shares in a tax efficient manner on a monthly basis at the
prevailing market price. The Share Save Scheme is a personal
savings scheme that enables employees to either purchase
discounted F&C shares, the price of which is determined at the time
of offering, at the end of a three-year or five-year saving period, or to
receive the accumulated cash value, including accrued interest, on a 
tax-free basis.
At 31 December 2010, 42 employees (31 December 2009: 135
employees) participated in the Share Save and 321 employees 
(31 December 2009: 332 employees) participated in the SIP .
Shares under option within the Share Save at 31 December 2010
are detailed below: 
Number Term Exercise
of options (years) price
April 2006 Participation 86,270 5 171.0 pence
April 2007 Participation 110,832 5 144.3 pence
At 31 December 2010 739,947 shares (31 December 2009:
571,691 shares) were held in trust for employees within the SIP .
Both “all-employee share schemes” seek to buy shares in the
market to remove any possible impact of dilution.
(d) Share incentive schemes
The Board believes that the share incentive schemes increase the
potential for greater importance to be placed upon the performance
related element of total remuneration.
In any 10 year period, the aggregate number of Ordinary Shares
which will be placed under award under any share incentive
scheme, shall not, when aggregated with the number of Ordinary
Shares placed under option or issued in that period under any other
employees’ share scheme operated by the Company, exceed 10
per cent. of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital at that
time. For the purposes of measurement against this limit the
following will be disregarded: any Ordinary Shares that have been,
or will be purchased, rather than allotted; any Ordinary Shares
issued pursuant to the Thames River MRP and/or the MIP; and any
awards or grants that have lapsed or become incapable of vesting.
In order to ensure that the assessment of performance conditions in
relation to the share incentive schemes detailed below is
independent, PricewaterhouseCoopers will report to the
Remuneration Committee as to whether the performance criteria
under all schemes have been met.
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 33 Policy on grants and awards under the share
incentive schemes
The Company’s policy for the granting of awards under the LTRP is
that awards and grants are based on an assessment of individual
contribution to the business and independent advice obtained on
current remuneration practices. Award levels will be determined by
the Remuneration Committee with reference to Group performance,
market competitiveness (assessed on a total compensation basis
using independent market total compensation data), and individual
performance. Because of the active policy of reducing the emphasis
on base salary, the Remuneration Committee will not link or limit any
awards under the LTRP explicitly to a multiple of base salary,
believing that making such a linkage provides an incentive to
increase base salaries, and therefore fixed costs, which is contrary
to shareholders’ interests.
Any share incentive awards made to Executive Directors will be
LTRP restricted awards.
The F&C Asset Management plc Long Term
Remuneration Plan (‘LTRP’)
The LTRP is the primary long term incentive arrangement of 
the Company.
The LTRP is a discretionary contingent share award scheme
unapproved by HM Revenue and Customs. The LTRP is designed
to support the business objectives of the Group.
Under the LTRP , contingent awards of shares are made under 
two categories:
Deferred awards
The Committee believes that it is to the benefit of shareholders that
key employees have a long-term interest in the future performance
of the Group. Equally the stability and retention of key employees is
crucial to the continued success of the Group. To achieve this
Deferred awards are made in Ordinary Shares the vesting of which is
contingent on the continued employment of the relevant participant
over the three-year deferral period.
This arrangement provides competitive Total Compensation and
secures a high retention value combined with strong alignment to
the interests of shareholders.
During the year, 17,335,585 deferred awards were made under the
LTRP (2009: 15,139,943). Deferred awards were made to 201 staff
(2009: 120 staff).
The Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in deferred
share awards under the rules of the LTRP .
Restricted awards
Vesting of the Ordinary Shares that are currently the subject of a
restricted award under the LTRP will be contingent upon both the
specified performance conditions and conditions of continued service.
The performance conditions applied to restricted awards under the
LTRP are determined by the Board and are measured over a three-
year period. 
For the awards granted in 2010 the following four performance
measures were applied with equal weighting:
– Real Growth in Earnings per Share over 3 years: full vesting at
RPI+11% p.a., 25% vesting at RPI+3% p.a. 
– Total Shareholder Return relative to a peer group of FTSE250
Financial Companies: full vesting at upper quartile, 25% vesting
at median 
– Achievement of annual net new business targets as approved by
the Board: full vesting for achievement of 125% of target, reducing
on a straight line to nil vesting for achievement of 25% of target 
– Relative investment performance compared to benchmarks: full
vesting at 75% of revenue-weighted funds outperforming
benchmark, reducing on a straight line to nil vesting for 42% of
revenue-weighted funds outperforming benchmark
These measures have been selected as they are considered by the
Committee to be the most relevant in capturing the critical elements
of performance which reinforce value creation for shareholders.
During the year a total of 3,786,486 restricted share awards were
made under the LTRP to the Company’s Executive Directors.
The F&C Asset Management plc Executive Director
Remuneration Plan (‘EDRP’)
The EDRP was an arrangement tailored to address the retention 
and incentive required for the Executive Directors of the Company
during the term of the three-year business plan that expired at the
end of 2009. 
The EDRP comprised two components: Deferred Share Awards and
Restricted Share Awards. 
No further awards will be made under either component of the EDRP .
Deferred awards
Vesting of the Ordinary Shares that are subject to a deferred award
under the EDRP will be contingent solely on the continued
employment of the Executive Director over the three-year period.
During the year, no deferred awards were made under the EDRP
(2009: 2,188,992 deferred awards).
Restricted awards
No restricted awards were made during the year (2009: Nil).
The performance conditions attached to the restricted awards made
in 2007 were based on the performance of the Group’s EPS and
have not been met. All restricted awards made under the EDRP
have now lapsed. 
Achievement of performance conditions
During 2010, the growth in the Group’s underlying EPS
underperformed the growth in the RPI by 3.1 percentage points.
The Company’s total shareholder return (‘TSR’) ranked 4th out of a
FTSE 250 Financial Companies Index comparator group of 16
companies in the period from 4 May 2010 to 31 December 2010.
Information on the net new business and investment performance
results of the Company is set out in the Business Review on 
pages 2 to 20. 
The performance conditions attached to the restricted awards made
in 2007 based on the performance of the Group’s EPS and TSR
have not been met and the awards lapsed in 2010.
Share price performance
The share price at 31 December 2010 was 84.0 pence. During the
year the highest price was 84.0 pence per share and the lowest
price was 47.5 pence.
34 Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 34 F&C Asset Management Directors’ Remuneration Report  Governance 35
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Performance graph for the share incentive schemes
The graph below compares the performance of the Company with
a notional investment made up of shares of the group of companies
from which the FTSE 250 Financial Companies Index of companies
is calculated for the period from creation of the index in July 2006
to 31 December 2010. The graph is based on the TSR for each
period (assuming all dividends are reinvested). The FTSE 250
Financial Companies Index has been chosen as the comparator
index as it is the index that includes the Company and is
considered the most appropriate benchmark as there are very few
comparable listed asset management businesses. 
TSR performance compared to FTSE 250 Financial
Companies Index
For the five financial periods ending 31 December
TSR performance compared to FTSE 250 Index
For the five financial periods ending 31 December
The graph below compares the performance of the Company with a
notional investment made up of shares of the group of companies
from which the FTSE 250 Index of companies is calculated for the
five financial periods ending 31 December 2010. The graph is based
on the TSR for each period (assuming all dividends are reinvested).
(e) Policy on Pension and other benefits
F&C seeks to ensure that its pension policy is in line with its
business strategy, objectives, values and long-term interests.
F&C has a number of pension plans which are designed to enable
employees to make provision for a suitable income in retirement. In
the majority of cases these are defined contribution plans. In the UK
the defined benefit plan is closed to new members. Appropriate
plans are also in place in non-UK locations.
Pension payments are based on basic salary and no other cash
payments or benefits are pensionable.
In addition a range of competitive employee benefits are provided
including vacation and insured benefits including death in service,
private medical and income protection.
(f) Policy on contracts of employment
The Company’s policy regarding contracts of employment is that all
senior employees, including Executive Directors, should be offered
rolling contracts of no longer than twelve months. Where it is
commercially appropriate to protect the Company, a longer-term
initial contract with any employee, including an Executive Director,
may be entered into. On completion of the initial contract, the
Company’s standard terms will be applied. The Remuneration
Committee, in considering contracts, has regard to compensation
commitments in respect of termination and believes that these are
best addressed by restricting the term of the contract. In the event
of a termination, the Remuneration Committee would consider all
the relevant factors and seek a just solution.
(g) Policy on Non-executive Directors’ remuneration
Non-executive Directors’ fees for the year to 31 December 2010 are
set out below. None of the Non-executive Directors has a service
contract. Letters of appointment provide for an initial period of three
years, subject to review. Non-executive Directors must submit to re-
election at least every three years and are not eligible for bonuses or
participation in savings related share schemes or share incentive
schemes. Non-executive Directors are not eligible to join any of the
Company’s pension schemes. No pension contributions are made on
their behalf and no Non-executive Director receives a salary from the
Company. The remuneration of Non-executive Directors is determined
by the Board as a whole within the limits stipulated in the Company’s
Articles of Association. All fees are reviewed annually.
Apart from the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director, Non-
executive Directors are paid a basic fee. In the year ended 31
December 2010 the Non-executive base fee was £40,000 per
annum. Non-executive Directors are separately remunerated for
their services on Board Committees. 
The Chairman of the Board, who chairs the Nomination Committee,
receives an annual all inclusive fee of £150,000 and the Senior
Independent Director receives a £15,000 supplemental fee to the
Non-executive base fee.
The Remuneration Committee sets the Chairman’s annual
remuneration. The Board as a whole determines the fees for Non-
executive Directors, the Senior Independent director supplement
and the additional fees payable for membership and chairing Board
Committees. The Board has decided that there will be no change in
the fees payable to the Chairman and Non-executive Directors in
2011. The supplemental member and Chairman’s fees paid for
Board Committees are set out below.
Chairman’s fee
(payable in
Committee addition to
Member’s fee (£) the member’s) (£)
Audit,Risk & Compliance 10,000 10,000
Remuneration 7,500 10,000
Nomination 5,000 10,000*
Thames River Advisory Councils 20,000 Nil
* Currently included within the all-inclusive fees payable to Edward Bramson.
200
150
100
1 150
10 100
31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2006 31 Dec 2005
FCAM FTSE 250 Source: Datastream
200
150
100
50
0
31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec
2006
FCAM FTSE Financials Source: Datastream
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 35 Statement on Executive Directors’ service contracts and Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment
Messrs Grisay and Logan have current service contracts with the Company that are for a rolling period of one year, details of which are
summarised below. No employee of the Group has a service contract that cannot be brought to an end within one year.
Provisions for compensation 
payable by the Company 
on early termination
Executive Directors Date of contract Notice period Unexpired term £000
Alain Grisay 11 Oct 2004 Twelve months rolling twelve months 360
David Logan 31 July 2006 Twelve months rolling twelve months 278
Provisions for compensation 
payable by the Company
Chairman and Unexpired term on early termination
Non-executive Directors Date of contract Notice period at 31 March 2011 £000
Edward Bramson* 3 February 2011 One month Thirty five months Nil
Keith Bedell-Pearce 7 May 2009 One month Fourteen months Nil
Ian Brindle* 3 February 2011 One month Thirty five months Nil
Jeff Medlock 13 May 2008 One month Two months Nil
Derham O’Neill* 3 February 2011 One month Thirty five months Nil
Kieran Poynter 4 May 2010 One month Twenty six months Nil
Gerhard Roggemann 13 May 2008 One month Two months Nil
* Appointed during 2011.
Statement on Directors’ Remuneration (audited)
The remuneration of the Chairman and the other Directors who held office during the year ended 31 December 2010 is set out in the table below:
Total Total
Benefits 2010 2009
Salary and (excluding (excluding Pension
and fees Bonus allowances pension pension Contributions Total Total
2010 2010 2010 contribution) contribution) 2010 2010 2009
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive Directors
Alain Grisay 337 800 10 1,147 1,029
†
21 1,168 1,049
†
David Logan 262 320 3 585 593 38 623 625
Chairman and Non-executive Directors
Nick MacAndrew (Chairman) 150 –– 150 114 – 150 114
Keith Bedell-Pearce* 95 –– 95 83 – 95 83
Brian Larcombe 73 –– 73 70 – 73 70
Jeff Medlock 40 –– 40 40 – 40 40
Gerrhard Roggemann 62 –– 62 50 – 62 50
Kieran Poynter* 57 –– 57 29 – 57 29
Total 1,076 1,120 13 2,209 2,008 59 2,268 2,060
* Appointed as a member of the TRC Advisory Councils on 1 September 2010.
†
In addition, in 2009, Alain Grisay received £300,000 deferred for three years in Compulsory Purchased Equity under the terms of the Purchased Equity Plan.
No sums were paid to third parties in respect of any Executive Director’s services.
The Company received £Nil (2009: £Nil) in fees payable to Executive Directors in respect of any external directorships held. No Executive
Director receives any fees in respect of external appointments.
36 Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 36 F&C Asset Management Directors’ Remuneration Report  Governance 37
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Statement on Directors’ pensions (audited)
The number of Directors who held office during the year and to
whom retirement benefits are accruing is set out below:
2010 2009
Number Number
Members of money purchase pension scheme 2 2
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Company contributions paid to money 
purchase pension schemes:
Alain Grisay 21 20
David Logan 38 32
During the year, the Company paid a widow’s pension of £100,000
(2009: £95,000) in respect of the pension benefits which had
accrued to a former Chairman.
No Directors were members of a defined benefit scheme during 
the year.
Statement on Directors’ Share Incentive Schemes
(Audited)
The Executive Directors who held office during the year and their
awards under any of the Group’s share incentive schemes at 
31 December 2010 are shown below.
Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the Group’s
long term incentive plans.
Executive Director Remuneration Plan (audited)
Details of the Executive Director Remuneration Plan are set out on page 34.
Share Price Share price
at date at date of
Date of Grant Nature of Award Alain Grisay David Logan of award vesting
21 May 2007 Deferred 1,300,000 200,574 193.0p –
27 Mar 2008 Deferred 740,740 284,900 192.5p –
6 Jul 2009 Deferred 1,649,452 539,540 64.9p –
Opening position at 1 January 2010 3,690,192 1,025,014 ––
Deferred awards that vested during the year (1,300,000)(200,574) 193.0p 58.0p
Deferred awards that lapsed during the year –– ––
Deferred awards remaining at 31 December 2010 2,390,192 824,440 ––
21 May 2007 Restricted 2,500,000 360,000 193.0p
Opening position at 1 January 2010 2,500,000 360,000 ––
Restricted awards that vested during the year –– ––
Restricted awards that lapsed during the year (2,500,000)(360,000)– –
Restricted awards remaining at 31 December 2010 –– ––
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 37 38 Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Long Term Remuneration Plan awards (audited)
Details of the Long Term Remuneration Plan are set out on page 34.
Share Price
Nature of Alain David at date 
Date of Grant Award Grisay Logan of award
4 May 2010 Restricted 2,795,929 990,557 64.8p
No restricted awards made to Mr Grisay or Mr Logan vested or
lapsed during the year.
Share options (audited)
Details of the share option schemes are set out on pages 99 to 100.
No options have been granted to Directors or former Directors 
since 2003.
Other senior executives
There are a number of senior executives who make a significant
contribution to the Group. These senior executives directly support
the Company’s Executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee
has regard to the remuneration of these senior executives whose
total remuneration including salary, bonus and benefits, but
excluding pension contributions and share scheme participation, is
summarised below. These numbers have been prepared on a
comparable basis with the figures shown in the column headed
“Total 2010 (excluding pension contribution)” within the Statement
on Directors remuneration on page 36. 
The table below covers the total remuneration of all senior
executives who served at any time during the year. The 2010 data
includes TRC employees but excludes members of TRC LLPs.
Number of senior
executives (excluding
Total remuneration Executive Directors)
£000 2010 2009
100-125 72 76
126-150 39 30
151-175 30 30
176-200 26 23
201-225 15 13
226-250 8 4
251-300 12 6
301-400 4 4
401-500 2 3
501-600 7 4
601-700 1 1
>701 1 1
By order of the Board,
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
6 April 2011
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 38 F&C Asset Management Governance 39
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and
the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements in accordance
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Consolidated and
Company Financial Statements for each financial year. Under that
law they are required to prepare the Consolidated Financial
Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (‘IFRS’) as adopted by the EU and applicable law and
have elected to prepare the Company Financial Statements in
accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (‘UK
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice’).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial
Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their
profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Consolidated
and Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
• make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• for the Consolidated Financial Statements, state whether they
have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by 
the EU;
• for the Company Financial Statements, state whether applicable
UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any
material departures disclosed and explained in the Company
Financial Statements; and
• prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its
Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They
have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably
open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent
and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also
responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that
comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and
dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in
other jurisdictions.
Responsibility Statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation
taken as a whole; and
• the Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Report and
Business Review include a fair review of the development and
performance of the business and the position of the issuer and
the undertakings in the consolidation taken as a whole, together
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that
they face.
Edward Bramson
Chairman
6 April 2011
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect
of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 39 40 Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
We have audited the financial statements of F&C Asset
Management plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 set out on
pages 41 to 125 and 128 to 142. The financial reporting framework
that has been applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial
statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the company
financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards
(‘UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice’). 
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
company’s members those matters we are required to state to
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility
to anyone other than the company and the company’s members,
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
set out on page 39, the directors are responsible for the preparation
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a
true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an
opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s
(‘APB’s’) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is
provided on the APB’s website at
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of
the group’s and of the company’s affairs as at 31 December
2010 and of the group’s loss for the year then ended;
• the consolidated financial statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
• the company financial statements have been properly prepared
in accordance with UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards
the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
2006; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial
year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent
with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by
exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,
in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the company financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with
the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law
are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the directors’ statement, set out on page 26, in relation to 
going concern;
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 26
relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of
the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review; and
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on
directors’ remuneration.
Simon Pashby (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
Edinburgh
6 April 2011
Independent Auditor’s Report to the 
members of F&C Asset Management plc
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 40 F&C Asset Management Financial Statements 41
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Revenue
Investment management fees 2 258.2 237.8
Other income 2 1.6 4.1
Total revenue 2 259.8 241.9
Fee and commission expenses 2 (16.6) (16.8)
Net revenue 2 243.2 225.1
Net gains and investment income on unit-linked assets 3 74.3 136.0
Movement in fair value of unit-linked liabilities (73.3) (134.6)
Operating expenses
Operating expenses 4(b) (169.7) (164.8)
Distributions to members of LLPs (6.0) –
Amortisation of intangible assets – management contracts 13 (50.7) (49.8)
Unrealised gains on forward currency contracts 6(a) – 1.2
Other exceptional net operating expenses 6(b) (20.9) (19.0)
Total operating expenses 4(a) (247.3) (232.4)
Operating loss (3.1) (5.9)
Finance revenue 7 11.1 11.5
Finance costs 8 (33.6) (30.3)
F&C REIT put option fair value gain 6(c) 6.4 5.6
Gain on debt exchange 6(d) – 27.9
Impairment of financial investments 14 – (0.1)
(Loss)/profit before tax (19.2) 8.7
Tax – Shareholders 6.2 10.4
Tax – Policyholders (0.4) (0.4)
Tax income 9 5.8 10.0
(Loss)/profit for the year (13.4) 18.7
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (16.6) 15.9
Minority interests 3.2 2.8
(Loss)/profit for the year (13.4) 18.7
Basic (loss)/earnings per Ordinary Share 10 (3.31)p 3.24p
Diluted (loss)/earnings per Ordinary Share 10 (3.31)p 3.19p
£m £m
Memo – dividends paid 11 24.5 29.5
Memo – dividends proposed 11 10.3 19.5
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2010
The accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements form an integral part of these financial statements.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 41 42 Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
(Loss)/profit for the year (13.4) 18.7
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Foreign exchange movements on translation of foreign operations (4.7) (15.2)
Foreign exchange transfer to Income Statement on liquidation of subsidiary (1.3) –
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension schemes 25(d) 10.4 (27.2)
Gains on available for sale financial investments 14 1.3 0.1
Tax (expense)/income on items taken directly to equity 9 (3.5) 7.6
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 2.2 (34.7)
Total comprehensive expense for the year (11.2) (16.0)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (14.4) (18.8)
Minority interests 3.2 2.8
(11.2) (16.0)
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 December 2010
The accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements form an integral part of these financial statements.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 42 F&C Asset Management Financial Statements 43
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 12 8.3 8.4
Intangible assets:
– Goodwill 13 611.9 595.1
– Management contracts 13 175.5 206.7
– Software and licences 13 1.0 0.6
13 788.4 802.4
Financial investments 14 3.5 2.2
Other receivables 20 2.0 1.9
Deferred acquisition costs 16 6.0 6.4
Deferred tax assets 17(a) 30.9 34.3
Total non-current assets 839.1 855.6
Current assets
Financial investments 18(a)(i) 548.7 634.9
Reinsurance assets 19 2.0 1.9
Stock of units and shares 18(a)(ii) 0.1 0.3
Deferred acquisition costs 16 2.8 2.6
Trade and other receivables 20 162.6 91.4
Current tax receivable 0.1 5.8
Cash and cash equivalents:
– Shareholders 21 178.8 186.2
– Policyholders 21 23.4 27.7
21 202.2 213.9
Total current assets 918.5 950.8
Total assets 1,757.6 1,806.4
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 22 273.7 253.9
Other payables 23 12.1 6.7
Provisions 24 8.1 10.1
Pension deficit 25 27.6 46.7
Employee benefits 11.6 9.6
Deferred income 27 8.1 9.1
Other financial liabilities 28 49.5 60.4
Deferred tax liabilities 17(a) 48.1 58.3
Total non-current liabilities 438.8 454.8
Current liabilities
Investment contract liabilities 29 559.2 649.9
Insurance contract liabilities 30 2.0 1.9
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 22 – 10.0
Trade and other payables 23 138.5 64.1
Provisions 24 9.0 8.9
Employee benefits 24.3 21.3
Members’ liabilities 4.4 –
Deferred income 27 3.7 3.8
Other financial liabilities 28 4.5 1.3
Current tax payable 1.6 1.5
Total current liabilities 747.2 762.7
Total liabilities 1,186.0 1,217.5
Equity
Ordinary Share capital 31 0.5 0.5
Share premium account 32 51.8 33.8
Capital Redemption reserve 32 0.8 0.8
Merger reserve 32 383.3 416.6
Other reserves 32 (19.5) (14.5)
Retained earnings 32 138.2 132.5
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 555.1 569.7
Minority interests 32 16.5 19.2
Total equity 571.6 588.9
Total liabilities and equity 1,757.6 1,806.4
The Consolidated Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 6 April 2011. They were signed
on its behalf by:
Edward Bramson Alain Grisay
Chairman Chief Executive
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
as at 31 December 2010
The accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements form an integral part of these financial statements.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 43 44 Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Foreign
Ordinary Share Capital currency
Share premium Redemption Merger translation Fair value Acquisition Retained Minority Total
capital account reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2009 0.5 33.8 – 456.8 65.3 1.3 (66.0) 119.4 18.7 629.8
Profit for the year –– ––– –– 15.9 2.8 18.7
Other comprehensive
(expense)/income –– –– (15.2) 0.1 – (19.6) – (34.7)
Total comprehensive
(expense)/income –– –– (15.2) 0.1 – (3.7) 2.8 (16.0)
Realised element of merger
reserve to offset amortisation
of intangible assets –– – (40.2) –– – 40.2 ––
Purchase of own shares –– ––– –– (7.4) – (7.4)
Share-based payment
charges credited to equity –– ––– –– 14.3 – 14.3
Transfer to Capital Redemption
reserve on redemption of
Preference Share capital –– 0.8 –– –– (0.8) ––
Final 2008 dividend paid –– ––– –– (19.8) – (19.8)
Interim 2009 dividend paid –– ––– –– (9.7) – (9.7)
Distributions to minority interests –– ––– ––– (2.3) (2.3)
Balance at 31 December 2009 0.5 33.8 0.8 416.6 50.1 1.4 (66.0) 132.5 19.2 588.9
(Loss)/profit for the year –– ––– –– (16.6) 3.2 (13.4)
Other comprehensive
(expense)/income –– –– (6.0) 1.0 – 7.2 – 2.2
Total comprehensive
(expense)/income –– –– (6.0) 1.0 – (9.4) 3.2 (11.2)
Realised element of merger
reserve to offset amortisation
of intangible assets –– – (33.3) –– – 33.3 ––
Transfer of investment in own shares
into equity on acquisition of TRC –– ––– –– (0.8) – (0.8)
Purchase of own shares –– ––– –– (9.7) – (9.7)
Settlement proceeds received
on disposal of own shares –– ––– –– 1.1 – 1.1
Share-based payment
charges credited to equity –– ––– –– 19.5 – 19.5
Share capital allotted on
placement of shares – 14.2 –– –––– – 14.2
Share capital allotted in respect of
TRC Commutation arrangements – 3.8 –– ––– (3.8) ––
Final 2009 dividend paid –– ––– –– (19.4) – (19.4)
Interim 2010 dividend paid –– ––– –– (5.1) – (5.1)
Distributions to minority interests –– ––– ––– (5.9) (5.9)
Balance at 31 December 2010 0.5 51.8 0.8 383.3 44.1 2.4 (66.0) 138.2 16.5 571.6
The total of foreign currency translation reserve, fair value reserve and acquisition reserve constitutes ‘Other reserves’ as disclosed in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and amounts to a debit of £19.5m at 31 December 2010 (31 December 2009: £14.5m debit).
Cumulative defined benefit pension scheme actuarial losses (as disclosed in note 25(d)) recognised as at 31 December 2010 are £34.3m
which are included in retained earnings (31 December 2009: £44.7m).
The share premium recognised during 2010 is stated net of £0.4m of transaction expenses associated with the related share placing.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2010
The accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements form an integral part of these financial statements.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 44 F&C Asset Management Financial Statements 45
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Operating loss (3.1) (5.9)
Cash outflow relating to restructuring costs
†
(3.9) –
Adjustments for non-cash items 33(a) 72.8 58.5
Changes in working capital and provisions 33(a) (26.3) (27.9)
Cash generated from operating activities* 39.5 24.7
Income tax paid (4.8) (16.4)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 34.7 8.3
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (1.1) (0.9)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 –
Purchase of software and licences (0.7) (0.2)
Loan repayment from former associate – 0.5
Payments to acquire investments (1.2) (1.6)
Proceeds from disposal of investments 3.0 6.5
Consideration payment for the acquisition of TRC (33.6) –
Fair value of cash acquired with the acquisition of TRC 27.2 –
Expenses of acquisitions
#
(0.1) (0.2)
Investment income – interest and dividends 1.1 2.5
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from investing activities (5.3) 6.6
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital 14.2 –
Drawdown of acquisition loan facility 15.0 –
Repayment of acquisition loan facility (15.0) –
Proceeds from issue of Guaranteed Loan Notes 2016 22 20.0 25.0
Repayment of Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010 22 (10.0) (25.0)
Expenses in respect of debt arrangements (1.6) (1.3)
Interest paid on Loan Notes (20.8) (19.8)
Other interest paid (0.2) (0.2)
Equity dividends paid 11 (24.5) (29.5)
Interest on Preference Shares – (0.1)
Repayment of Preference Share capital – (0.8)
Distributions to minority interests (5.9) (2.3)
Purchases of own shares (9.7) (7.4)
Proceeds of disposal of own shares 1.1 –
Net cash outflow from financing activities (37.4) (61.4)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (8.0) (46.5)
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held (3.7) (9.4)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 213.9 269.8
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 21 202.2 213.9
Cash and cash equivalents
Shareholders 21 178.8 186.2
Policyholders 21 23.4 27.7
21 202.2 213.9
†
Cash payment in respect of restructuring costs recognised on previous acquisitions.
* Cash inflows from operating activities includes investments and disinvestments relating to unit-linked assets attributable to policyholders in the Group’s insurance
company. These activities can result in significant fluctuations in “cash flows from operating activities”.
#
Cash flows relating to acquisitions before 1 January 2010.
Non-cash transactions
During 2010, a total of 6,085,996 Ordinary Shares were issued during the year in respect of TRC Initial and Deferred Commutation
consideration. The fair value of these shares was £3.8m.
During 2009, £135.0m of Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 were exchanged for £104.7m of Guaranteed Fixed Rate
Loan Notes 2016, as detailed in note 22.
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31 December 2010
The accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements form an integral part of these financial statements.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 45 46 Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Basis of preparation and statement of compliance
These are the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C Asset
Management plc and its subsidiaries (‘the Group’) which have been
prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the
European Union (‘adopted IFRS’), and those parts of the Companies
Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under adopted IFRS.
These Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in millions
of pounds Sterling, rounded to one decimal point, except where
otherwise indicated.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to
affect its future development, performance and position are set out
in the Business Review on pages 2 to 20. The financial position of
the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are also described in
the Business Review. In addition, note 36 to the Financial
Statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes
for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives;
details of its financial instruments and its exposure to credit risk and
liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-
term contracts with a number of clients across different geographic
areas and industries. After making enquiries, the Directors have a
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing these Financial Statements.
New or revised standards
The Group has adopted the following new or revised standards and
interpretations as of 1 January 2010:
(a) IFRS3 (Revised): Business Combinations and IAS 27:
Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements
(Revised)
This has resulted in a revision to the accounting policy on
business combinations. The most significant changes to the
existing policy are:
• Acquisition costs are now expensed in the Income
Statement whereas previously they were included in the
cost of the acquisition;
• Changes to contingent consideration classified as equity
resulting from events after the date of acquisition are
recognised directly in equity whereas previously there was
an adjustment to goodwill; and
• Other changes to contingent consideration after the date of
acquisition are recognised in profit or loss whereas
previously there was an adjustment to goodwill.
These changes are not retrospective and do not affect business
combinations prior to 1 January 2010.
(b) The amendments to the following standards and new
interpretations below did not have any impact on the
accounting policies, financial position or performance
of the Group:
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: Amendments relating to group
cash-settled share-based payment transactions;
IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued
Operations (Amendments April 2009);
IFRS 8 Operating Segments (Amendments April 2009);
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (Amendments
April 2009);
IAS 7 Statements of Cash Flows (Amendments April 2009);
IAS17 Leases (Amendments April 2009);
IAS36 Impairment of Assets (Amendments April 2009); and
IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement
(Amendments March 2009).
Parent Company Financial Statements
The parent Company has continued to present individual Financial
Statements prepared on a UK GAAP basis as permitted by section
395(1) of the Companies Act 2006, adopting the exemption of
omitting the Profit and Loss Account and related notes conferred by
section 408 of that Act. The Company Financial Statements,
together with their respective accounting policies and notes, are
presented on pages 128 to 142.
Accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements
The preparation of the Financial Statements necessitates the use of
estimates, assumptions and judgements. These estimates,
assumptions and judgements affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, contingent assets and contingent liabilities at the reporting
date as well as the reported income and expenses for the year.
While estimates are based on management’s best knowledge and
judgement using information and financial data available to them,
the actual outcome may differ from these estimates.
The key sources of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements in
applying accounting policies are disclosed, where appropriate, in the
following notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements:
(a) Impairment testing of intangible assets
The projected revenue growth, projected operating cost growth
and discount rates applied to cash flow projections, as
disclosed in note 13.
(b) Pension assumptions
The mortality assumptions, expected rates of return, discount
rates, rates of salary increases and rate of inflation increases, as
disclosed in note 25.
(c) Minority interest put options
The fair value of the F&C REIT minority interest put options is
subject to uncertainties in respect of future performance and
other factors impacting the valuation of the F&C REIT Group.
Details of these put options are disclosed in note 28.
Accounting Policies
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 46 F&C Asset Management Accounting Policies Financial Statements 47
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
(d) Provisions
Onerous contract provisions for premises are subject to
uncertainties over time, including market rent reviews and
break-options within the lease arrangements. The F&C Partners
litigation dispute is subject to determination in the High Court.
While there are a number of possible outcomes to this trial, the
Directors continue to recognise a provision in respect of the
totality of matters in dispute. Details of provisions are disclosed
within note 24.
(e) Share-based payments
The share-based payment expense in respect of the TRC
Commutation arrangements, as detailed in note 15(a) and 26(g),
is dependent upon whether the underlying put and call options
are exercised and, if exercised, the expense will vary according
to a number of variables, including the level of earnings of the
respective Investment Teams and the latest audited financial
results of the F&C Group.
The final F&C REIT variable minority interest share-based
payment expense will depend on the extent of the F&C REIT
financial results over the remainder of the performance periods
and, if the performance criteria are achieved, the value of F&C
REIT business at the vesting date. Details are given in note 26(c).
(f) Deferred tax assets
The quantum of deferred tax assets recognised, as detailed in
note 17, is based upon assumptions as to the future profitability
of the underlying companies to which they relate.
(g) TRC contingent consideration
The conditional consideration payable in respect of the
acquisition of TRC is an estimate but is dependent upon the
level of future earnings of the TRC Group at two specific dates,
as detailed in note 15(a).
Summary of significant accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently
throughout the Group for the purposes of the Consolidated Financial
Statements for the years ended 31 December 2010 and
31 December 2009, aside from any new or revised standards
applicable for the first time in the current year.
(a) Consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power,
directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating
policies so as to obtain benefits from their activities. Subsidiaries
follow accounting policies consistent with those of the Group,
unless there is a requirement for the subsidiary to follow a
different accounting treatment, in which case, consolidation
adjustments are made to align the treatment of such
subsidiaries within the Consolidated Financial Statements. The
subsidiaries all have coterminous reporting periods, with three
exceptions.
The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the assets,
liabilities, results and cash flows of the Company and its
subsidiaries. The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during
the period are included in the consolidated results from the date
of acquisition or up to the date of disposal. Intra-group balances
and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses
arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net
assets in subsidiaries not held by the Group and are presented
separately in the Consolidated Income Statement (‘Income
Statement’) and within equity in the Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position (‘Statement of Financial Position’), separately
from parent shareholders’ equity.
(ii) Business combinations
IFRS 3 (Revised) (relating to Business Combinations from
1 January 2010)
A business combination is the bringing together of separate
entities or businesses into one reporting entity. The result is that
one entity, the acquirer, obtains control of one or more entities or
businesses. The acquisition date is the date on which the
acquirer obtains control of the acquiree.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the
assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or
assumed at the date of exchange. Identifiable assets and
liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in a
business combination are measured initially at their fair values at
the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of the acquisition
over the fair value of the Group’s share of identifiable net assets
acquired is recorded as goodwill. Acquisition-related expenses
are expensed in the Income Statement.
IFRS 3 (relating to Business Combinations prior to 2010)
A business combination is the bringing together of separate
entities or businesses into one reporting entity. The result is that
one entity, the acquirer, obtains control of one or more entities or
businesses.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the
assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or
assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly
attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets and liabilities
acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in a business
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the
acquisition date. The excess of the cost of the acquisition over
the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets
acquired is recorded as goodwill.
(b) Foreign currencies
The Group’s presentational currency is Sterling. Each entity in
the Group determines its own functional currency and items
included in the financial statements of each entity are measured
in that functional currency.
(i) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the
functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated at the
exchange rate ruling at the reporting date, and any exchange
differences arising are taken to the Income Statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities, other than intangible assets
arising on the acquisition of foreign operations (measured at
historical cost in a foreign currency), are translated using the
exchange rate at the date of transaction and are not
subsequently restated. Non-monetary assets and liabilities
stated at fair value in a foreign currency are translated at the
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 47 48 Financial Statements Accounting Policies F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
exchange rate at the date the fair value was determined. When
fair value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected in the
Income Statement, the corresponding exchange movements
are also recognised in the Income Statement. Similarly, when fair
value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected directly in
equity, the corresponding exchange movements (except any
relating to available for sale monetary assets) are also
recognised directly in equity.
(ii) Foreign operations
The functional currency of foreign operations is predominantly
the Euro.
The assets and liabilities of, or relating to, foreign operations are
translated into Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the
reporting date. The revenues and expenses of foreign
operations are translated to Sterling at foreign exchange rates
approximating to the rates ruling at the dates of the
transactions. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation
of foreign operations into Sterling, including related intangible
assets, are recognised directly in the Group’s Foreign Currency
Translation Reserve (‘FCTR’), which is a separate component of
equity, and reported in the Statement of Comprehensive
Income. These exchange differences are recognised as income
or expenses in the period in which the foreign operations are
disposed of.
(c) Revenue recognition
Management fees, investment advisory fees and other revenue
generated from the Group’s asset management activities are
recognised in the Income Statement over the period for which
these investment management services are provided.
Initial fees received in advance, arising on Open Ended Investment
Company (‘OEIC’) contracts, are taken to the Statement of
Financial Position and amortised over the period of the asset
management service. The Group enters into standard contractual
terms for all investors. Therefore, the period of provision of asset
management services is estimated based upon the Group’s
experience of the average holding periods of OEIC investors. The
average holding period is reassessed on an annual basis.
The Group is entitled to earn performance fees from a number
of clients if the actual investment performance of clients’ assets
exceeds defined benchmarks by an agreed level of
outperformance, generally in a set time period. Most of the
Group’s performance fee arrangements are assessed on a
calendar year basis. Performance fees are recognised when the
quantum of the fee can be estimated reliably, which is when the
performance period ends, when this occurs on or before the
reporting date, or where there is a period of less than six
months remaining to the end of the performance period and
there is evidence at the reporting date which suggests that the
current performance will be sustainable.
(d) Leases
All leases entered into by the Group are operating leases, being
leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and
rewards of ownership of the leased asset. Rentals paid under
operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a
straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease incentives are
recognised by the Group as a reduction in the rental expense,
allocated on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Accounting policy “(s) Provisions” discusses the recognition of
provisions on onerous property leases when the leased space
has ceased to be occupied by the Group.
(e) Fee and commission expenses
Fee and commission expenses comprise two main elements –
costs associated with gaining new OEIC asset management
contracts and subsequent commission paid to agents. The
costs associated with gaining OEIC contracts are deferred and
amortised over the estimated term of the contracts (in line with
the treatment of the associated initial OEIC fees received), while
the subsequent renewal commission paid to agents is expensed
as the services are provided.
(f) Exceptional income and costs
Where the Group incurs significant non-recurring expenditure or
earns significant non-recurring income in respect of items that
arise outwith the Group’s normal business activities and which
are sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure, then
such items are disclosed in the Income Statement as
exceptional items, either separately or collectively, depending on
their nature.
(g) Finance revenue
Finance revenue comprises interest, dividends, expected return
on pension assets and fair value adjustments through the Income
Statement in respect of shareholder investments. Dividend
income is recognised when the right to receive payment is
established. Interest income is recognised in the Income
Statement on an effective interest rate basis as it accrues.
(h) Finance costs
Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings, interest
on pension liabilities, amortisation of loan issue costs, unwinding
of discount on provisions and dividends on Preference Shares.
Borrowing costs are recognised in the Income Statement on an
effective interest rate basis.
(i) Income taxes
The income tax expense or income disclosed on the face of the
Income Statement represents the aggregate of current tax and
the movement in deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the
Income Statement for the period, except to the extent that it is
attributable to a gain or loss that is recognised directly in equity.
In such cases the gain or loss shown in equity is stated
separately from the attributable income tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable to, or receivable from,
the taxation authorities on the taxable profit for the period, using
tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date,
and includes any adjustment to tax payable in respect of
previous years.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on
differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities
in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax basis
used in the computation of taxable profit, accounted for using
the reporting date liability method.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to
apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset
realised, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively
enacted at the reporting date.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 48 F&C Asset Management Accounting Policies Financial Statements 49
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to
the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised,
except:
•Where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial
recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a
transaction that is not a business combination that at the
time of the transaction affects neither the accounting nor
taxable profit or loss; or
•In respect of taxable or deductible temporary differences
associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates,
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences
can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each
reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all
or part of the asset to be recovered.
Any income tax expense or income in respect of taxable gains
or losses attributable to policyholders falls to be borne by or to
the benefit of the Group’s unit-linked policyholders. As a result,
the Directors consider it appropriate to differentiate on the face
of the Income Statement between tax attributable to
policyholders and that attributable to shareholders.
(j) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment is capitalised on
initial recognition. Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised
when it is probable that there will be future economic benefits
associated with the expenditure which can be measured reliably.
All other expenditure is recognised in the Income Statement as
an expense as incurred.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated so as to write off
the cost of assets, using the straight-line method, over their
estimated useful lives, as follows:
Leasehold improvements – over 10 years
Motor vehicles – over 3-4 years
Office furniture & equipment – over 3-5 years
Computer equipment – over 3-4 years
Depreciation is recognised as an expense in the Income
Statement.
The carrying value of assets and their useful lives are reviewed
at each reporting date. If an indication of impairment exists, the
assets are written down to their recoverable amount and the
impairment is charged to the Income Statement in the period in
which it arises.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon
disposal or when no further future economic benefits are
expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition
of the asset (calculated as the fair value less costs to sell) is
included in the Income Statement in the year the asset is
derecognised.
(k) Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
Goodwill arising from a business combination is initially
measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business
combination over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the
identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less
any accumulated impairment losses.
Business combinations arising after 1 July 2002 and before
31 December 2009 were accounted for under IFRS 3: Business
Combinations using the purchase method. Where the initial
amount of goodwill can only be determined on a provisional
basis at the end of the financial reporting period, adjustments
are made to the amount of goodwill up to 12 months from the
date of acquisition. Other adjustments to goodwill are made for
amounts that are contingent on future events and on the
realisation of potential benefits of the acquiree’s tax losses
carried forward and other deferred tax assets that did not satisfy
the criteria for separate recognition on acquisition.
Business combinations arising after 31 December 2009 are
accounted for under IFRS 3 (Revised): Business Combinations.
Where the initial amount of goodwill can only be determined on
a provisional basis at the end of the financial reporting period,
adjustments are made to the amount of goodwill up to 12
months from the date of acquisition to the extent that they relate
to revisions to the quantum of net assets acquired. Any
adjustment to the initial consideration, including amounts which
are conditional upon performance criteria, are recognised in the
Income Statement in the period in which the subsequent
change arises.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value may be impaired.
(ii) Investment management contracts
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial
recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a
business combination is fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost
less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated
impairment losses.
The useful lives of management contracts are finite and such
contracts are amortised on a straight-line basis over their
estimated useful lives or average contractual term, with
amortisation being charged to the Income Statement. The
amortisation period is reviewed at each financial year end.
Details of estimated useful lives are shown in note 13.
(iii) Software and licences
Separately purchased intangible assets have a finite life and are
shown at cost less accumulated amortisation and any
accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is charged to the
Income Statement in equal annual instalments, based on the
following useful economic lives:
Software – 3 years
Licences – over the contractual term (3-5 years)
Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is
expensed as incurred.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 49 50 Financial Statements Accounting Policies F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
(l) Impairment of intangible assets
At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there is an
indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication
exists, or when annual impairment testing is required, the Group
makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An
asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-
generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use,
and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does
not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those
from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying
amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset
is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable
amount. Any impairment arising is recognised in the Income
Statement. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash
flows are discounted to their present value using a discount rate
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
money and the risks specific to the asset.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a
business combination is allocated to a cash-generating unit, or
group of cash-generating units, that are expected to benefit
from the synergies of the combination. Each unit or group of
units to which the goodwill is so allocated represents the lowest
level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for
internal management purposes.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of
the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill
associated with the operation disposed of is included in the
carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or
loss on disposal of the operation.
Except for any goodwill impairments, which cannot be reversed,
an assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether
there is any indication that previously recognised impairment
losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such
indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A
previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there
has been a change in the estimates used to determine the
asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was
recognised. In such a case the carrying amount of the asset is
increased to its recoverable amount. That increased amount
cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been
determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, had no
impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Such reversals are recognised in the Income Statement. After
such a reversal, the amortisation or depreciation charge is
adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised carrying
amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its
remaining useful life.
(m) Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value, plus
directly attributable transaction costs, in the case of investments
not at fair value through profit or loss.
The fair value of instruments that are actively traded in organised
financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market
bid prices (mid price for OEICs) at the close of business on the
reporting date. For investments where there is no active market,
fair value is determined using valuation techniques. Such
techniques include using: recent arm’s length market
transactions; reference to the current market value of another
instrument which is substantially the same; or discounted cash
flow analysis and option pricing models.
Financial instruments are classified into the categories
described below:
(i) Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss
include investments that are held for trading purposes or
that have been specifically designated as ‘at fair value
through profit or loss’. They are carried in the Statement of
Financial Position at fair value and movements in fair value
are taken to the Income Statement in the period in which
they arise. The following assets and liabilities are classified
as financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss:
Current assets:
• Financial investments
• Stock of units and shares
Current liabilities:
• Investment contract liabilities
• Other financial liabilities
Non-current liabilities:
• Other financial liabilities
The Group has adopted “trade date” accounting for
purchases or sales of financial assets under a contract
whose terms require delivery of the asset within the time
frame established in the marketplace concerned.
Accordingly, such financial instruments are recognised on
the date the Group commits to the purchase of the
investments, and are derecognised on the date it commits
to their sale.
The Group has adopted the Fair Value Option in IAS 39,
which enables the liabilities in respect of the Group’s unit-
linked investment contracts to be matched to the fair value
of the related assets which are solely attributable to the
investment contract policyholders, thus reflecting the
contractual entitlement of the policyholders. Differences in
fair values are taken to the Income Statement.
(ii) Available for sale financial assets are also carried at fair
value in the Statement of Financial Position. In respect of
unquoted instruments, or where the market for a financial
instrument is not active, fair value is established by using
recognised valuation methodologies, in accordance with
International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation
Guidelines. Where insufficient information exists to produce
a valuation then the price of recent investments is used.
Such techniques include using: recent arm’s length market
transactions; reference to the current market value of
another instrument which is substantially the same; or
discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
For unquoted investments in early stage enterprises and
enterprises with revenues but without significant profits or
significant positive cash flows, fair value is determined using
the “Price of a Recent Investment” method. Repayments
are treated as reductions to carrying value. After an
appropriate period, an assessment is made as to whether
the circumstances of the investment have changed such
that another valuation methodology is appropriate, and
whether there is any evidence of deterioration or strong
defensible evidence of an increase in value. In the absence
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 50 F&C Asset Management Accounting Policies Financial Statements 51
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
of these indicators, fair value is determined to be that
reported at the previous reporting date.
Unquoted investments with revenues, maintainable profits
and/or maintainable cash flows are valued by deriving an
Enterprise Value of the underlying business.
Movements in fair value, other than impairment losses and
foreign exchange movements on monetary assets, are
taken to the fair value reserve in equity until derecognition of
the asset, at which time the cumulative amount in this
reserve is recognised in the Income Statement. The
following assets are classified as available for sale:
Non-current assets:
• Financial investments
(iii) Loans and receivables are measured on initial recognition at
fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs
incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and
receivables are measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest rate method. Gains and losses are
recognised in the Income Statement when loans and
receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as
through the amortisation process. The following assets are
classified as loans and receivables:
Non-current assets:
• Other receivables
Current assets:
• Cash and cash equivalents
• Trade and other receivables
(iv) Other financial liabilities include the minority interest put
options and forward currency contracts which are
recognised at fair value through profit or loss.
The minority interest put options, over equity in majority
owned subsidiaries, are recognised at fair value at the
reporting date. Upon initial recognition the fair value of the
put option is debited to equity. Subsequent movements to
the fair value are reflected in the Income Statement. Fair
value is the amount at which a derivative could be
exchanged in a transaction at the reporting date between
willing parties.
The remaining financial liabilities are recognised at amortised
cost using the effective interest rate after initial recognition.
The following liabilities are classified as other financial
liabilities:
Non-current liabilities:
• Interest bearing loans and borrowings
• Other payables
Current liabilities:
• Trade and other payables
• Interest bearing loans and borrowings
Expenses incurred in respect of raising capital on interest
bearing loans and borrowings are amortised over the term
of the loan on an effective interest rate basis. These
expenses are offset against the loan amount.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets
A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset,
is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the
asset have expired.
Financial liabilities
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the
liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Impairment of financial assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether a financial
asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans
and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the
amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the
asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated
future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s original
effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is
reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the Income
Statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss
decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an
event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the
previously recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any
subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the
Income Statement to the extent that the carrying value of the
asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Available for sale financial assets
If an available for sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising
the difference between its cost (net of any principal payment
and amortisation) and its current fair value, less any impairment
loss previously recognised in the Income Statement, is
transferred from equity to the Income Statement. Reversals in
respect of equity instruments classified as available for sale are
not recognised in the Income Statement. Reversals of
impairment losses on debt instruments are taken through the
Income Statement if the increase in fair value of the instrument
can be objectively related to an event occurring after the
impairment loss was recognised in the Income Statement.
(n) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits
held at call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid
investments in money market instruments with original maturity
dates of three months or less.
(o) Investment contracts
The Group sells unit-linked pension investment contracts
through its insurance entity, F&C Managed Pension Funds
Limited (‘MPF’). These unit-linked contracts involve both the
transfer of a financial instrument and the provision of investment
management services. The financial instrument component is
classified as a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss.
The financial liability is measured using a valuation technique
based on the carrying value of the assets and liabilities that are
held to back the contract, adjusted to take account of the effect
on the liabilities of discounting for the time value of tax
payments on assets sold in the fund.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 51 52 Financial Statements Accounting Policies F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Unit-linked policyholder assets held by MPF and related
policyholder liabilities are carried at fair value, with changes in
fair value taken to profit or loss.
Amounts received from and paid to investors under these
contracts are accounted for as deposits received or paid and
therefore not recorded in the Income Statement. At the reporting
date the value of these contracts is stated at an amount equal
to the fair value of the net assets held to match the contractual
obligations.
(p) Insurance contract liabilities
Insurance contract liabilities are measured in accordance with
actuarial principles and guidance. Any change in the value of the
liability is taken to “Movement in fair value of unit-linked
liabilities” in the Income Statement. Where these liabilities are
reinsured, the element of the risk reinsured is valued on the
same basis as the related liability and is included as an asset in
the Statement of Financial Position. Changes in the value of the
asset are taken to the Income Statement. Amounts recoverable
under reinsurance contracts are assessed for impairment at
each reporting date.
(q) Employee and member benefits
(i) Short-term employee benefits
Short-term employee benefits are recognised as an
undiscounted expense and liability when the employee has
rendered services during an accounting period. Short-term
compensated absences are recognised, in the case of
accumulating compensated absences, when the employees
render service that increases their entitlement to future
compensated absences or, in the case of non-accumulating
compensated absences, when the absences occur.
(ii) Profit-sharing and bonus payments
These are recognised when there is a present legal or
constructive obligation to make such payments as a result of past
events and a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
(iii) Profit entitlement of members of Limited Liability Partnerships
Where a member of a Limited Liability Partnership (‘LLP’) has an
automatic entitlement to distributions of partnership profits in
respect of their services, an expense (‘Distributions to members
of LLPs’) and a liability (‘Members Liabilities’) are recognised as
their services are rendered during an accounting period.
(iv) Pension obligations
Defined benefit schemes
The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension
arrangements. These schemes provide benefits based on final
pensionable salary. The assets of the funded schemes are held
in separate trustee administered funds.
The pension liability recognised in the Statement of Financial
Position is the present obligation of the employer, which is the
estimated present value of future benefits that employees have
earned in return for their services in the current and prior years,
less the value of the plan assets in the schemes. The discount
rate applied to the employees’ benefits is the appropriate AA
corporate bond yield at the reporting date. A qualified actuary
performs the calculation annually using the projected unit credit
method. The pension costs of the schemes in the Income
Statement are analysed into:
• Current service cost, which is the actuarially calculated
present value of the benefits earned by the active
employees in each period;
• Past service costs, which relate to employee service in prior
periods, and arise as a result of the introduction of, or
improvement to, retirement benefits in the current period.
These are recognised in the Income Statement on a
straight-line basis over the period in which the increase in
benefits vests;
• Settlements or curtailments recognised in the Income
Statement to the extent that they are not allowed for in the
actuarial assumptions. Gains or losses on settlements or
curtailments are recognised at the date on which there is a
demonstratable commitment to making a significant
reduction in the number of employees covered by the plan
or an amendment to the terms of the plan;
• The expected return on pension assets recognised within
‘Finance revenue’; and
• The interest on pension obligations recognised in ‘Finance
costs’.
The actuarial gains and losses, which arise from any new
valuation and from updating the previous actuarial valuation to
reflect conditions at the reporting date, are taken in full to the
Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period.
Defined contribution schemes
Contributions made to these schemes are charged to the
Income Statement as they become payable in accordance with
the rules of the scheme.
(v) Other long-term employee benefits
Other long-term employee benefits are recognised at the
discounted present value of the obligation at the reporting date.
The benefit is determined using actuarial techniques to estimate
the amount of benefit employees have earned for their services
at the reporting date.
(vi) Termination benefits
Termination benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense
when the Group is committed to the termination of employment
before the normal retirement date. A commitment to such
termination benefits arises when the Group has initiated detailed
plans which cannot realistically be withdrawn.
(r) Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of share scheme arrangements
which require to be accounted for as share-based payments.
All grants of shares, share options or other share-based
instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 have
been recognised as an expense. Where applicable, the fair
values of share-based payment awards are measured using a
valuation model applicable to the terms of the awards (Black
Scholes, Binomial or Monte Carlo simulation). The fair value is
measured by an independent external valuer at the date the
award is granted and the expense is spread over the period
during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to
exercise the awards, known as the vesting period. Where
options exist for awards to vest on more than one date, the
expense is initially spread over the period to the earliest possible
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 52 F&C Asset Management Accounting Policies Financial Statements 53
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
vesting date. The cumulative expense recognised in the Income
Statement is equal to the estimated fair value of the award
multiplied by the number of awards expected to vest. Vesting of
awards typically depends upon meeting defined performance
criteria such as underlying earnings per share (‘EPS’) targets
and/or share price return targets or continued employment.
The fair value of share-based payment awards, where it is not
considered possible to estimate reliably the fair value of these
awards at the grant date, is determined by measurement of the
equity instruments at intrinsic value. The intrinsic value is spread
over the vesting period.
Vesting of equity-settled employee share awards depends upon
meeting “market” and/or “non-market related” performance
conditions. The type of vesting criteria affects the calculation of
the expense charged to the Income Statement and subsequent
adjustments, as follows:
(i) Non-market related conditions are performance criteria not
directly linked to Company share price targets, such as EPS
targets and/or continued employment. The probability of
meeting non-market conditions is incorporated into the
expense charge via the estimate of the number of awards
expected to vest. The total cumulative expense is
reassesed at each reporting date and is ultimately adjusted
to reflect the actual number of awards which vest.
Therefore, if no awards vest, no cumulative expense charge
is ultimately recognised.
(ii) Market related conditions are performance criteria linked to
Company share price targets. The probability of meeting
market conditions is incorporated into the calculation of the
fair value of the award. Should the market-based
performance condition not ultimately be met, no “true
up/down” adjustment is made to reflect this. Therefore, an
expense charge is made whether market-based awards
ultimately vest or not.
IFRS 2: Share-based Payment makes a distinction between
awards settled in equity and those settled in cash. Equity-
settled awards are charged to the Income Statement with a
corresponding credit to equity. Cash-settled awards are
charged to the Income Statement with a corresponding credit
to liabilities. The estimated fair value of cash-settled awards is
re-measured at each reporting date until the payments are
ultimately settled.
Awards to employees treated as “good leavers” or employees
who cancel their savings contracts (under the Share Save
Scheme) vest immediately and the remaining full expense of the
awards is charged to the Income Statement at that time. Good
leavers include retirees and involuntary redundancies.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as
additional share dilution in the computation of EPS.
(s) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the Statement of Financial Position
when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result
of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic
benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is
material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected
future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market
assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate,
the risks specific to the liability. No provision is established where
a reliable estimate of the obligation cannot be made.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be
recovered from external parties, the recovery is recognised as a
separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually
certain.
Where the Group has obligations under property leases and
where the space has ceased to be used for the purposes of the
business, full provision is made for future net outstanding
liabilities under such leases after taking into account the effect of
any expected sub-letting arrangements.
(t) Share capital
When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial
liability of the Company or Group is presented as a liability in the
Statement of Financial Position, measured initially at fair value,
net of transaction costs and thereafter at amortised cost until
extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The remainder of the issue proceeds is allocated to the equity
component and included in shareholders’ equity, net of
transaction costs.
Ordinary Share capital
When Ordinary Shares are repurchased, the amounts of
consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, are
recognised in the own share reserve included within retained
earnings and are classified as deductions in equity. The
Company’s dealings in its own shares are reflected through equity.
Dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised on the date of
payment, or if subject to approval, the date approved by the
shareholders.
(u) Accounting for Employee Benefit Trusts (‘EBTs’)
The Group has several EBTs which own shares in the Company
and other investments to enable it to satisfy certain future
settlements of share-based awards. The EBTs are consolidated
into the Group’s results, with these own shares included within
retained earnings at cost. Consideration received for such
shares is also recognised in retained earnings. No gain or loss is
recognised in the performance statements on the purchase,
sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares. Other investments
held by EBTs are recognised as assets in the Statement of
Financial Position.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 53 54 Financial Statements Accounting Policies F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
(v) New standards and interpretations not applied
The International Accounting Standards Board has issued the following standards, relevant to the Group, which have not yet been applied
and have an effective date after the date of these Financial Statements:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS) Effective Date
Endorsed by the European Union and available for early adoption:
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation: Amendments relating to 1 February 2010
classification of Rights issues
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 1 July 2010
IAS 24 (revised 2009) Related Party Disclosures: Revised definition of related parties 1 January 2011
Amendment to IFRIC 14 IAS 19 – The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding 1 January 2011
Requirements and their Interaction: Prepayments of a Minimum
Funding Requirement
Not yet endorsed by the European Union:
Improvements to IFRS (May 2010) Improvements to IFRS 2010 1 July 2010 –
1 January 2011
Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Amendments enhancing disclosures about transfers of financial assets 1 July 2011
Disclosures (October 2010)
IAS 12: Income Taxes (December 2010) Deferred tax: recovery of underlying assets 1 January 2012
IFRS 9: Financial Instruments Classification and Measurement 1 January 2013
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards will materially impact the Group’s financial results in the period of initial
application although there may be revised presentations to the primary Financial Statements and additional disclosures. No material impact
on the Group is expected to arise from any other standards which are available for early adoption. The Group intends to adopt the
standards in the reporting period when they become effective.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 54 F&C Asset Management Financial Statements 55
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
1. Operating segments
From a management perspective, the Group operates three operating units and therefore presents three operating segments for segment
reporting purposes:
• F&C (previously called Investment Management);
• F&C REIT (previously called Property Asset Management) has a separate Board with considerable autonomy and operationally F&C REIT is
managed separately from the rest of the F&C Group; and
• Thames River Capital (‘TRC’), an investment management business acquired on 1 September 2010, has a separate Management
Committee and operationally is managed separately from the rest of the F&C Group.
While there are different sources of revenue within the F&C operating segment and distinct distribution channels, and assets under
management can be categorised by client type and asset class, the Directors do not consider these to constitute separate operating
segments within the meaning of IFRS 8: Operating Segments.
Management monitors the operating results of its three operating segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource
allocation and performance assessment.
Transfer prices between the operating segments reflect arm’s-length agreements entered into at the time of acquiring REIT and TRC and
creating the F&C REIT and TRC operating segments. Segment revenue, segment expense and segment result include transactions between
operating segments, which are eliminated on consolidation. The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those of
the Group.
(a) Operating segments’ financial information
F&C F&C REIT TRC Total
2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
External clients 205.2 203.1 40.0 38.8 14.6 n/a 259.8 241.9
Inter-segment revenue 1.0 1.3 – – 0.7 n/a 1.7 1.3
Segment revenue 206.2 204.4 40.0 38.8 15.3 n/a 261.5 243.2
Fee and commission expenses (14.4) (13.5) (2.1) (3.3) (0.1) n/a (16.6) (16.8)
Net gains and investment income
on unit-linked assets 74.3 136.0 – – – n/a 74.3 136.0
Movement in fair value of unit-linked liabilities (73.3) (134.6) – – – n/a (73.3) (134.6)
Operating expenses* (197.7) (206.4) (28.7) (27.3) (22.6) n/a (249.0) (233.7)
Operating (loss)/profit (4.9) (14.1) 9.2 8.2 (7.4) n/a (3.1) (5.9)
Finance revenue 21.3 11.4 0.1 0.1 0.3 n/a 21.7 11.5
Finance costs (33.6) (30.3) – – – n/a (33.6) (30.3)
F&C REIT put option fair value gain 6.4 5.6 – – – n/a 6.4 5.6
Gain on debt exchange – 27.9 – – – n/a – 27.9
Impairment of financial investments – (0.1) – – – n/a – (0.1)
Tax income/(expense) 6.9 11.4 (1.4) (1.4) 0.3 n/a 5.8 10.0
(Loss)/profit for the year (3.9) 11.8 7.9 6.9 (6.8) n/a (2.8) 18.7
Segment assets 1,479.3 1,594.4 210.6 222.2 79.2 n/a 1,769.1 1,816.6
Segment liabilities (1,116.3) (1,151.4) (23.8) (29.6) (29.8) n/a (1,169.9) (1,181.0)
Other information
Expenditure on non-current assets 3.5 0.5 0.2 0.6 40.1 n/a 43.8 1.1
Depreciation and amortisation 40.2 41.8 11.6 11.5 2.3 n/a 54.1 53.3
Non-cash expenses/(income) other than
depreciation and amortisation 1.8 (22.7) 0.1 0.8 6.1 n/a 8.0 (21.9)
* Operating expenses include depreciation and amortisation of intangible assets.
Revenues from two external clients each represent 10% or more of the Group’s total revenues. Revenues from the largest client amount to
£36.6m (2009: £35.1m) and are earned in the F&C segment. Revenues from the second largest client amount to £32.7m
(2009: £29.8m) and are earned in the F&C and F&C REIT segments.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 55 56 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
1. Operating segments continued
(b) Reconciliations to Group Financial Statements
2010 2009
£m £m
Total revenue
Total revenue for reportable segments 261.5 243.2
Elimination of inter-segment revenue (1.7) (1.3)
Group revenue 259.8 241.9
Operating expenses
Total operating expenses for reportable segments 249.0 233.7
Elimination of inter-segment expenses (1.7) (1.3)
Group operating expenses 247.3 232.4
Finance revenue
Total finance revenue for reportable segments 21.7 11.5
Elimination of inter-segment finance revenue (10.6) –
Group finance revenue 11.1 11.5
(Loss)/profit after tax
Total (loss)/profit for reportable segments (2.8) 18.7
Adjustment for inter-segment profit distributions (10.6) –
Group (loss)/profit for the year (13.4) 18.7
Assets
Total assets for reportable segments 1,769.1 1,816.6
Elimination of inter-segment assets (9.0) (7.4)
Reclassification between assets and liabilities (2.5) (2.8)
Group assets 1,757.6 1,806.4
Liabilities
Total liabilities for reportable segments (1,169.9) (1,181.0)
Elimination of inter-segment liabilities 9.0 7.4
Reclassification between assets and liabilities 2.5 2.8
Unallocated defined benefit pension liabilities (27.6) (46.7)
Group liabilities (1,186.0) (1,217.5)
The reportable segments’ totals for all other line items reported in the table at note 1(a) are the same as those for the Group, with no
reconciling differences.
(c) Geographical information
2010 2009
Revenue by location of clients £m £m
United Kingdom 102.1 95.2
Continental Europe* 138.0 127.7
Rest of the World 19.7 19.0
Group total 259.8 241.9
2010 2009
Non-current assets by domicile
†
£m £m
United Kingdom 113.1 116.6
Continental Europe* 53.1 76.0
Rest of the World 18.6 23.1
184.8 215.7
Unallocated 611.9 595.1
Group total 796.7 810.8
* Continental Europe is defined as being within the European Economic Area.
†
Excluding financial investments, other receivables, deferred acquisition costs and deferred tax assets.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 56 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements 57
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
2. Net revenue
2010 2009
£m £m
Base management fees 245.3 219.1
Performance related management fees 12.9 18.7
Total investment management fees 258.2 237.8
Other income 1.6 4.1
Total revenue 259.8 241.9
Renewal commission on open-ended investment products (10.1) (9.3)
Other selling expenses (6.5) (7.5)
Fee and commission expenses (16.6) (16.8)
Net revenue 243.2 225.1
Other income in 2009 includes £3.8m associated with the finalisation of the consideration payable to Eureko B.V. in respect of the 2004
acquisition of F&C Group Holdings and its subsidiaries.
3. Net gains and investment income on unit-linked assets
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Interest income on policyholders’ cash 7 – 0.4
Interest income on other financial instruments attributable to policyholders 7 7.5 9.2
Dividend income 10.0 16.8
Movement in fair values of unit-linked assets 56.8 109.6
29 74.3 136.0
Note 18(a)(i)(1) gives further background to the unit-linked assets held by the Group.
4. Expenses
(a) Total operating expenses
Total operating expenses, including exceptional costs, can be summarised into the following categories:
2010 2009
£m £m
Employee and member benefits and related expenses* 125.0 121.6
Premises expenses 9.3 12.6
Communication and information technology expenses 14.4 13.5
Third party administration expenses 6.6 6.5
Promotional and client servicing expenses 6.4 5.5
Depreciation and amortisation expenses 54.1 53.3
Other expenses 31.5 19.4
Total operating expenses 247.3 232.4
* This includes £5.6m (2009: £6.1m) of employment related expenses, which are not included in the employee benefit expense table in note 5.
(b) Operating expenses
Operating expenses include the following:
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Depreciation of owned tangible property, plant and equipment 12 2.7 2.8
Amortisation of software and licences 13 0.7 0.7
Auditor’s remuneration – audit of these Financial Statements 4(c) 0.5 0.6
Auditor’s remuneration – audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 4(c) 0.3 0.3
Auditor’s remuneration – other services 4(c) 0.4 0.4
Operating lease rentals – land and buildings (head leases) 11.8 11.5
Operating lease rentals – vehicles 0.3 0.6
Operating lease rentals – other* 4.2 4.5
Rentals receivable – operating leases (sub-leases) (4.1) (4.3)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.2
Realised exchange gains on forward currency contracts (0.9) (5.9)
Other foreign exchange losses 1.6 4.1
* Stated net of amounts receivable from brokers under Commission Sharing Arrangements.
Sub-lease rentals of £4.1m (2009: £4.3m) were received during the year, of which £3.9m (2009: £4.2m) relates to guaranteed payments and
£0.2m (2009: £0.1m) relates to contingent payments.
All amounts included within operating lease and sub-lease rental payments represent minimum lease payments.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 57 58 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
4. Expenses continued
(c) Auditor’s remuneration
Fees paid to the Group’s auditor are summarised as follows:
KPMG
2010 2009
£m £m
Annual audit fees – 2010 0.5 –
Annual audit fees – 2009 – 0.4
Annual audit fees – 2008 – 0.2
Audit of these Financial Statements 0.5 0.6
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3
Total audit fees of the Group 0.8 0.9
Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 0.1 0.1
All other services 0.3 0.3
Total auditor’s remuneration 1.2 1.3
The Group’s policy on the award of non-audit services to accountancy firms is outlined in the Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance.
During the year the fees paid by F&C to other accountancy firms for non-audit services were as follows:
2010 2009
£m £m
Deloitte 1.8 0.3
PricewaterhouseCoopers 0.7 0.4
Ernst & Young 0.4 0.4
BDO – 0.2
Jebens Mensching – 0.1
2.9 1.4
During 2009, in addition to the above, £0.1m was paid to Deloitte for services relating to acquisitions. These fees were capitalised as part of
previous acquisitions. All acquisition expenses incurred in 2010 were expensed in accordance with IFRS 3 (Revised): Business Combinations.
In addition to the above, the following fees were paid by OEICs and unit trusts, for services provided directly to them, for which Group
companies are the Authorised Corporate Director or Manager:
2010 2009
£m £m
PricewaterhouseCoopers 0.4 0.5
5. Employee and member benefit expenses
Total employee benefit expenses, including remuneration of the Directors and expenses relating to LLP members, were:
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Short-term employee and member benefits:
Salaries and related benefits 58.7 56.6
Bonus 16.0 15.9
Wages and salaries 74.7 72.5
Distributions to members of LLPs 6.0 –
TRC Commutation payment to LLP members 1.4 –
Social Security costs 10.4 11.2
92.5 83.7
Post-employment benefits:
Defined contributions pension expenses 25(h) 3.9 4.2
Defined benefits scheme (income)/expenses 25(d) (1.3) 2.6
2.6 6.8
Total of wages and salaries, Social Security costs and post-employment benefits 95.1 90.5
Other long-term employee benefits 0.1 0.1
Termination benefits 1.6 4.6
Share-based payment expenses 26 22.6 20.3
Total employee and member benefits expenses 119.4 115.5
The monthly average number of employees and members (including Executive Directors) of the Group during 2010 was 1,018 (2009: 923).
F&C Asset Management plc had no employees during either year.
The above table includes £6.1m (2009: £6.1m) of exceptional employment costs.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 58 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements 59
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
6. Exceptional income and expenditure
(a) Unrealised gains on forward currency contracts
2010 2009
£m £m
Unrealised gains on forward currency contracts – 1.2
During 2008, the Group entered into a series of forward currency contracts to provide certainty as to the Sterling value of a portion of the
Group’s Euro-denominated cash flows. In line with accounting requirements, open contracts are carried in the Statement of Financial Position
at their fair value. The final contract matured in June 2010 and therefore no unrealised gain or loss has been recognised in the Income
Statement for the year ended 31 December 2010 (2009: £1.2m gain). Unrealised gains/(losses) on forward currency contracts are excluded
from the calculation of underlying earnings. Realised gains or losses on such contracts are included in determining underlying earnings.
(b) Other exceptional net operating expenses
The Group has classified the following operating (expenses)/income as exceptional:
2010 2009
£m £m
Corporate advisory fees (i) (9.9) (2.6)
F&C Partners litigation expense (ii) (6.0) (4.1)
TRC Commutation expenses (iii) (6.2) –
Exceptional employment and staff related income/(expense) (iv) 2.5 (6.1)
F&C REIT variable minority interest SBP income/(expense) (v) 0.3 (3.7)
TRC Management Retention and Incentive Plans (vi) (1.8) –
TRC integration expenses (vii) (1.1) –
Foreign exchange transfer from reserves on liquidation of subsidiary (viii) 1.3 –
Investment Trust VAT income (ix) – 2.5
Exceptional client compensation expense (x) – (2.5)
Exceptional property expense (xi) – (2.5)
(20.9) (19.0)
(i) Corporate advisory fees
During 2010, £7.5m of corporate advisory and related transaction expenses were incurred in connection with the acquisition of TRC, together
with £2.0m of abortive acquisition costs in respect of C-Quadrat and other corporate costs of some £0.4m. The Directors consider these
corporate costs to be exceptional in nature and have therefore excluded this £9.9m aggregate expense from the measurement of underlying
earnings.
As noted in the Accounting Policies section of these Financial Statements, the revisions to IFRS 3 (Revised): Business Combinations require
costs associated with acquisitions to be expensed in the Income Statement rather than included in determining the quantum of any goodwill
arising on a transaction.
The £2.6m of costs incurred in 2009 relate to corporate advisory fees incurred in seeking to identify acquisition opportunities which would
create shareholder value, together with costs relating to the separation of the F&C Group from FP , prior to FP divesting of its shareholding
in F&C.
(ii) F&C Partners litigation expense
As disclosed in the 2009 Financial Statements, the Group has received put option notices under the Partnership Agreement from each of the
founder members of F&C Partners LLP (‘Partners’), the Group’s majority owned fund of hedge funds business. In addition, there has been
further related litigation, details of which are given in note 24. The Company vigorously denies the validity of these notices and related claims
and has been engaged in litigation during the course of 2010 in respect of this matter. Some £6.0m of associated legal and related expenses
have been charged to the Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Given the quantum and nature of this expense, the Directors continue to consider it appropriate to treat these costs as exceptional in nature
and exclude them from the measurement of underlying earnings.
(iii) TRC Commutation expenses
As outlined in note 15(a), the Divisional Members of TRC Investment Teams have entered into put and call options which, if exercised, will
transfer up to 20% of their entitlement to management fee profits to the F&C Group. Under IFRS, the share element of the consideration
payable under these Commutation arrangements requires to be accounted for as a share-based payment.
Given the capital nature of these arrangements, the Directors consider it appropriate to treat the total Commutation expense as exceptional in
nature and exclude it from the measurement of underlying earnings for 2010.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 59 60 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
6. Exceptional income and expenditure continued
(iv) Exceptional employment and staff related income/(expense)
During 2010 the Group recognised a net £2.5m of non-recurring income associated with employee remuneration arrangements. This
comprises a £4.0m pension curtailment credit arising from benefit changes made to defined benefit pension arrangements, as outlined in note
25(d), offset by a £0.6m past service pension cost and £0.9m of redundancy and related staff costs, which were incurred as a result of cost
saving actions initiated during the year.
The Directors consider the net credit in respect of the above items to be exceptional in nature and have therefore excluded this credit from the
measurement of underlying earnings for 2010.
The exceptional employment costs incurred during 2009 related to a number of actions taken by management to yield recurring staff cost
savings.
(v) F&C REIT variable minority interest SBP income/(expense)
30% of F&C REIT, the Group’s property asset management business, is held by the former owners of REIT, two of whom occupy key
management roles within F&C REIT.
The former owners have the opportunity to increase their ownership of F&C REIT by a further 10% through the achievement of stretching
performance targets over the six year period to 31 December 2014. This earn-out mechanism meets the criteria of and is accounted for as a
share-based payment. During 2010, as a result of a combination of a reassessment of the likelihood of the financial targets being achieved and
the reassessment of the fair value of the F&C REIT business, a credit of £0.3m has been recognised in the Income Statement (2009: a charge
of £3.7m). This credit has been excluded from underlying earnings, as this arrangement is considered to be of a capital nature. Full details of
this share-based payment are given in note 26(c).
(vi) TRC Management Retention and Incentive Plans
As a condition of the acquisition of TRC, the Group established a Management Retention Plan (‘MRP’) and Management Incentive Plan (‘MIP’) to
retain and incentivise certain TRC personnel. The respective cost of the MRP and MIP (including NIC) charged to the 2010 Income Statement, for the
four month period since the acquisition, is £1.7m and £0.1m. Details of these share-based payment arrangements are given in notes 26(e) and (f).
Given the quantum and nature of these awards, the Directors consider it appropriate to treat the associated expense as exceptional and
exclude it from the measurement of underlying earnings for 2010.
(vii) TRC integration expenses
Following the acquisition of TRC, the Group incurred some £1.1m of integration expenses associated with the alignment of certain activities
within the enlarged Group. This expense includes redundancy related and other integration costs.
Given the nature of this expense, the Directors consider it appropriate to treat it as exceptional in nature and exclude it from the measurement
of underlying earnings for 2010.
(viii) Foreign exchange transfer from reserves on liquidation of subsidiary
Following the transfer of its assets under management to another F&C Group company, F&C Luxembourg was put into voluntary liquidation
during the year ended 31 December 2010. The cumulative foreign exchange gain of £1.3m previously recognised in the foreign currency
translation reserve has been ‘recycled’ to the Income Statement in accordance with accounting requirements.
Due to the nature of this gain, the Directors have excluded this credit from the calculation of underlying earnings for 2010.
(ix) Investment Trust VAT income
During 2007, following the outcome of litigation, HM Revenue and Customs (‘HMRC’) concluded that investment management fees paid by
investment trusts were not subject to VAT and a provision was recognised for the VAT and associated interest costs which the Directors
considered may be payable to investment trust clients in respect of historic periods, beyond the amounts recoverable from HMRC. In early
2009, the Group settled all amounts payable in respect of this matter and the excess provision, net of advisor costs, of £2.5m was recognised
as a credit in the Income Statement for that year.
The Directors excluded this income from underlying earnings for 2009 to be consistent with the treatment of the expense when the provision
was initially recognised. Details and movements in the associated provision are given in note 24.
(x) Exceptional client compensation expense
The exceptional client compensation expense of £2.5m recognised in 2009 represents the net cost to the Group of an amount payable as a
result of an investment mandate breach. This expense related to a single event in respect of one client, attributable to a unique set of
circumstances.
Given the scale of the compensation, the Directors considered it appropriate to exclude this cost from the measurement of underlying earnings
for 2009.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 60 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements 61
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
6. Exceptional income and expenditure continued
(xi) Exceptional property expense
The Group has a number of onerous sub-let properties, which have arisen from historic acquisitions, as the Group has reduced its space
requirements for its own operations. During 2009, the tenant in one of the Group’s sub-let premises sought to exercise a break clause in their
lease and vacate the premises. As it was economically beneficial to retain that tenant rather than seek to market the vacant premises,
additional lease incentives of some £2.5m were granted to the existing tenant.
Given both the quantum of the increase in this provision and the fact that this lease was acquired as part of an acquisition, the Directors
considered it appropriate to exclude the associated exceptional expense from the measurement of underlying earnings for 2009.
(c) F&C REIT put option fair value gain
2010 2009
£m £m
F&C REIT put option fair value gain 6.4 5.6
The fair value of the F&C REIT put option liability, as disclosed in note 28, reflects the value of the F&C REIT business which is currently owned
by the minority interest partners and which is the subject of options. The reduction in the fair value of the options during 2010 of £6.4m has
been recognised as a gain in the Income Statement (2009: gain of £5.6m).
The Directors consider the value of these options and movements therein to be of a capital nature, and have therefore excluded these gains
from the measurement of underlying earnings.
(d) Gain on debt exchange
2010 2009
£m £m
Gain on debt exchange – 27.9
During 2009 the Group executed a debt exchange programme, as outlined in note 22, which sought to capitalise on the prevailing market
conditions. A net gain of £27.9m arose on the partial extinguishment of subordinated debt, after accounting for the fees and other costs
associated with this transaction.
The Directors considered the quantum and nature of this gain to be exceptional and considered it appropriate to exclude this gain from the
measurement of underlying earnings for 2009.
7. Finance revenue
2010 2009
Note £m £m
Loans and receivables:
Bank interest receivable 1.1 1.8
Other interest receivable 0.2 0.6
Designated as fair value through profit or loss:
Movement in fair value of investments 0.3 1.2
1.6 3.6
Other finance revenue:
Expected return on pension plan assets 25(d) 9.5 7.9
Total finance revenue 11.1 11.5
2010 2009
Note £m £m
Summary of total interest income:
Bank interest receivable 1.1 1.8
Other interest receivable 0.2 0.6
Interest income on policyholders’ cash 3 – 0.4
Interest income on other financial instruments attributable to policyholders 3 7.5 9.2
Total interest income 8.8 12.0
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 61 62 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
8. Finance costs
2010 2009
Note £m £m
Interest expense on financial liabilities recognised at cost
using the effective interest rate method:
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 8.4 14.9
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 12.2 3.4
Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010 0.2 1.5
Bank charges and other interest payable 0.5 0.1
Total interest expense: 21.3 19.9
Amortisation of loan note issue costs and facility fees 0.5 0.2
Unwinding of discount on onerous provisions 0.5 0.2
Other finance costs:
Interest cost on pension obligations 25(d) 11.3 10.0
Total finance costs 33.6 30.3
9. Income tax
(a) Analysis of tax income in the year
The major components of tax (income)/expense recognised in the Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income are:
2010 2009
£m £m
Current income tax:
UK 0.8 (2.4)
Overseas 8.5 8.8
Adjustments in respect of previous years (0.2) (0.6)
Deferred income tax:
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences (12.8) (14.0)
Adjustments in respect of previous years (1.3) (1.8)
Adjustments in respect of Corporation Tax rate change (0.8) –
Tax income reported in the Income Statement (5.8) (10.0)
2010 2009
£m £m
Deferred and current income tax related to items charged or credited directly to equity:
Gain on financial investments 0.3 –
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension schemes 3.0 (7.6)
Adjustments in respect of Corporation Tax rate change 0.2 –
Tax expense/(income) recognised directly in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 3.5 (7.6)
(b) Factors affecting the tax income for the year
A reconciliation between the actual tax income and the accounting (loss)/profit multiplied by the Group’s domestic tax rate for the years ended
31 December 2010 and 2009 is as follows:
2010 2009
£m £m
(Loss)/profit before tax (19.2) 8.7
At the Group’s statutory income tax rate of 28.0% (2009: 28.0%) (5.4) 2.4
Adjustments in respect of previous years (1.5) (2.4)
Disallowed expenses 3.4 2.3
Non-taxable income (1.6) (11.8)
Overseas tax 0.1 (0.4)
Unrecognised losses 0.1 –
Share-based payments (0.1) (0.1)
Disallowed distributions to LLP members 1.7 –
Non-taxable income attributable to LLP members (1.7) –
Corporation Tax rate change (0.8) –
Tax income reported in the Income Statement (5.8) (10.0)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown in note 17.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 62 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements 63
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
9. Income tax continued
(c) Factors affecting future tax charges
The Chancellor of the Exchequer’s Emergency Budget on 22 June 2010 announced that the UK Corporation Tax rate will reduce from 28% to
24% over a period of 4 years from 2011. The first reduction in the UK Corporation Tax rate from 28% to 27% was substantively enacted on
20 July 2010 and is effective from 1 April 2011. Accordingly, this will reduce the Group’s current tax charge in future. This rate change has
reduced the net deferred tax liability as at 31 December 2010 by £0.6m.
The reduction comprises three elements:
• A £0.8m tax charge which has impacted underlying earnings of the Group;
• A £1.6m tax credit attributable to intangible assets, which has been excluded from underlying earnings, consistent with the treatment of
the corresponding amortisation charge; and
• A £0.2m charge to equity reflecting the deferred tax that is expected to reverse through equity.
A further 1% reduction in the UK Corporation Tax rate was announced in the Chancellor’s Budget of 23 March 2011. This was subsequently
enacted on 29 March 2011 and will take the Corporation Tax rate down to 26% with effect from 1 April 2011. It is estimated that the effect of
this additional 1% rate change will lead to a further reduction in the Group’s net deferred tax liability of £0.6m.
The Directors are of the view that due to the significant level of estimation required it is not yet possible to quantify the full anticipated effect of
the proposed subsequent 3% rate reduction in future years, although this will further reduce the Group’s current tax charge in future and
reduce the Group’s deferred tax assets/(liabilities) recognised in the Statement of Financial Position.
10. Earnings per share
Basic (loss)/earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the (loss)/earnings for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the
parent by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the earnings for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by
the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares that
would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential Ordinary Shares into Ordinary Shares at the reporting date.
In the opinion of the Directors the ‘underlying earnings’ as quantified in the ‘Reconciliation of (loss)/earnings’ table below, more accurately
reflects the underlying earnings performance of the Group.
2010 2009
Reconciliation of basic earnings per share p p
Basic (loss)/earnings per Ordinary Share (3.31) 3.24
Amortisation of intangibles 6.48 6.80
F&C REIT put option fair value gain (1.28) (1.14)
Corporate advisory fees 1.97 0.45
F&C Partners litigation expense 0.88 0.83
TRC Commutation expenses 1.24 –
Exceptional employment and staff related (income)/expense (0.38) 0.89
F&C REIT variable minority interest SBP (income)/expense (0.06) 0.75
TRC Management Retention and Incentive Plans 0.30 –
TRC integration expenses 0.18 –
Foreign exchange transfer from reserves on liquidation of subsidiary (0.26) –
Prior year unrealised losses on forward currency contracts, now realised (0.18) (1.45)
Investment Trust VAT income – (0.37)
Exceptional client compensation expense – 0.37
Exceptional property expense – 0.37
Gain on debt exchange – (6.00)
Unrealised gains on forward currency contracts – (0.16)
Underlying earnings per Ordinary Share 5.58 4.58
Foreign exchange losses included within underlying earnings per share 0.28 1.18
Underlying earnings per Ordinary Share excluding foreign exchange losses 5.86 5.76
2010 2009
p p
Diluted earnings per Ordinary Share* (3.31) 3.19
* Where the Group has incurred a basic loss per Ordinary Share, no dilution arises despite the ‘dilutive potential weighted average number of Ordinary Shares’ being
greater than the ‘weighted average number of Ordinary Shares used to determine the basic loss per share’. As a result, the reported basic and diluted loss per
Ordinary Share are the same in 2010.
All amounts disclosed in the table above are stated net of any attributable tax, as presented in the Reconciliation of (loss)/earnings table below.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 63 64 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
10. Earnings per share continued
The following tables disclose the earnings and share capital data used in the basic and diluted (loss)/earnings per share calculations:
2010 2009
Gross Tax Net Gross Tax Net
Reconciliation of (loss)/earnings £m £m £m £m £m £m
(Loss)/earnings attributable to ordinary equity holders
of the parent for basic (loss)/earnings per share (22.1) 5.5 (16.6) 5.9 10.0 15.9
Amortisation of intangibles
(1)
47.3 (14.8) 32.5 46.4 (13.0) 33.4
F&C REIT put option fair value gain (6.4) – (6.4) (5.6) – (5.6)
Corporate advisory fees 9.9 – 9.9 2.6 (0.4) 2.2
F&C Partners litigation expense 6.0 (1.6) 4.4 4.1 – 4.1
TRC Commutation expenses 6.2 – 6.2 –––
Exceptional employment and staff related (income)/expense
(2)
(2.6) 0.7 (1.9) 6.1 (1.7) 4.4
F&C REIT variable minority interest SBP (income)/expense (0.3) – (0.3) 3.7 – 3.7
TRC Management Retention and Incentive Plans 1.8 (0.3) 1.5 –––
TRC integration expenses 1.1 (0.2) 0.9 –––
Foreign exchange transfer from reserves on liquidation of subsidiary (1.3) – (1.3) –––
Prior year unrealised losses on forward currency contracts, now realised (1.3) 0.4 (0.9) (9.9) 2.8 (7.1)
Investment Trust VAT income ––– (2.5) 0.7 (1.8)
Exceptional client compensation expense ––– 2.5 (0.7) 1.8
Exceptional property expense ––– 2.5 (0.7) 1.8
Gain on debt exchange ––– (27.9) (1.6) (29.5)
Unrealised gains on forward currency contracts ––– (1.2) 0.4 (0.8)
Underlying earnings attributable to ordinary equity
holders of the parent 38.3 (10.3) 28.0 26.7 (4.2) 22.5
Foreign exchange losses included within underlying earnings 2.0 (0.6) 1.4 8.1 (2.3) 5.8
Underlying earnings attributable to ordinary equity holders
of the parent excluding foreign exchange losses 40.3 (10.9) 29.4 34.8 (6.5) 28.3
(1)
Excludes £2.3m (2009: £2.4m) of amortisation of intangibles (net of tax) which is attributable to minority interests.
(2)
Excludes £0.1m (2009: £nil) of costs (net of tax) which is attributable to minority interests.
2010 2009
Share capital No. No.
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for basic (loss)/earnings per share
(3)
501,469,251 491,145,219
Weighted average dilutive potential Ordinary Shares exercisable:
The Long Term Remuneration Plan awards 16,130,914 5,505,284
The Executive Director Remuneration Plan awards 2,543,218 1,079,472
Purchased Equity Plan awards 694,880 1,066,603
Discretionary awards – 93,327
Share Save Scheme options – 36,311
Dilutive potential weighted average number of Ordinary Shares 520,838,263 498,926,216
(3)
Excluding own shares held by Nominees/Employee Benefit Trusts.
Certain former employees are entitled to exercise their 1995 or 2002 Executive Share Options for a defined period after leaving the Company,
in accordance with scheme rules. These options have been treated as anti-dilutive as the option prices are above the average share price for
the year.
In the period between the reporting date and the approval of the Consolidated Financial Statements, 9,474,354Deferred Share Awards (2009:
nil) vested which were satisfied by the utilisation of own shares held by Employee Benefit Trusts.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 64 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements 65
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
10. Earnings per share continued
Potential future dilution
The following share-based payment arrangements could potentially dilute basic earnings per share in the future, but were not included in the
above calculation of diluted earnings per share because they were either anti-dilutive for the years presented or had not met the relevant
performance criteria at the reporting date:
• Long-Term Remuneration Plan (restricted awards)
• F&C REIT variable minority interest SBP
This earn-out arrangement gives the F&C REIT minority partners the opportunity to increase their ownership of F&C REIT from 30% to
40% before 31 December 2014. At 31 December 2010, the Directors have estimated that the percentage ownership which is expected to
transfer is 6.66%. A transfer of 6.66% would potentially dilute the profits attributable to the equity holders of the parent. However, the
principle of this incentive arrangement is that the incremental profits which would become attributable to minority interests as a result of
achieving the performance criteria are funded from the increased level of absolute profits generated by F&C REIT for the year in which
vesting arises, rather than diluting the current level of profits attributable to equity holders of the parent. There can be no guarantee that,
subsequent to vesting, the higher level of profits which met the vesting criteria would be sustainable.
• TRC Management Retention Plan
• TRC Management Incentive Plan
• TRC Commutation arrangements
The Divisional Members of TRC Investment Teams have put and call options to transfer up to 20% of their entitlement to management fee
profits of their respective Investment Teams to F&C. The exercise of these options is expected to enhance the profits attributable to equity
holders of the parent. However, there can be no guarantee that, subsequent to the exercise of the options, a higher level of absolute profits
would be sustainable.
• Deferred Share Awards
• Share Save Scheme
• 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme
At 31 December 2010, the 1,082,028 (31 December 2009: 1,082,028) options outstanding have all vested. These have exercise prices
between 139.00p and 240.83p and are anti-dilutive as the option prices are above the average share price for the year.
• 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme.
At 31 December 2010, the 236,500 (31 December 2009: 532,122) options outstanding have all vested. These have an exercise price of
455.83p and are anti-dilutive as the option prices are above the average share price for the year.
Details of all awards potentially dilutable at each reporting date are disclosed in note 26, together with the total number of awards outstanding
for each scheme.
In addition, the TRC conditional consideration payment (as detailed in note 15 (a)) could potentially dilute earnings per share. Under the
acquisition agreement, two potential instalments of up to £10.0m each are payable to the vendors where certain Run-rate EBITDA
performance criteria are achieved. While the achievement of the performance criteria would enhance the level of profits attributable to the
equity holders of the parent, there can be no guarantee that the higher level of profits which met the performance criteria would be sustainable.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 65 66 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
11. Ordinary Dividends
2010 2009
Declared and paid during the year £m £m
Equity dividends on Ordinary Shares:
Final dividend for 2009: 4.0p (2008: 4.0p) 19.4 19.8
Interim dividend for 2010: 1.0p (2009: 2.0p) 5.1 9.7
24.5 29.5
Proposed for approval at the Annual General Meeting
Equity dividends on Ordinary Shares:
Final dividend for 2010: 2.0p (2009: 4.0p) 10.3 19.5
The entitlement of Employee Benefit Trusts to receive dividends (on some of their holdings of F&C shares) has been waived by the Trustees.
This has resulted in the following dividends being waived:
Shares £m
2010 Dividends
2009 Final 9,169,006 0.4
2010 Interim 17,372,505 0.2
2009 Dividends
2008 Final 1,461,036 0.1
2009 Interim 11,202,711 0.2
12. Property, plant and equipment
Office
Leasehold Computer furniture and Motor
improvements equipment equipment vehicles Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 January 2009 13.0 10.8 2.6 0.7 27.1
Additions 0.4 0.2 0.2 0.2 1.0
Disposals (0.1) (3.4) (0.5) –(4.0)
Foreign exchange losses (0.1) ––– (0.1)
At 31 December 2009 13.2 7.6 2.3 0.9 24.0
Fair value of additions arising on acquisition of TRC 0.5 0.9 0.3 – 1.7
Additions 0.1 0.8 0.1 0.2 1.2
Disposals (0.1) (0.6) (0.1) (0.1) (0.9)
Foreign exchange losses (0.2) ––– (0.2)
At 31 December 2010 13.5 8.7 2.6 1.0 25.8
Depreciation and impairment:
At 1 January 2009 5.5 9.2 1.7 0.1 16.5
Depreciation charge for the year 1.4 1.0 0.2 0.2 2.8
Disposals (0.1) (3.4) (0.2) – (3.7)
At 31 December 2009 6.8 6.8 1.7 0.3 15.6
Depreciation charge for the year 1.5 0.8 0.2 0.2 2.7
Disposals – (0.6) – (0.1) (0.7)
Foreign exchange gains (0.1) ––– (0.1)
At 31 December 2010 8.2 7.0 1.9 0.4 17.5
Net book values:
At 31 December 2008 7.5 1.6 0.9 0.6 10.6
At 31 December 2009 6.4 0.8 0.6 0.6 8.4
At 31 December 2010 5.3 1.7 0.7 0.6 8.3
Cumulative impairment losses:
At 31 December 2009 2.0 ––– 2.0
At 31 December 2010 2.0 ––– 2.0
There are no restrictions on the Group’s title to the above assets and none are pledged as security for liabilities, other than the security over
FCAM’s holding in F&C REIT, which was relinquished on 29 June 2010 and which effectively yielded beneficial entitlement to some of the
Group’s property, plant and equipment. Details of this security are given in note 22.
The cost of fully depreciated property, plant and equipment which is still in use at 31 December 2010 is £8.2m (31 December 2009: £7.4m).
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 66 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements 67
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
13. Intangible assets
Management Software
Goodwill contracts and licences Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 January 2009 595.1 695.5 5.9 1,296.5
Additions –– 0.1 0.1
Disposals –– (1.2) (1.2)
Foreign exchange losses – (10.4) (0.1) (10.5)
At 31 December 2009 595.1 685.1 4.7 1,284.9
Fair value of additions arising on acquisition of TRC – 23.0 0.5 23.5
Additions 16.8 – 0.6 17.4
Foreign exchange losses – (3.5) – (3.5)
At 31 December 2010 611.9 704.6 5.8 1,322.3
Amortisation and impairment:
At 1 January 2009 – 428.6 4.7 433.3
Amortisation charge for the year – 49.8 0.7 50.5
Disposals –– (1.2) (1.2)
Foreign exchange gains –– (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 December 2009 – 478.4 4.1 482.5
Amortisation charge for the year – 50.7 0.7 51.4
At 31 December 2010 – 529.1 4.8 533.9
Net book values:
At 31 December 2008 595.1 266.9 1.2 863.2
At 31 December 2009 595.1 206.7 0.6 802.4
At 31 December 2010 611.9 175.5 1.0 788.4
Goodwill
Goodwill has arisen from various business combinations and, reflecting the Group’s reportable operating segments disclosed in note 1, is
represented by three cash generating units (‘CGUs’), as follows:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
F&C 467.2 467.2
F&C REIT 127.9 127.9
Thames River Capital 16.8 –
611.9 595.1
F&C and F&C REIT were previously called Investment Management and Property Asset Management respectively.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually at individual CGU level, or when indicators of potential impairment are identified.
The carrying value of goodwill attributable to each CGU was tested for impairment as at 31 December 2010, as described below; to date,
none of the CGUs has suffered any impairment of goodwill.
The additional goodwill arising in 2010 relates to the acquisition of TRC and is fully attributable to the newly created TRC operating segment.
Details of the acquisition are given in note 15(a).
Management contracts
Management contracts predominantly relate to contracts arising from business acquisitions. The addition during 2010 of £23.0m is the value
attributed to the management contracts acquired through the TRC business combination.
Management contracts are amortised over their expected useful lives and are tested for impairment only when indicators of potential
impairment are identified. No such indicators have been identified since the last impairment review undertaken as at 31 December 2008 and
therefore no impairment review of management contracts has been undertaken this year. Management contract impairment losses recognised
in prior years relate entirely to the F&C operating segment; the accumulated impairment losses at 31 December 2010 were £218.3m
(31 December 2009: £218.3m).
The foreign exchange losses in the year arise from the relative weakening of the Euro over the course of 2010, reducing the value of contracts
denominated in that currency (primarily F&C insurance contracts) in Sterling terms.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 67 68 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
13. Intangible assets continued
The categories of management contracts, their carrying amounts at the year-end, remaining amortisation periods and estimated useful lives
are as follows:
31 December 2010 31 December 2009
Remaining Estimated Remaining Estimated
Net book amortisation useful Net book amortisation useful
values period life values period life
£m (years) (years) £m (years) (years)
RSAI insurance contracts 1.0 1 10 1.7 2 10
RSAI retail contracts/F&C OEICs 9.1 1 – 4 10 13.5 2 – 5 10
F&C insurance contracts 58.1 4 10 76.2 5 10
F&C institutional contracts (fixed term/non-fixed term) 6.7 4 / – 10 / 4 17.7 5 / 1 10 / 4
F&C investment trust contracts 11.8 5½ 10 14.0 6½ 10
F&C advisory and sub-advisory contracts 19.3 4 10 25.0 5 10
Private equity fund of funds 0.9 14 20 0.9 15 20
REIT property contracts 47.5 57 57.7 67
Thames River Capital contracts 21.1 44 –––
175.5 206.7
Impairment testing of goodwill
The recoverable amount of the CGUs has been determined on their value in use (including terminal value) at each respective testing date for
2009 and 2010. The value in use is calculated by discounting the cash flow projections based on the latest annual financial budget approved
by the Board, and management’s forecasts. A long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows because of the nature of the
Group’s business making up the CGUs and the Board’s current view that there is no reason to believe that they will not continue in operation in
perpetuity.
The key assumptions adopted in these calculations for each business segment are as follows:
31 December 2010 31 December 2009
F&C F&C REIT TRC F&C F&C REIT TRC
Discount rate 8.60% 8.60% 10.60% 10.25% 10.25% n/a
Long-term market growth rate 5.30% 4.25% 5.80% 5.35% 4.15% n/a
Inflation rate* 4.15% 4.15% 4.15% 4.25% 4.25% n/a
* The costs included in year 1 of the projections reflect those included in the Board approved budget for the respective year.
The discount rate is based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital to estimate a market relevant rate, calculated as at the year-end,
and takes into account the relative risks associated with the Group’s various revenue streams included in the respective operating segments.
The discount rates disclosed above are the post-tax rates which have been applied in the projections; the pre-tax discount rates are 10.85%
and 13.00% for F&C/F&C REIT and TRC respectively (2009: 12.95%, F&C/F&C REIT only). All discount rates shown subsequently within this
note are stated after tax.
Revenues are based on the Board-approved budget for each operating segment, and management’s net business flow forecasts for the
subsequent four years. Thereafter, revenues have been grown in line with the Group’s long-term view of market growth, consistent with that
experienced historically, in the long-term, across the markets in which assets are invested. The different rates reflect the composite mix of
assets held in each operating segment for each period. Net new business revenues are included at the levels assumed in the 2011 budget and
management’s forecasts up to 2015 with no further net new business included thereafter. Additional costs associated with the increased
revenues have been included in the projections, primarily to reflect variable remuneration costs. Revenues earned from significant contracts
with a fixed term are assumed to terminate at the end of the fixed term, with operating costs falling by an amount which assumes associated
profit margins of 70%.
Projected operating costs for the first year are driven by the budgeted profit margins for each operating segment for 2011. Thereafter, both
existing budgeted costs and, as noted above, further costs added associated with net new business revenue forecasts have been grown at
inflation rates to accord with anticipated future salary and other cost increases.
Values in use are compared to the carrying values of goodwill, attributable management contracts and other intangible assets (net of
associated deferred tax provisions), and property, plant and equipment in order to ascertain whether any impairment exists.
As this annual impairment review of goodwill indicated surpluses in all segments, no impairment has been recognised in the year in respect of
goodwill (31 December 2009: £nil).
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 68 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements 69
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
13. Intangible assets continued
The key assumptions noted in the above table are those to which the calculated values in use are most sensitive. These assumptions, together
with the inclusion in the projections of forecast net new business revenues and associated costs, result in the following surpluses of goodwill:
31 December 2010 31 December 2009
F&C F&C REIT TRC F&C F&C REIT TRC
£m £m £m £ £m m £ £m m £ £m m
Excess of recoverable amount over carrying value 787.8 44.6 234.9 615.1 74.6 n/a
In order to assess the sensitivity of the key assumptions on the carrying values of goodwill, an analysis was conducted to ascertain the change
that would be required to derive values in use which approximated to the carrying values of goodwill and beyond which impairment would
arise.
The absolute levels, on a standalone basis, of the key assumptions which most closely resulted in a match in the values in use to the carrying
values of goodwill were as follows:
31 December 2010 31 December 2009
F&C F&C REIT TRC F&C F&C REIT TRC
Discount rate 16.19% 10.36% 39.84% 17.00% 13.35% n/a
Long-term market growth rate 2.49% 2.85% (5.93)% 2.55% 1.28% n/a
Inflation rate 7.38% 6.74% 14.21% 7.65% 9.20% n/a
Per cent. achievement of new business targets <0.00% <0.00% <0.00% <0.00% 41.85% n/a
14.  Financial investments
The following assets are designated as available for sale:
2010 2009
Unquoted investments £m £m
At 1 January 2.2 2.1
Fair value movement in the year 1.3 0.2
Impairment expense – (0.1)
At 31 December 3.5 2.2
Unquoted investments include the Group’s direct investment, co-investments and carried interest entitlement in private equity limited
partnerships.
The fair value of the unquoted investments has been estimated using International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
The Directors believe that the estimated fair values resulting from the valuation technique applied to unquoted shares which are recorded in the
Statement of Financial Position, and the related realised fair value gains recorded in the Income Statement, are reasonable and the most
appropriate at the reporting date.
The investments have no fixed maturity date or coupon rate.
Included within the unquoted financial investments at 31 December 2010 are £0.1m (31 December 2009: £0.1m) of equity instruments
measured at the price of recent investments. The fair value of these investments cannot be measured reliably as the Group does not have
access to the underlying information to produce fair value valuations for these investments. These investments consist of loans and carried
interest in private equity limited partnerships. These investments are managed by external fund managers and the Group obtains income when
the investments are realised. The Group intends to hold these investments until all the private equity investments are realised. In 2010, the
Group received no distributions (2009: £nil) in respect of the investments held at cost.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 69 70 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
15. Acquisition of subsidiaries
(a) Acquisition of Thames River Capital Group
F&C Asset Management plc (‘FCAM’) acquired and gained control of the Thames River Capital Group (‘TRC’ or the ‘TRC Group’) on 
1 September 2010 (‘Completion’ date). TRC is a London-based asset management business that provides specialist products and services 
to wholesale and wealth management clients. TRC manages a range of specialist high alpha and absolute return products.
The acquisition of TRC represented an attractive opportunity to broaden F&C’s specialist investment management capabilities in multiple
product areas, augment its sales and marketing skills and expand its distribution footprint, thereby accelerating the achievement of F&C’s
strategic objectives.
The TRC Group operates its business through two limited liability partnerships (‘LLPs’), Thames River Capital LLP and Thames River Multi-
Capital LLP . Between them they had 7 Investment Teams at 1 September 2010.
FCAM acquired 100% ownership of Thames River Capital Group Limited which, in turn, owned, directly or indirectly, 100% of the following
entities at the date of acquisition:
Thames River Capital Holdings Limited
Thames River Capital UK Limited (‘TRC UK’)
TRC UK’s interest in Thames River Capital LLP
TRC UK’s interest in Thames River Multi-Capital LLP
Thames River Capital GmbH
The consideration payable by FCAM for the acquisition will be up to £53.6m (excluding the adjustment in respect of the consolidated net
assets target) comprised as follows:
(i) The initial consideration:
• £33.6m was paid in cash at Completion; and
• The consideration paid at Completion will be subject to an adjustment if the consolidated net asset value of the TRC Group at the
Completion date exceeds or falls short of an agreed target amount of £9.0m.
(ii) The conditional consideration payment:
• Up to a further £20.0m of conditional consideration is payable, in two instalments shortly after 31 December 2011 and 30 June 2012,
and is contingent on the TRC Group achieving certain financial targets at each of these dates;
• The first instalment is a variable amount dependent on the Run-Rate Earnings Before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation
(‘Run-Rate EBITDA’) on an annualised basis as at 31 December 2011. This instalment becomes payable if the December 2011 Run-
Rate EBITDA exceeds £12.5m and the amount payable increases on a straight-line basis from zero to a maximum of £10.0m, which is
payable if the December 2011 Run-Rate EBITDA equals or exceeds £15.0m;
• The second instalment varies according to the Run-Rate EBITDA on an annualised basis as at 30 June 2012. This instalment
becomes payable if the June 2012 Run-Rate EBITDA exceeds £15.0m and the amount payable increases on a straight-line basis from
zero to a maximum of £10.0m, which is payable if the June 2012 Run-Rate EBITDA equals or exceeds £17.0m; and
• The conditional consideration payment, if payable, will be satisfied by the issue of a variable number of Ordinary Shares or, in certain
limited circumstances, the issue of bank guaranteed loan notes by F&C.
F&C funded the cash consideration for the acquisition through a combination of the £14.2m net proceeds of a non-pre-emptive cash placing
of F&C Ordinary Shares carried out on 28 April 2010, a £15m acquisition loan facility and existing cash resources.
In addition, as a condition of the acquisition, two new share-based payment agreements were established to retain and incentivise TRC group
employees: TRC Management Retention Plan and the TRC Management Incentive Plan. Details of these schemes are disclosed in notes 26(e)
and (f).
The fair value of consideration paid by the Group for its 100% holding in Thames River Capital Group Limited was as follows:
£m
Initial consideration – cash 33.6
Estimated additional cash consideration payable as a result of TRC net assets exceeding target net assets 7.5
Estimated fair value of first instalment of conditional consideration 5.0
Estimated fair value of second instalment of conditional consideration 2.5
Fair value of consideration paid for 100% of TRC Group 48.6
FCAM also incurred £7.5m of acquisition expenses relating to the legal, accounting and other professional advisor fees associated with the
transaction(£7.2m of these have been capitalised in the Company Financial Statements, as shown in note 5 on page 133). These expenses
are treated as exceptional costs, as explained in note 6(b).
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 70 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 71
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
15. Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries continued
The provisional fair values of assets and liabilities acquired at Completion were as follows:
Provisional
fair value to 
the Group at
acquisition,
Accounting as at
Book policy Acquired Fair value 31 December
value alignment intangibles adjustments 2010
£m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets:
Property, plant and equipment 1.7 ––– 1.7
Intangible assets:
– management contracts –– 23.0 – 23.0
– software and licences 0.5 ––– 0.5
Deferred acquisition costs – 0.1 –– 0.1
Deferred tax assets 0.6 0.1 – 0.1 0.8
Current assets:
Financial investments 1.1 –– 0.8 1.9
Deferred acquisition costs – 0.1 –– 0.1
Trade and other receivables
#
13.3 ––– 13.3
Cash and cash equivalents 27.2 ––– 27.2
Non-current liabilities:
Provisions (0.1) –– (0.1) (0.2)
Employee benefits (1.1) ––– (1.1)
Deferred income – (0.4) –– (0.4)
Deferred tax liabilities –– (6.4) – (6.4)
Current liabilities:
Trade and other payables (17.6) (0.1) –– (17.7)
Employee benefits (6.3) –– 0.3 (6.0)
Deferred income – (0.3) –– (0.3)
Members’ liabilities (3.4) ––– (3.4)
Current tax payable (1.0) –– (0.3) (1.3)
Estimated net assets acquired 14.9 (0.5) 16.6 0.8 31.8
Goodwill 16.8
Total consideration 48.6
#
The gross contractual amounts receivable at Completion are £13.3m, which is also the estimate of contractual cash flows expected to be collected.
The following adjustments were made to the book values of the assets and liabilities acquired:
• The key accounting policy alignment adjustments relate to the recognition of deferred income and deferred acquisition costs, together with
associated tax adjustments, in accordance with IFRS requirements adopted by the F&C Group;
• An intangible asset of £23.0m, together with an associated deferred tax liability of £6.4m, has been recognised on acquisition, being the
fair value of the management contracts acquired with TRC. Further details of intangible assets are given in note 13; and
• Fair value adjustments include:
o the recognition of an investment of £0.8m, being the fair value of F&C Ordinary Shares acquired with TRC, which relate to employee
benefit arrangements. On consolidation, this investment has been transferred to equity as the shares are required to be accounted for
as ‘own shares’;
o a reduction of £0.3m to the initial estimate of employee benefits included in the Completion Accounts; and
o the tax effect of pre-tax adjustments.
The adjustments noted above reflect the Directors’ best estimate of the necessary fair value adjustments to the net assets of the acquired
entities as at 31 December 2010. 
As at 31 December 2010, the fair values of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are considered by the Directors to be
provisional. Any subsequent amendments to the fair values will be made after the TRC Completion Accounts review process has been
completed.
No provisions for reorganisation or restructuring costs were included in the liabilities of the acquired entities. The net revenues and loss before
tax attributable to the TRC Group for the four month period between the date of acquisition and 31 December 2010 were £14.6m and £3.7m
respectively.On an underlying basis excluding the Commutation expense and the costs associated with the TRC Management Retention and
Incentive Plans, the pre-tax result was a profit of £2.8m.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 71 72 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
15. Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries continued
As a pre-condition of the acquisition agreements, a group restructuring involving the entities being acquired by the F&C Group was completed
in advance of the acquisition. This restructuring was required as the Group was not acquiring Nevsky Holdings Limited or TRC UK’s interest in
Nevsky Capital LLP , as outlined in the Circular issued to shareholders in respect of this transaction. As a result, the pre-acquisition results of
the acquired entities would have differed materially from the post-acquisition results of TRC entities included within the F&C Group results.
Therefore, it is not considered possible to determine what the F&C Group results would have been had the acquisition completed on 1 January
2010.
The value of goodwill arising on acquisition includes the value of the investment management teams acquired and the value of future business
flows that the distribution capability of TRC is expected to generate. No tax deduction is expected to be available in respect of the goodwill
arising on acquisition.
Commutation arrangements
The Divisional Members of Investment Teams have entered into put and call options which, if exercised, will transfer value to F&C by way of
variation of the entitlements to the allocation of management fee profits (as defined in the underlying legal agreements) and capital profits in the
respective LLP . The exercise of these options will increase TRC UK’s share of the management fee profits of the respective Investment Teams
by up to 20%. 
These options are exercisable:
• 18 months after Completion:
At the option of the Investment Teams, TRC UK will purchase an additional 10% of the management fee proﬁts of each Investment Team.
The option for Investment Teams to exercise this put option is conditional on that team’s respective net fund ﬂows being positive for the 
12 months preceding the option exercise period.
• 36 months after Completion:
FCAM has a call option to purchase, through TRC UK, an additional 20% of the management fee proﬁts of each of the Investment Teams.
The level of 20% is reduced by the percentage of any proﬁts which have already been commuted at an earlier date.
The 18/36 months options to acquire such management fee proﬁts may be deferred for a period of 12 months if the F&C EBITDA Multiple,
which is one of the components used to quantify the Commutation consideration, is less than 5.
The Commutation consideration may be satisﬁed in two tranches, at F&C’s sole discretion, by:
(a) the allotment and issue at the relevant Commutation completion date to each Divisional Member of such number of F&C Shares as shall
have a value equal to 50% of the consideration, or (b) the payment to the Divisional Members of 50% of the consideration in cash at the
relevant Commutation completion date; and
(b) the allotment and issue at the relevant Commutation completion date to a Nominee of such number of F&C Shares as shall have a value
equal to 50% of the consideration (‘Deferred Commutation Shares’), or (b) in certain circumstances the payment of 50% of the
consideration in cash on the date falling 24 months after the relevant Commutation completion date. Deferred Commutation Shares shall
be released by the Nominee 24 months after the Commutation completion date, provided the Member continues to provide services to the
respective LLP or has ceased to do so in certain “good leaver” circumstances.
At Completion, two Divisions entered into an initial 10% Commutation, resulting in TRC UK obtaining a further 10% of the related management
fee proﬁts in those Investment Teams. The aggregate consideration payable in respect of this initial Commutation of proﬁts was satisﬁed by: a
cash payment of £1.4m; the issue of 3,042,999 Ordinary Shares and the issue of 3,042,997 Deferred Commutation Shares. The aggregate fair
value of the Ordinary Share capital and share premium arising on the issue of these Shares was £3.8m. The corresponding charge in respect
of these has been recognised in the own share reserve, a separate component of retained earnings, in accordance with the treatment of new
shares issued to satisfy share-based payment arrangements.
Under IFRS the share element of these Commutation arrangements requires to be accounted for as a share-based payment. Further details
are given in note 26(g). The cash payment has been expensed and is included within the Commutation expenses outlined in note 6(b)(iii).
(b) Acquisition of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited
Following the review of the Completion Accounts and subsequent fair value adjustments to the purchase consideration for the acquisition 
of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited on 11 October 2004, there is an estimated further consideration of £0.7m payable to Eureko B.V. at 
31 December 2010 (31 December 2009: £0.7m).
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 72 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 73
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
16. Deferred acquisition costs
2010 2009
£m £m
At 1 January 9.0 11.1
Fair value of additions arising on acquisition of TRC 0.2 –
Costs deferred in the year 2.4 1.2
Amortisation in the year (2.8) (3.3)
At 31 December 8.8 9.0
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Split as follows:
Non-current assets 6.0 6.4
Current assets 2.8 2.6
8.8 9.0
Deferred acquisition costs represent the commission paid to gain new asset inflows into OEICs. These costs are amortised over the expected
terms of the contracts, in line with the initial fees received from investors, as disclosed in note 27.
17. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
(a) Recognised deferred assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
31 December 2010 31 December 2009
Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Employee benefits* 8.3 – 8.3 15.3 – 15.3
Share-based payments 12.8 – 12.8 12.4 – 12.4
Unused tax losses 4.2 – 4.2 0.6 – 0.6
Property, plant and equipment 2.9 – 2.9 2.6 – 2.6
Receivables, payables and provisions 2.7 – 2.7 3.4 – 3.4
Intangible assets – management contracts – (47.3) (47.3) – (57.7) (57.7)
Unrealised fair value gains on available for sale assets –(0.8)(0.8) – (0.6) (0.6)
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 30.9 (48.1) (17.2) 34.3 (58.3) (24.0)
*Includes £7.3m (31 December 2009: £12.9m) relating to deferred tax on defined benefit pension deficit.
Based on Board-approved budgets and forecasts, the Directors believe that it is appropriate to recognise deferred tax assets at the reporting
date because it is considered probable that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying temporary differences can be
deducted.
(b) Movement in temporary differences during the year
1 January Recognised Recognised Revaluation Acquired 31 December
2010 in income in equity in year in year 2010
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Employee benefits 15.3 (4.2) (3.2) (0.1) 0.5 8.3
Share-based payments 12.4 0.4 ––– 12.8
Unused tax losses 0.6 3.6 ––– 4.2
Property, plant and equipment 2.6 0.1 –– 0.2 2.9
Receivables, payables and provisions 3.4 (0.8) –– 0.1 2.7
Intangible assets – management contracts (57.7) 15.8 – 1.0 (6.4) (47.3)
Unrealised fair value gains on available for sale assets (0.6) – (0.3) 0.1 – (0.8)
(24.0) 14.9 (3.5) 1.0 (5.6) (17.2)
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 73 74 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
17. Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued
1 January Recognised Recognised Revaluation Acquired 31 December
2009 in income in equity in year in year 2009
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Employee benefits 9.0 (1.2) 7.6 (0.1) – 15.3
Share-based payments 9.7 2.7 ––– 12.4
Unused tax losses – 0.6 ––– 0.6
Property, plant and equipment 2.5 0.1 ––– 2.6
Receivables, payables & provisions 5.3 (1.9) ––– 3.4
Intangible assets – management contracts (74.5) 14.0 – 2.8 – (57.7)
Unrealised fair value gains on available for sale assets (0.6) –––– (0.6)
Unremitted overseas earnings (1.9) 1.5 – 0.4 ––
(50.5) 15.8 7.6 3.1 – (24.0)
(c) Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
At 31 December 2010 the Group has unrecognised tax losses of £0.3m (31 December 2009: £0.2m) that are available indefinitely for offset
against future taxable profits of the companies in which the losses arose. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these
losses as they cannot be used to offset taxable profits elsewhere in the Group, and they have arisen in companies that have not reported
taxable profits for some time.
18. Financial instruments
(a) Analysis of assets and liabilities at the reporting date
Financial investments held in relation to the activities of the Group’s insurance subsidiary have been classified as fair value through profit or loss
within current assets.
Stocks of units and shares are held in relation to fund management activities and are classified as held for trading within current assets.
Financial investments included within non-current assets are classified as available for sale and are carried at fair value (or at amortised cost if
fair value cannot be measured reliably). Other loans and receivables included within non-current assets are carried at amortised cost.
(i) Designated as fair value through profit or loss
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Financial investments in respect of unit-linked contracts (1) 538.8 624.9
Other financial investments (2) 9.9 10.0
548.7 634.9
(1) Financial investments in respect of unit-linked contracts:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Equity securities:
Listed 232.4 431.0
OEICs and unit trusts 106.9 12.6
Total equity securities 339.3 443.6
Debt and fixed income securities:
Government bonds 59.2 65.8
Other listed fixed interest securities 87.2 82.2
Index-linked gilts 42.8 24.1
Participation in pooled investments 10.3 9.2
Total debt and fixed income securities 199.5 181.3
Total unit-linked financial investments designated as fair value 
through profit or loss 538.8 624.9
Financial instruments relating to unit-linked contracts
The Group’s insurance subsidiary, F&C Managed Pension Funds Limited, provides unit-linked pension wrappers. From F&C’s perspective, the
risks and rewards of managing these assets are the same as other assets under management, as the financial risks and rewards attributable to
the assets invested fall to be borne by, or to the benefit of, the Group’s clients. Hence, while a number of significant financial instruments are
recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in respect of this subsidiary, the key risk to the Group is the impact on the level
of management fees which are earned from this entity and which are directly affected by the underlying value of policyholder assets. While F&C
Managed Pension Funds Limited has some insurance risks, these risks are fully reinsured, thereby negating any net insurance risk to the
Group’s equity holders.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 74 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 75
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
18. Financial instruments continued
The amounts included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in respect of assets and liabilities held within unit-linked funds are 
as follows:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments 538.8 624.9
Loans and receivables:
Deferred acquisition costs 0.1 0.1
Trade and other receivables 0.1 0.3
Cash and cash equivalents
#
20.2 24.6
Total unit-linked assets less liabilities 559.2 649.9
#
This does not include £3.2m of non-linked policyholders’ cash (31 December 2009: £3.1m).
These unit-linked assets are matched by the associated investment contract liabilities disclosed in note 29.
(2) Other financial investments:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
Note £m £m
Purchased Equity Plan 26(h)(ii) 4.0 4.7
NIC hedge 2.6 3.1
Bonus – investments 1.8 1.9
TRC Employee Benefit Trust 1.2 –
Corporate bonds 0.3 0.3
9.9 10.0
The ‘Purchased Equity Plan’ represents investments held by an Employee Benefit Trust in F&C funds for the purpose of future settlement of
Purchased Equity Plan awards. A corresponding liability is recognised over the vesting period.
The ‘NIC hedge’ represents an investment in equities and other assets made via an Employee Benefit Trust for the purpose of funding future
national insurance contributions (‘NIC’) payments on legacy employee share plans. The provision for the NIC liability is separately recognised.
‘Bonus – investments’ represents an investment in managed funds for the purpose of future settlement of bonus awards. The liability for these
bonuses is separately recognised.
‘TRC Employee Benefit Trust’ represents investments held by an Employee Benefit Trust in TRC funds for the purpose of future settlement of
TRC bonus awards. A corresponding liability is recognised in employee benefit liabilities.
‘Corporate bonds’ represents an investment in corporate bonds held by F&C Managed Pension Funds Limited. The corporate bonds have the
following maturity dates:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
Maturity date £m £m
2014 0.3 0.3
(ii) Designated as held for trading
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Stock of units and shares 0.1 0.3
The Group holds a stock of units and shares in respect of its OEIC and unit trust business. This stock of units and shares is commonly referred
to as the ‘Manager’s Box’. The Group’s stock of units and shares is valued using quoted market values. The Group is therefore exposed to
market value movements in the value of these assets.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 75 76 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
18. Financial instruments continued
(iii) Designated as loans and receivables
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 202.2 213.9
Trade and other receivables:
Trade debtors 21.5 14.9
Accrued income 38.9 41.3
Other debtors 10.8 8.5
OEIC and unit-trust debtors 81.2 21.8
Amounts owed by Eureko Group 1.4 1.4
Amounts owed by TRC related party entities 0.7 –
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities 0.1 0.1
356.8 301.9
(b) Fair values
(i) Fair value hierarchy
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by category of valuation technique:
Level 1: Quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
As at 31 December 2010, the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value:
31 December
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2010
Assets measured at fair value £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments in respect of unit-linked contracts 491.4 46.0 1.4 538.8
Other financial investments 4.6 5.1 0.2 9.9
Classified as held for trading: stock of units and shares 0.1 –– 0.1
Available for sale financial assets:
Unquoted investments –– 3.5 3.5
496.1 51.1 5.1 552.3
31 December
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2010
Liabilities measured at fair value £m £m £m £m
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
F&C REIT put options –– (54.0) (54.0)
Investment contract liabilities – (559.2)– (559.2)
– (559.2) (54.0) (613.2)
31 December
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2009
Assets measured at fair value £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments in respect of unit-linked contracts 607.2 14.2 3.5 624.9
Other financial investments 5.1 4.7 0.2 10.0
Classified as held for trading: stock of units and shares 0.3 –– 0.3
Available for sale financial assets:
Unquoted investments –– 2.2 2.2
612.6 18.9 5.9 637.4
31 December
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2009
Liabilities measured at fair value £m £m £m £m
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Forward currency contracts – (1.3) – (1.3)
F&C REIT put options –– (60.4) (60.4)
Investment contract liabilities – (649.9) – (649.9) 
– (651.2) (60.4) (711.6)
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 76 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 77
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
18. Financial instruments continued
Assets/(liabilities) measured at fair value based on level 3
Available
for sale Financial
Financial assets financial liabilities
at FVTPL assets at FVTPL
Financial
investments
in respect Other
of unit-linked financial Unquoted F&C REIT
contracts investments investments put options Total
Fair value measurement at end of the reporting period £m £m £m £m £m 
At 1 January 2009 2.4 0.3 2.1 (66.0) (61.2)
Total gains or losses:
In profit or loss (0.6) (0.1) (0.1) 5.6 4.8
In other comprehensive income –– 0.2 – 0.2
Purchases 2.2 ––– 2.2 
Settlements (0.5) ––– (0.5)
At 31 December 2009 3.5 0.2 2.2 (60.4) (54.5)
Total gains or losses:
In profit or loss 0.4 –– 6.4 6.8
In other comprehensive income –– 1.3 – 1.3
Purchases 1.4 ––– 1.4
Settlements (0.7) ––– (0.7)
Transfers out of Level 3
#
(3.2) ––– (3.2)
At 31 December 2010 1.4 0.2 3.5 (54.0) (48.9)
# 
Transfers out of Level 3 resulted from investments receiving an active market price during the year.
Total gains or losses included in the Income Statement for the year:
2010
Net gains and investment income on unit-linked assets 0.4––– 0.4
F&C REIT put option fair value gain ––– 6.4 6.4
0.4–– 6.4 6.8
2009
Net losses and investment income on unit-linked assets (0.6) ––– (0.6)
Finance revenue – (0.1) –– (0.1)
Impairment of financial investments –– (0.1) – (0.1)
F&C REIT put option fair value gain ––– 5.6 5.6
(0.6) (0.1) (0.1) 5.6 4.8 
The gains or losses included in profit or loss for the year were all in respect of assets or liabilities held at the reporting date.
Sensitivities for level 3
While the Group believes that its estimates of fair value are appropriate, the use of different assumptions could lead to different measurements
of fair value. Potential changes in the assumptions used in the valuation of level 3 financial assets are not considered to have a material impact
on the Income Statement. In respect of level 3 financial liabilities changing one or more of the unobservable inputs to reasonably possible
alternative assumptions would have the following effects:
Effect on other
Effect on profit or loss comprehensive income
Favourable (Unfavourable) Favourable (Unfavourable)
At 31 December 2010 £m £m £m £m
Available for sale financial assets: Unquoted investments –– 0.3 (0.3)
Financial liabilities at FVTPL: F&C REIT put options 5.0 (4.6)– –
At 31 December 2009
Financial liabilities at FVTPL: F&C REIT put options 4.3 (8.5) ––
The F&C REIT put option sensitivities were derived from reasonable changes to the assumptions, as disclosed in note 28, on the following
unobservable inputs:
• Recurring discount rates +/– 1%
• Weightings of 2010 results +/– 10%
• Recurring EBITDA multiple +/– 1x
• Flexing the relative weightings to the 3 valuation methodologies +/– 10%
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 77 78 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
18. Financial instruments continued
(ii) Fair value comparisons
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments.
Carrying amount Fair value
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2010 2009 2010 2009
Financial assets £m £m £m £m
Financial investments: available for sale 3.5 2.2 3.5 2.2
Financial investments: fair value through profit or loss 548.7 634.9 548.7 634.9
Held for trading: stock of units and shares 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.3
Financial liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings:
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 (124.4) (124.2) (92.0) (83.2)
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 (149.3) (129.7) (154.0) (129.7)
Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010 – (10.0) – (10.0)
Other financial liabilities:
F&C REIT put options (54.0) (60.4) (54.0) (60.4)
Forward currency contracts – (1.3) – (1.3)
Investment contract liabilities (559.2) (649.9) (559.2) (649.9)
The fair values of short-term ‘trade and other receivables’, ‘cash and cash equivalents’ and ‘trade and other payables’ have been excluded
from the above table as their carrying amounts are a reasonable approximation of their fair value.
The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table:
Securities
The fair value of listed investments is based on quoted bid market prices at the reporting date without any deduction for transaction costs. The
fair value of unlisted investments has been valued in accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines and
in accordance with the underlying limited partnership agreements.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
The fair value of the Subordinated Notes and Guaranteed Loan Notes is based on a quoted market price at the reporting date. The fair value of
other borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates. The valuations have
considered similar instruments available in the market and the liquidity of assets and liabilities.
Unquoted investments
Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated future cash flows are based on management’s best estimates and the discount
rate is a market-related rate for a similar instrument at the reporting date. Where other pricing models are used, inputs are based on market
related data at the reporting date.
Put options
The fair value is based on an external valuation of the business, as detailed in note 28.
Forward currency contracts
The fair value is based on relevant exchange rates at the reporting date.
19. Reinsurance assets
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Reinsurers’ share of insurance contract liabilities 2.0 1.9
Total reinsurance assets – current assets 2.0 1.9
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 78 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 79
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
20. Trade and other receivables
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Non-current:
Accrued income 0.1 –
Other debtors 0.4 0.4
Prepayments 0.1 0.1
Amounts owed by Eureko Group 1.4 1.4
2.0 1.9
Current:
Trade debtors 21.5 14.9
VAT recoverable 1.2 –
Accrued income 38.8 41.3
OEIC and unit trust debtors 81.2 21.8
Other debtors 10.4 8.1
Prepayments 8.7 5.2
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities 0.1 0.1
Amounts owed by TRC related party entities 0.7 –
162.6 91.4
Trade debtors are non-interest bearing and are generally receivable within 30 days.
21. Cash and cash equivalents
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Shareholders:
Cash at bank and in hand 29.7 1.5
Short-term deposits 149.1 184.7
178.8 186.2
Policyholders:
Cash at bank and in hand 5.2 0.6
Short-term deposits 18.2 27.1
23.4 27.7
Total cash and cash equivalents 202.2 213.9
Cash and cash equivalents are held by the Group for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments rather than for investment or other
purposes. All short-term deposits are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are not subject to significant risk of changes in value.
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are generally made for varying periods of
between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-
term deposit rates. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2010 is £202.2m (31 December 2009: £213.9m).
Restrictions on use of cash
The policyholders’ cash is not available for general use by the Group. These funds are held on behalf of policyholders of unit-linked 
insurance contracts which are included in the Statement of Financial Position. At 31 December 2010 policyholders’ cash amounted 
to £23.4m (31 December 2009: £27.7m) of the total cash and cash equivalents balance.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 79 80 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
22. Interest bearing loans and borrowings
The contractual terms of the Group’s interest bearing loans and borrowings are as follows:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 124.4 124.2
Interest rate of 6.75% per annum until 19 December 2016, payable annually in arrears. Issuer 
has the option to extend the notes beyond this date at a rate of 2.69% above 3 month LIBOR 
until 19 December 2026, payable quarterly in arrears.
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 (i) 149.3 129.7
Interest rate of 9.0% per annum until 19 December 2016, payable annually in arrears.
Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010
Interest payable at the following rates: (ii) – 10.0
From 16 December 2008 to 15 June 2009 at LIBOR +3%; and from 16 June 2009
until redemption at LIBOR +4%.
Interest was payable quarterly in arrears on 28 February, 31 May, 31 August and 30 November.
The £35.0m Notes were repaid as follows:
£25.0m repaid on 22 September 2009;
£10.0m repaid on 29 June 2010.
273.7 263.9
(i) £20.0m of new Loan Notes were issued on 23 September 2010 on the same terms and conditions as the existing Loan Notes.
(ii) The Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010 were listed on The Channel Islands Stock Exchange.
During 2009, the Group offered holders of the Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 the opportunity to exchange up to £135.0m
of the Notes for new Guaranteed 9% Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 at a pre-determined exchange ratio. £135.0m of the Subordinated Notes
were exchanged for £104.7m Guaranteed Loan Notes. In addition, £25.0m of new Guaranteed Loan Note debt was issued. The gain arising
on this debt exchange was £27.9m, as shown in note 6(d).
The Floating Rate Secured Notes were held by Kendray Properties Limited, which held a security over FCAM’s entire holding in F&C REIT Asset
Management LLP until 29 June 2010 when all liabilities due under the terms of the loan note agreement were settled. The carrying amount of net
assets (including intangible management contracts) pledged as security over the Secured Notes as at 31 December 2009 was £45.7m.
Borrowing facilities
The Group has borrowing facilities available to it. The undrawn committed facilities available at the year end are as follows:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Expiring in one year or less:
Revolving credit facility 20.0 –
Bank overdraft facilities 2.0 2.0
22.0 2.0
Prior to the acquisition of TRC, the Group entered into a facilities agreement with HSBC to provide two lines of credit:
•A £15m bridging facility for the acquisition of TRC; and
•A £20m revolving credit facility available for general corporate and working capital purposes. This facility was conditional on the acquisition
of TRC.
The £15m facility was utilised to partially fund the initial cash consideration for the purchase of TRC and was repaid shortly thereafter following
the issue of a further £20m of the existing 9% Guaranteed Fixed Rate Notes in September 2010.
The revolving credit facility is available for drawdown until 31 August 2011, at which point it must be repaid in full. The repayment date of this
facility may be extended until 29 February 2012, at the option of F&C, if certain financial tests continue to be met. 
The interest payable on the revolving credit facility is LIBOR plus a margin of between 2.5% and 5.0%, depending on the credit rating and
certain financial metrics of the F&C Group.
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
Repayment periods £m £m
Amounts repayable:
In one year or less, or on demand – 10.0
In more than one year but not more than two years – –
In more than two years but not more than five years – –
In more than five years 273.7 253.9
273.7 263.9
Additional information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate risk is provided in note 37.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 80 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 81
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
23. Trade and other payables
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Non-current:
Accruals 2.0 5.0
Other creditors
#
10.1 1.7
12.1 6.7
Current:
Trade creditors
†
3.4 1.9
Amounts owed to Eureko Group 2.0 2.0
Amounts owed to F&C REIT related party entities 0.3 2.3
Social Security and PAYE 1.8 2.2
VAT payable – 1.1
Accruals 25.1 27.1
OEIC and unit trust creditors 80.1 20.2
Other creditors
#
25.8 7.3
138.5 64.1
#
At 31 December 2010, other creditors includes £7.5m current and £7.5m non-current of estimated consideration payable in respect of the TRC acquisition
(31 December 2009: £nil).
†
Trade creditors are non-interest bearing and are settled in accordance with the individual contractual arrangements.
24. Provisions
Long-
Onerous NIC on Long- term F&C
premises share term Guaranteed service Investment Partners
contracts schemes sickness product award Trust VAT dispute Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2009 7.0 4.4 1.9 0.8 0.1 3.8 – 18.0
Provided during the year 3.1 5.2 0.3 ––– 2.4 11.0
Utilised during the year (1.6) (1.7) (0.2) (0.2) – (1.2) – (4.9)
Released during the year (0.1) (2.3) – (0.1) – (2.6) – (5.1)
At 31 December 2009 8.4 5.6 2.0 0.5 0.1 – 2.4 19.0
Fair value of provisions
on acquisition of TRC – 0.2 ––––– 0.2
Provided during the year 0.3 2.1 ––––– 2.4
Utilised during the year (1.7) (1.3) (0.2) –––– (3.2)
Released during the year (0.4) – (0.8) (0.1) ––– (1.3)
At 31 December 2010 6.6 6.6 1.0 0.4 0.1 – 2.4 17.1
At 31 December 2010
Non-current liabilities 4.9 2.0 0.8 0.3 0.1 –– 8.1
Current liabilities 1.7 4.6 0.2 0.1 –– 2.4 9.0
At 31 December 2009
Non-current liabilities 6.5 1.3 1.8 0.4 0.1 –– 10.1
Current liabilities 1.9 4.3 0.2 0.1 –– 2.4 8.9
Onerous premises contracts
The Group holds all properties under operating leases. This includes a number of vacant or sub-let properties which were either previously
occupied or are partially occupied by the Group. Provision has been made for the residual lease commitments where significant, after taking
into account existing and expected sub-tenant contractual arrangements. The remaining terms are for up to 10 years, although a significant
element of this provision relates to lease incentive arrangements and is expected to be utilised within 3 years. 
Assumptions have been made as to whether each leasehold property may be sub-let or assigned in the future. All leases, and the majority of
sub-leases, are for minimum guaranteed rentals. One sub-lease involves the possible receipt of contingent rent. Any contingent rent received in
excess of the anticipated amount is recognised as income during the period. The provision is subject to uncertainties over time, including
market rent reviews and break options within the lease arrangements. In addition, exposure could exist if an existing tenant defaulted or went
into liquidation or administration.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 81 82 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
24. Provisions continued
NIC on share schemes
The provision for national insurance contributions (‘NIC’) on share schemes represents the potential employer’s NIC liabilities in respect of a
number of share-based payment schemes operated by the Group. The provision is subject to uncertainties in respect of the extent to which
performance conditions are met, movements in the Company’s share price, the extent to which awards are forfeited and, where eligible, the
timing of when employees choose to exercise options. The current element of the provision for NIC on share schemes relates to awards which
are expected to vest within one year. At 31 December 2010,£2.6m (31 December 2009: £3.1m) of financial investments were held by the
Group to partially fund the NIC liability on the Deferred Investment Plan and Deferred Investment Option Plan. This is disclosed in note
18(a)(i)(2).
Long-term sickness
The Group has long-term sickness insurance arrangements which cover the cost of absence from work of all current employees. However, the
cost of employees who went on long-term absence prior to these arrangements being established are self-insured by the Group. The provision
represents the expected present value of income protection payments due to these individuals.
This provision has been quantified on the assumption that all employees currently on long-term sick leave do not return to the employment of
the Group. The discount rate and salary growth assumptions used in each year are identical to those used for the purposes of determining UK
defined benefit pension obligations.
Guaranteed product
The provision for the guaranteed product represents the actuarially assessed cost of meeting potential obligations under certain investment
products which have a guaranteed payout in the event of death of the investor. This provision is subject to uncertainties in respect of
movements in market levels and the mortality rates of investors. The underlying investment plan was closed to new investors during 2004.
Long-term service award
This provision represents the obligation in respect of long-term service benefits to which some employees are entitled, including incremental
holiday entitlement and long-term service awards.
Investment Trust VAT
During 2007, HM Revenue and Customs (‘HMRC’) agreed that asset management services to UK Investment Trust Companies (‘ITCs’) should
be exempt from VAT. A number of Group companies, in common with other asset managers in the UK, received claims from ITCs for the
repayment of VAT charged to them for historic periods dating back to 1990. While the Group charged VAT in accordance with applicable UK
law at the time, a provision was recognised in 2007 to the extent that the expected payments to be made to ITCs were greater than the
expected amount recoverable from HMRC. In early 2009 all amounts due to ITCs by the Group were settled and the excess of the provision of
£2.6m was released to the Income Statement. No provision is therefore required at 31 December 2009 or 2010.
F&C Partners dispute
During 2009, the two individual founder members of F&C Partners LLP (‘Partners’), the Group’s fund of hedge funds business, sought to
exercise put options to sell their minority interest in Partners to the F&C corporate member under the terms of the LLP Agreement (in total, for
approximately £7.8m). In March 2009, the F&C corporate member issued a claim in the High Court seeking a declaration on the validity of the
exercise of the put options. The individual members sought an unspecified sum by way of counter-claim. In June 2009, the individual founder
members issued a petition against Partners and the F&C corporate member under Section 459 of the Companies Act 1985 (now Section 994
of the Companies Act 2006) seeking an order that the F&C corporate member buy out their minority interest in Partners at a price to be
determined. In April 2010, the F&C corporate member issued a cross-petition against the individual members and Partners under section 994
of the Companies Act 2006 seeking an order that the individual members transfer their interests in Partners to the corporate member at a
valuation based on the market value of Partners.
These matters have been heard at a trial in the High Court which commenced in June 2010 and is scheduled to conclude shortly, although the
outcome of this trial is not expected to be known until later this year. There are a number of potential outcomes to this trial including an order
that the F&C corporate member buy out the minorities’ interest and there is a wide range of values at which such an order could be made.
In view of this uncertainty, and having regard to the formulaic value which may have been determined had the founder members validly
exercised their put options in October 2010, the Directors continue to hold a provision of £2.4m at 31 December 2010, in respect of the totality
of all disputed matters, even though they have been advised that the Group should be successful in respect of all claims. The provision was
initially recognised in 2009.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 82 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 83
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
25. Pension benefits
The Group operates defined benefit schemes in the United Kingdom, The Netherlands, the Republic of Ireland and participates in one in
Portugal. The UK scheme is closed to new entrants. All new UK employees are eligible to benefit from defined contribution arrangements,
which provide greater certainty over the future cost to the Group.
A former Chairman of the Group, Mr R W Jenkins, has a pension entitlement of £119,000 per annum, commencing in January 2011. This
pension will be indexed in line with the Retail Price Index on 1 January in each subsequent year. The Group has not earmarked any assets to
date with respect to this liability.
The net pension deficit is recognised under non-current liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position and is stated gross of the related
deferred tax asset.
The results of the latest full actuarial valuations were updated at 31 December 2010 by qualified independent actuaries.
The pension (deficits)/surpluses of the Group are summarised in aggregate and by scheme as follows:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
Aggregate £m £m
Fair value of plan assets 190.4 157.5
Benefit obligations (218.0) (204.2)
Total pension deficit (27.6) (46.7)
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
By scheme £m £m
F&C Asset Management Pension Plan (‘FCAM Plan’) (17.5) (38.0)
F&C Netherlands pension plan (6.5) (5.7)
F&C Ireland pension plan (0.4) (0.4)
F&C Portugal pension plan (0.2) 0.1
R W Jenkins pension (3.0) (2.7)
Total pension deficit (27.6) (46.7)
Disclosure relating to the Group’s defined benefit obligations
The information given in (a) to (d) below reflects the aggregate disclosures in respect of all Group defined benefit pension arrangements, except
where otherwise indicated.
(a) Plan assets and expected rate of return
31 December 2010 31 December 2009
Plan assets £m % £m %
Equities 71.9 38 96.0 61
Debt securities 55.0 29 2.8 2
LDI Pools 50.4 26 44.3 28
Cash 2.4 1 3.3 2
Other* 10.7 6 11.1 7
Total fair value of plan assets 190.4 100 157.5 100
* Other assets consist of assets held in insurance contracts in respect of The Netherlands scheme and some property assets.
Plan assets include £31.2m (31 December 2009: £86.8m) of underlying investments held by the Group pension schemes via transferable
investment contracts with F&C Managed Pension Funds Limited, the Group’s unit-linked pooled pension business. The plan assets do not
include Ordinary Shares issued by the Company.
Expected long-term rates of return applied to UK funded defined benefit assets are as follows:
31 December 31 December
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 2010 2009
Equities 7.00% 7.00%
Debt securities 5.00% 5.00%
LDI Pools 3.90% 4.20%
Cash 0.50% 0.50%
Other 7.00% 7.00%
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 83 84 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
25. Pension benefits continued
Basis used to determine the expected rate of return on plan assets
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, the Group considered the current level of expected returns on risk-free
investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is
invested, and the expectations for the future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted, based
on the actual asset allocation, to develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio.
(b) Major assumptions used by schemes’ actuaries in respect of benefit obligations
(i) Mortality assumptions
The mortality assumptions used for the main UK defined benefit scheme and the unfunded UK obligation are:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
Mortality table for males retiring in the future S1NML MC min1% – 1 PMA92MCYOB – 1
Mortality table for females retiring in the future S1NFL MC min1% –1 PFA92MCYOB – 1
Mortality table for current male pensioners S1NML MC min1% – 1 PMA92MCYOB – 1
Mortality table for current female pensioners S1NFL MC min1% – 1 PFA92MCYOB – 1
The mortality assumptions for the overseas schemes are:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
F&C Netherlands Prognosetafel 2010 – 2060 generational table Prognosetafel 2008 – 2053 generational table
F&C Ireland Compulsory Purchase Annuity Rates Compulsory Purchase Annuity Rates
F&C Portugal Males TV 73/77 (rated down 1 year) Males TV 73/77 (rated down 1 year)
Females TV 88/90 (rated down 2 years) Females TV 88/90 (rated down 2 years)
(ii) Impact of mortality assumptions
To demonstrate what these mortality assumptions mean in respect of the FCAM Plan, the expected ages at death of members retiring at age
60 are as follows:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
Years Years
Expected age at death for a male retiring in the future at age 60, currently aged 40 90 89
Expected age at death for a female retiring in the future at age 60, currently aged 40 92 92
Expected age at death for a current male pensioner aged 60 89 88
Expected age at death for a current female pensioner aged 60 90 91
(iii) Cost of annuities
The table below summarises the cost of providing annuities of £1 per annum (with associated death benefits and pension increases) for UK
members currently aged 40 at age 60 based on the assumptions used for the pension disclosures:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£ £
Male annuity 25.60 24.30
Female annuity 25.00 24.00
These rates assume a monthly payments model with a discount rate of 5.30% (2009: 5.70%). The rates also assume two-thirds of the
members’ benefit will be paid to the spouse; a 5-year guarantee is provided; and pensions in excess of Guaranteed Minimum Pension will
increase by 3.35% (2009: 3.60%) per annum.
(iv) Discount and growth assumptions
The range of assumptions used to determine benefit obligations are as follows:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
Discount rate 5.30% 5.50% – 5.70%
Rate of salary increase 2.00% – 4.00% 2.50% – 4.85%
Rate of inflation increase 2.00% – 3.50% 2.00% – 3.60%
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 84 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 85
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
25. Pension benefits continued
The range of assumptions used to determine net pension cost for the year are as follows:
2010 2009
Discount rate 5.50% – 5.70% 5.70% – 6.10%
Weighted average expected long-term return on plan assets 4.91% – 6.00% 4.80% – 5.70%
Rate of inflation increase 2.00% – 3.60% 2.50% – 4.35%
Rate of salary increase 2.00% – 4.00% 2.00% – 3.10%
(v) Sensitivities
An estimate of the sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the schemes’ liabilities are set out below:
Assumption Change in assumption Estimated impact on scheme liabilities
Inflation Increase/decrease by 0.1% Increase/decrease by 1.9%
Salaries Increase/decrease by 0.1% Increase/decrease by 0.1%
Pensions Increase/decrease by 0.1% Increase/decrease by 1.3%
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.1% Decrease/increase by 2.2%
Life expectancy Increase/decrease by 1 year Increase/decrease by 1.8%
(c) Profile of schemes’ membership
The profile of the current membership of defined benefit arrangements in the Group is as follows:
31 December 2010 31 December 2009
% of total Average % of total Average
membership age membership age
Active members 17% 44 17% 42
Deferred members 70% 44 71% 42
Pensioners 13% 66 12% 65
100% 100%
The profile of the liabilities of defined benefit arrangements throughout the Group is as follows:
2010 2009
£m £m
Active members 52.7 59.7
Deferred members 105.0 94.4
Pensioners 60.3 50.1
Benefit obligations at 31 December 218.0 204.2
(d) Aggregate disclosure obligations
2010 2009
Change in benefit obligations: £m £m
Benefit obligations at 1 January 204.2 167.9
Foreign exchange movements (0.7) (1.6)
Current service cost 2.1 2.6
Past service costs* 0.6 –
Interest cost on pension obligations 11.3 10.0
Curtailment income
#
(4.0) –
Members’ contributions 0.2 0.2
Actuarial losses 9.0 31.4
Settlements – (0.1)
Benefits paid (4.7) (6.2)
Benefit obligations at 31 December 218.0 204.2
* The past service costs in 2010 relate to the augmentation of pension entitlements for certain employees. 
# The Board and Trustees implemented changes to the UK FCAM Pension Plan during 2010. The changes capped future increases in pensionable salary for past
and future service. These changes resulted in a one-off credit to the Income Statement. The curtailment income has been recognised as an exceptional item
within exceptional employment and staff related income/(expenses) (see note 6(b)). For future service the changes increased the normal pension age (unless
additional employee contributions were paid) and reduced the level of pension increases applied.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 85 86 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
25. Pension benefits continued
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Analysis of defined benefit obligations:
Plans that are wholly or partly funded 215.0 201.5
Obligation that is wholly unfunded 3.0 2.7
218.0 204.2
2010 2009
Change in plan assets: £m £m
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 157.5 146.1
Foreign exchange movements (0.5) (1.2)
Expected return on pension plan assets 9.5 7.9
Actuarial gains 19.4 4.2
Employer contributions 9.0 6.6
Member contributions 0.2 0.2
Settlements – (0.1)
Benefits paid (4.7) (6.2)
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 190.4 157.5
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Net pension deficit recognised (27.6) (46.7)
2010 2009
Components of defined benefit pension expense/(income): £m £m
Current service cost 2.1 2.6
Past service cost 0.6 –
Curtailment income (4.0) –
Interest cost on pension obligations 11.3 10.0
Expected return on pension plan assets (9.5) (7.9)
Total defined benefit pension expense recognised in the Income Statement 0.5 4.7
2010 2009
Classification of defined benefit pension expense/(income) in the Income Statement: Notes £m £m
Operating expenses 5 (1.3) 2.6
Finance revenue 7 (9.5) (7.9)
Finance costs 8 11.3 10.0
Total defined benefit pension expense recognised in the Income Statement 0.5 4.7
2010 2009
£m £m
Actuarial gains/(losses) immediately recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 10.4 (27.2)
The cumulative actuarial losses recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income (34.3) (44.7)
2010 2009
£m £m
Actual return on plan assets 28.9 12.1
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 86 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 87
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
25. Pension benefits continued
Five year history
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m £m
Benefit obligations at 31 December (218.0) (204.2) (167.9) (177.4) (179.8)
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 190.4 157.5 146.1 150.6 134.4
Total pension deficit (27.6) (46.7) (21.8) (26.8) (45.4)
Difference between expected and actual return on plan assets:
Amount 19.4 4.2 (21.1) (1.6) 2.1
Percentage of plan assets 10% 3% (14%) (1%) 2%
Experience gains and (losses) on benefit obligations:
Amount 5.8 1.1 1.3 (3.4) (1.6)
Percentage of benefit obligations 3% 1% 1% (2%) (1%)
Total gains and (losses):
Amount 10.4 (27.2) 2.5 11.1 2.5
Percentage of benefit obligations 5% (13%) 1% 6% 1%
(e) Pension schemes’ details
(i) F&C Asset Management Pension Plan (‘FCAM Plan’) 
Date of last actuarial valuation 31 March 2010
Scheme Actuary Mercer Limited
Method of valuation Projected Unit
Market value of assets at last valuation date £156.4m
Level of funding 88%
The FCAM Plan’s assets, which are managed by F&C, are held under the control of the Trustees and are used to secure benefits for the
members of the FCAM Plan and their dependants in accordance with the Trust Deed and Rules.
Trustee Board of the FCAM Plan
The appointment of Trustees is determined by the FCAM Plan’s trust documentation. The Trustee Board currently consists of three employer-
appointed Trustees, three member-selected Trustees and two independent Trustees, one of whom is currently the Chairman of the Trustee
Board. Of the current employer-appointed and member-selected Trustees, four are employees of F&C and active members of the FCAM Plan,
one is a deferred member and one is retired and receiving a pension from the FCAM Plan.
Relationship between F&C and the Trustees of the FCAM Plan
The FCAM Plan’s assets are held in a separate Trustee-administered fund to meet long-term pension liabilities to past and present employees.
The Trustees of the FCAM Plan are required to act in the best interests of the FCAM Plan’s beneficiaries.
(ii) Other pension schemes
F&C Portugal
Certain employees in Portugal participate in the multi-employer scheme, Fundo de Pensoes do Grupo Banco Comercial Português. The assets
and liabilities of the scheme are separately identifiable. There are no Trustees, and F&C Portugal controls the assets relating to the F&C
members of the scheme. From 1 January 2011, this scheme will be integrated into the Social Security system and part of the employees’
occupational pension benefits will be funded through the Social Security system from that date. However, the scheme benefit structure and
employees’ total pensions have not changed.
F&C Netherlands
The Plan in The Netherlands is financed via an insurance contract. There are no Trustees, but the Works Council participates in negotiations in
respect of potential changes to the Plan.
F&C Ireland 
The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme in Ireland. There are currently four Trustees of this plan, all of whom are employees 
of F&C.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 87 88 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
25. Pension benefits continued
(f) Future funding requirements
FCAM Plan
A revised schedule of contributions was agreed in January 2011, under which the Group agreed to pay a minimum of 17.0% of Pensionable
Salaries plus £3.0m per annum in respect of deficit recovery contributions, £0.48m per annum in respect of administrative expenses and any
additional amounts required as a result of the asset underperformance guarantee. Further, to the extent that the Group repays any amount of
its fixed or floating rate notes after 1 January 2011 from cash flows then the Group shall pay, within one month of that repayment, a special
contribution to reduce the deficit determined in the valuation at 31 March 2010 in the same proportion as the aggregate reduction in fixed or
floating rate notes. If there is more than one such reduction then the special contributions necessary shall be computed taking into account the
aggregate percentage reduction in fixed or floating rate notes since 1 January 2011 and the amount of any previous such special contribution
paid. For the avoidance of doubt, a repayment from cash flows does not include a repayment of the notes from the issue of a capital
instrument specified for that purpose. The minimum estimated contribution expected to be paid into the Plan during 2011 is £5.2m 
(2010: £7.4m). 
Prior to this the Group paid contributions in line with, or in excess of, those required by previous schedules agreed in June 2008 and March
2010. Under these previous schedules the Group paid contributions of a minimum of 29.6% of Pensionable Salaries until 1 March 2009 and
28.1% of Pensionable Salaries thereafter. The Group also agreed to pay an additional £1.5m per annum from 1 April 2007 but in fact paid
£5.0m per annum between 1 July 2009 until the completion of the 31 March 2010 triennial actuarial valuation. Employee contributions are
payable via a salary sacrifice scheme in addition to the Group contributions. The rates of employee contributions payable increased on a
phased basis until March 2009 and some were further increased from 1 March 2010 as described below. Contributions are subject to review
at future actuarial valuations.
As the FCAM Plan is a closed scheme, under the projected unit method the current service cost will tend to increase as a percentage of
pensionable salaries as the average age of members increases.
With effect from 1 March 2010 changes were made to the benefits granted under the FCAM Plan in respect of both past and future service for
current active members. A limit of 2% per annum was imposed on future increases in Pensionable Salary. To facilitate this, an underpin was
introduced so that members’ benefits accrued prior to 1 March 2010 will not be less than that they would have received if they had left service
on 28 February 2010. In addition, in respect of service after 28 February 2010 only, the level of guaranteed increases in pension after
retirement was reduced and some members were given a choice between increasing the level of their contributions or having their normal
pension age increased to 65. These changes reduced the pension cost recognised in the Income Statement in 2010 when the effect of the
changes on past service had been recognised, and will, to a lesser extent, reduce the pension cost in subsequent years.
Non-UK schemes
The figures in the table below assume that contributions will continue to be paid to the overseas schemes at the level paid in 2010, with
appropriate increases for future changes in salary assumptions.
Contributions to defined benefit schemes
Amounts paid into the Group’s defined benefit schemes in the past two years and expected future payments over the next five years are as
follows:
Contributions paid £m
2009 6.6
2010 9.0
Expected future contributions £m
2011 6.2
2012 6.0
2013 6.0
2014 6.0
2015 6.1
(g) Risk management
(i) FCAM Plan
The Trustees set general investment policy but delegate the responsibility for the selection of specific investments (other than investments in
respect of members’ voluntary contributions) to the investment manager. The Trustees regularly monitor the FCAM Plan’s investments. 
The Trustees seek advice from their investment advisor and believe they have sufficient skills and expertise to make investment decisions
based on this advice.
The Trustees have set performance and risk targets for the investment manager. The performance objectives are long-term. However, the
Trustees monitor the investment manager on a regular basis in order to ensure that the scheme is on track to meet its long-term objectives.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 88 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 89
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
25. Pension benefits continued
The results of an asset-liability review undertaken alongside the 31 March 2010 actuarial valuation of the Plan will be used to assist the
Trustees and the Group in managing volatility in the underlying investment performance and the risk of a significant increase in the FCAM Plan’s
deficit by providing information used to determine the FCAM Plan’s investment strategy.
Asset allocation
The Trustees, with the agreement of F&C, decided to introduce more diversification into the FCAM Plan’s return-seeking asset investment
strategy. At the present time, diversifying allocations to both UK and overseas equity-linked bond funds and an overseas private equity fund
have been made. Previously the Trustees have implemented a Liability Driven Investment (‘LDI’) approach to the investment strategy. Other
allocations to alternative asset classes may be made in the future.
Interest rate and inflation risk
The LDI pools are intended to help provide a degree of matching to the liabilities of the FCAM Plan. Each pool comprises zero coupon
derivatives with the same maturity as the expected cash flows of the scheme. Each pool has leveraged exposure of varying amounts to
inflation and interest rates. The pools are valued using the market values of the underlying securities.
The equity-linked bond funds also provide a degree of matching to the liabilities but in addition retain an exposure to equity market
movements.
Currency risk
In order to increase the diversification of the equity portfolio, the FCAM Plan invests in overseas assets. However, the FCAM Plan’s liabilities are
denominated entirely in Sterling and therefore there is a risk that the appreciation of Sterling against other currencies will reduce the return from
overseas assets.
Operational risk
The investment managers do not directly hold any of the FCAM Plan’s securities. These are held by an external custodian. The assets are ring
fenced from F&C’s creditors and are therefore transferable.
(ii) Non-UK schemes
The plan in The Netherlands is financed via an insurance contract. The value of the plan assets is the value of the reserve which the insurance
company holds to match guaranteed pension liabilities. These reserves are, in effect, fixed interest instruments, so provide a reasonable match
to pension liabilities.
The plan in Ireland invests in pooled unitised funds, with returns reflecting the performance of the underlying assets.
The plan in Portugal is part of an industry-wide banking sector plan. Each participant company holds a share of the assets, which are invested
using the same asset allocation as the overall plan assets. F&C Portugal is the asset manager for the overall scheme.
At 31 December 2010, the assets of both the F&C Portugal and F&C Ireland plans were invested in diversified portfolios that consisted
primarily of debt and equity securities.
(h) Cost of defined contribution plans
2010 2009
Note £m £m
Group personal pension plans 3.4 3.3
Other defined contribution schemes 0.5 0.9
Defined contribution pension expense 5 3.9 4.2
The Group had £0.1m of pension contributions outstanding as at 31 December 2010 (31 December 2009: £0.1m).
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 89 90 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
26. Share-based payments
The Group operates several share-based payment plans as part of its total employee compensation arrangements. 
Summary
The total share-based payment expense is analysed as follows:
2010 2009
Note £m £m
By Scheme:
The Long-Term Remuneration Plan (deferred awards) 11.8 11.9
The Long-Term Remuneration Plan (restricted awards) 0.3 0.1
Executive Director Remuneration Plan (deferred awards) 1.5 1.9
F&C REIT variable minority interest SBP (0.3) 3.7
F&C REIT Long-Term Remuneration Plan 0.8 –
TRC Management Retention Plan 1.5 –
TRC Management Incentive Plan 0.1 –
TRC Commutation arrangements 4.8 –
Purchased Equity Plan (FCAM plc shares) 0.5 0.7
Purchased Equity Plan (F&C investment funds) 1.3 1.9
Deferred Share Awards 0.1 0.1
Share Save Scheme 0.2 –
Total share-based payment expense recognised in the Income Statement 5 22.6 20.3
The total expense recognised during the year in respect of share-based payment schemes is split as follows:
2010 2009
£m £m
Equity-settled 19.5 14.3
Cash-settled 3.1 6.0
Total share-based payment expense recognised in the Income Statement 22.6 20.3
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Total carrying amount of cash-settled liabilities 10.9 8.6
The details of each scheme are disclosed below.
Details of option pricing models and key assumptions used to obtain the fair value of services received, or the fair value of the equity
instruments granted, have been disclosed only for awards granted during the year ended 31 December 2010. Details of awards granted in
previous accounting periods are disclosed in the previous years’ Financial Statements.
The fair value of services received in return for awards granted is measured by reference to the fair value of share awards granted.
The cash-settled element of the awards is based on dividends payable on the shares during the vesting period, being notionally re-invested in
F&C Asset Management plc shares. Once the share awards vest, the value of the notional shares is paid to the employee in cash. The value of
dividend payments has been separated from the equity-settled awards as these are settled in cash.
The cumulative grant expense for each award is “trued up” during the vesting period and at the end of the vesting period, after allowing for
actual forfeitures and, where applicable, the extent to which the performance criteria have been met.
The weighted average share price during 2010 was £0.64 (2009: £0.73).
The weighted average share price at exercise date during 2010 was £0.65 (2009: £0.77).
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 90 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 91
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
26. Share-based payments continued
The following tables summarise the inputs into the valuations used for awards granted and the fair values assigned, during the year ended 
31 December 2010.
Deferred Awards
LTRP Deferred TRC Management TRC Deferred PEP
Award: Share Awards Retention Plan Share Award FCAM Shares
Award date 7 April 2010 1 September 2010 1 September 2010 31 March 2010
Number of awards granted 17,335,585 21,312,209 1,068,959 493,810
Share price at grant date 64.4p 62.8p 62.8p 62.2p
Exercise price 0.0p 0.0p 0.0p 0.0p
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 18 months 3 years
Full term of award 3 years 3 years 18 months 51 months
Expected dividend yield (%) 7.29% 4.45% 4.45% 7.21%
Expected volatility (%) n/a n/a n/a n/a
Risk-free interest rate (%) p.a. n/a n/a n/a n/a
Expected forfeiture rate (%) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Fair value at measurement date (per award)
– Equity 51.8p 54.9p 58.7p 45.8p
– Cash 12.6p 7.9p 4.1p 16.4p
Valuation basis market price market price market price market price
Estimated vesting percentage at award date n/a n/a n/a n/a
LTRP Restricted Share Awards
Investment Net New
Element of Award: EPS Performance Business TSR
Award date 4 May 2010 4 May 2010 4 May 2010 4 May 2010
Number of awards granted 946,622 946,622 946,622 946,622
Share price at grant date 64.8p 64.8p 64.8p 64.8p
Exercise price 0.0p 0.0p 0.0p 0.0p
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Full term of award 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield (%) 7.30% 7.30% 7.30% 7.30%
Expected volatility (%) n/a n/a n/a 57.0%
Risk-free interest rate (%) p.a. n/a n/a n/a 1.77%
Expected forfeiture rate (%) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Fair value at measurement date (per award)
– Equity 47.3p 47.3p 47.3p 36.1p
– Cash 17.5p 17.5p 17.5p 9.0p
Valuation basis market price market price market price Monte Carlo
simulation model
Estimated vesting percentage at award date 64.0% 50.0% 67.0% 100.0%
TRC Management Incentive Plan
31 December 2011 30 June 2011 48-month cumulative EBITDA
Element of Award: run-rate EBITDA run-rate EBITDA 5 years 6 years
Award date 1 September 2010 1 September 2010 1 September 2010 1 September 2010
Number of awards granted 1,776,018 1,776,018 5,328,052 5,328,052
Share price at grant date 62.8p 62.8p 62.8p 62.8p
Exercise price 0.0p 0.0p 0.0p 0.0p
Vesting period 30 months 3 years 5 years 6 years
Full term of award 30 months 3 years 5 years 6 years
Expected dividend yield (%) 4.45% 4.45% 4.45% 4.45%
Expected volatility (%) n/a n/a n/a n/a
Risk-free interest rate (%) p.a. n/a n/a n/a n/a
Expected forfeiture rate (%) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Fair value at measurement date (per award)
– Equity 56.2p 54.9p 50.2p 48.1p
– Cash 6.6p 7.9p 12.6p 14.7p
Valuation basis market price market price market price market price
Estimated vesting percentage at award date 50% 25% 0% 0%
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 91 92 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
26. Share-based payments continued
F&C REIT Long-Term Remuneration Plan
Award: 2009 award 2010 award
Award date 1 May 2010 1 May 2010
Number of units in F&C REIT LLP granted 16,163.52 units 12,696.08 units
Value of unit at award date £102.00 per unit £102.00 per unit
Vesting period 23 months 3 years
Full term of award 3 years 3 years
Expected forfeiture 0.0% 0.0%
Model used External valuation of External valuation of
F&C REIT LLP business F&C REIT LLP business
TRC Commutation arrangements
Award date 1 September 2010
Vesting periods of award Immediate to 60 months. Depends on exercise date of option. On exercise 50% of the option value is
settled immediately and 50% is deferred for two years. Latest exercise date three years from date of
award.
Full term of award Immediate to 60 months.
Fair value of options at award date £24.0m
Expected forfeiture 0.0%
Model used Intrinsic value based on method of determination of the Commutation consideration in accordance
with the Commutation agreement. The consideration is based on a multiple of Investment Team
management fee EBITDA for a period of 12 months preceding the option exercise. The multiple is
based on a 25% discount to F&C’s own enterprise value to EBITDA trading multiple, which will be
calculated by dividing F&C’s enterprise value by the F&C EBITDA. The F&C enterprise value to
EBITDA trading multiple is subject to a maximum of 12. The F&C enterprise value is based on an
average F&C share price multiplied by the total number of F&C shares allotted.
(a) The Long-Term Remuneration Plan (‘LTRP’)
The LTRP is the primary long-term incentive arrangement of the Group. The LTRP rules allow both Deferred Share Awards and Restricted
Share Awards to be made at the discretion of the Board.
(i) Deferred Share Awards
The LTRP allows deferred awards to be granted to employees below Executive Director level, subject only to a time-vesting period of three
years.
The number of Deferred Share Awards is as follows:
2010 2009
No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January 28,769,100 17,831,370
Granted during the year 17,335,585 15,139,943
Exercised during the year (5,243,031) (3,667,084)
Forfeited during the year (1,280,575) (535,129)
Expired during the year (209,342) –
Outstanding at 31 December 39,371,737 28,769,100
Exercisable at 31 December 209,259 180,459
The awards exercisable at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 relate to good leavers.
At 31 December 2010 the following LTRP Deferred Share Awards were outstanding:
Grant date No. of options outstanding Earliest exercise date Exercise price
25 March 2008 8,464,757 25 March 2011 0.0p
8 July 2009 14,124,071 8 July 2012 0.0p
7 April 2010 16,782,909 7 April 2013 0.0p
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2010 have a weighted average outstanding term of 1.6 years (31 December 2009: 1.7 years).
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 92 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 93
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
26. Share-based payments continued
(ii) Restricted Share Awards
New performance conditions were introduced for the restricted LTRP awards granted in 2010. Vesting of the Ordinary Shares that are the
subject of a Restricted Share Award under the LTRP will now be dependent upon four specified performance conditions and conditions of
continued service being met. The performance conditions applied to the LTRP are determined by the Board, are measured over a three-year
performance period and comprise the following:
• 25% of the award comprises an underlying Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’) condition;
• 25% of the award comprises a Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) condition;
• 25% of the award comprises an Investment Performance condition; and
• 25% of the award comprises a Net New Business condition.
To the extent that any element of the award has not vested in accordance with the performance criteria detailed below it lapses immediately.
(a) The EPS element
The EPS condition is based on the amount by which the average annual percentage growth in underlying EPS exceeds the percentage
increase in the Retail Price Index condition over the three-year performance period (‘EPS Outperformance Percentage’).
The awards vest according to the following criteria:
EPS Outperformance Percentage Percentage of award vesting
Less than 3% 0%
3% 25%
Equal to or greater than 11% 100%
Between 3% and 11% Straight-line vesting between 25% and 100%
(b) The TSR element
The TSR condition compares the TSR of the Group over a three-year performance period (commencing on the award date) with a list of
companies in a predetermined financial services comparator group. At the end of the performance period, the Group and each of the
comparator companies are listed and ranked in accordance with their TSR over the performance period (‘TSR Position’). The TSR measure
reflects the movement in the value of shares plus any dividends declared during the relevant period.
The awards vest according to the following criteria:
TSR Position Percentage of award vesting
Below median 0%
Median 25%
Upper quartile 100%
Between median and upper quartile Straight-line vesting between 25% and 100%
(c) The Investment Performance element
The Investment Performance condition is based on the Total Weighted Outperformance Percentage (25% of the one-year outperformance
percentage and 75% of the three-year outperformance percentage) on investment management performance over a three-year period.
The awards vest according to the following criteria:
Total Weighted Outperformance Percentage Percentage of award vesting
Equal to or less than 42% 0%
75% or more 100%
Between 42% and 75% Straight-line vesting between 0% and 100%
(d) The Net New Business element
The Net New Business condition is based on a comparison of the actual versus the budgeted amount of net new business for the period (‘Net
New Business Percentage’). The budgeted net new business is determined on an annual basis by the Board. Performance is measured over a
three-year period.
The awards vest according to the following criteria:
Net New Business Percentage Percentage of award vesting
Equal to or less than 25% 0%
125% or more 100%
Between 25% and 125% Straight-line vesting between 0% and 100%
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 93 94 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
26. Share-based payments continued
The number of Restricted Share Awards is as follows:
2010 2009
No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January 327,548 843,829
Granted during the year 3,786,486 –
Expired during the year (327,548) (516,281)
Outstanding at 31 December 3,786,486 327,548
The EPS and TSR elements of the awards granted on 16 March 2007 did not meet the respective performance criteria and expired.
At 31 December 2010 the following LTRP restricted share awards were outstanding:
No. of options Earliest Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date* price
4 May 2010 3,786,486 4 May 2013 0.0p
* Assuming performance criteria satisfied.
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2010 have a weighted average outstanding term of 2.3 years (31 December 2009: 0.2 years).
(b) The Executive Director Remuneration Plan (‘EDRP’)
Any Executive Director of the Company is eligible to participate in the EDRP . The EDRP provides for the grant of two different forms of award,
Deferred Share Awards and Restricted Share Awards.
(i) Deferred Share Awards
Awards vest at the end of a three-year period from grant date, subject to the continued employment of the participant within the Group. There
are no performance criteria attached to the deferred shares and the vested shares transfer to the participant as soon as possible after vesting.
The number of Deferred Share Awards is as follows:
2010 2009
No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January 4,715,206 2,526,214
Granted during the year – 2,188,992
Exercised during the year (1,500,574) –
Outstanding at 31 December 3,214,632 4,715,206
No awards were exercisable at either 31 December 2010 or 31 December 2009.
At 31 December 2010 the following EDRP Deferred Share Awards were outstanding:
No. of awards Earliest Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date price
25 March 2008 1,025,640 25 March 2011 0.0p
8 July 2009 2,188,992 8 July 2012 0.0p
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2010 have a weighted average outstanding term of 1.1 years (31 December 2009: 1.6 years).
(ii) Restricted Share Awards
The vesting of the Restricted Share Awards is dependent on the satisfaction of predetermined performance conditions relating to the
underlying Earnings Per Share (‘underlying EPS’) performance of the Group. Under this condition, the Restricted Share Awards granted on 
27 May 2007 would only vest if the Group’s underlying EPS equalled or exceeded the 18.1p underlying EPS target for the year ending 
31 December 2009. As the 2007 Restricted Share Awards did not meet this criteria they have now expired.
The number of Restricted Share Awards is as follows:
3 years 3.5 years
2010 2009 2010 2009
No. No. No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January 
#
2,002,000 2,002,000 2,002,000 2,002,000
Expired during the year (2,002,000) – (2,002,000) –
Outstanding at 31 December
#
– 2,002,000 – 2,002,000
#
This represents the maximum number of restricted shares which could have been achieved by the participants.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 94 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 95
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
26. Share-based payments continued
(c) F&C REIT variable minority interest SBP
In accordance with the F&C REIT Partnership Agreement, the F&C REIT minority partners (Kendray Properties Limited, Leo Noé and Ivor
Smith) have the potential to increase their stake in F&C REIT Asset Management LLP (‘F&C REIT’) collectively from 30% to 40%.
A variable minority interest was granted as an incentive to achieve increased levels of profit including realisation of future performance fees in
return for a potential increased stake in the business. This variable minority interest is therefore accounted for under IFRS 2: Share-based
Payment. The fair value of the “award” at date of acquisition reflects the value assessed as part of the acquisition valuation. The fair value of
the award is reassessed at each reporting date and this fair value is spread over the relevant vesting period.
The minority partners have the potential to increase their stake in F&C REIT by 3.33% for every year in which the EBITDA performance target of
£45.0m is achieved, up to a maximum of 10%. For example, if the target was achieved in the first three years, no further increase would be
possible. The variable minority interest performance criteria could be achieved in any year of the six-year period from 1 January 2009 to 
31 December 2014. The vesting period is uncertain but the maximum timescale to achieve full vesting for each 3.33% is in years 4, 5 and 6
respectively. At 31 December 2010 the Directors have assumed that 3.33% will vest in each of 2013 and 2014 and the first tranche will expire
as the performance target is not expected to be achieved. The expense for the second and third tranches is being spread from the date of
grant (3 September 2008) over 5 and 6 years respectively. However, the respective vesting period may be accelerated if the targets are 
achieved earlier. 
If either Leo Noé or Ivor Smith should leave during this period, the variable minority interest could still convert to all the minority partners, so the
remaining charge would be accelerated, subject to meeting the performance criteria. The additional minority interest to which the minority
partners would be entitled will be in proportion to their original partnership interest at the date of vesting. If a partner left after one year he
would sacrifice two-thirds of his interest. If a partner stays three years he is entitled to his proportionate share of the full 10%, subject to
meeting the performance criteria. Kendray’s minority interest always varies in accordance with the underlying interests of Leo Noé and Ivor
Smith. Any variable minority interest sacrificed by a minority partner will remain part of FCAM plc’s share of F&C REIT. 
As the performance criteria is non-market based, to the extent that part or all of the performance criteria are not met then that proportion of the
charge will be reversed, i.e. “trued up”. 
(d) F&C REIT Long-Term Remuneration Plan (‘F&C REIT LTRP’)
During 2010, a new scheme has been introduced to incentivise F&C REIT employees.
There are two elements to the Plan:
(i) Deferred Award with no performance conditions; and
(ii) Restricted Awards with performance conditions.
Participants are awarded notional units in the F&C REIT Asset Management LLP Group (‘F&C REIT LLP’), each equal to 0.00005% of the
market value of the F&C REIT LLP . The market value of the F&C REIT LLP will be determined annually by an independent valuation.
The Deferred Awards vest at the end of a pre-determined period from grant date (normally three years), subject to the continued employment of
the participant. On vesting, the awards are settled by a cash payment based on the market value of each unit at the end of the vesting period.
No Restricted Awards have been granted under the performance element of this Plan to date.
The number of F&C REIT LTRP Deferred Awards is as follows:
2010 2009
Units Units
Outstanding at 1 January – –
Granted during the year 28,859.60 –
Outstanding at 31 December 28,859.60 –
At 31 December 2010 the following F&C REIT LTRP Deferred Awards were outstanding:
No. of units Earliest Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date price
1 May 2010 16,163.52 1 April 2012 0.0p
1 May 2010 12,696.08 1 May 2013 0.0p
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2010 have a weighted average outstanding term of 1.7 years.
The intrinsic value of a unit at 31 December 2010 was £90.00.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 95 96 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
26. Share-based payments continued
(e) Thames River Capital Management Retention Plan (‘TRC MRP’)
The TRC MRP was one of the two new share plans established at the date of the TRC acquisition to retain and incentivise key professionals
within the TRC Group. Awards of deferred shares vest three years after completion of the acquisition, subject to continued employment within
the F&C Group or membership of one of the two TRC LLPs. The TRC MRP awards are not subject to any performance criteria.
The TRC MRP includes good and bad leaver provisions.
The number of TRC MRP awards is as follows:
2010 2009
No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January – –
Granted during the year 21,312,209 –
Outstanding at 31 December 21,312,209 –
No awards were exercisable at 31 December 2010.
At 31 December 2010 the following TRC MRP awards were outstanding:
No. of awards Earliest Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date price
1 September 2010 21,312,209 1 September 2013 0.0p
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2010 have a weighted average outstanding term of 2.7 years.
(f) Thames River Capital Management Incentive Plan (‘TRC MIP’)
The TRC MIP is the second of two plans established at the date of the TRC acquisition to further incentivise TRC employees and members of
the two TRC LLPs in the six-year period from the date of acquisition (‘Completion’).
Awards under the TRC MIP will vest upon achievements of specified financial targets as follows:
• 12.5% of the shares subject to awards will vest on the date falling thirty months following Completion provided that the run-rate EBITDA of
the TRC Group as at 31 December 2011 is £15.0m or more. If the run-rate EBITDA is £12.5m or less, none of this tranche of shares will
vest and the number of the shares that vest will increase on a linear basis if the run-rate EBITDA falls between the two thresholds;
• 12.5% of the shares subject to awards will vest on the third anniversary of Completion provided that the run-rate EBITDA of the TRC
Group as at 30 June 2012 is £17.0m or more. If the run-rate EBITDA is £15.0m or less, none of this tranche of shares will vest and the
number of the shares that vest will increase on a linear basis if the run-rate EBITDA falls between the two thresholds; and 
•The remaining 75.0% of the shares subject to awards will vest in two equal instalments on each of the fifth and sixth anniversaries of
Completion provided that the cumulative EBITDA of the TRC Group for the four-year period to 31 March 2014 is equal to £100.0m or
more. If the cumulative EBITDA is equal to £60.0m or less, none of this tranche of shares will vest and the number of the shares that vest
will increase on a linear basis if the run-rate EBITDA falls between these two thresholds.
Vesting is subject in each case to continued employment within the F&C Group or membership of the relevant LLP (as the case may be).
The terms of the TRC MIP includes good and bad leaver provisions, change of control provisions and a cash-settled element.
In addition, participants in the TRC MIP will receive an additional cash payment (up to a maximum aggregate amount of £3.0m), payable at the
time that shares are delivered and in proportion to the number of shares which vest. 
The number of TRC MIP awards is as follows:
2010 2009
No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January – –
Granted during the year 14,208,140 –
Outstanding at 31 December 14,208,140 –
No awards were exercisable at 31 December 2010.
At 31 December 2010 the following TRC MIP awards were outstanding:
No. of awards Earliest Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date* price
1 September 2010 1,776,018 1 March 2013 0.0p
1 September 2010 1,776,018 1 September 2013 0.0p
1 September 2010 5,328,052 1 September 2015 0.0p
1 September 2010 5,328,052 1 September 2016 0.0p
* Assuming performance criteria satisfied.
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2010 have a weighted average outstanding term of 4.5 years.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 96 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 97
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
26. Share-based payments continued
(g) Thames River Capital Commutation arrangements (‘TRC Commutation arrangements’)
Note 15(a) outlines the key aspects of the Commutation arrangements which were established at the date of the acquisition of TRC by the
F&C Group. Under these arrangements, the Divisional Members of TRC Investment Teams entered into put and call options, which if exercised
will transfer up to 20% of their entitlement to management fee profits to the F&C Group. The members of the LLPs are considered to be
providing services to the Group and as a result, the share element of the Commutation consideration is required to be accounted for as a 
share-based payment.
It is the intention of the Directors to settle these awards in equity and therefore they have been treated as equity-settled awards.
The maximum payable under Commutation arrangements is £81.4m and F&C has authority to issue a maximum of 122,511,485 shares to
settle the consideration payable on exercise of the options.
The options are re-measured at intrinsic value at each reporting date and the total expense is spread over the respective vesting period. The
options are considered to be non-market performance conditions – if the options are not exercised, then there is no charge to the Income
Statement.
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Cumulative TRC Commutation expense, recognised in equity 4.8 –
Total intrinsic value of unexercised Commutation options 20.1 –
No. No.
Potential number of FCAM plc shares which would be settled as at the reporting date 
(based on Commutation Consideration Share Issue share price at 31 December) 25,449,030 –
As part of the TRC Acquisition Agreement, two TRC Investment Teams were allowed to exercise their 10% put options on Completion,
resulting in 3,042,999 Upfront Commutation Shares being issued (fair value £1.9m) and 3,042,997 Deferred Commutation Shares being issued
(fair value £1.9m) into a Nominee account. Additionally, £1.4m of cash was paid to an Investment Team.
No Commutation options were exercisable at 31 December 2010.
(h) Purchased Equity Plan (‘PEP’)
(i) F&C Asset Management plc shares
The PEP operates in conjunction with the discretionary bonus scheme and is intended to encourage shareholding by management and
employees of the Group by providing for:
• The compulsory purchase of shares using annual bonus above a threshold level; and
• Voluntary purchase of shares using annual bonus, with associated Matching Shares. No Voluntary Purchased Equity awards have been
granted.
At the Board’s discretion, eligible employees who are awarded in a financial year an aggregate bonus in excess of a threshold level of
£100,000 (2009: £100,000) may be required to defer one-third of the element exceeding £100,000 (2009: £100,000) into shares (comprising
either a range of investment products managed by the Group or the Company’s shares) (Compulsory PEP) for three years.
The Compulsory PEP will not benefit from any form of matching award and is subject to forfeiture in the event that the employee leaves the
Group for any reason (other than as a good leaver) in the three-year retention period.
The number of Compulsory PEP share awards is as follows:
2010 2009
No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January 1,396,860 1,975,594
Granted during the year 493,810 213,761
Exercised during the year (1,105,055) (792,495)
Forfeited during the year (1,888) –
Outstanding at 31 December 783,727 1,396,860
Exercisable at 31 December 13,145 41,044
The awards exercisable at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 relate to good leavers.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 97 98 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
26.  Share-based payments continued
At 31 December 2010 the following awards granted under the PEP to acquire Ordinary Shares were outstanding:
No. of options Earliest Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date* price
2 April 2008 76,156 2 April 2011 0.0p
2 April 2009 213,761 2 April 2012 0.0p
31 March 2010 493,810 31 March 2013 0.0p
* Assuming performance criteria satisfied.
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2010 have a weighted average outstanding term of 1.8 years (31 December 2009: 0.6 years).
(ii) F&C Investment Funds
At the discretion of the Board, the cash bonus may be deferred on a mandatory basis into certain F&C Funds (‘Compulsory Purchased Equity’)
subject to continued service over either three or four years. This option is available as an alternative to the Compulsory PEP into FCAM plc
shares. The main benefit of this arrangement is to incentivise fund managers to invest in the funds they manage, thereby further aligning
employee interests with those of clients.
The settlement of awards from the Compulsory PEP (‘F&C Investment Funds’) is made by realisation of the holding in the fund at the vesting
date and purchase of FCAM plc shares at that date. The value of the investment in F&C Funds, the FCAM plc share price and hence the
ultimate number of FCAM plc shares to be settled is only known with certainty at the vesting date. Any dividends paid by F&C Funds during
the vesting period are re-invested in F&C Investment Funds.
The awards meet the criteria of IFRS 2: Share-based Payment. However, as the awards are ultimately settled in FCAM plc shares, it is not
considered possible to reliably estimate the fair value of these awards at the grant date. This is due to the number of market-based criteria
which ultimately combine to determine the number and value of FCAM plc shares settled. Settlement of these awards to employees is satisfied
by the purchase of FCAM plc shares in the market.
The fair value of these awards at the year end has been determined by measurement of the equity instruments at intrinsic value, being the
quoted price of the relevant F&C Funds, both at the grant date and at each subsequent reporting date. The intrinsic value is then spread over
the vesting period. The value of the services provided is measured using the ultimate value of awards which vest.
No awards were made in 2010 (2 April 2009: £1.0m). The 2009 awards were invested into a total of 14 eligible F&C Investment Funds,
comprising OEICs and Investment Trusts.
The underlying investments are held within an Employee Benefit Trust.
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
Note £m £m
Value of F&C Investments held within the Purchased Equity Plan 18(a)(i)(2) 4.0 4.7
No. No.
Number of FCAM plc shares which would be settled 
as at the reporting date (based on year-end share price) 4,709,271 6,167,870
(i) Deferred Share Awards
The Group has made some deferred share awards which are not subject to ongoing performance conditions, but have a time-vesting period.
The number of share awards is as follows:
2010 2009
No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January 40,000 194,838
Granted during the year 1,068,959 –
Exercised during the year – (154,838)
Outstanding at 31 December 1,108,959 40,000
No awards were exercisable at either 31 December 2010 or 31 December 2009.
The TRC Group made an award of deferred shares (‘TRC Deferred Share Awards’) on 1 September 2010 vesting 18 months after completion
of the acquisition of TRC by F&C, subject to continued employment within the F&C Group or as a member of one of the two TRC LLPs. The
TRC Deferred Share Awards are not subject to any performance conditions.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 98 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 99
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
26.  Share-based payments continued
At 31 December 2010 the following Deferred Share Awards were outstanding:
No. of options Earliest Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date price
3 September 2008 40,000 3 March 2011 0.0p
1 September 2010 1,068,959 1 March 2012 0.0p
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2010 have a weighted average outstanding term of 1.2 years (31 December 2009: 1.2 years).
(j) Share Save Scheme
The Share Save Scheme is an “all-employee share scheme” which was activated in March 2003. The options granted entitle the holders to
acquire Ordinary Shares, whether by subscription or purchase, at a price per Ordinary Share determined by the Directors prior to the issue of
invitations. The price at which options are offered cannot be less than 80% of the middle-market quotation of an Ordinary Share at the date of
grant. No cash alternative is available.
As part of the application process, participants are required to enter into a savings contract with a savings provider (presently Yorkshire
Building Society), and agree to make 36 (in the case of a 3-year savings contract) or 60 (in the case of a 5-year contract) monthly savings
contributions of a fixed amount. At the end of the savings contract, participants may choose to apply for repayment of their savings
contributions, in addition to a tax free bonus.
An option may only be exercised once and normally only during the period of six months after the date on which the participants first become
entitled to repayment of their savings contributions plus bonus. The option will generally lapse after a period of six months following the end of
the savings contract. Employees who are deemed good leavers are entitled to exercise their options, for which they have accrued savings to
date, for a period of up to six months after they leave.
The number and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of share options are as follows:
2010 2009
WAEP WAEP
No. £ No. £
Outstanding at 1 January 534,288 1.56 870,326 1.60
Forfeited during the year (293,178) 1.53 (336,038) 1.67
Expired during the year (44,008) 1.73 ––
Outstanding at 31 December 197,102 1.56 534,288 1.56
Exercisable at 31 December 7,747 1.51 3,270 1.74
No awards were made in 2010 or 2009.
The 2005 (5 year) award and 2007 (3 year) award vested during 2010. No options were exercised and the options expired.
The options exercisable at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 relate to good leavers.
At 31 December 2010 the following options granted under the Share Save Scheme to acquire Ordinary Shares were outstanding:
No. of options Earliest Exercisable Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date before price
18 April 2006 (5 year) 86,270 1 June 2011 1 December 2011 171.0p
25 April 2007 (5 year) 110,832 1 June 2012 1 December 2012 144.3p
The options outstanding at 31 December 2010 have a weighted average outstanding term of 0.9 years (31 December 2009: 0.9 years).
The estimate of the fair value of options granted is measured based on a binomial model. 
The contractual life of the option (3.5 or 5.5 years) is used as an input to this model. Expectations of early exercise are incorporated into 
the model.
(k) 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme
The 2002 Executive Share Option scheme (‘2002 ESOS’) was activated in March 2003. The vesting period for each award was three years
and options are settled by an allotment of shares to individuals. No cash alternative is available. All options under the 2002 ESOS have now
vested, as the performance criteria have been met. The options expire if they remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of
award.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 99 100 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
26.  Share-based payments continued
The number and weighted average exercise prices (‘WAEP’) of share options are as follows:
2010 2009
WAEP WAEP
No. £ No. £
Outstanding at 1 January and 31 December 1,082,028 1.96 1,082,028 1.96
Exercisable at 31 December 1,082,028 1.96 1,082,028 1.96
At 31 December 2010 the following options granted under the 2002 ESOS to acquire Ordinary Shares were outstanding:
No. of options Earliest Exercisable Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date before price
19 March 2003 480,908 1 January 2011 19 March 2013 139.00p
9 March 2004 601,120 1 January 2011 9 March 2014 240.83p
The options outstanding at 31 December 2010 have a weighted average outstanding term of 2.8 years (31 December 2009: 3.8 years).
(l) 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme
IFRS 2: Share-based Payment is only applied to grants of shares, share options or other equity instruments that were granted after 
7 November 2002 and had not vested before 1 January 2005 (i.e. the effective date of IFRS 2). The 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme
(‘1995 ESOS’) last granted options before 7 November 2002 and is not therefore subject to the full effects of IFRS 2 in terms of recognising an
expense in the Income Statement. The standard does, however, require certain disclosures to be made in respect of this scheme.
The 1995 ESOS is an unapproved share option scheme, in which participation was entirely at the discretion of the Directors. The lifespan of
the scheme was ten years from the date on which it was approved by shareholders and accordingly no further options could be granted under
the scheme after 1 September 2005. The vesting period was three years and all remaining options are exercisable. Options are settled by
grant of shares to individuals. No cash alternative is available.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee
leaves the Group. 
The number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of share options are as follows:
2010 2009
WAEP WAEP
No. £ No. £
Outstanding at 1 January 532,122 3.21 884,182 2.84
Expired during the year (295,622) 2.14 (352,060) 2.26
Outstanding at 31 December 236,500 4.56 532,122 3.21
Exercisable at 31 December 236,500 4.56 532,122 3.21
At 31 December 2010 the following options granted under the 1995 ESOS to acquire Ordinary Shares were outstanding:
No. of options Earliest Exercisable Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date before price
1 March 2001 236,500 1 January 2011 1 March 2011 455.83p
The options outstanding at 31 December 2010 have a weighted average outstanding term of 0.2 years (31 December 2009: 0.7 years).
27. Deferred income
2010 2009
£m £m
At 1 January 12.9 15.6
Fair value of additions arising on acquisition of TRC 0.7 –
Income deferred in the year 2.4 1.8
Amortisation in the year (4.2) (4.5)
At 31 December 11.8 12.9
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Split as follows:
Non-current liabilities 8.1 9.1
Current liabilities 3.7 3.8
11.8 12.9
Deferred income primarily comprises initial fees arising on investments made by OEIC investors. These fees are initially recognised as deferred
income and released to income over the estimated period (2010: 4 to 7 years; 2009: 7 years) for which the investment is expected to be held.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 100 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 101
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
28.  Other financial liabilities
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Non-current:
F&C REIT put option liabilities 49.5 60.4
49.5 60.4
Current:
F&C REIT put option liabilities 4.5 –
Forward currency contracts – 1.3
4.5 1.3
Total other financial liabilities 54.0 61.7
The forward currency contracts were used to partially hedge future Euro-denominated cash flows. The above liability reflects the fair value of
unrealised losses on open contracts at the reporting date, based on observable foreign exchange rates.
The F&C REIT put options represent the fair value of the potential future liability to purchase the 30% interest in F&C REIT currently held by the
minority interest partners in this business. The REIT parties have the right to require F&C to acquire all or part of their membership interests in
F&C REIT at a valuation determined by an independent valuer, subject to an overall cap on F&C’s liability of £100.0 million. Ivor Smith’s option
is exercisable after the third anniversary of Completion and Leo Noé’s option is exercisable after the seventh anniversary of Completion. While
Kendray Properties Limited does not have any direct right to require F&C to acquire its holding in F&C REIT, under the terms of the Partnership
Agreement Kendray cannot hold a greater interest in F&C REIT than the aggregate of Leo Noé’s and Ivor Smith’s interests (or the holder of their
beneficial interests) and is therefore effectively required to transfer an element of its holding such that this requirement is achieved. The
consideration for such a transfer would be fair value. Hence, in determining the gross liability of the option, Kendray Properties Limited’s entire
holding in F&C REIT has been included. The reduction in the fair value of the F&C REIT put option liabilities of £6.4m during 2010 (2009: £5.6m
reduction) has been released to the Income Statement as detailed in note 6(c).
An external valuation of the F&C REIT business was performed at each reporting date to enable a fair value to be placed on the F&C REIT put
option liabilities.
The average of three valuation methodologies (equally weighted) was used to place a fair value on the F&C REIT business, namely:
1. Discounted cash flow method
2. Market earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA’) multiple
3. Fixed EBITDA multiple
The main assumptions used in the valuation methodologies are:
(a) Projections of the profit and loss for F&C REIT:
Net new business: Based on the F&C REIT approved budget for year one, with management forecast 
projections for the subsequent few years
Revenue growth: 1.5% – 7.0% per annum
Cost inflation: 3.5% per annum
(b) Discount rates: 12.5% on recurring cash flows
25.0% on non-recurring cash flows
(c) Perpetuity growth rates: 3.0% for recurring cash flows
3.0% for non-recurring cash flows
(d) Earnings multipliers: 9.0 x recurring EBITDA 
3.0 x non-recurring EBITDA
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 101 102 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
29.  Investment contract liabilities
Investment contract liabilities in respect of policyholder investments at the start and end of the year and an analysis of movements during the
year are as follows:
2010 2009
Note £m £m
Liability as at 1 January 649.9 753.1
Contributions received 66.4 67.5
Investment return applied 3 74.3 136.0
Charges levied (3.1) (3.4)
Repayments (229.2) (303.2)
Movement in contingency reserve (0.2) (0.1)
Movement in reinsurance ceded 1.1 –
Liability as at 31 December 559.2 649.9
All investment contract liabilities have been disclosed as current liabilities as this is considered to be appropriate to the rights of policyholders
who may withdraw their investments at short notice. The Directors expect that the majority of the investment contract liabilities will be
repayable outwith one year.
30. Insurance contract liabilities
Insurance contract liabilities include life assurance liabilities in respect of lifetime guarantees provided with certain investment products, and
annuity liabilities in respect of pension investment contracts where the investor has retired. These liabilities and related reinsurance balances at
the start and end of the year, together with an analysis of movements in the year, are as follows:
2010 2009
Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 1.9 (1.9)– 2.1 (2.1)–
Claims paid (0.1) 0.1– (0.1) 0.1–
Change in economic assumptions 0.1 (0.1)– (0.1) 0.1–
Unwinding of discount rate 0.1 (0.1)– 0.1 (0.1)–
Other changes in year ––– (0.1) 0.1–
At 31 December 2.0 (2.0)– 1.9 (1.9)–
The reinsurance liabilities relate to annuity business reinsured with Friends Provident Pensions Limited.
A liability adequacy test was carried out at policy level and resulted in no additional provision for either 2010 or 2009. No significant gain or loss
arose on reinsurance contracts incepted in 2010 or 2009.
Assumptions
The principal assumptions used in determining the insurance contract liabilities and the reinsurer’s share of these liabilities, and the process
adopted to arrive at these assumptions are as follows:
Mortality rates 2010 2009
Annuities in payment 82–93% PCXA00 81–94% PCXA00
Due to the small number of annuity policies, the mortality assumptions reflect recent experience of the reinsurer together with an allowance for
future mortality improvement. Experience analysis for mortality is performed annually by the reinsurer.
Discount rate
The discount rate used at 31 December 2010 is 4.81% (31 December 2009: 5.21%) based on current fixed interest gross redemption yields,
with a prudent adjustment for risk.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 102 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 103
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
31. Share capital
Ordinary Share capital of 0.1p
31 December 2010 31 December 2009
No. of No. of
shares £m shares £m
Authorised:
Equity interests
Ordinary Shares of 0.1p 800,000,000 0.8 800,000,000 0.8
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
Equity interests
Ordinary Shares of 0.1p
#
532,118,789 0.5 499,273,120 0.5
# 
includes those categorised as own shares.
No. of shares
2010 2009
Issued at 1 January 499,273,120 495,725,314
Placing of new shares 24,807,145 –
Issued at Completion in respect of TRC Commutation arrangements 6,085,996 –
Issue of shares at par to settle share-based payment awards* 1,952,528 3,547,806
Issued at 31 December 532,118,789 499,273,120
*During the year Ordinary Shares were allotted at par value to settle share-based payment awards. There was no exercise price associated with these awards.
The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at
meetings of the Company.
Shares issued during 2010, dates of issue and reasons for issue are detailed in the following table:
Issue date Reason for issue No. of shares
4 May 2010 Placing of new shares 24,807,145
17 May 2010 EDRP award settlement 1,500,574
17 May 2010 LTRP award settlement 2,849
21 June 2010 LTRP award settlement 68,376
3 August 2010 LTRP award settlement 14,245
1 September 2010 TRC Initial Commutation consideration 3,042,999
2 September 2010 TRC Deferred Commutation Shares 3,042,997
30 September 2010 LTRP award settlement 292,588
22 October 2010 LTRP award settlement 49,934
30 November 2010 LTRP award settlement 8,547
24 December 2010 LTRP award settlement 15,415
32,845,669
The Group held the following Ordinary Shares in Employee Benefit Trusts (‘EBTs’) or similar arrangements. These are categorised as own
shares and are deducted from shareholders’ funds:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
No. No.
F&C Management Limited Employee Benefit Trust 17,778,910 11,732,847
The Ivory & Sime Employee Benefit Trust 64,176 64,176
Thames River Capital (UK) Limited Family Benefit Plan 1,139,460 –
Held by RBC cees in a nominee capacity
#
2,195,059 –
21,177,605 11,797,023
# 
These are specifically held as TRC Deferred Commutation Shares in respect of Commutation arrangements.
The aggregate nominal value of own shares held by EBTs at 31 December 2010 was £21,000 (31 December 2009: £12,000). The market
value of these shares at 31 December 2010 was £17.8m (31 December 2009: £9.0m).
During the year, the Group purchased 14,988,822 of its own 0.1p Ordinary Shares (2009: 11,043,017) to satisfy the settlements of awards
granted under share schemes and to hold as own shares within an EBT. The consideration paid for the shares was £9.7m (2009: £7.4m).
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 103 104 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
32.  Reserves
The analysis of movements in reserves is disclosed within the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 44.
Nature and purpose of reserves:
Share premium account
The share premium account is used to record the issue of share capital in excess of par value.
Capital Redemption reserve
The Capital Redemption reserve is used to maintain the capital of the Company when shares are bought back and subsequently cancelled
without Court Approval.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve is used to record share premium on shares issued by way of consideration in respect of acquisitions. The element of the
merger reserve which relates to amortisation and impairment of intangible assets charged to the Income Statement is considered to be
realised. 
A transfer is made from the merger reserve to retained earnings to recognise the extent to which the merger reserve has been realised, thereby
offsetting the corresponding element of the intangible amortisation and any impairment charge.
Other reserves:
• Foreign currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of
foreign operations and non-Sterling denominated intangible assets.
• Fair value reserve
This reserve records fair value changes on available for sale investments until the investments are derecognised.
• Acquisition reserve
The acquisition reserve was created on the initial recognition of the F&C REIT minority interest put option liabilities.
Retained earnings
Retained earnings comprises:
•Net profits and losses recognised through the Income Statement;
• Dividend distributions to equity holders;
•Actuarial gains and losses recognised on pension obligations;
•Deferred tax on actuarial gains and losses;
•Transactions relating to equity-settled share-based payments, and deferred tax movements on share-based payments reflected 
through equity;
•The purchase and sale of own shares; and
•Transfers from merger reserve.
Minority interests
This reserve represents the share of the Group’s net assets which are not attributable to equity holders of the parent, including the minority
interests’ share of intangible assets arising from business combinations and subsequent amortisation thereof.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 104 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 105
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
33. Notes to the cash flow statement
(a) Analysis of cash flow statement movements
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Adjustments for non-cash items:
Non-cash movements on forward currency contracts (0.9) (7.1)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 2.7 2.8
Amortisation of intangible assets 13 51.4 50.5
Release of acquisition creditor – (2.2)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.2
Equity-settled share-based payment expenses 26 19.5 14.3
72.8 58.5
Changes in working capital and provisions:
Increase in trade and other receivables (57.2) (12.9)
Increase in trade and other payables 50.9 7.8
(Decrease)/increase in employee benefit liabilities (2.1) 3.5
Decrease in stock of units and shares 0.2 –
Increase in Members’ liabilities 1.0 –
Decrease in other liabilities (0.4) (4.0)
Decrease in investment contract liabilities 29 (90.7) (103.2)
Increase/(decrease) in insurance contract liabilities 0.1 (0.2)
Decrease in deferred acquisition costs 16 0.4 2.1
Decrease in deferred income 27 (1.8) (2.7)
Pension charge to operating profit less defined benefit pension contributions paid (10.3) (4.0)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (2.5) 0.8
Decrease in financial investments 86.1 84.9
(26.3) (27.9)
(b) Property, plant and equipment
During the period the Group acquired property, plant and equipment with an aggregate cost of £1.2m (2009: £1.0m). Cash payments of
£1.1m (2009: £0.9m) were made to purchase property, plant and equipment during the year.
(c) Cash and cash equivalents
Note 21 provides details of cash and cash equivalent balances, a description of cash and cash equivalents and restrictions on use of cash,
and note 22 gives details of loans and borrowing facilities.
34. Contingent liabilities
Ongoing business operations
In the normal course of its business, the Group is subject to matters of litigation or dispute. While there can be no assurances, at this time the
Directors believe, based on the information currently available to them, that it is not probable that the ultimate outcome of any of these matters
will have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Group.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 105 106 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
35. Commitments
Operating leases
The Group had the following future minimum rentals payable in respect of non-cancellable operating leases and other contracts at the year end:
Premises Other Contracts
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2010 2009 2010 2009
£m £m £m £m
Not later than one year 12.9 11.6 2.8 1.4
Later than one year and not later than five years 39.5 43.8 1.1 1.6
Later than five years 33.4 46.7 – –
85.8 102.1 3.9 3.0
Obligations in respect of other contracts are stated gross and exclude amounts potentially recoverable from brokers under commission sharing
arrangements.
Commitments in respect of premises leases exclude service charges and other costs, which are variable in nature, and cannot be reliably
estimated.
Sub-lease receivables
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases at the year end are as follows:
Premises
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Not later than one year 3.8 3.8
Later than one year and not later than five years 11.3 13.0
Later than five years 9.1 11.3
24.2 28.1
A contingent lease payment, based on a percentage of revenue, is receivable in addition to the minimum lease payments in respect of one
property. The maximum amount receivable under this arrangement is £0.6m (31 December 2009: £0.6m) per annum.
Capital commitments
The amount of capital expenditure contracted for, but not provided for in the Financial Statements at 31 December 2010, was £0.5m (31
December 2009: £nil).
36. Financial risk management
Overview
The Group has exposure to a number of business risks. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Group’s risk management
arrangements, but has delegated the implementation and operation of the Board policies to management. The Group’s risk management
policies and the risk management framework for identifying, monitoring and managing risks across the Group, including strategic and
operational risks, are outlined in the Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance on pages 30 to 31.
The Directors consider it appropriate to differentiate between those financial risks which directly impact the Group and those which indirectly
impact the Group due to the risks borne by our clients and the consequential impact on the Group’s assets under management and revenues.
The Group’s direct or indirect exposure to financial instruments arises from the following financial risks:
• Market risk
• Credit risk
• Liquidity risk
This note presents information on the Group’s direct or indirect exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and
processes for measuring and managing risk and the management of the Group’s capital. Note 37 provides numerical analysis of the Group’s
financial instrument exposure to such risks, including relevant sensitivity analysis, at the reporting date.
Indirect earnings risk through client assets
As an active fund manager, the Group is responsible for managing assets in accordance with the mandates specified by our clients. The assets
managed by the Group are subject to varying financial risks (market, credit and liquidity). While these risks could result in financial loss or gain
through a change in asset value, these risks and rewards are fully borne by, or fall to the benefit of, our clients.
However, as the majority of the Group’s revenues are quantified as a percentage of assets under management (generally on a quarterly,
monthly or daily basis), the Group’s income is impacted by movements in client assets which are caused by the exposure to financial risks. As
a result of the direct link of revenues to the value of client assets, the Group’s interests are aligned to those of our clients.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 106 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 107
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
36. Financial risk management continued
A key risk to our business is that of poor investment performance, which could lead to the subsequent loss of client mandates. A key role of
the Heads of F&C’s investment functions is to monitor the fund performance achieved by our investment professionals. Where it is considered
necessary, actions are taken to change process or personnel with a view to attaining top quartile performance. The Group has the ability to
earn performance fees from a number of our clients, where out-performance of the benchmark or set objective is achieved. These
arrangements reinforce the alignment of the Group’s interests with those of our clients.
The key components of financial risk to which our clients are exposed are:
Market risk – the risk of financial loss arising from changes in the market prices of assets. Market risks include exposure to all asset classes,
including equities, fixed income products and property as well as currency risk and interest rate risk.
Credit risk – the risk of financial loss if a counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations in respect of assets held
within client portfolios. Credit risk can vary by asset class and individual instrument.
Liquidity risk – the risk of financial loss to client portfolios because a counterparty does not have sufficient financial resources available and is
unable to realise assets in order to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can only realise assets by suffering financial loss.
Direct earnings and capital exposure
The Group has direct exposure to the following risks in respect of financial instruments on the Statement of Financial Position:
• Market risk – the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises three types of risk: currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk.
• Credit risk – the risk of financial loss if a counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations in respect of financial
instruments held by the Group. Credit risk includes investment credit risk, counterparty risk, deposit and loan risks and country risk.
• Liquidity risk – the risk of the Group failing to maintain adequate levels of financial resources to enable it to meet its financial obligations 
as they fall due. Liquidity risk arises because of the possibility that the Group could be required to pay its liabilities earlier than expected 
or because of any inability to realise assets in order to meet obligations as they fall due or is only able to realise assets by suffering 
financial loss.
A fuller analysis of the financial risks associated with the Group’s financial instruments, together with the objectives, policies and processes to
manage the Group’s exposure to those risks follows.
Unit-linked assets and liabilities
A significant element of the value of the Group’s financial assets relates to the Group’s unit-linked pooled pension entity, F&C Managed Pension
Funds Limited (‘F&C MPF’). As outlined in note 18, Financial Instruments, the risks and rewards associated with these assets, which are held
by F&C MPF, fall to be borne by, or to the benefit of, the underlying policyholders. As a result, the investment contract liabilities included in the
Statement of Financial Position are equal and opposite in value to the assets which are held on behalf of unit-linked policyholders. The Group
has no direct exposure to fluctuations in the value of the assets arising from changes in market prices or credit default, although the revenue
stream earned from managing these assets varies in line with the movement in assets held on behalf of clients.
The financial risk management disclosures specifically exclude policyholders’ unit-linked assets and liabilities relating to F&C MPF as there is no
direct exposure to the Group from the associated financial instruments.
Financial investments
Recognising that the Group’s revenue stream has significant financial exposure to fluctuations in assets managed on behalf of clients, a key
principle of the Group Treasury Policy set by the Board is to restrict investment of the Group’s assets to low risk deposits or money market
instruments where the risk of capital loss is low, thereby seeking to protect the Group’s capital. Advance Board approval is required for any
investment or financial instrument which does not follow this general principle.
During 2008, following significant strengthening of the Euro against Sterling, the Group’s reporting currency, the Group entered into a series of
forward currency contracts to provide greater certainty over the Sterling value of some of the expected future Euro-denominated revenue
streams. The final contract matured in June 2010. The Board recognises that the Group continues to have significant exposure to Euro-
denominated cash flows, but at this point in time has not chosen to enter into any further medium-term forward exchange contracts.
During 2010 the Group recognised £0.9m of a realised gain in respect of the final forward currency contract. This gain represented the partial
reversal of the £1.3m of net unrealised loss recognised in prior periods. As at 31 December 2010, the Group had no remaining medium-term
forward currency contracts in place, but held short-term contracts, to a gross value of less than £1.0m, which were specifically matched to
foreign currency assets at the year end.
Financial investments classified as available for sale, as detailed in note 14, primarily reflect the value of the Group’s private equity investments.
These represent carried interest entitlement which arises from the Group’s historical ownership of private equity businesses. The Board does
not seek to manage any of the financial risks associated with these investments and recognises that uncertainty exists as to the quantum and
timing of future distributions which may arise from these investments.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 107 108 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
36. Financial risk management continued
Other financial investments, classified as fair value through profit or loss, as detailed in note 18(a)(i)(2), primarily comprise assets held in
connection with current or historic employee remuneration arrangements. The Group has no net financial exposure to Purchased Equity Plan,
Bonus investments and TRC Employee Benefits assets as the risks and rewards of all movements in the value of these financial assets fall to
the beneficiary and are offset by equal and opposite movements in the Group’s associated employee benefit liabilities, which accrue over the
vesting period. The ‘NIC hedge’ economically hedges the Group’s exposure to movements in future national insurance contributions
obligations in respect of certain assets.
Stock of units and shares
The Group operates and manages a number of OEICs whose funds, into which retail and institutional investors can invest, have a wide range
of investment objectives. The Group holds a stock of units and shares in these OEIC funds in order to facilitate the creation and redemption of
units by investors. The Group’s risk management policy limits the aggregate value of the units held by the Group to £1.25m, thereby capping
the maximum financial risk exposure associated with these assets.
Trade debtors and accrued income
Trade debtors and accrued income represent amounts recognised within net revenue in the Income Statement, but which have not been
settled in cash. The nature of F&C’s business is such that asset management fees accrue based on daily, month-end or quarter-end asset
values which, once known, are billed to clients and are due to be settled in line with individual contractual terms. As a result, the aggregate
value of debtors and accrued income can represent up to four months of revenue at any point in time. In addition, as most of the performance
fees earned by the Group accrue in respect of the calendar year and can only be billed subsequently, the quantum of accrued income
recognised in the Statement of Financial Position at the reporting date is generally higher than at other points during the year and is sensitive to
the magnitude of performance fees earned.
Before the Group takes on new clients, it undertakes the required “Know Your Client” procedures. As the Group manages assets on behalf of
clients and management fees are typically charged to and paid from the underlying funds managed by the Group, there is a relatively low risk
of default on management fees. The Group does not hold any credit insurance. Due to the scale of some of F&C’s larger clients, the Group is
exposed to a concentration of credit risk from large clients or groups of connected clients, arising from timing difference between the
recognition of income and the receipt of management fees outlined above. Very few clients have an external credit rating.
Where management fees are denominated in a currency other than Sterling, the Group is exposed to currency risk. As noted earlier, the Group
no longer hedges any significant element of its exposure to monetary assets denominated in foreign currency. 
OEIC and unit trust debtors
OEIC and unit trust debtors include ‘Trustee debtors’ and ‘Debtors due from investors in respect of the purchase of units’. Typically, the Group
recognises ‘OEIC and unit trust creditors’ of a similar magnitude at any point in time. In operating and managing OEICs, the Group seeks to
match the purchase and sale of investments to align to the receipt or payment of funds from or to investors. However, if these obligations are
not matched then there is a requirement for the Group to fund any shortfall from its corporate cash resources. The risk relating to unsettled
transactions is considered small due to the short settlement period involved. In the event that investors default on sums due, then the Group is
entitled to reimbursement of costs from the investor.
Cash and cash equivalents
F&C adopts a low risk approach to treasury management and seeks to ensure that its capital is preserved and financial risks are managed
appropriately.
The Group treasury operations are managed by the Finance function within parameters defined by the Board. The regulatory capital and
treasury position of the Group are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
The Group’s cash and cash equivalent assets are exposed to a number of financial risks in the normal course of its business. The policy
adopted is designed to manage risk and recognises that treasury management operations are specifically not treated as a profit centre. The
key aspects of this policy and its implementation are detailed below:
• Funds on deposit will only be placed on a short-term basis (maximum term 90 days) to help maximise regulatory capital.
• Deposits may only be placed with counterparties approved by the F&C Credit Committee, and the Board has set a £25.0m limit for the
maximum exposure to any single counterparty. The F&C Credit Committee’s primary focus is to assess the credit position of counterparties
prior to placing any client assets with them and to monitor credit risk thereafter.
• Exposure to cash and cash equivalent balances held in foreign currency is managed to reduce the risk of movements in exchange rates,
where possible, by the repatriation of surplus foreign currency into Sterling. This is achieved in practice via the regular settlement of the
Group’s transfer pricing arrangements and through the payment of dividends from foreign subsidiaries, having regard to their respective,
legal, regulatory and working capital requirements. 
• Cash and deposit balances can be exposed to interest rate movements. The Group utilises the experience and skills of its professional
dealing team to obtain the best interest rates, ensuring the expected maturity dates of deposits are aligned to the Group’s working capital
requirements.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 108 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 109
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
36. Financial risk management continued
Any exception to the treasury policy requires the prior approval of the Board. Recognising the consequences of the recent global financial
crisis, management sought to operate throughout 2010 with a maximum corporate exposure to any one financial institution of £15.0m. 
Prior approval was required for a limited number of exceptions.
Reinsurance assets
The Group’s unit-linked pooled pension subsidiary is an insurance company and has some exposure to insurance contract liabilities, as
outlined in note 30. These liabilities are fully reinsured as the Group seeks to have no net insurance exposure. The reinsurance assets represent
the expected amounts recoverable to meet insurance liabilities as they fall due. The Group has exposure to both credit and liquidity risk on
these assets.
Defined benefit pension deficit
The Group’s defined benefit pension deficit represents the discounted value of future pension obligations in excess of plan assets, details of
which are given in note 25.
The Group has exposure to the movements in the market value of the plan assets, which include equities and LDI fixed interest pools.
Approximately 25% of the assets held in respect of the UK scheme are held in LDI pools, with maturity profiles which match the expected
maturity profile of pension obligations. The market values of the LDI pools are impacted by movements in interest rates.
The value of defined benefit pension obligations is quantified and discounted using corporate bond rates. Movements in these rates can have
a significant impact on the pension liabilities and hence the quantum of the Group’s pension deficit.
Management of capital
While F&C considers its capital to be its total equity, this is effectively managed via the net assets to which it relates. The Company’s Ordinary
Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. The Board monitors significant movements in the composition of its shareholder base.
Details of substantial interests in share capital are shown in the Report of the Directors on page 23. In the ordinary course of business the only
movements in the absolute number of shares in issue would be through the issue of new or own shares to satisfy obligations under share-
based payment arrangements or through the purchase of own shares to satisfy future share scheme obligations. 
The Directors give careful consideration to the appropriate funding structure for financing all acquisitions, which historically have included both
equity and debt funded transactions. During 2010 some 24.8m new shares were placed in the market to partially fund the TRC acquisition and
some 6.1m of new shares were issued in respect of the Commutation arrangements.
Dividends are only declared by the Board after due consideration of a number of key items, including the financial results and the outlook of the
financial position of the Company and of the Group. The dividend policy seeks to achieve a targeted dividend cover of 1.5 times underlying
profit. Following the re-basing of the interim dividend for 2010, the Board declared a total dividend of 3.0 pence per share for 2010. This
resulted in the 2010 dividend cover (on an underlying basis) being in excess of the 150% target, in respect of dividends declared for 2010.
The overall objective of shareholder liquidity risk management is to ensure that there is sufficient liquidity over short and medium time horizons
to meet the needs of the business. This includes liquidity to cover, among other things, capital expenditure, servicing debt and equity capital as
well as working capital to fund the Group’s day-to-day operational requirements. At the time of announcing the interim dividend for 2010, the
Board indicated that it will seek to reduce net debt over the medium-term, with a target of zero net debt to be achieved by the end of 2014.
While the Board consider this target to be achievable, the Directors recognise that a number of risks exist which could prevent this target from
being achieved. 
Working capital
Working capital is monitored on a daily basis to ensure that settlement terms of all forthcoming liabilities can be met. This activity includes
timely collection of debtors and monitoring of cash on deposit, having regard to regulatory capital requirements, as outlined below. The
Group’s Finance function includes a Treasury team which manages the cash flow requirements of the Group while seeking to maximise the
amount of cash on deposit.
The Group has a £20m revolving credit facility and bank overdraft facilities available to it which provide some protection against any short-term
cash-flow deficiencies. The undrawn committed facilities available at the reporting date are shown in note 22 as are details of the Group’s
interest bearing loans and borrowings. 
During 2010 the Group issued £20m of additional 9% guaranteed fixed rate loan notes to refinance the remaining £10m of debt used to
partially finance the REIT acquisition in 2008 and raised £10m to partially fund the TRC acquisition. In total, the Group now has some £150m
of 9% guaranteed fixed-rate loan notes which mature in December 2016. The Group continues to have some £125m of subordinated notes in
issue. The earliest repayment date for these notes is 2016, but this can be extended at the option of the Group to 2026. In addition, the Group
has the option to defer interest payments on this debt, but if it elects to do so then no dividend can be paid to Ordinary Shareholders until the
cumulative amount of any unpaid interest due on the subordinated debt is settled in full. No such interest payments have been deferred. 
The Board Reserved List prohibits the use of derivatives including futures, options and forward contracts, in respect of the Group’s net assets,
without prior Board approval, recognising the general principle of seeking to minimise capital loss. 
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 109 110 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
36. Financial risk management continued
Regulatory capital requirements
The Group is required to maintain a minimum level of capital in accordance with the Capital Requirements Directive (‘CRD’) prescribed in the
UK by the Financial Services Authority (FSA). 
In 2006, the Group obtained from the FSA a waiver from meeting any minimum capital requirements under the consolidated supervision rules
of the CRD. This waiver took effect from 1 January 2007 and was due to expire at the end of 2011 , however, the FSA has recently approved
F&C’s application to renew the waiver, meaning it now does not expire until April 2016. During 2010, the waiver was extended to include the
acquired Thames River entities.
At 31 December 2010, there were 16 regulated companies in the Group, of which 12 are registered in the United Kingdom and are subject to
regulation by the FSA. This includes F&C MPF which, being a regulated insurance firm, as opposed to an investment firm, is not part of the
consolidation Group for regulatory capital reporting purposes. Overseas regulated companies, registered in the Republic of Ireland, The
Netherlands, Portugal and Hong Kong are subject to regulatory capital requirements set out by their respective local regulatory authority, as
embedded within the legislation of those jurisdictions.
Regulations set out the measurement of Capital Resources and Capital Resources Requirements (‘CRR’) to determine the regulatory capital
surplus or deficit. This CRR is referred to as the Pillar 1 capital requirements under CRD.
For the UK regulated investment firms, the CRR is the higher of:
• The sum of the ‘credit risk capital requirement’ and the ‘market risk capital requirement’; and
•The ‘fixed overhead requirement’.
Credit risk represents the risk of a party being unable to meet its obligations to a firm and is calculated using risk weighted percentages applied
to the various exposure amounts. The market risk for F&C represents the risk of loss from fluctuations in exchange rates and is calculated as a
percentage of the total of the long or short positions, denominated in foreign currencies, whichever is the greater. The fixed overhead
requirement is calculated as a quarter of a firm’s relevant fixed annual expenditure in the previous year’s audited Financial Statements.
The regulated companies are required to submit financial returns to the FSA, or the local regulatory authority for overseas companies, setting
out the calculation of the regulatory capital surplus (or deficit). The Group’s regulated companies are required to submit financial returns
monthly, quarterly or semi-annually and the Group must submit a consolidated return semi-annually.
The CRD requires the Group to conduct an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (‘ICAAP’), referred to as Pillar 2 capital
requirements. The objective of this process is to ensure that companies have adequate capital to enable them to manage risks not deemed to
be adequately covered under the Pillar 1 minimum requirements. This is a forward looking exercise which includes stress testing key risks,
considering how the company would cope with a significant market downturn for example, and an assessment of the Group’s ability to
mitigate the risks.
All of the Group’s regulated entities maintained surpluses of regulatory capital throughout 2010.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 110 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 111
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
37. The extent of risks arising from financial instruments
Note 36 presents details of the Group’s direct or indirect exposure to financial risks arising from financial instruments and the Group’s
objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk and the management of the Group’s capital. This note provides numerical
analyses of the Group’s direct exposure to such financial risk, including relevant sensitivity analysis, at each reporting date.
The disclosures in this note exclude any policyholder unit-linked assets and liabilities in respect of F&C MPF, as the risks and rewards rest
primarily with the policyholders.
(a) Credit risk
(i) Maximum exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk. The maximum exposure of each class of
financial asset is:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments 9.9 10.0
Stock of units and shares 0.1 0.3
Available for sale financial assets:
Financial investments 3.5 2.2
Loans and receivables:
Trade debtors 21.5 14.9
Accrued income 38.9 41.3
OEIC and unit trust debtors 81.2 21.8
Other debtors 10.8 8.5
Amounts owed by Eureko Group 1.4 1.4
Amounts owed by TRC related party entities 0.7 –
Amounts owned by F&C REIT related party entities 0.1 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholders 178.8 186.2
346.9 286.7
The accrued income balance is higher than the average monthly balance during the year. This is primarily due to the level of performance fees
recognised at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009. 
The quantum of OEIC and unit trust debtors at 31 December 2010 is higher than the average monthly balance during the year. However, this is
dependent upon the level of creations and liquidations of units or shares and the monetary value of each transaction.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 111 112 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
37. The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
The credit risk of the financial assets analysed by the credit ratings of the counterparties, based on external credit ratings, is set out below:
Other Not
AAA AA A rated rated Total
As at 31 December 2010 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments – 1.4– 0.3 8.2 9.9
Stock of units and shares –––– 0.1 0.1
Available for sale financial assets:
Financial investments –––– 3.5 3.5
Loans and receivables:
Trade debtors –– 1.3 0.1 20.1 21.5
Accrued income –– 0.7 0.2 38.0 38.9
Other debtors –– 5.7 – 5.1 10.8
OEIC and unit trust debtors –––– 81.2 81.2
Amounts owed by Eureko Group –– 1.4–– 1.4
Amounts owed by TRC related party entities –––– 0.7 0.7
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities –––– 0.1 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholders 16.8 67.0 71.0 24.0– 178.8
16.8 68.4 80.1 24.6 157.0 346.9
As at 31 December 2009
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments – 2.3 – 0.3 7.4 10.0
Stock of units and shares –––– 0.3 0.3
Available for sale financial assets:
Financial investments –––– 2.2 2.2
Loans and receivables:
Trade debtors –– 0.1 0.5 14.3 14.9
Accrued income –– 1.6 0.1 39.6 41.3
Other debtors –– 4.2 – 4.3 8.5
OEIC and unit trust debtors –––– 21.8 21.8
Amounts owed by Eureko Group –– 1.4 –– 1.4
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities –––– 0.1 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholders 8.5 93.5 70.0 13.3 0.9 186.2
8.5 95.8 77.3 14.2 90.9 286.7
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 112 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 113
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
37. The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
(ii) Analysis of financial assets past due but not impaired
The analysis of financial assets which are receivable but have not been impaired is as follows:
Neither Less Between Between
past due than 30 30 and 90 90 days Beyond
nor days days and 1 year 1 year
impaired overdue overdue overdue overdue Total
As at 31 December 2010 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments 9.9–––– 9.9
Stock of units and shares 0.1–––– 0.1
Available for sale financial assets:
Financial investments 3.5–––– 3.5
Loans and receivables:
Trade debtors 9.7 2.6 3.5 5.7– 21.5
Accrued income 38.9–––– 38.9
Other debtors 10.2–– 0.2 0.4 10.8
OEIC and unit trust debtors 81.2–––– 81.2
Amounts owed by Eureko Group 1.4–––– 1.4
Amounts owed by TRC related party entities ––– 0.7 – 0.7
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities 0.1–––– 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholders 178.8–––– 178.8
333.8 2.6 3.5 6.6 0.4 346.9
As at 31 December 2009
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments 10.0 –––– 10.0
Stock of units and shares 0.3 –––– 0.3
Available for sale financial assets:
Financial investments 2.2 –––– 2.2
Loans and receivables:
Trade debtors 5.1 3.4 0.8 5.5 0.1 14.9
Accrued income 41.3 –––– 41.3
Other debtors 8.5 –––– 8.5
OEIC and unit trust debtors 21.8 –––– 21.8
Amounts owed by Eureko Group 1.4 –––– 1.4
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities 0.1 –––– 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholders 186.2 –––– 186.2
276.9 3.4 0.8 5.5 0.1 286.7
Based on past experience and the nature of the Group’s business, the Directors believe that no additional impairment provision is necessary at
either 31 December 2010 or 31 December 2009 in respect of trade debtors. The trade debtor balances, which have been impaired at the
reporting dates, are shown below.
(iii) Impairment losses
Details of impairment of financial assets at 31 December are as follows.
Trade debtors provision:
2010 2009
£m £m
At 1 January 0.6 0.1
Bad debt charge in the year
#
0.3 0.5
Utilised in the year (0.1) –
At 31 December 0.8 0.6
Gross impaired trade debtors 0.8 0.6
#
Included within operating expenses in the Income Statement.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 113 114 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
37. The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
(iv) Concentration risk
Specific concentration of risk in respect of amounts receivable from any one bank or financial institution, client or group of connected clients at
the reporting date is given below:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
Concentrations of £1.0m or more £m £m
Amounts held with banks and similar financial institutions – 2010: 17 (2009: 19) 175.1 184.8
Amounts due from Eureko Group 4.4 3.9
Amounts due from OEIC Trustees 12.7 6.9
Amounts due from other significant clients – 2010: 10 clients (2009: 10) 88.2 37.8
Amounts due from significant other debtors – 2010: 1 debtor (2009: 2) 5.5 4.2
285.9 237.6
Concentration risk comprises of individual entities or clients with a receivable balance of £1.0m or more at the reporting date. This disclosure
shows the potential impact of some of these entities or clients failing to satisfy payment of the receivable amounts. The table does not consider
the likelihood of any of these entities or clients defaulting.
(b) Liquidity risk
The following are the maturity dates of the Group’s financial liabilities:
Within
1 year, or More
repayable Within Within than
on demand 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total
As at 31 December 2010 £m £m £m £m £m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings:
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 ––– 125.0 125.0
Interest on Subordinated Notes* 8.4 8.4 25.3 8.5 50.6
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 ––– 149.7 149.7
Interest on Guaranteed Loan Notes 2016 13.5 13.5 40.4 13.4 80.8
Trade and other payables:
Trade creditors 3.4––– 3.4
OEIC and unit trust creditors 80.1 ––– 80.1
Other creditors 25.8 7.9 0.9 1.3 35.9
Accruals 25.1 – 1.5 0.5 27.1
Amounts owed to Eureko Group 2.0 ––– 2.0
Amounts owed to F&C REIT related party entities 0.3 ––– 0.3
Members’ liabilities 4.4 ––– 4.4
Other financial liabilities 4.5 4.5 45.0– 54.0
167.5 34.3 113.1 298.4 613.3
As at 31 December 2009
Interest bearing loans and borrowings:
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 ––– 125.0 125.0
Interest on Subordinated Notes* 8.4 8.4 25.3 16.6 58.7
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 ––– 129.7 129.7
Interest on Guaranteed Loan Notes 2016 11.7 11.7 35.0 22.9 81.3
Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010 10.0 ––– 10.0
Interest on Secured Notes 0.2 ––– 0.2
Trade and other payables:
Trade creditors 1.9 ––– 1.9
OEIC and unit trust creditors 20.2 ––– 20.2
Other creditors 7.3 0.2 0.6 0.9 9.0
Accruals 27.1 0.4 2.5 2.1 32.1
Amounts owed to Eureko Group 2.0 ––– 2.0
Amounts owed to F&C REIT related party entities 2.3 ––– 2.3
Other financial liabilities 12.1 5.0 10.1 45.3 72.5
103.2 25.7 73.5 342.5 544.9
* To the date of the Group’s option to extend the Notes beyond 19 December 2016.
The quantum of OEIC and unit trust creditors at 31 December 2010 is higher than the average monthly balance during the year. However, this
is dependent upon the level of creations and liquidations of units or shares and the monetary value of each transaction.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 114 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 115
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
37. The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
The maturity dates of the Group’s financial liabilities have been determined by reference to the earliest contractual date on which the
counterparty could demand payment and the stated amounts represent undiscounted cash flows.
Included within other financial liabilities are:
•The F&C REIT put options, included at the earliest date at which the options could be exercised; and
•The gross cash flows associated with the Group’s forward currency contracts. The net unrealised losses on open contracts at the
reporting date are disclosed in note 28.
The Group has borrowing facilities available to it. The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 are
shown in note 22.
(c) Market risk
(i) Market price risk
The analysis of financial assets which are exposed to market price risk is as follows:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments 8.5 7.6
Stock of units and shares 0.1 0.3
8.6 7.9
Details of the assets held by the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes, which are also exposed to market price risk, are given in note 25.
(ii) Other price risk
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Available for sale financial assets:
Financial investments 3.5 2.2
(iii) Currency risk
The Group is exposed to currency risk at the reporting date in respect of:
•Financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies; and
•The foreign currency risk of net assets of foreign operations.
The net monetary assets and net investment in foreign operations, in Sterling, which are denominated in foreign currencies or for which the fair
value of the asset or liability varies with movements in foreign currencies are:
Euro US Dollar Other Total
£m £m £m £m
As at 31 December 2010 75.0 11.0 1.7 87.7
As at 31 December 2009 94.3 2.6 1.4 98.3
The above table excludes intangible assets.
The increase in the exposure to US Dollar-denominated assets is primarily attributable to the acquired TRC business.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 115 116 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
37. The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
(iv) Interest rate risk
The following tables set out the carrying amount and maturity profile of the Group’s financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk:
Within Within Within More than
1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years
As at 31 December 2010 £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 ––– (125.0)
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 ––– (149.7)
Financial investments – corporate bonds –– 0.3 –
Financial investments – NIC hedge –– 0.1 –
Floating rates
Financial investments – NIC hedge 1.5 –––
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholder 178.8 –––
180.3 – 0.4 (274.7)
As at 31 December 2009
Fixed rate
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 ––– (125.0)
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 ––– (129.7)
Financial investments – corporate bonds –– 0.3 –
Financial investments – NIC hedge –– 0.1 –
Floating rates
Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010 (10.0) –––
Financial investments – NIC hedge 2.3 –––
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholder 186.2 –––
178.5 – 0.4 (254.7)
(v) Sensitivity analysis
The Group has quantified the impact of specific changes in its significant market risk variables. This analysis measures the change in fair value
and cash flows of the Group’s financial instruments.
The sensitivity analysis, which is for illustrative purposes only, is prepared based on financial instruments at the reporting dates. The sensitivity
assumes changes in certain market conditions. These assumptions may differ materially from the actual outturn due to the inherent
uncertainties in global financial markets. In practice, market risks rarely change in isolation and are likely to be interdependent. The methods
and assumptions used are the same for both reporting periods.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared based on the impact a set percentage increase or decrease in the market conditions would have on
the profit or loss and on total equity.
Changes in exchange rates assume an instantaneous increase or decrease of 10.0% for foreign currency to Sterling rates at the reporting
date, with all other variables remaining constant.
The estimated changes in fair values of investments assume a 10.0% increase or decrease in the fair values of investments at the reporting
date, with all other variables remaining constant.
Changes in market interest rates assume an increase or decrease of 1.0% in the rate applied to average cash balances in the year.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 116 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 117
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
37. The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
The financial impact of market risk sensitivities, after taxation, are summarised below:
Profit or loss Profit or loss Equity Equity
sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity
As at 31 December 2010 £m £m £m £m
Exchange rate movement* +10% -10% +10% -10%
Currency
Sterling/Euro exchange rates 0.8 (0.9) 6.5 (7.8)
Sterling/USD exchange rates 0.4 (0.6) 0.4 (0.6)
Fair value movement – Investments +10% -10% +10% -10%
Sterling equity prices 0.6 (0.6) 0.8 (0.8)
Interest rate movement +1% -1% +1% -1%
Sterling market interest rates 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5)
As at 31 December 2009
Exchange rate movement* +10% -10% +10% -10%
Currency
Sterling/Euro exchange rates 2.2 (2.7) 8.8 (10.8)
Sterling/USD exchange rates 0.2 (0.2) 0.2 (0.2)
Fair value movement – Investments +10% -10% +10% -10%
Sterling equity prices 0.6 (0.6) 0.7 (0.7)
Interest rate movement +1% -1% +1% -1%
Sterling market interest rates 1.4 (1.4) 1.4 (1.4)
*+10% represents a movement in favour of the Group and -10% represents a movement against the Group.
In addition, the F&C REIT put options are disclosed in note 28 at fair value. A 10% movement in the fair value of the options at 31 December
2010 would result in a £5.4m (31 December 2009: £6.0m) charge or credit to the Income Statement and to equity.
Impairment of financial assets can also be affected by changes in the relevant underlying risk.
(d) Capital
A summary of the Group’s capital and the net assets which it represents is shown below:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Share capital 0.5 0.5
Share premium account 51.8 33.8
Capital Redemption reserve 0.8 0.8
Merger reserve 383.3 416.6
Other reserves (19.5) (14.5)
Retained earnings 138.2 132.5
Minority interests 16.5 19.2
Total equity 571.6 588.9
Net assets 571.6 588.9
Note 36 describes the Group’s management of capital, working capital and regulatory capital requirements.
38. Insurance risk management
The Group’s insurance contracts are all annuity contracts which guarantee payment during the lifetime of the annuitant at a specified level or
with a specified escalation factor. They are all 100% reinsured with Friends Provident Pensions Limited.
The only risk that the Group is subject to in respect of these contracts is the credit risk of the reinsurer. Given the small amount at risk 
(£2.0m at 31 December 2010; £1.9m at 31 December 2009), this is not considered significant.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 117 118 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
39. Subsidiary undertakings
The principal entities controlled by the parent undertaking are as follows:
Percentage Country of
interest and registration or
voting rights* incorporation Nature of business
(i) United Kingdom
FP Asset Management Holdings Limited
(1)
100 England Holding company
F&C Asset Management Services Limited
(1)
100 Scotland Employee service company
ISIS Investment Manager plc
(1)
100 England Investment management
F&C Managed Pension Funds Limited
(1)
100 England Unit-linked pooled pensions business
F&C Treasury Limited
(1)
100 England Treasury management company
F&C Group (Holdings) Limited
(1)
100 England Holding company
F&C Group ESOP Trustee Limited
(1)
100 Scotland ESOP Trustee
F&C Investment Business Limited
(1)
100 Scotland Investment management
F&C Finance plc
(1)
100 England Debt financing company
F&C Aurora (GP) Limited
(1)
100 Scotland General Partner
The Aurora Fund (Founder Partner) LP
(1)
50
#
Scotland Founder Partner
F&C European Capital Partners (GP) Limited
(1)
100 Scotland General Partner
F&C European Capital Partners (Founder Partner) LP
(1)
50
#
Scotland Founder Partner
F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
(1)
70
#
England Property asset management
FP Fund Managers Limited
(2)
100 England Investment management
F&C Asset Managers Limited
(2)
100 England Investment management
F&C Property Limited
(2)
100 England Property asset management
WAM Holdings Limited
(3)
100 England Holding company
F&C Property Investments Limited
(4)
100 England Property asset management
F&C Fund Management Limited
(4)
100 England OEIC investment management
F&C Managers Limited
(4)
100 England Investment management
F&C Alternative Investments (Holdings) Limited
(5)
100 England Holding company
F&C Group Management Limited
(5)
100 England Holding company
F&C Holdings Limited
(6)
100 England Holding company
F&C (CI) Limited
(7)
100 England Investment company
F&C Investment Services Limited
(7)
100 England Support services company
F&C Management Limited
(7)
100 England Investment management
FCEM Holdings (UK) Limited
(8)
100 England Holding company
F&C Emerging Markets Limited
(9)
100 England Investment management
F&C Partners LLP
(10)
60
#
England Hedge fund investment management
F&C Private Equity Nominees Limited
(11)
100 England Investment company
F&C REIT Property Asset Management plc
(12)
70 England Property asset management
REIT Asset Management Limited
(12)
70 England Property asset management
F&C REIT Corporate Finance Limited
(13)
70 England Property asset management
Tier Services Limited
(14)
70 England Property asset management
Thames River Capital UK Limited
(16)
100 England Employee service company
Thames River Capital LLP
(17)$
100
#
England Investment management
Thames River Multi-Capital LLP
(17)$
100
#
England Investment management
(ii) Overseas
Thames River Capital Group Limited
(1)
100 Cayman Islands Holding company
F&C Netherlands B.V.
(5)
100 The Netherlands Investment management
F&C Ireland Limited
(5)
100 Republic of Ireland Investment management
F&C Portugal Gestao de Patrimonios S.A.
(5)
100 Portugal Investment management
F&C Asset Management Asia Limited.
(5)
100 Hong Kong Investment management
F&C Management Luxembourg S.A.
(5)
100 Luxembourg Investment management
F&C Channel Islands Limited
(8)
100 Jersey Employee service company
F&C REIT Asset Management S.à.r.l.
(12)
70 Luxembourg Property asset management
Adebai Limited
(14)
70 Cyprus Property asset management
F&C REIT Asset Management Sweden AB
(14)
70 Sweden Property asset management
F&C REIT Asset Worldwide Limited
(14)
70 Gibraltar Property asset management
F&C REIT Asset Management GmbH & Co KG
(14)
70
#
Germany Property asset management
F&C REIT Property Management India Pvt Ltd
(14)$
70 India Property asset management
Thames River Capital Holdings Limited
(15)
100 Cayman Islands Holding company
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 118 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 119
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
39. Subsidiary undertakings continued
* Voting rights are ordinary share capital except where indicated.
# Partnership interest in voting rights.
$ These companies have non-coterminous 31 March reporting dates, to comply with local reporting requirements and partnership agreements.
(1) Owned by F&C Asset Management plc
(2) Owned by FP Asset Management Holdings Limited
(3) Owned by F&C Treasury Limited
(4) Owned by WAM Holdings Limited
(5) Owned by F&C Group (Holdings) Limited
(6) Owned by F&C Group Management Limited
(7) Owned by F&C Holdings Limited
(8) Owned by F&C Management Limited
(9) Owned by FCEM Holdings (UK) Limited
(10) Owned by F&C Alternative Investments (Holdings) Limited
(11) Owned by F&C (CI) Limited
(12) Owned by F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
(13) Owned by REIT Asset Management Limited
(14) Owned by F&C REIT Asset Management S.à.r.l.
(15) Owned by Thames River Capital Group Limited
(16) Owned by Thames River Capital Holdings Limited
(17) Owned by Thames River Capital UK Limited
40.  Related party transactions
In the ordinary course of business, the Company and its subsidiary undertakings carry out transactions with related parties, as defined by IAS
24: Related Party Disclosures. Material transactions for the year are set out below.
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company are shown in note 39. During the year, the Group entered into the following transactions
with related parties:
(a) Compensation of key management personnel of the Group
In aggregate these are set out below:
Total Outstanding at Total Outstanding at
compensation 31 December compensation 31 December
2010 2010 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m
Short-term employee and member benefits 10.2 4.2 10.0 4.0
Post-employment benefits 0.8 – 0.8 –
Termination benefits –– 0.2 –
Share-based payments 3.2 – 1.0 –
Total 14.2 4.2 12.0 4.0
‘Key management personnel’ comprise:
• Directors of all principal companies in the Group;
• Members of the Group’s Executive Committee;
• Members of F&C REIT’s Executive Committee; and
• Members of TRC’s Executive Committee.
Compensation of key management personnel excludes the profit entitlement attributable to minority interests, which are separately disclosed
within note 40(c)(iii).
Where key management personnel participate in defined benefit pension schemes which have been accounted for as such under IAS 19, the
amount included as compensation reflects the current service and/or past service cost for the relevant year. Where key management personnel
are members of multi-employer defined benefit arrangements or defined contribution schemes, the benefits shown reflect the contributions
payable for each year.
The share-based payments disclosed in the table above reflect the value of any share-based payments vesting during the year. This is
quantified as the aggregate of cash payments plus the fair value of shares on the date of vesting (excluding any consideration payable on
exercise) of such share-based payment awards.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 119 120 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
40.  Related party transactions continued
(b) Transactions with key management personnel of the Group
Appropriations of profits paid to key management are as follows:
Minority Minority
interest at interest at
31 December 31 December
2010 2010 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m
Ordinary dividends paid 0.2 n/a 0.1 n/a
Distributions paid to minority interests* 5.9 16.5 2.3 19.2
* An analysis of profit entitlements for 2010 and 2009 and net assets attributable to minority interests at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009 are disclosed
on pages 122 and 123.
(c) Transactions and balances with related parties
Transactions with related parties during 2010 and 2009 and outstanding balances with these parties as at 31 December 2010 and 
31 December 2009 are given below, by each group of related parties.
(i) Related party transactions with the Friends Provident Group (‘FP Group’)
Friends Provident plc was the parent undertaking and ultimate controlling party of the F&C Group until 3 July 2009. As such, all the disclosures
below relate to the point of demerger, when the FP Group ceased to be a related party, and therefore no information is given for 2010.
Companies within the F&C Group provide investment management services to companies in the FP Group and are entitled to receive
management fees in line with the contractual terms of relevant investment management agreements.
Under the Shared Services Agreement, companies within the FP Group provide services in respect of accounting and other professional
services. Fees are paid monthly in arrears. Following FP’s shareholding in the Company falling below 50% in July 2009 the investment
management agreements with the FP Group reverted to long-term contracts of between 5 and 10 years (from their inception in July 2004).
After such time, the agreements are terminable with a notice period of between 6 and 12 months.
Total
invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December
during 2009 2009
£m £m
Management fees 14.6 n/a
Shared services and administration services:
Shared service fees 0.2 n/a
Administration service fees 0.3 n/a
Other recharges to the FP Group 0.5 n/a
Ordinary dividends payable 10.3 n/a
Other transactions:
Net investment in property funds (0.1) n/a
Annuity reinsurance 0.1 n/a
Net investment in property funds represented amounts invested through the Property Funds of Friends Provident Life Assurance Limited, a
subsidiary undertaking of Friends Provident plc.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 120 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 121
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
40.  Related party transactions continued
OEICs and private equity special purpose vehicles (‘SPVs’)
Where the FP Group controlled an F&C managed OEIC or private equity SPVs, it was required to consolidate them and hence the investment
management fees received by F&C were related party transactions. The total invoiced and accrued during 2009 is until the point of demerger,
when FP plc ceased to be a related party.
Total
invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December
during 2009 2009
£m £m
Investment management fees 4.0 n/a
(ii) Related party transactions with Eureko B.V. and subsidiary companies (Eureko Group)
Since the acquisition of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited in 2004, the Eureko Group has been represented on the Board of the Company.
Consequently, transactions between the F&C Group and the Eureko Group are considered to be related party transactions.
Companies within the F&C Group provide investment management services to the Eureko Group. The F&C Group is entitled to receive
management fees in line with the contracted terms of relevant investment management agreements. The Achmea Group (subsidiary of Eureko)
investment management agreements referred to below are deemed significant. These agreements are subject to long term contracts
terminable, other than when asset class underperformance triggers have been breached, on 12 months’ notice falling on or after the ninth
anniversary of their commencement date (typically October 2004). In the event of a change of control whereby a third party acquires a
controlling interest in F&C, immediate termination is possible with compensation payable to F&C by the Achmea Group based on lost revenue
streams.
Companies within the Eureko Group, under the Transitional Services Agreement, provide services in respect of investment accounting and
other administration services.
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2010 2010 during 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m
Shared services and administrative services:
Achmea Group 0.2– 0.6 0.1
Friends First 0.1 0.1 0.1 –
Amounts outstanding at 31 December are included within accruals.
Management fees:
Achmea Group 31.5 2.6 30.4 1.7
Friends First 4.6 0.2 4.3 0.4
Imperio 0.5 0.2 0.4 0.1
Amounts outstanding at 31 December are included
within trade debtors and accrued income.
Dividends payable to Eureko B.V.:
Ordinary dividends 2.6– 3.1 –
Other amounts owed by/to Eureko
In addition to the above, the Group was owed £1.4m at 31 December 2010 (31 December 2009: £1.4m) by Eureko B.V. and its subsidiaries.
The Group owed Eureko B.V. £0.7m at 31 December 2010 (31 December 2009: £0.7m) as disclosed in note 15(b).
The Group also owed Eureko B.V. £1.3m at 31 December 2010 (31 December 2009: £1.3m) in respect of taxation balances.
(iii) Transactions with minority partners
(1) F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
F&C Asset Management plc owns 70% of the “A” and “B” partnership units in F&C REIT Asset Management LLP (‘the Partnership’). The other
partners in the Partnership, all of whom have significant influence over the management of the Partnership or a significant economic interest in
the Partnership are:
Kendray Properties Limited 30.0% ownership interest in “A” units
Leo Noé 22.5% ownership interest in “B” units
Ivor Smith 7.5% ownership interest in “B” units
These parties are considered to be related parties. 
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 121 122 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
40.  Related party transactions continued
The partners are entitled to receive a share of the profits of F&C REIT Group.
2010 Minority 2009 Minority
amortisation 2010 2010 interest at amortisation 2009 2009 interest at
of intangible profit distributions 31 December of intangible profit distributions 31 December
assets share paid 2010 assets share paid 2009
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Kendray Properties Limited (1.2) 2.4 (2.4) 9.0 (1.2) 2.3 – 10.2
Leo Noé (0.9) 2.2 (2.3) 5.9 (0.9) 1.9 (0.7) 6.9
Ivor Smith (0.3) 0.7 (0.9) 1.6 (0.3) 0.7 (0.4) 2.1
(2.4) 5.3 (5.6) 16.5 (2.4) 4.9 (1.1) 19.2
The following clients of F&C REIT Asset Management LLP were considered to be related parties until one or more of the minority partners
ceased to serve as a Director of these companies.
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2010 during 2010 during 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m
Brightsea EPG Limited Group n/a n/a 0.9 0.3
St Katherine’s Investments LP n/a n/a 0.5 0.1
Star City Unit Trust n/a n/a 0.2 –
Lionsgate Properties LP n/a n/a 0.3 –
n/a n/a 1.9 0.4
The balances are trading balances in the ordinary course of business. Amounts outstanding at the reporting date are unsecured and non-
interest bearing.
F&C has a shared services agreement and a staff secondment agreement with F&C REIT Asset Management LLP whereby the F&C Group
provides certain administrative and professional services to the F&C REIT Group. Amounts charged under these agreements are set out below:
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2010 2010 during 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m
Shared services and administrative services:
Employee benefits 9.0 3.3 7.4 3.6
Administration service fees 1.0 0.1 1.3 0.2
The above amounts are eliminated on consolidation.
The F&C REIT Asset Management LLP Group has balances with several entities connected with the minority partners of the Partnership. These
balances primarily remain from the creation of the F&C REIT Group.
Balances Balances
outstanding at outstanding at
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Kendray Properties Limited (0.3) (0.3)
REIT Europe Limited 0.1 0.1
REIT Asset Management LP – (2.0)
In addition, F&C REIT Asset Management LLP paid Leo Noé and Ivor Smith £0.5m during 2010 (£0.4m during 2009) in respect of rent for the
F&C REIT Group’s head office at Wigmore Street, London.
The minority partners owe F&C REIT Asset Management LLP £nil at 31 December 2010 (£0.7m at 31 December 2009) as part of the
equalisation of net assets upon completion of the acquisition of REIT.
£10.6m of profit distributions were paid by F&C REIT Asset Management LLP to the Company in 2010 (2009: £nil), which eliminate on
consolidation.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 122 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 123
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
40.  Related party transactions continued
Certain management fees receivable by F&C companies outwith the F&C REIT Group are passed to the F&C REIT Group under revenue
delegation agreements, as the asset management activity has been delegated to F&C REIT. Amounts payable during the year and outstanding
at the year end are set out below:
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2010 2010 during 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m
Management fees 13.3 4.6 12.7 4.8
These amounts are eliminated on consolidation.
As part of the acquisition of REIT in 2008, F&C issued £35.0m of Floating Rate Secured Notes to Kendray Properties Limited, of which £25.0m
was repaid to Kendray Properties Limited during 2009 and £10.0m was repaid in 2010. Details of the Notes are given in note 22.
Interest on Floating Rate Secured Notes
Charged Outstanding at Charged Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2010 2010 during 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m
Interest payable to Kendray Properties Limited 0.2– 1.5 –
The F&C Group incur a share-based payment expense in respect of the variable minority interest enhancement which could be achieved by
Kendray Properties Limited, Leo Noé and Ivor Smith. Full details are disclosed in note 26(c).
The F&C REIT minority partners each have a put option to sell their minority stake in F&C REIT after a minimum number of years. Details of the
carrying amount of these option liabilities are disclosed in note 28. The option liability is split in the ownership proportions of Kendray Properties
Limited, Leo Noé and Ivor Smith.
(2) F&C Partners LLP
F&C Alternative Investments (Holdings) Limited owns 60% of F&C Partners LLP . The other partners in the Partnership, both of whom have
significant influence over the management of the Partnership and an economic interest in the Partnership are:
F. Barthelemy 20% ownership interest
A. Culligan 20% ownership interest
These parties are considered to be related parties.
The partners are entitled to receive a share of the profits in F&C Partners LLP .
Minority Minority
2010 interest at 2009 interest at
2010 profit distributions 31 December 2009 profit distributions 31 December
entitlement paid 2010 entitlement paid 2009
£m £m £m £m £m £m
F. Barthelemy 0.15 (0.15) – 0.15 (0.6) –
A. Culligan 0.15 (0.15) – 0.15 (0.6) –
0.3 (0.3) – 0.3 (1.2) –
Under the terms of the Partnership agreement, a portion of certain management fees receivable by F&C Partners LLP are passed to F&C
Alternative Investments (Holdings) Limited.
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2010 2010 during 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m
Management fees 0.2 0.1 0.7 0.4
These amounts are eliminated on consolidation.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 123 124 Financial Statements  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
40.  Related party transactions continued
The Group has a shared services agreement with F&C Partners LLP whereby the F&C Group provides certain administrative and professional
services to F&C Partners LLP .
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2010 2010 during 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m
Employee services 0.8 0.4 0.7 0.3
Administration service fees 0.1– 0.1 –
The above amounts are eliminated on consolidation.
(iv) Transactions with Thames River Capital related party entities
Two of the directors of Thames River Capital UK Limited are also Members of Nevsky Capital LLP , an entity to which Thames River Capital UK
Limited provides support and infrastructure services.
Thames River Capital UK Limited recharges Nevsky Capital LLP at cost for these services.
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2010
#
2010 during 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m
Support and infrastructure services:
Nevsky Capital LLP 0.6 0.7 n/a n/a
#
Period from 1 September 2010 – 31 December 2010.
(v) Post-employment benefit plans
Pension Schemes
The Group operates and participates in several post-employment benefit plans as detailed in note 25.
The Group contributed amounts to the defined benefit plans and had amounts outstanding at 31 December each year as follows:
Employer Outstanding at Employer Outstanding at
contributions 31 December contributions 31 December
2010 2010 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m
F&C Asset Management Pension Plan 8.1 – 5.7 –
F&C Portugal
(1)
0.3 – ––
F&C Netherlands 0.4 – 0.7 –
F&C Ireland 0.2 – 0.2 –
9.0 – 6.6 –
(1)
incorporated within the Fundo de Pensoes do Grupo Banco Comercial Português scheme.
In addition to the above, the Group has an unfunded obligation to provide a former Chairman, Mr R W Jenkins, with a pension as detailed in
note 25.
The Group manages the assets of the F&C Asset Management Pension Plan. The assets of the Plan totalled £176.1m at 31 December 2010
(31 December 2009: £144.2m). In addition, the Group managed investments in respect of Friends Provident’s main defined benefit pension
scheme. Friends Provident plc was the parent undertaking and ultimate controlling party of the F&C Group until 3 July 2009. As such, the
disclosure below relates to the point of demerger, when FP plc ceased to be a related party. 
The Group received the following investment management fees from these schemes:
Fees Outstanding at Fees Outstanding at
receivable 31 December receivable 31 December
2010 2010 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m
F&C Asset Management Pension Plan 0.1– – 0.1
Friends Provident Pension Scheme n/a n/a 0.4 n/a
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 124 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  Financial Statements 125
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
41.  Capital Requirements Directive
Under Pillar 3 of the Capital Requirements Directive, prescribed in the UK by the Financial Services Authority, the Group is required to disclose
information relating to its risks and its regulatory capital and risk management objectives and policies. The Group’s Pillar 3 disclosures are given
on the Company’s website (www.fcamplc.com).
42. Guarantees
The Company’s subsidiary, F&C Netherlands B.V., has provided a lease guarantee for £0.3m to the landlord of its premises at Jachthavenweg
109k, 1081 KM Amsterdam. The guarantee is in respect of 3 months’ rent (inclusive of services, additional charges and VAT).
43. Events after the reporting period
(i) Share-based payment award
The following share-based payment award was granted after 31 December 2010 but before approval of these Financial Statements.
Share price at
No. of shares date of issue
Scheme Grant date Vesting date awarded (fair value)
Long Term Remuneration Plan 10 March 2011 10 March 2014 15,424,697 £0.79
(ii) Corporation Tax rate change
On 23 March 2011 The Chancellor of the Exchequer announced a further 1% reduction to proposed UK Corporation Tax rates. Further details
and the impact of this change are disclosed in note 9 (c). 
(iii) Proposed outsourcing arrangements
On 14 January 2011, the Board announced plans to enhance the flexibility of the Group’s cost base, including the proposed outsourcing of
certain back and middle office functions. Subsequently, Heads of Terms have been agreed with State Street, with the expectation of signing a
definitive outsourcing agreement during Q2 2011. Further details of this proposal and the expected associated cost savings are given in the
Chief Executive’s Report on page 5.
44. Parent undertaking and controlling party
In the opinion of the Directors, the Group’s ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party until 3 July 2009 was Friends Provident plc. 
From 3 July 2009, in the opinion of the Directors, the Group has no ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 125 126 Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Historical summaries
The Five Year Record is shown based on International Financial Reporting Standards which have been adopted by the Group. 
This Five Year Record is not part of the audited Financial Statements.
2008
2006 2007 (as restated
#
) 2009 2010
£m £m £m £m £m
Consolidated Income Statements
Revenue
Investment management fees 257.6 267.2 244.2 237.8 258.2
Other income 3.7 10.6 1.1 4.1 1.6
Total revenue 261.3 277.8 245.3 241.9 259.8
Fee and commission expenses (10.5) (13.3) (15.4) (16.8) (16.6)
Net revenue 250.8 264.5 229.9 225.1 243.2
Net gains/(losses) and investment income on unit-linked assets 106.7 45.0 (208.7) 136.0 74.3
Movement in fair value of unit-linked liabilities (105.0) (43.9) 210.5 (134.6) (73.3)
Operating expenses
Operating expenses (159.4) (183.8) (171.0) (164.8) (169.7)
Distributions to members of LLPs –––– (6.0)
Amortisation of intangible assets – management contracts (43.0) (42.4) (48.9) (49.8) (50.7)
Impairment of intangible assets – management contracts (58.5) – (48.3) – –
Unrealised (losses)/gains on forward currency contracts –– (12.3) 1.2 –
Other exceptional net operating costs (11.6) (10.6) (10.6) (19.0) (20.9)
Total operating expenses before restructuring costs (272.5) (236.8) (291.1) (232.4) (247.3)
Operating (loss)/profit before restructuring costs (20.0) 28.8 (59.4) (5.9) (3.1)
Restructuring costs:
– Reorganisation costs post acquisition of F&CGH Group (9.7) ––– –
Operating (loss)/profit after restructuring costs (29.7) 28.8 (59.4) (5.9) (3.1)
Finance revenue 20.6 23.8 25.7 11.5 11.1
Finance costs (22.0) (27.3) (29.4) (30.3) (33.6)
F&C REIT put option fair value gain ––– 5.6 6.4
Gain on debt exchange ––– 27.9 –
Loss on disposal of subsidiaries and associates (0.1) – (4.1) – –
Impairment in associates and other financial investments (0.8) – (0.1) (0.1) –
Share of profit of associates 1.5 0.6 –– –
(Loss)/profit before tax (30.5) 25.9 (67.3) 8.7 (19.2)
Tax – Shareholders 8.9 (6.6) 17.6 10.4 6.2
Tax – Policyholders (0.9) (0.6) (0.9) (0.4) (0.4)
Tax income/(expense) 8.0 (7.2) 16.7 10.0 5.8
(Loss)/profit for the year (22.5) 18.7 (50.6) 18.7 (13.4)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (23.5) 17.1 (52.5) 15.9 (16.6)
Minority interests 1.0 1.6 1.9 2.8 3.2
(Loss)/profit for the year (22.5) 18.7 (50.6) 18.7 (13.4)
Underlying earnings per Ordinary Share 12.80p 10.37p 7.76p 4.58p 5.58p
Basic (loss)/earnings per Ordinary Share (4.91)p 3.54p (10.66)p 3.24p (3.31)p
Diluted (loss)/earnings per Ordinary Share (4.91)p 3.43p (10.66)p 3.19p (3.31)p
Dividends
Memo
Final dividend for 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 33.5 33.8 19.7 19.8 19.4
Interim dividend for 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 19.2 9.7 9.9 9.7 5.1
52.7 43.5 29.6 29.5 24.5
Final dividend per Ordinary Share for 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 7.0p 7.0p 4.0p 4.0p 4.0p
Interim dividend per Ordinary Share for 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 4.0p 2.0p 2.0p 2.0p 1.0p
Dividend cover
†
(0.45) 0.39 (1.78) 0.54 (0.68)
Dividend cover before exceptional items
†
1.17 1.15 1.29 0.76 1.14
# As restated for the amendment to IFRS 2: Share-based Payment.
† Based on the dividends paid during 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010.
Five Year Record
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 126 F&C Asset Management Financial Statements 127
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
The following tables reconcile the reported earnings to underlying earnings and demonstrate the impact of foreign exchange gains and losses.
In addition, the calculation of key performance indicators is also given below.
Year ended 31 December 2010
£ millions unless otherwise stated Underlying EPS Underlying EPS ex FX
Adjusted Adjustments Adjusted
Reported Income for FX (gains)/ Income
earnings Adjustments Statement losses Statement
A Net Revenue 243.2 – 243.2 – 243.2
Net policyholder income 1.0 – 1.0 – 1.0
Operating expenses (169.0) – (169.0) – (169.0)
Exchange losses (1.6) – (1.6) 1.6 –
Realised gains attributable to closed FX contracts 0.9 – 0.9 (0.9) –
FX contract losses recognised in prior periods – (1.3) (1.3) 1.3 –
Operating expenses (169.7) (1.3) (171.0) 2.0 (169.0)
Distribution to members of LLPs (6.0) – (6.0) – (6.0)
Amortisation of intangible assets (50.7) 50.7 –––
Other exceptional net operating expenses (20.9) 20.9 –––
Total operating expenses (247.3) 70.3 (177.0) 2.0 (175.0)*
B Operating (loss)/profit (3.1) 70.3 67.2 2.0 69.2
F&C REIT put option fair value gain 6.4 (6.4) –––
Interest paid (22.3) – (22.3) – (22.3)
Interest and investment income received 1.6 – 1.6 – 1.6
Other non-operating items (1.8) – (1.8) – (1.8)
Minority interest – (6.4) (6.4) – (6.4)
(Loss)/profit before tax (19.2) 57.5 38.3 2.0 40.3
Tax income/(expense) 5.8 (16.1) (10.3) (0.6) (10.9)
C (Loss)/profit for year (13.4) 41.4 28.0 1.4 29.4
Underlying EPS (C÷D) 5.6p 5.9p
Group operating margin (B÷A) 27.6% 28.5%
D Weighted average number of shares (000’s) 501,469 501,469
* This represents “underlying operating expenses”
Year ended 31 December 2009
£ millions unless otherwise stated Underlying EPS Underlying EPS ex FX
Adjusted Adjustments Adjusted
Reported Income for FX (gains)/ Income
earnings Adjustments Statement losses Statement
A Net Revenue 225.1 – 225.1 – 225.1
Net policyholder income 1.4 – 1.4 – 1.4
Underlying operating expenses (166.6) – (166.6) – (166.6)
Exchange losses (4.1) – (4.1) 4.1 –
Realised gains attributable to closed FX contracts 5.9 – 5.9 (5.9) –
FX contract losses recognised in prior periods – (9.9) (9.9) 9.9 –
Operating expenses (164.8) (9.9) (174.7) 8.1 (166.6)
Amortisation of intangible assets (49.8) 49.8 –––
Unrealised gains attributable to open FX contracts 1.2 (1.2) –––
Other exceptional net operating expenses (19.0) 19.0 –––
Total operating expenses (232.4) 57.7 (174.7) 8.1 (166.6)
B Operating (loss)/profit (5.9) 57.7 51.8 8.1 59.9
Gain on debt exchange 27.9 (27.9) –––
F&C REIT put option fair value gain 5.6 (5.6) –––
Interest paid (20.3) – (20.3) – (20.3)
Interest and investment income received 3.6 – 3.6 – 3.6
Other non-operating items (2.2) – (2.2) – (2.2)
Minority interest – (6.2) (6.2) – (6.2)
Profit before tax 8.7 18.0 26.7 8.1 34.8
Tax income/(expense) 10.0 (14.2) (4.2) (2.3) (6.5)
C Profit for year 18.7 3.8 22.5 5.8 28.3
Underlying EPS (C÷D) 4.6p 5.8p
Group operating margin (B÷A) 23.0% 26.6%
D Weighted average number of shares (000’s) 491,145 491,145
Key Performance Indicators
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 127 128 Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
31 December
31 December 2009
2010 (as restated
†
)
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets 6 1.3 1.8
Investments in subsidiaries 7 1,262.8 1,199.1
Other investments 8 9.8 9.8
1,273.9 1,210.7
Current assets
Debtors – amounts falling due:
Within one year 9 107.1 105.5
Outwith one year 9 61.8 61.6
Cash and short-term deposits 0.2 0.2
169.1 167.3
Creditors (amounts falling due within one year) 10 (31.1) (25.3)
Net current assets 138.0 142.0
Total assets less current liabilities 1,411.9 1,352.7
Creditors (amounts falling due outwith one year) 10 (311.1) (283.4)
Provisions for liabilities 11 (6.9) (10.2)
Net assets 1,093.9 1,059.1
Capital and reserves
Called up Ordinary Share capital 16, 17 0.5 0.5
Share premium account 17 51.8 33.8
Capital Redemption reserve 17 0.8 0.8
Merger reserve 17 912.7 912.7
Other reserves 17 75.8 68.3
Profit and loss account 17 52.3 43.0
Total shareholders’ funds 17 1,093.9 1,059.1
† The restatement is explained in note 1 to the Financial Statements.
The Company Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 6 April 2011. They were signed 
on its behalf by:
Edward Bramson Alain Grisay 
Chairman Chief Executive
Company Balance Sheet
as at 31 December 2010
Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2010  
These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP).
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the F&C Asset Management Group, given on pages 41 to 125 have been prepared
in accordance with IFRS.
The accompanying notes to the Company Financial Statements form an integral part of these financial statements.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 128 F&C Asset Management Financial Statements 129
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Basis of preparation
The separate Financial Statements of the Company are presented
as required by the Companies Act and are prepared under the
historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of
investments, and in accordance with applicable accounting
standards in the United Kingdom.
The principal accounting policies set out below have been applied
consistently for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 
31 December 2009, with the exception of the prior period
adjustment in respect of the minority interest put options, as
explained in note 1.
In accordance with Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 a
separate Profit and Loss Account for the Company is not presented.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29:
Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and has not
disclosed the information required by that standard because the
Company is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements
which are publicly available and include disclosures given under
IFRS 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to
affect its future development, performance and position are set out
in the Business Review on pages 2 to 20. The financial position of
the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are also described in
the Business Review. In addition, note 36 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements on pages 106 to 110 includes the Group’s
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its
financial risk manaqement objectives; details of its financial
instruments and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation
that the Company has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these
Financial Statements.
Turnover
Turnover comprises fees for secretarial services provided to
Investment Trusts and shared services and administration services
provided to subsidiary undertakings. Fees are recognised in the
Profit and Loss Account over the period for which these services are
provided.
Dividend recognition
Dividends receivable and dividends payable are recognised only
when they have been declared and approved or at the date of
payment for interim dividends.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less accumulated
impairment losses. The cost includes the uplift arising from the
equity-settled share-based payments calculated in accordance with
FRS 20: Share-based Payment, where no cash contributions are
made by the subsidiaries. The uplift is credited to a capital
contribution reserve in equity. The Company recharges certain
subsidiaries when it satisfies these equity-settled awards with its
own shares.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Expenditure on tangible fixed assets is capitalised on initial
recognition. Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised when it is
probable that there will be future economic benefits associated with
the expenditure which can be measured reliably. All other
expenditure is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account as an
expense as incurred.
Tangible fixed assets are depreciated, using the straight-line
method, to write off the cost of assets over their estimated useful
lives, as follows:
Leasehold improvements – 10 years
Office furniture & equipment – 3-5 years
Computer equipment – 3 years
The carrying value of assets and their useful lives are reviewed at
each reporting date. If an indication of impairment exists, the assets
are written down to their recoverable amount and the impairment is
charged to the Profit and Loss Account in the year in which it arises.
Financial instruments
When financial instruments are recognised initially they are
measured at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
The fair value of instruments that are actively traded in organised
financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid
prices (mid price for Open Ended Investment Companies) at the
close of business on the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments are classified into the categories described
below:
(i) Available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value in the
Balance Sheet. In respect of unquoted instruments, or where
the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is
established by using recognised valuation methodologies, in
accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital
Valuation Guidelines.
For unquoted investments in early stage enterprises and
enterprises with revenues but without significant profits or
significant positive cash flows, fair value is determined using the
“Price of a Recent Investment” method. Repayments are treated
as reductions to carrying value. After an appropriate period, an
assessment is made as to whether the circumstances of the
investment have changed such that another valuation
methodology is appropriate or there is any evidence of
deterioration or strong defensible evidence of an increase in
value. In the absence of these indicators, fair value is
determined to be that reported at the previous balance 
sheet date.
Company Accounting Policies
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 129 130 Financial Statements Company Accounting Policies F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Unquoted investments with revenues, maintainable profits
and/or maintainable cash flows are valued by deriving an
Enterprise Value of the underlying business.
Movements in fair value, other than impairment losses and
foreign exchange movements on monetary assets, are taken to
the fair value reserve in equity until derecognition of the asset, at
which time the cumulative amount in this reserve is recognised
in the Profit and Loss Account. The following assets are
classified as available for sale:
• Fixed assets
– Other investments
(ii) Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss include
investments which have been specifically designated as ‘at fair
value through profit or loss’. These are carried in the Balance
Sheet at fair value and movements in fair value are taken to the
Profit and Loss Account in the period in which they arise. The
following assets are classified as financial instruments at fair
value through profit or loss:
• Fixed assets
– Other investments
(iii) Loans and receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair
value plus any incremental costs incurred. Subsequent to initial
recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortised
cost using the effective interest rate method. Gains and losses
are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account when loans and
receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the
amortisation process. The following assets and liabilities are
classified as loans and receivables:
• Current assets:
– Debtors
– Cash and short-term deposits
(iv) Financial liabilities are recognised at amortised cost using the
effective interest rate method after initial recognition. The
following liabilities are classified as financial liabilities:
• Creditors (amounts falling due within one year)
• Creditors (amounts falling due outwith one year)
The Company has adopted “trade date” accounting for
purchases or sales of financial assets under a contract whose
terms require delivery of the assets within the timeframe
established in the marketplace concerned. Accordingly, such
financial instruments are recognised on the date the Company
commits to the purchase of the investments, and are
derecognised on the date it commits to their sale.
Minority interest put options
Previously, minority interest put options were included in the Balance
Sheet at the gross value of the option liability, with any change in
value reflected through the Profit and Loss Account. As it has been
determined that these do not constitute an obligation to purchase
own equity, the options have now been valued at their estimated fair
value. As a result, a prior period adjustment has been made, as
disclosed in note 1.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets
A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset, is
derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset
have expired.
Financial liabilities
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the
liability is either discharged, cancelled or expires.
Impairment of financial assets
The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a
financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost
If there is objective evidence that an impairment in loans and
receivables carried at amortised cost has occurred, the amount of
the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the
asset’s carrying amount and the expected recoverable amount. The
carrying amount of the asset would be reduced and the amount of
the loss recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss
decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event
occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously
recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any subsequent reversal of
an impairment loss is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account to
the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its
amortised cost at the reversal date.
Available for sale financial assets
If an available for sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the
difference between its cost (net of any principal payment and
amortisation) and its current fair value, less any impairment loss
previously recognised in the Profit and Loss Account, is transferred
from reserves to the Profit and Loss Account. Reversals in respect
of equity instruments classified as available for sale are not
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. Reversals of impairment
losses on debt instruments are taken through the Profit and Loss
Account, if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be
objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss
was recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that
have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where
transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in
an obligation to pay less or receive more tax, with the following
exceptions:
• Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation
(and similar fair value adjustments) of fixed assets, or gains on
disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into
replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet
date, there is a commitment to dispose of the assets
concerned. However, no provision is made where, on the basis
of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more
likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into
replacement assets and charged to tax only when the
replacement assets are sold;
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 130 F&C Asset Management Company Accounting Policies Financial Statements 131
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
• Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on
remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only
to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have
been accrued as receivable; and
• Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the
Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be
suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing
differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates
that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences
reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively
enacted at the balance sheet date.
Operating leases
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the Profit and
Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives are recognised by the Company as a reduction of
the rental expense, allocated on a straight-line basis, over the
shorter of the lease term and a period ending on a date from which
it is expected the prevailing market rental will be payable.
Accounting for Employee Benefit Trusts (‘EBTs’)
UITF 38 requires that own shares acquired through an EBT be
deducted in arriving at shareholders’ funds until they vest
unconditionally to the employees. Consideration paid and received
for the purchase or sale of these shares is included in shareholders’
funds and no gain or loss is recognised. Other assets and liabilities
of the EBTs are recognised as assets and liabilities of the Company.
Ordinary Shares of the Company are held by EBTs in order to satisfy
a number of F&C Group share-based payment plans and future
exercises of options and awards to employees of subsidiary
companies. The cost relating to the share-based payment plans is
recognised in the subsidiary companies which employ the staff in
receipt of awards and the Company recognises any fresh issue of
shares or re-issue of own shares when such a transaction occurs.
These shares are included in the Financial Statements of the
Company as a deduction from shareholders’ funds.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Company
has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and
it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to
settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are
determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-
tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. No
provision is established where a reliable estimate of the obligation
cannot be made.
Where the Company expects some or all of a provision to be
reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset
but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Where the Company has obligations under property leases and
where the space has ceased to be used for the purposes of the
business, full provision is made for future net outstanding liabilities
under such leases after taking into account the effect of any
expected sub-letting arrangements.
Related party disclosures
FRS 8: Related Party Disclosures requires disclosure of the details of
material transactions between the reporting entity and related
parties. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS
8 not to disclose transactions between F&C Group companies
which eliminate on consolidation.
Foreign currencies
The Company’s Financial Statements are presented in millions of
pounds Sterling (rounded to one decimal place), the Company’s
functional and presentational currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional
currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at
the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at
the balance sheet date, and any exchange differences arising are
taken to the Profit and Loss Account.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost in a
foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date
of transaction and are not subsequently restated. Non-monetary
assets and liabilities stated at fair value in a foreign currency are
translated at the exchange rate at the date the fair value was
determined. When fair value movements in assets and liabilities are
reflected in the Profit and Loss Account, the corresponding
exchange movements are also recognised in the Profit and Loss
Account. Conversely, when fair value movements in assets and
liabilities are reflected directly in equity, the corresponding exchange
movements are also recognised directly in equity, with the exception
of available for sale debt instruments, which are reflected in the
Profit and Loss Account.
Share-based payments
The Company operates a share scheme arrangement which
requires to be accounted for as a share-based payment.
All grants of shares, share options or other share-based instruments
that were granted after 7 November 2002 have been recognised as
an expense. The fair values of share-based payment awards are
measured using a valuation model applicable to the terms of the
awards. The fair value is measured by an independent external
valuer at the date the award is granted and the expense is spread
over the period during which the parties become unconditionally
entitled to exercise the awards, known as the vesting period. The
cumulative expense recognised in the Profit and Loss Account is
equal to the estimated fair value of the award multiplied by the
number of awards expected to vest. 
The fair value of share-based payment awards, where it is not
considered possible to estimate reliably the fair value of these
awards at the grant date, is determined by measurement of the
equity instruments at intrinsic value. The intrinsic value is spread
over the vesting period.
Vesting of equity-settled employee share awards depends upon
meeting “non-market related” performance conditions. The type of
vesting criteria affects the calculation of the expense charged to the
Profit and Loss Account and subsequent adjustments as non-
market related conditions are performance criteria, such as earnings
targets and/or service requirements. The probability of meeting non-
market conditions is incorporated into the expense charge via the
estimate of the number of awards expected to vest. The total
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 131 132 Financial Statements Company Accounting Policies F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
cumulative expense is ultimately adjusted to reflect the actual
number of awards which vest. Therefore, if no awards vest, no
cumulative expense is ultimately recognised.
FRS 20: Share-based Payment makes a distinction between awards
settled in equity and those settled in cash. Equity-settled awards are
charged to the Profit and Loss Account with a corresponding credit
to equity. Cash-settled awards are charged to the Profit and Loss
Account with a corresponding credit to liabilities. The estimated fair
value of cash-settled awards is re-measured at each reporting date
until the payments are ultimately settled.
Ordinary Share capital
When Ordinary Shares are issued the proceeds on issue are
allocated to the equity component and included in shareholders’
funds, net of transaction costs.
When Ordinary Shares are repurchased, the amounts of
consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, are
recognised in the own share reserve included within retained
earnings and are classified as deductions in equity. Dealings in own
shares are reflected through equity. 
Dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised on the date of
payment, or if subject to approval, the date approved by the
shareholders.
Cash flow statement
The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions in FRS 1
(revised): Cash Flow Statements and has elected not to prepare a
Cash Flow Statement as it is included within the Consolidated Cash
Flow Statement in the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C
Asset Management plc.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 132 F&C Asset Management Financial Statements 133
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
1. Prior period adjustment
In 2009 and prior years, the F&C REIT minority interest put options were included in the Balance Sheet at the gross value of the option liability.
As it has been determined that these do not constitute an option to purchase own equity, these options have been valued at their estimated
fair value. This change has been applied retrospectively and accordingly a prior year adjustment has been made.
The effect on the Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account is as follows:
As at 31 December 2008 £m
Balance Sheet impact
Creditors – amounts falling due outwith one year 66.0
Capital and reserves – acquisition reserve (66.0)
Year ended 31 December 2009
Profit and Loss Account 
Put option fair value gain 5.6
Balance Sheet impact
Creditors – amounts falling due outwith one year 60.4
Capital and reserves – retained earnings 5.6
Capital and reserves – acquisition reserve (66.0)
There is no tax effect on the above adjustments.
2. Auditor’s remuneration
Amounts received by the Company’s auditor in respect of services to the Company have not been disclosed as the Group-wide information is
disclosed in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
3. Directors’ remuneration
Details of Directors’ remuneration are as follows:
2010 2009
£m £m
Aggregate emoluments 2.2 2.1
Company contributions paid to defined contribution pension schemes 0.1 0.1
Aggregate value of gains made by Directors on exercise of share awards 0.9 0.1
2010 2009
No. No.
Members of defined contribution pension schemes 2 2
Full disclosure of Directors’ remuneration is shown on pages 35 to 38.
The Company has no employees (including Directors) under contract of employment, all F&C Group employees being employed by several
subsidiary companies.
4. Dividends
Details of dividends paid and proposed during the year are disclosed in note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 66.
5. Acquisition of Thames River Capital Group
Full details of the acquisition of the TRC Group are disclosed in note 15(a) to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 70 to 72. Under
UK GAAP the expenses of acquisition are capitalised in accordance with FRS 7, while under IFRS these are expensed by the Group through
the Income Statement. The details of the acquisition are otherwise similar to those disclosed in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The aggregate consideration in respect of the acquisition of TRC in the Company Financial Statements is summarised as follows:
Note £m
Initial consideration – cash 33.6
Estimated additional cash consideration payable as a result of TRC net assets exceeding target net assets 7.5
Estimate of first instalment of conditional consideration 5.0
Estimate of second instalment of conditional consideration 2.5
Expenses of acquisition 7.2
Total estimated consideration 7 55.8
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 133 134 Financial Statements  Notes to the Company Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
6. Tangible fixed assets
Leasehold Office furniture Computer
improvements and equipment equipment Total
£m £m £m £m 
Cost:
At 1 January 2010 4.1 0.4 5.7 10.2
Disposals –– (0.4) (0.4)
At 31 December 2010 4.1 0.4 5.3 9.8
Depreciation:
At 1 January 2010 2.4 0.4 5.6 8.4
Depreciation charge for the year 0.4 – 0.1 0.5
Disposals –– (0.4) (0.4)
At 31 December 2010 2.8 0.4 5.3 8.5
Net book values:
At 31 December 2009 1.7 – 0.1 1.8
At 31 December 2010 1.3 –– 1.3
7. Investments in subsidiaries
Note £m
Cost:
At 1 January 2010 1,202.1
Addition in respect of the acquisition of TRC 5 55.8
Capital Contribution in respect of TRC Commutation arrangements 1.4
Additions in respect of share-based payment awards 19.5
Recharge in respect of share-based payment awards (13.0)
At 31 December 2010 1,265.8
Cumulative impairment:
At 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2010 3.0
Net book values:
At 31 December 2009 1,199.1
At 31 December 2010 1,262.8
Included within the above net book value is £73.4m (31 December 2009: £66.9m) in respect of equity-settled share-based payment awards
made by subsidiary undertakings.
8. Other investments
The classification of investments at 31 December is as follows:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Available for sale (a) 3.2 2.0
Fair value through profit or loss (b) 6.6 7.8
9.8 9.8
(a) Available for sale
Unquoted
£m
At 1 January 2010 2.0
Fair value movement in the year 1.2
At 31 December 2010 3.2
These investments represent carried interest entitlement in private equity funds.
The unquoted investments have been valued in accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines and in
accordance with the limited partnership agreements where possible.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 134 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Company Financial Statements  Financial Statements 135
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
8. Other investments continued
(b) Fair value through profit or loss
Purchased 
Equity Plan NIC Hedge Total
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2010 4.7 3.1 7.8
Disposals in the year (1.0) (0.7) (1.7)
Fair value movement in year 0.3 0.2 0.5
At 31 December 2010 4.0 2.6 6.6
Further details of these investments are disclosed in note 18(a)(i)(2) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, on page 75.
The cost of quoted investments as at 31 December 2010 was £3.5m (31 December 2009: £5.2m).
The valuation of quoted investments as at 31 December 2010 was £5.1m (31 December 2009: £5.5m). The fair value of quoted investments is
based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date without any deduction for transaction costs.
9. Debtors
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
Note £m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Trade debtors 1.2 1.1
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 2.4 5.9
Loan to subsidiary undertaking 89.4 87.0
Prepayments 3.4 1.6
VAT recoverable 0.7 0.3
Group relief receivable 3.0 2.6
Other debtors 7.0 7.0
107.1 105.5
Amounts due outwith one year:
Loan to subsidiary undertaking 60.0 60.0
Deferred tax 13 1.8 1.6
61.8 61.6
The loan to the subsidiary undertaking bears interest at 3 month LIBOR minus 0.25% and is with F&C Treasury Limited. The Company will give
written notice of a minimum of one year to seek repayment of £60.0m. The £89.4m included within Amounts due within one year is repayable
on demand.
10. Creditors
31 December
31 December 2009
2010 (as restated
†
)
Note £m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Trade creditors 0.5 0.1
Accruals 8.0 8.8
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 2.5 3.9
Amounts owed to Eureko Group 0.7 0.7
Other creditors 9.4 1.8
Loans from subsidiary undertakings 12 10.0 –
Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010 12 – 10.0
31.1 25.3
Amounts due outwith one year:
Other creditors 7.5 –
Loans from subsidiary undertakings 12 45.0 25.0
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026
#
12 258.6 258.4
311.1 283.4
†
As disclosed in note 1.
# 
At 31 December 2010 £135.0m (31 December 2009: £135.0m) of the Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 are held by F&C Finance plc, a
subsidiary undertaking.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 135 136 Financial Statements  Notes to the Company Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
10. Creditors continued
Other creditors at 31 December 2010 includes:
• £0.7m (31 December 2009: £0.7m) of estimated further consideration payable in respect of the acquisition of F&C Group (Holdings)
Limited during 2004; and
• £15.0m (31 December 2009: £nil) of estimated further consideration payable in respect of the acquisition of Thames River Capital Group
on 1 September 2010, as shown in note 5.
11.  Provisions for liabilities
Onerous Pension
premises Plan Investment Deferred Put option
contracts guarantee Trust VAT tax guarantee Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2009 5.3 0.1 1.4 0.5 – 7.3
Provided during the year 3.0 –– 0.1 2.4 5.5
Utilised during the year (1.1) – (0.7) –– (1.8)
Released during the year – (0.1) (0.7) –– (0.8)
At 31 December 2009 7.2 –– 0.6 2.4 10.2
Provided during the year 0.4 0.1 – 0.3 – 0.8
Utilised during the year (1.2) –– –– (1.2)
Released during the year (0.5) –– – (2.4) (2.9)
At 31 December 2010 5.9 0.1 – 0.9 – 6.9
Onerous premises contracts
The Company holds all properties under operating leases. This includes a number of vacant or sub-let properties which were either previously
occupied or are partially occupied by the Company. Provision has been made for the residual lease commitments, where significant, after
taking into account existing and expected sub-tenant contractual arrangements. The remaining terms are for up to 10 years. 
Assumptions have been made as to whether each leasehold property may be sub-let or assigned in the future. All leases and sub-leases are
for minimum guaranteed rentals. The provision is subject to uncertainties over time including market rent reviews and break options within the
lease arrangements. In addition, exposure could exist if an existing tenant defaulted or went into liquidation or administration.
The amount included within the Profit and Loss Account in respect of unwinding of the discount on onerous premises provisions in 2010 is
£0.4m (2009: £0.1m).
Pension Plan guarantee
The Company has agreed to provide the F&C Asset Management Pension Plan (‘FCAM Plan’) Trustees with a guarantee that should F&C
Asset Management Services Limited become insolvent, the Company will guarantee an amount up to the lower of the cost of securing
members’ benefits with an insurance company over the assets of the FCAM Plan (the ‘solvency deficit’) and £120.0m. The provision
represents the actuarial estimate of the fair value of the guarantee at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009.
Investment Trust VAT
During 2007, HM Revenue and Customs (‘HMRC’) agreed that asset management services to UK Investment Trust Companies (‘ITCs’) should
be exempt from VAT.  The Company, in common with other asset managers in the UK, received claims from ITCs for the repayment of VAT
charged to them for historic periods dating back to 1990. While the Company charged VAT in accordance with applicable UK law at the time,
a provision was recognised in 2007 to the extent that the expected payments to be made to ITCs were greater than the expected amount
recoverable from HMRC.  In early 2009 all amounts due to ITCs by the Company were settled and the excess of the provision of £0.7m was
released to the Profit and Loss Account. No provision is therefore required at 31 December 2009 or 2010.
Deferred tax
The deferred tax provision relates to short-term timing differences which have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date. The
provision is subject to uncertainties in respect of when timing differences might reverse. The provision relates to the revaluation of available for
sale assets, which is recognised as a separate component of reserves.
A further analysis of deferred taxation is disclosed in note 13.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 136 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Company Financial Statements  Financial Statements 137
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
11.  Provisions for liabilities continued
Put option guarantee
Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 82 outlines the circumstances surrounding the put option notice received from, and
other claims made by, the two founder members of F&C Partners LLP (‘Partners’), the Group’s majority-owned fund of hedge funds business,
together with the quantum of the provision recognised. 
A provision of £2.4m was recognised in respect of these matters during 2009 in the Financial Statements of F&C Alternative Investment
(Holdings) Limited (F&C AIH), a subsidiary company and the corporate member of Partners.  The Company, through the Partnership
Agreement, has guaranteed any amounts validly due to the founder members in respect of the put option to the extent that F&C AIH is unable
to meet such obligations. A corresponding provision of £2.4m was recognised in the Company’s Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2009.
However, the provision was released in 2010 as it is now expected that F&C AIH has sufficient resources available to it to meet any amount
payable in respect of a valid put option claim by the two founder members of Partners.  Therefore no provision is recognised in the Company
Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2010 in respect of this matter.
12.  Loans
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Amounts repayable:
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 (i) 258.6 258.4
Fixed Rate inter-company loan 2016 (ii) 25.0 25.0
Fixed Rate inter-company loan 2016 (iii) 20.0 –
Floating Rate inter-company loan repayable on demand (iv) 6.0 –
Floating Rate inter-company loan repayable on demand (v) 4.0 –
Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010 (vi) – 10.0
313.6 293.4
(i) The £260.0m Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 bear interest at 6.75% per annum for the period 20 December 2006 –
19 December 2016, payable annually in arrears. The Company has the option to extend the Notes beyond 19 December 2016 at a rate of
2.69% above 3 month LIBOR for the period 20 December 2016 – 19 December 2026, payable quarterly in arrears.
(ii) The £25.0m loan bears interest at a fixed rate of 13.26%, payable half-yearly in arrears. This loan is due to F&C Finance plc, a subsidiary
undertaking, and is repayable on 19 December 2016.
(iii) The £20.0m loan bears interest at a fixed rate of 9.66%, payable half-yearly in arrears. This loan is due to F&C Finance plc and is repayable
on 19 December 2016.
(iv) The £6.0m loan bears interest at 3 month LIBOR minus 0.25%, payable quarterly in arrears.  This loan is due to F&C Managers Limited
and is repayable on demand.
(v) The £4.0m loan bears interest at 3 month LIBOR minus 0.25%, payable quarterly in arrears.  This loan is due to F&C Managed Pension
Funds Limited and is repayable on demand.
(vi) The Floating Rate Secured Notes were held by Kendray Properties Limited, which held security over FCAM’s entire holding in F&C REIT
Asset Management LLP until 29 June 2010 when all liabilities due under the terms of the loan note agreement were settled.
These £10.0m Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010 bore interest at the following rates:
From 16 December 2008 to 15 June 2009 at LIBOR +3%;
From 16 June 2009 until redemption at LIBOR +4%.
Interest was payable quarterly in arrears. 
Note 22 on page 80 of the Consolidated Financial Statements provides details of borrowing facilities entered into by the Company during
2010. The £15.0m bridging facility was utilised to partially fund the TRC acquisition and was subsequently repaid by the Company by way of a
loan from F&C Finance plc, the Group company which issued a further £20m of Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 in September 2010.
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
Note £m £m
Amounts repayable:
In one year or less, or on demand 10 10.0 10.0
In more than one year but not more than two years – –
In more than two years but not more than five years – –
In more than five years 10 303.6 283.4
313.6 293.4
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 137 138 Financial Statements  Notes to the Company Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
12.  Loans continued
Borrowing facilities
The Company has borrowing facilities available to it. The undrawn committed facilities available at the year-end are as follows:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Revolving credit facility 20.0 –
Bank overdraft facilities 0.5 0.5
20.5 0.5
Details of the revolving credit facility are disclosed in note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 80.
13.  Deferred taxation
2010 2009
£m £m
At 1 January 1.0 0.6
(Utilised)/provided during the year (0.1) 0.4
At 31 December 0.9 1.0
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Deferred taxation is provided as follows:
Distributions from partnerships 0.8 0.6
Depreciation in advance of capital allowances 0.7 0.7
Other timing differences 0.3 0.3
Revaluation of available for sale assets (0.9) (0.6)
0.9 1.0
Disclosed in the Financial Statements as follows:
Debtors: Amounts due outwith one year 9 1.8 1.6
Provisions for liabilities 11 (0.9) (0.6)
Net deferred tax asset 0.9 1.0
The Directors believe it is appropriate to recognise a deferred tax asset because it is considered that it is more likely than not that there will be
suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
14.  Share-based payments
F&C REIT variable minority interest share-based payment (‘SBP’)
Details of this share-based payment award are disclosed in note 26(c) to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 95.
The Company recognised a credit (2009: expense) in respect of this award. A combination of a reassessment of the likelihood of the financial
targets being achieved and the reassessment of the fair value of the F&C REIT business resulted in a credit being recognised in 2010.
2010 2009
£m £m
F&C REIT variable minority interest SBP (0.3) 3.7
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Total carrying amount of cash-settled liabilities 4.8 5.1
15.  Pension commitments
The sponsoring company and principal employer for the FCAM Plan is F&C Asset Management Services Limited. 
The Company has provided a guarantee in respect of this Plan, further details of which are described in note 11.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 138 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Company Financial Statements  Financial Statements 139
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
16. Ordinary Share capital
31 December 2010 31 December 2009
No. of No. of
Ordinary Share capital of 0.1p shares £m shares £m
Authorised:
Equity interests
Ordinary Shares of 0.1p 800,000,000 0.8 800,000,000 0.8
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
Equity interests
Ordinary Shares of 0.1p 532,118,789 0.5 499,273,120 0.5
No. of shares
2010 2009
Issued at 1 January 499,273,120 495,725,314
Placing of new shares 24,807,145 –
Issued at Completion in respect of TRC Commutation arrangements 6,085,996 –
Issue of Shares at par to settle share-based payment awards* 1,952,528 3,547,806
Issued at 31 December 532,118,789 499,273,120
* During the year Ordinary Shares were allotted, at par value, to settle share-based payment awards. There was no exercise price associated with these awards.
The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at
meetings of the Company.
Further details of shares allotted during the year are disclosed in note 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 103.
£14.2m consideration was received in respect of the Ordinary Share capital issued during the year ended 31 December 2010 (2009: £nil).
Contingent rights to the allotment of shares
The Group operates several share-based payment schemes and has a number of contractual obligations which have a contingent right to
Ordinary Shares which may be settled by the allotment of shares in the Company. The Company may choose to purchase shares in the market
or utilise its own shares to settle some of these awards.
At 31 December 2010 the maximum contingent right to the allotment of shares was as follows:
No. of awards Exercise
Scheme outstanding price (p) Exercise/vesting dates
Long-Term Remuneration Plan (Deferred Award) 39,371,737 0.00 1 January 2011 – 7 April 2013
Long-Term Remuneration Plan (Restricted Award) 3,786,486 0.00 4 May 2013
Executive Director Remuneration Plan (Deferred Award) 3,214,632 0.00 25 March 2011 – 8 July 2012
TRC Management Retention Plan 21,312,209 0.00 1 September 2013
TRC Management Incentive Plan 14,208,140 0.00 1 March 2013 – 1 September 2016
TRC Commutation Awards
†
25,449,030 0.00 1 September 2011 – 1 September 2016
Purchased Equity Plan (FCAM plc Shares) 783,727 0.00 1 January 2011 – 31 March 2013
Purchased Equity Plan (F&C Investment Funds)* 4,709,271 0.00 25 March 2011 – 2 April 2012
Deferred Share Awards 1,108,959 0.00 3 March 2011 – 1 March 2012
Share Save Scheme 86,270 171.0 1 January 2011 – 1 December 2011
Share Save Scheme 110,832 144.3 1 January 2011 – 1 December 2012
2002 Executive Share Option Scheme 480,908 139.00 1 January 2011 – 19 March 2013
2002 Executive Share Option Scheme 601,120 240.83 1 January 2011 – 9 March 2014
1995 Executive Share Option Scheme 236,500 455.83 1 January 2011 – 1 March 2011
TRC conditional consideration
†
(1st and 2nd instalments) 8,928,571 0.00 31 December 2011 – 30 June 2012
124,388,392
†
The potential number of shares as quantified at the reporting date.
* The number of shares is dependent on the share price and the value of F&C Funds as explained in note 26(h)(ii) to the Consolidated Financial Statements on 
page 98.
Details of share-based payment arrangements are given in note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Details of the TRC conditional consideration are given in note 15(a) to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 139 140 Financial Statements  Notes to the Company Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
16. Ordinary Share capital continued
Employee Benefit Trusts (‘EBTs’)
The following shares are held in EBTs where the Company is the sponsoring employer or in Nominee for the Company. These are categorised
as own shares and deducted from shareholders’ funds:
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
No. of shares No. of shares
F&C Management Limited Employee Benefit Trust 17,778,910 11,732,847
The Ivory & Sime Employee Benefit Trust 64,176 64,176
Held by RBC cees in a nominee capacity
#
2,195,059 –
20,038,145 11,797,023
#
These are specifically held as TRC Deferred Commutation Shares in respect of Commutation arrangements.
The aggregate nominal value of own shares held by EBTs at 31 December 2010 was £20,000 (31 December 2009: £12,000). The market
value of these shares at 31 December 2010 was £16.8m (31 December 2009: £9.0m).
The Trustees of the EBTs have waived their right to the dividend entitlement on some of these shares.
During the year, the Company purchased 13,849,362 of its own Ordinary Shares (2009: 11,043,017) of 0.1p to satisfy the settlement of
awards granted under share schemes and to hold as own shares. The consideration paid for the shares was £8.8m (2009: £7.4m). The cost of
this to the Company, after exercise price monies paid by the employees, was £8.6m (2009: £7.4m).
17.  Reserves
Reconciliation of movement in reserves:
Ordinary Share Capital Fair Capital Profit Total
Share premium Redemption Merger Acquisition value contribution and loss shareholders’
capital account reserve reserve reserve reserve
(1)
reserve
(1)
account funds
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2009 (as reported) 0.5 33.8 – 912.7 (66.0) 1.3 69.6 55.1 1,007.0
Prior period adjustment
†
–– –– 66.0 –– – 66.0
Balance at 1 January 2009 (as restated)
†
0.5 33.8 – 912.7 – 1.3 69.6 55.1 1,073.0
Purchase of own shares –– ––– –– (7.4) (7.4)
Profit for the year (as restated)
†
–– ––– –– 8.2 8.2
Final 2008 dividend paid –– ––– –– (19.8) (19.8)
Interim 2009 dividend paid –– ––– –– (9.7) (9.7)
Transfer to Capital Redemptionreserve on 
settlement of Preference Share capital –– 0.8 –– –– (0.8) –
Fair value gain –– ––– 0.2 –– 0.2
Tax on fair value gain –– ––– (0.1) –– (0.1)
Equity settled share-based payment charge –– ––– – 14.7 – 14.7
Transfer to Profit and Loss Account on settlement 
of share-based payment awards by subsidiaries –– ––– – (17.4) 17.4 –
Balance at 31 December 2009 (as restated)
†
0.5 33.8 0.8 912.7 – 1.4 66.9 43.0 1,059.1
Share capital allotted on
placement of shares – 14.2 –– ––– – 14.2
Share capital allotted in respect
of TRC Commutation arrangements – 3.8 –– ––– (3.8) –
Purchase of own shares –– ––– –– (8.8) (8.8)
Settlement proceeds received on 
disposal of own shares –– ––– –– 0.2 0.2
Profit for the year –– ––– –– 33.2 33.2
Final 2009 dividend paid –– ––– –– (19.4) (19.4)
Interim 2010 dividend paid –– ––– –– (5.1) (5.1)
Fair value gain –– ––– 1.2 – – 1.2
Tax on fair value gain –– ––– (0.2) – – (0.2)
Equity settled share-based payment charge –– ––– – 19.5 – 19.5
Transfer to Profit and Loss Account
on settlement of share-based
payment awards by subsidiaries –– ––– – (13.0) 13.0–
Balance at 31 December 2010 0.5 51.8 0.8 912.7 – 2.4 73.4 52.3 1,093.9
†
As disclosed in note 1.
(1) 
The Fair value reserve and Capital contribution reserve constitute ‘Other reserves’ as disclosed on the face of the Balance Sheet and amount to £75.8m at 
31 December 2010 (31 December 2009: £68.3m).
The profit after tax of the Company for the year, before dividends paid, was £33.2m (2009: £8.2m as restated).
The share premium recognised during 2010 is stated net of £0.4m of transaction expenses associated with the related share placing.
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 140 F&C Asset Management Notes to the Company Financial Statements  Financial Statements 141
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
18. Financial commitments
The Company had the following annual commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases and other contracts:
Premises Other Contracts
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2010 2009 2010 2009
£m £m £m £m
Commitments expiring within one year – – 0.1 –
Commitments expiring within two to five years 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Commitments expiring outwith five years 4.6 4.7 – –
4.7 4.8 0.1 0.1
The premises financial commitments disclosed above do not include any sub-leasing arrangements which the Company may have in place.
The amounts shown reflect gross commitments at the balance sheet dates.
19.  Capital commitments
There are no capital commitments not provided for, at 31 December 2010 (31 December 2009: £nil).
20.  Subsidiary undertakings
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings are disclosed in note 39 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 118 and 119.
21.  Related party transactions
The Company has taken exemption from the requirement to disclose related party transactions with wholly-owned members of the F&C Asset
Management plc Group on the basis that these companies are included within the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C Asset
Management plc.
Transactions with entities owned less than 90%
F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
F&C Asset Management plc owns 70% of F&C REIT Asset Management LLP . The other partners in the Partnership, all of whom have
significant influence over the management of the Partnership or a significant economic interest in the Partnership are:
Kendray Properties Limited 30.00% ownership interest in “A” units
Leo Noé 22.50% ownership interest in “B” units
Ivor Smith 7.50% ownership interest in “B” units
These parties are considered to be related parties.
£25.0m of the £35.0m 2010 Secured Loan Notes, which were issued as part consideration for the acquisition of the REIT Group in 2008,
were repaid to Kendray Properties Limited during 2009.  The remaining £10.0m of Secured Loan Notes were repaid to Kendray Properties
Limited on 29 June 2010.
Interest on Secured Loan Notes
Charged Outstanding at Charged Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2010 2010 during 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m
Interest payable to Kendray Properties Limited 0.2 – 1.5 –
Shared services and administrative services
The Company has a shared services agreement with F&C REIT Asset Management LLP whereby it provides certain administrative and
professional services to F&C REIT Asset Management LLP . Amounts charged under this agreement are set out below:
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2010 2010 during 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m
Administration service fees 0.8 0.1 1.0 0.1
£10.6m of profit distributions were paid to the Company by F&C REIT Asset Management LLP in 2010 (2009: £nil).
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 141 21.  Related party transactions continued
F&C Asset Management plc incurs a share-based payment expense in respect of the variable minority interest enhancement in ownership
interest which could be achieved by Kendray Properties Limited, Leo Noé and Ivor Smith. Full details are disclosed in note 26(c) to the
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 95.
The F&C REIT minority partners each have a put option, requiring the Company to purchase their minority stake in F&C REIT after a minimum
number of years, at fair value. The fair value of the option is nil, as the potential amount payable is the same as the fair value of the interests to
be acquired. 
In the Consolidated Financial Statements the gross amount payable under the option is dealt with as a liability, in accordance with IAS32 as an
obligation for purchase of own equity. As at 31 December 2010, the value of this commitment is estimated at £54.0 million. Further details are
provided in note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 101. The option liabilities are split in the ownership proportions of
Kendray Properties Limited, Leo Noé and Ivor Smith.
22. Guarantees
The Company has provided a guarantee in respect of the F&C Asset Management Pension Plan. Details of this guarantee are disclosed in 
note 11.
The Company has guaranteed the £149.7m 9% Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 issued by F&C Finance plc, details of which are
disclosed in note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 80. These Loan Notes are unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed
by the Company.
The Company has provided a guarantee in respect of the F&C Alternative Investments (Holdings) Limited’s obligation to pay the Put Option
Price of any valid exercise of put options under the F&C Partner LLP Agreement. Details are disclosed in note 11.
23.  Contingent liabilities
Ongoing business operations
In the normal course of its business, the Company is subject to matters of litigation or dispute. While there can be no assurances, at this time
the Directors believe, based on the information currently available to them, that it is not probable that the ultimate outcome of any of these
matters will have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company.
24.  Post Balance Sheet Events
Factors affecting future tax charges
The Chancellor of the Exchequer's Emergency Budget on 22 June 2010 announced that the UK Corporation Tax rate will reduce from 28% to
24% over a period of 4 years from 2011. The first reduction in the UK Corporation Tax rate from 28% to 27% was substantially enacted on 
20 July 2010 and is effective from 1 April 2011. Accordingly, this will reduce the Company's current tax charge in future. This rate change has
reduced the net deferred tax asset as at 31 December 2010 by £0.1m.
A further 1% reduction in the UK Corporation Tax rate was announced in the Chancellor's Budget of 23 March 2011. This was subsequently
enacted on 29 March 2011 and will take the Corporation Tax rate down to 26% with effect from 1 April 2011. It is estimated that the effect of
this additional 1% rate change will lead to a further reduction in the Company's net deferred tax asset of £0.1m.
The Directors are of the view that due to the significant level of estimation required it is not yet possible to quantify the full anticipated effect of
the proposed subsequent 3% rate reduction in future years, although this will further reduce the Company's current tax charge in future and
reduce the Company's deferred tax assets/(liabilities) recognised in the Balance Sheet.
25.  Parent undertaking and controlling party
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has no ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
142 Financial Statements  Notes to the Company Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
15841 F&C Annual Report_MIDDLE:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:37 Page 142 F&C Asset Management Shareholder Information 143
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Notice is hereby given that the thirty first Annual General Meeting 
of F&C Asset Management plc will be held at The Gibson Hall, 
13 Bishopsgate, London EC2N 3BA on Tuesday 3 May 2011 at 
11 a.m. (UK time) for the following purposes:
Ordinary Business
To be proposed as ordinary resolutions:
1. To receive the Financial Statements and the Reports of the
Directors and the Independent Auditors for the year ended 
31 December 2010.
2. To declare a final dividend of 2.0 pence per share on the
ordinary shares of the Company to be paid on 27 May 2011 
to members whose name appears on the register of members
at the close of business on 1 April 2011.
3. To re-elect Keith Bedell-Pearce as a Director.
4. To re-elect Edward Bramson as a Director.
5. To re-elect Jeff Medlock as a Director.
6. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year
ended 31 December 2010.
7. To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company to
hold office until the conclusion of the next General Meeting at
which Financial Statements are laid before the Company and to
authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
8. THAT:
(A) pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 
(‘the Act’), the Directors be generally and unconditionally
authorised to allot:
(1) shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe
for or to convert any security into shares in the
Company, up to a maximum nominal amount of
£177,355.19, subject to paragraph A(2); and
(2) shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe
for or to convert any security into shares in the
Company, comprising equity securities (within the
meaning of section 560(1) of the Act) up to a maximum
nominal amount (when aggregated with any allotment
made pursuant to paragraph A(1)) of £267,917.21 in
connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer undertaken by
means of a rights issue;
(B) the authorities given in this Resolution:
(1) shall be in substitution for all pre-existing authorities to
allot shares under section 551 of the Act (other than the
specific authorities granted at the general meeting of
the Company held on 18 June 2010 to allot shares to
satisfy the consideration payable in relation to the
acquisition of Thames River and the related
commutation arrangements and for the settlement of
awards made under the management share plans) but
without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority
prior to the date hereof; and
(2) unless renewed, revoked or varied in accordance with
the Act, shall expire at the completion of the Annual
General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2012,
save that the Company may before such expiry make
an offer or agreement which would or might require the
allotment of shares in the Company, or the right to
subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in
the Company, after such expiry; and
(C) for the purpose of this Resolution, “Pre-Emptive Offer”
means an offer of equity securities to:
(1) holders of ordinary shares (other than the Company) on
a fixed record date in proportion to their respective
holdings of such shares; and
(2) other persons entitled to participate in such offer by
virtue of the rights attaching to any other equity
securities held by them,
in each case, subject to such exclusions or other
arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or
appropriate in relation to fractional entitlements, legal,
regulatory or practical problems under the laws or the
requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange of
any territory or otherwise.
To be proposed as special resolutions:
9. THAT:
(A) subject to the passing of resolution 8 set out in this Notice
(‘the Allotment Authority’), the Directors be given power
pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 (‘the
Act’) to allot equity securities (within the meaning of section
560(1) of the Act) for cash, pursuant to the authorities given
by the Allotment Authority, and to sell treasury shares wholly
for cash, as if section 561(1) of the Act did not apply to any
such allotment or sale, provided that such power shall be
limited to the allotment of equity securities or the sale of
treasury shares:
(1) in the case of paragraph A(1) of the Allotment
Authority, (a) in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer (as
defined in the Allotment Authority); or (b) in order to
satisfy options or awards under any share scheme for
employees or share incentive plan approved by the
Company in general meeting; or (c) otherwise, up to a
maximum nominal amount of £26,605.94;
(2) in the case of paragraph A(2) of the Allotment
Authority, in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer
undertaken by means of a rights issue;
(B) the power given in this Resolution:
(1) shall be in substitution for all pre-existing authorities
under section 570 of the Act but without prejudice to
the exercise of any such authority prior to the date
hereof; and
(2) unless renewed in accordance with the Act, shall expire
at the same time as the Allotment Authority, save that
the Company may before such expiry make an offer or
agreement which would or might require equity
securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold
after such expiry.
This power applies to a sale of shares which is an allotment
of equity securities by virtue of section 560(3) of the Act as 
if the words “in the case of paragraph A(1) of the Allotment
Authority,” and “in the case of paragraph A(2) of the
Allotment Authority,” were omitted from, respectively,
paragraphs A(1) and A(2) of this resolution.
Notice of Annual General Meeting 
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 143 144 Shareholder Information  Notice of Annual General Meeting  F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
10. THAT, in substitution for any existing power under section 701
of the Companies Act 2006 (‘the Act’), but without prejudice to
the exercise of any such power prior to the date hereof, the
Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally
authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with section 701 of
the Act, to make market purchases (within the meaning of
section 693 of the Act) of fully paid ordinary shares of 0.1 pence
each in the capital of the Company (‘ordinary shares’) in such
terms and in such manner as the Directors of the Company may
decide, provided that:
(i) the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby
authorised to be purchased is 53,211,879 (being
approximately 10 per cent. of the issued ordinary share
capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at 
31 March 2011);
(ii) the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share
is 0.1 pence (exclusive of expenses); and
(iii) the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be
paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per
cent. of the average of the middle market quotations (as
derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock
Exchange) for the ordinary shares for the five business days
immediately preceding the date of purchase,
such authority to expire on the earlier of the date falling 15
months after the date of the passing of this resolution and the
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be
held in 2012, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed by
the Company in general meeting, save that the Company may
at any time prior to the expiry of such authority enter into a
contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under such
authority which will or might be completed or executed wholly or
partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a
purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract
or contracts as if this authority had not expired.
Special Business
To be proposed as ordinary resolutions:
11. THAT for the purposes of Article 95 of the Articles of Association
of the Company the maximum aggregate amount of fees paid
to, and benefits received by, the Directors for their services in
the office of director shall be increased from £600,000 per
annum to £800,000 per annum. 
12. THAT the proposed amendments to the rules of The F&C Asset
Management plc Long Term Remuneration Plan summarised in
the appendix to this Notice be and are hereby approved and the
Directors be and are hereby authorised to do all such things as
may be necessary to carry the same into effect. 
To be proposed as a special resolution:
13. THAT the period of notice for calling a general meeting (other
than an Annual General Meeting) shall be not less than 14 clear
days provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of
the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2012. 
By order of the Board
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
6 April 2011
Notes
(i) A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to
appoint one or more proxies to attend and speak and vote on his/her
behalf. A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each
proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares. A
member may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights
attached to any one share. A proxy need not be a member of the
Company.
(ii) A Form of Proxy for use by Ordinary Shareholders in connection with the
meeting is enclosed with these Accounts. To be valid, the Form of Proxy
should be completed and signed and sent or delivered, together with any
power of attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is signed or an
extract from the Books of Council and Session or a notarially certified
copy or a copy certified in accordance with the Powers of Attorney Act
1971 of such power or authority, in accordance with the instructions
contained therein, so as to reach the Company’s registrars, at the
address stated thereon, not later than 11 a.m. (UK time) on 1 May 2011.
(iii) Alternatively, shareholders who would like to lodge their proxy
electronically may do so via the Sharevote website
(www.sharevote.co.uk) or through CREST in each case so as to be
received by no later than 11 a.m. (UK time) on 1 May 2011. Further
details relating to proxy appointments through CREST are set out in note
(xvi) below. If you return more than one valid proxy appointment in
respect of the same share, either by paper or electronic communication,
the one which is received last will take precedence; if the Company is
unable to determine which of them was received last, none of them will
be treated as valid in respect of that share.
(iv) Completing and returning a Form of Proxy will not prevent an Ordinary
Shareholder from attending in person at the meeting referred to above
and voting should he or she wish to do so.
(v) To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting (and for the purposes of
the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast),
shareholders must be registered in the register of members of the
Company at 6.00 p.m. on Thursday, 29 April 2011 (or, in the event of any
adjournment, on the date which is two days (excluding any part of a day
that is not a working day) before the time of the adjourned meeting).
Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be
disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at
the meeting.
(vi) If you are not a member of the Company but you have been nominated
by a member of the Company to enjoy information rights, you do not
have a right to appoint a proxy. See note (vii) below.
(vii) If you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 of the
Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights:
• You may have a right under an agreement between you and the
member of the Company who has nominated you to have
information rights (‘Relevant Member’) to be appointed or to have
someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
• If you either do not have such a right or if you have such a right but
do not wish to exercise it, you may have a right under an agreement
between you and the Relevant Member to give instructions to the
Relevant Member as to the exercise of voting rights.
(viii) Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more
corporate representative(s) who may exercise on its behalf all of its
powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the
same shares.
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 144 F&C Asset Management Notice of Annual General Meeting  Shareholder Information 145
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
(ix) Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders meeting the
threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the
Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter
relating to: (i) the audit of the Company’s accounts (including the auditor’s
report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the
meeting; or (ii) any circumstance connected with an auditor of the
Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which
annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of
the Companies Act 2006. The Company may not require the
shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses
in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under
section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to
the Company’s auditor not later than the time when it makes the
statement available on the website. The business which may be dealt
with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been
required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a
website.
(x) Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to
the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be
given if (a) to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the
meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, (b) the
answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to
a question, or (c) it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the
good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
(xi) In accordance with section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the
contents of this notice, details of the total number of shares in respect of
which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting and,
if applicable, any members’ statements, members’ resolutions or
members’ matters of business received by the Company after the date of
this notice of meeting will be available on the Company’s website at
www.fcamplc.com. 
(xii) As at 31 March 2011 (being the latest practicable date prior to
publication of this notice) the Company’s issued share capital consisted
of 532,118,789 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each carrying one vote
each. No shares are held in treasury. Therefore, total voting rights in the
Company as at 31 March 2011 are 532,118,789.
(xiii) Copies of the following documents will be made available for inspection
at the registered office of the Company and at the Company’s head office
during normal business hours on any week day (Saturdays, Sundays and
public holidays excepted) from the date of this notice until the close of the
meeting, and at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to and
during the continuance of the meeting:
• the Executive Directors’ service contracts and Non-executive
Directors’ letters of appointment; 
• the rules of The F&C Asset Management plc Long Term
Remuneration Plan marked up to show the proposed amendments;
and
• the articles of association of the Company.
(xiv) A member may not use any electronic address provided either in this
Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents to
communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those
expressly stated.
(xv) The Company has made provision for shareholders who would like 
to vote by electronic means.
(xvi) CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the
CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the
procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST Personal Members
or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who
have appointed a service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor
or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate
action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST
service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a ‘CREST Proxy
Instruction’) must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear
UK & Ireland Limited’s specifications, and must contain the information
required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual
(available via www.euroclear.com/CREST). The message, regardless of
whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to
the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be
valid, be transmitted so as to be received by our Registrars, Equiniti (ID
RA19) by 11 a.m. (UK time) on 1 May 2011. For this purpose, the time of
receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the time stamp
applied to the message by the CREST Application Host) from which the
issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the
manner prescribed by CREST. After this time any change of instruction to
proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the
appointee through other means. CREST members and, where applicable,
their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that
Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special
procedures in CREST for any particular message. Normal system timings
and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST
Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member
concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal
member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service
provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s)
take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is
transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this
connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST
sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those
sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the
CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the
circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated
Securities Regulations 2001.
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 145 146 Shareholder Information  Notice of Annual General Meeting  F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Appendix
Summary of the proposed amendments to the F&C Asset
Management plc Long Term Remuneration Plan
1. Introduction
Under the rules of the LTRP , the Board can grant two different forms
of awards over Ordinary Shares, namely:
(i) awards that are subject to performance targets which must be
satisfied if they are to vest (‘Restricted Awards’); and 
(ii) awards that are not subject to such performance targets
(‘Deferred Awards’)
Under the rules of the LTRP , no Deferred Awards can be granted to
F&C’s executive directors. 
2. Existing LTRP provisions relating to cessation of a
Restricted Award holder’s employment
Currently, the provisions of the LTRP that apply where the holder of
a Restricted Award ceases employment with the F&C Group can be
summarised as follows: 
(i) If the participant leaves the employment of the F&C Group for
any reason (other than as specified below) prior to the vesting of
his Awards (which will normally take place on the third
anniversary of grant to the extent that applicable performance
targets have been satisfied) then they will lapse immediately. 
(ii) If, prior to vesting, the participant dies or ceases employment by
reason of injury, ill-health or disability then his Awards will vest
immediately provided that such vesting will only occur if, and to
the extent that, the applicable performance targets have been
satisfied at that time. 
(iii) If, prior to vesting, the participant ceases employment by reason
of redundancy, retirement at normal retirement age or because
the participant’s employing company or part of the business in
which he is employed is transferred out of the F&C Group, or
any other reason at the discretion of the Board, then his Awards
will continue to vest on the third anniversary of grant but again
only if, and to the extent that, the applicable performance
conditions have been satisfied. In addition, the amount of an
Award which vests in these circumstances will be reduced pro-
rata in line with the proportion of the vesting period that had
elapsed at the time the participant ceased to be employed by
the F&C Group. 
3. Proposed amendments to above provisions relating to
cessation of a participant’s employment.
The above provisions will be amended in respect of certain
Restricted Awards (see below) so as to provide that if, prior to
vesting, a participant ceases employment with the F&C Group in the
circumstances set out in paragraph 2(iii) above then the Board will
have the discretion to disapply the time pro-rating reduction that
would otherwise have been made. However, in these cases vesting
will continue to occur on the third anniversary of grant to the extent
that the applicable performance conditions have been satisfied.
For the avoidance of doubt, no other amendments will be made to
the provisions summarised at paragraph 2 above. Similarly, no
changes are being made to the terms of the LTRP that apply to
Deferred Awards. 
4. Application of proposed amendments
The amendments summarised at paragraph 3 above will only apply
to any Restricted Awards granted between 1 January 2011 and 
31 December 2011. Performance Awards granted after 
31 December 2011 will be subject the current provisions 
summarised at paragraph 2 above. 
5. Rationale for proposed amendments
A summary of the rationale for these proposed amendments to the
LTRP is set out on page 25 of the Annual Report and Financial
Statements that accompany this Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Defined Terms
In this appendix, the following words and expressions bear the
following meanings unless the context requires otherwise:
“Board” the board of directors of F&C, or a duly authorised
committee thereof;
“F&C” F&C Asset Management plc;
“F&C Group” the group of companies of which F&C is the holding
company;
“LTRP” The F&C Asset Management plc Long Term Remuneration
Plan; and
“Ordinary Shares” Ordinary Shares of 0.1p each in the capital 
of F&C.
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 146 F&C Asset Management Shareholder Information 147
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Shareholders should consult their own tax advisors as to the tax
considerations applicable to them relating to the purchase,
ownership and disposition of our ordinary shares (the ‘Shares’),
including the applicability of US Federal state and local tax laws and
non-US tax laws. This discussion does not address tax
considerations applicable to US Shareholders other than the passive
foreign investment company rules. 
F&C Asset Management plc (the ‘Company’) and certain of its
subsidiaries may be treated as passive foreign investment
companies (each, a ‘PFIC’) within the meaning of section 1297 of
the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ‘Code’) for
US Federal income tax purposes. 
Treatment of the Company or any of its subsidiaries as a PFIC could
result in adverse tax consequences for US Shareholders. 
A foreign corporation generally will be treated as a PFIC in any year
in which either 75 per cent. or more of its gross income constitutes
passive income or at least 50 per cent. of the value of its assets is
attributable to assets which produce or are held for the production
of passive income. In applying these tests, a non-US corporation
that directly or indirectly owns at least 25 per cent., by value, of the
stock of another corporation is treated as if it held directly its
proportionate share of the other corporation’s assets and received
directly its proportionate share of the other corporation’s income. 
Whether a non-US company is a PFIC is determined annually, and
the status of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, could change
depending among other things upon the changes in the
composition of its gross receipts and assets, and the nature of its
business. 
US Shareholders are particularly urged to consult their own Tax
Advisors regarding the US tax considerations relating to an
investment in a company that may be or may become a PFIC,
including the availability and consequences of elections that may be
available to mitigate the adverse Federal income tax consequences
of owning or disposing of PFIC shares. In that regard, US
Shareholders should be aware that the Company does not intend to
satisfy the record keeping and other requirements that would permit
a US Shareholder to make a qualified electing fund (‘QEF’) election
with respect to the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Each taxpayer is hereby notified that: (a) any discussion of US
Federal tax issues herein is not intended or written to be used, and
cannot be used by the taxpayer, for the purpose of avoiding
penalties that may be imposed on the taxpayer under US Federal
tax law; (b) any such discussion is written to support the promotion
or marketing of the transactions or matters addressed herein; and
(c) the taxpayer should seek advice based on its particular
circumstances from an independent tax advisor.  
Notice To US Shareholders –
Certain PFIC Considerations 
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 147 148 Shareholder Information F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Directors
Edward Bramson, Chairman
‡
Alain Grisay, Chief Executive
Keith Bedell-Pearce, Senior Independent Non-executive*
†‡
Ian Brindle, Non-executive
David Logan, Chief Financial Officer
Jeff Medlock, Non-executive*
†
Derham O’Neill, Non-executive*
†
Kieran Poynter, Non-executive*
†‡
Gerhard Roggemann, Non-executive*
†‡
‡
Member of Nomination Committee
*Member of Remuneration Committee
†
Member of Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee
Head Office
Exchange House
Primrose Street
London
EC2A 2NY
Telephone 020 7628 8000
Facsimile 020 7628 8188
Email: enquiries@fandc.com
Secretary and Registered Office
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
80 George Street
Edinburgh
EH2 3BU
Telephone 0131 718 1000
Facsimile 0131 225 2375
Solicitors
Norton Rose LLP
3 More London Riverside
London
SE1 2AQ
Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP
1 Exchange Crescent
Conference Square
Edinburgh
EH3 8UL
Principal Bankers
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
142-144 Princes Street
Edinburgh
EH2 4EQ
Stockbrokers
JPMorgan Cazenove
10 Aldermanbury
London
EC2V 7RF
Citigroup Global Markets Limited
Citigroup Centre
Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London
E14 5LB
HSBC Bank plc
8 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London
E14 5HQ
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
Saltire Court
20 Castle Terrace
Edinburgh
EH1 2EG
Registrar and Transfer Office
Equiniti Limited
34 South Gyle Crescent
South Gyle Business Park
Edinburgh
EH12 9EB
Corporate information
F&C Asset Management plc
Registered in Scotland
Company Registration Number SC73508
Website
Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website 
www.fcamplc.com
Corporate Information 
Shareholder services available from Equiniti Limited
Shareview
The Company’s registrar, Equiniti, offers a Shareview service enabling shareholders to have more control over their shares and other
investments:
Direct access to data held on the share register including recent share movements and dividend details. 
The ability to change address details or dividend payment instructions online.
To sign up for Shareview, shareholders need the “shareholder reference” printed on the proxy form or dividend stationery, and there is no
charge to register.
On registration, shareholders can select their preferred format (post or e-mail) for shareholder communications. Shareholders selecting “e-mail”
as their mailing preference will be sent shareholder communications, such as proxy forms and notice of Company results by e-mail instead of
post, as long as this option is available. Shareholders selecting “post” as their preference will be sent paper documents as usual.
Details of software and equipment requirements are given on the website, www.shareview.co.uk
Voting Online
In accordance with good governance practice, the Company is offering shareholders use of an online voting service, “sharevote”, offered 
by Equiniti, at www.sharevote.co.uk. Shareholders can use this service to vote or appoint a proxy online. The same voting deadline 
(11 a.m. (UK time) on 1 May 2011) applies as for the Personalised Voting Form to vote or appoint a proxy by post to vote. Shareholders need 
to use the unique personal identification details (Reference Number, Card ID and Account Number) that are printed on the Personalised Voting
Form to use this service.
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 148 F&C Asset Management plc 
Head Office: Exchange House Primrose Street London EC2A 2NY
Telephone: 020 7628 8000 Email: enquiries@fandc.com
Website: www.fcamplc.com
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 150 F&C Asset Management plc
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Business Review
Our year in brief 02
Welcome from the Chairman 03
Chief Executive’s report 04
This is F&C 07
Our strategy 09
Governance
Company Directors 12
Extracts from the Report of the Directors,
Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance
and the Directors’ Remuneration Report 13
Summary Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Statement 18
Consolidated Income Statement 19
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 20
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 21
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 22
Earnings per Share 23
Five Year Record 25
Key Performance Indicators 26
Shareholder Information
Notice of Annual General Meeting 27
Notice to US Shareholders 31
Corporate Information 32
F&C Asset Management Contents 01
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
F&C Asset Management plc
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
About F&C
F&C is a leading asset management
company providing solutions that deliver
superior performance and service.
With offices in 8 countries we are a global
business with a strong presence in
Europe. Our clients are both retail and
institutional investors, representing over
three million individuals – for whom we
manage approximately £106 billion.
Our values
• Client focus
• Accountable performance
• Commercial innovation
• Mutual respect
Summary Financial Statements
These Summary Financial Statements are a
summary of information included in the audited
2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements. This
summary does not contain sufficient information to
allow for a full understanding of the results of the
F&C Group or of the state of affairs of the Company.
For further information the full 2010 Annual Report
and Financial Statements should be consulted. A full
copy of the 2010 Annual Report and Financial
Statements is available on the Company's corporate
website (www.fcamplc) or can be obtained free of
charge from the Company Secretary at the address
shown inside the back cover.
The auditor has issued an unqualified report on the
full Consolidated Financial Statements, the
Company Financial Statements, the auditable part of
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and on the
consistency of the Directors’ Report with those
Consolidated Financial Statements. Their audit
report contained no statement under section 498(2)
or 498(3) of the Companies Act 2006.
Forward-looking statements
This Summary Annual Report and Financial
Statements may contain certain “forward-looking
statements” with respect to certain of the Group’s
plans and its current goals and expectations relating
to its future financial condition, performance, results,
strategy and objectives. Statements containing the
words “believes”, “intends”, “expects”, “plans”,
“seeks” and “anticipates”, and words of similar
meaning, are forward-looking.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to
future events and circumstances which are beyond
the Group’s control including among other things,
UK domestic and global economic and business
conditions, market related risks such as fluctuations
in market indices interest rates and exchange rates,
and the performance of financial markets generally;
the policies and actions of regulatory authorities, the
impact of competition, inflation and deflation; the
timing, impact and other uncertainties of future
acquisitions or combinations within relevant
industries; and the impact of changes in capital,
solvency or accounting standards, and tax and
other legislation and regulations in the jurisdictions in
which the Group operates.
As a result, the Group’s actual future financial
condition, performance and results may differ
materially from the plans, goals, and expectations set
forth in the Group’s forward-looking statements. F&C
undertakes no obligation to update the forward-
looking statements contained in this Summary Annual
Report and Financial Statements. Nothing in this
publication should be considered as a profit forecast.
Definitions
“F&C, FCAM, Group or Company” F&C Asset
Management plc and its subsidiaries
“FP or FP Group” Friends Provident plc and
its subsidiaries
“F&CGH” F&C Group (Holdings) Limited and its
subsidiaries
“F&C REIT” F&C REIT Asset Management LLP and
its subsidiaries
“REIT” REIT Property Asset Management LLP and
its subsidiaries
“Sherborne or the Sherborne Group” Sherborne
Investors (Guernsey) GP , LLC (‘Sherborne GP’),
SIGA, LP (‘SIGA’), Sherborne Investors (Guernsey)
A Limited, Sherborne Investors Management
(Guernsey) LLC and Sherborne Investors LP .
“Thames River” or “TRC” Thames River Capital
Group Limited and its subsidiaries or limited liability
partnerships (‘LLPs’) which are consolidated within
the Group. 02 Business Review Our year in brief F&C Asset Management
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Net revenue
£243.2m
Underlying profit before taxation (ex FX)
£40.3m
Underlying earnings per share (ex FX)
5.9p
Total dividend per share
3.0p
2010 Financial and business highlights
• Successful acquisition and integration of Thames River Capital
• Assets under management increase to £105.8 billion (2009: £97.8 billion)
• £6.1 billion of gross new business (2009: £3.5 billion) and return to net inflows excluding insurance
• Average net management fee margin (excluding performance fees) increases to
22.6 basis points (2009: 21.8 basis points)
• Group operating margin (ex FX) improves to 28.5% (2009: 26.6%)
• Underlying earnings per share (ex FX) of 5.9 pence (2009: 5.8 pence)
Net revenue
£243.2m 2010
£225.1m 2009
Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share
(3.3)p 2010
3.2p 2009
Group operating margin (ex FX)
28.5% 2010
26.6% 2009
Assets under management
 
£105.8bn 2010
£97.8bn 2009
Total dividend per ordinary share
3.0p 2010
6.0p 2009
Underlying earnings per ordinary share
5.6p 2010
4.6p 2009
5.9p 2010 (ex FX)
5.8p 2009 (ex FX)
Underlying profit after taxation (ex FX)
£29.4m 2010
£28.3m 2009
Reported (loss)/profit after tax
£(13.4)m 2010
£18.7m 2009
Calculations of key performance indicators are given on page 26.
Reconciliations between reported (loss)/earnings and underlying earnings
and between basic (loss)/earnings per share and underlying earnings per
share are given on pages 23 and 24.

As at the end of the reporting period. F&C Asset Management Business Review 03
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
This is my first statement as Chairman having been appointed to 
the role following my election as a Director at the General Meeting
on 3 February 2011. 
At the same General Meeting Ian Brindle and Derham O’Neill were
also elected to the Board while Nick MacAndrew, the previous
Chairman, and Brian Larcombe ceased to be Directors. Separately,
Gerhard Roggemann has indicated his intention to retire as a
Director at the Annual General Meeting in May.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to express our thanks to
Messrs. MacAndrew, Larcombe and Roggemann for their service 
to F&C over a number of years.
In the brief period since becoming Chairman of F&C, I have met a
significant number of staff from across the Group, including portfolio
managers at Thames River and F&C REIT. I have been impressed
with the calibre of people I have met and, in particular, the strong
sense of commitment to clients. This reinforces my confidence in
F&C’s prospects because asset management is without doubt a
people business and the Group possesses a strong reservoir of
talented professionals who want F&C to be successful.
Important progress has been achieved in a number of areas in 
laying solid foundations for a turnaround in F&C’s fortunes. In
particular, three year investment performance track records are
competitive and 2010 saw encouraging trends in funds flows.
Further detail on developments during 2010 is provided in the 
Chief Executive’s report.
Our focus now is to build on the things that work well at F&C and to
improve the Group’s financial performance, which will create value
for shareholders. Working with the Executive Management team, the
Board has therefore embarked on a review of strategy. We will
endeavour to minimise the time required for this process consistent
with producing the right long-term plan for F&C. In the meantime, it
will be business as usual for our investment professionals and client
servicing teams.
Results and Dividend
The Group’s underlying profit after tax (excluding foreign exchange
gains and losses) was £29.4 million compared to £28.3 million in
2009. This represents underlying earnings per share of 5.9 pence 
for 2010 and 5.8 pence for 2009. 
On a statutory reporting basis, which includes exceptional and 
non-cash items, the Group made a loss after tax of £13.4 million,
compared to a profit after tax of £18.7 million in 2009. This
represents a basic loss per share of 3.3 pence compared to
earnings per share of 3.2 pence in the previous year.
After considering the results for the year and consistent with the
decision to rebase the interim dividend, the Board is recommending
a final dividend of 2.0 pence per share, payable on 27 May 2011 to
shareholders on the register at 1 April 2011. This brings full-year
dividends to 3.0 pence per share.
The Board’s dividend policy is to achieve dividend cover of at least
150 per cent. of underlying earnings per share.
Conclusion 
It is a privilege to have been appointed as Chairman of F&C. 
The Group has a strong brand, dedicated professionals and many
other strengths. However, these have not been reflected in its share
price and financial performance in recent years. By accelerating
momentum in things that are working well and creating greater 
long-term focus on those areas that will generate the most value,
the prospects for F&C are excellent. 
I look forward to working with the Board, management team and
staff to develop the strategy and operational plan for the business
so that F&C reaches its full potential.
Edward Bramson
Chairman
9 March 2011
Welcome from the Chairman Market Overview
As we anticipated in our 2009 Annual Report, 2010 saw a slow
recovery in the economy after the recession of the previous year,
with progress dogged by concerns over rising inflation and the
potentially stifling impact of deficit reduction measures on growth. 
Despite the challenging macroeconomic backdrop, equity markets
continued to make strong progress for a second calendar year in
succession with the FTSE 100 Index posting a total return of 
12.6 per cent. and numerous indices returning to pre-credit crisis
levels. This strong performance from equity markets reflected the
healthy position of many companies having strengthened their
balance sheets and the relative attractiveness of dividends
compared to government bond yields. 
In contrast, fixed income markets and the Euro currency were
overshadowed by the spectre of government indebtedness and the
risk of defaults in European countries such as Greece, Ireland and
Portugal. This prompted European Union rescue packages for both
Greece and Ireland and the introduction of severe austerity
measures across Europe.
Against this mixed market backdrop the Group saw its assets under
management rise to £105.8 billion (31 December 2009: £97.8
billion) which included £4.2 billion from the acquisition of Thames
River Capital in September 2010. We saw positive returns across all
major asset classes – equities, fixed income and property – while
foreign currency movements had a negative impact on AUM across
the year given our exposure to Eurozone based clients. 
Investment Performance
Relative investment performance was positive across most teams
during the year, with three year track records continuing to be
competitive. On an asset-weight basis 72 per cent. of fixed income,
63 per cent. of equities and 100 per cent. of property assets are
above agreed benchmarks over three years.
Business Flows
Having rebuilt three year investment track records and significantly
improved our position with investment consultants, 2010 saw a
turnaround in business flows with a return to net positive inflows,
excluding insurance assets. This was underpinned by a 77.5 per
cent. increase in gross new business, excluding insurance, to £6.1
billion (2009: £3.5 billion) and much reduced outflows, which were
at their lowest level in several years. We ended the year with an
additional pipeline of institutional mandates totalling £1.5 billion
awaiting funding. Key institutional products included liability driven
investment mandates, equity-linked bond funds, emerging market
debt and global convertibles. We also raised significant
commitments for German property mandates, ranking as the top
capital raiser for property Spezialfonds (source: BVI). We expect to
see the majority of these funds invested during 2011.
The quality of new institutional business continued to improve
reflecting our focus on specialist products, with the average fee
margin on institutional inflows some 39 per cent. higher than 
those on outflows. 
In the UK retail market we continued to focus primarily on our multi-
manager and lifestyle funds while building the profile of our property,
UK and European equity products.
Encouragingly, we saw £621 million of gross sales into Thames
River products during the four months post-completion which
included the first institutional mandate win for their Water &
Agriculture team.
Business Flows ex. Insurance
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m £m
Inflows 6,140 3,459 3,925 6,454 6,496
Outflows (5,868) (7,200) (10,165) (10,445) (15,109)
Net flows –
ex. Insurance 272 (3,741) (6,240) (3,991) (8,613)
Financial Results
Net revenues were £243.2 million (2009: £225.1 million). This
included performance related management fees of £12.9 million
(2009: £18.7 million). 
Operating costs, excluding amortisation of intangible assets,
exceptional items and foreign exchange losses, were £175.0 million
(2009: £166.6 million). These include the additional cost base of
£12.6 million arising from the acquisition of Thames River, 
£6.0 million of which was in respect of distributions payable to
Thames River members. Continuing the downward trend of the last
three years core operating expenses in the legacy F&C business
were further reduced by £4.2 million compared to 2009.
The Group also incurred a number of exceptional and non-recurring
cost items which are excluded from our underlying results. These
included corporate advisory costs associated with the acquisition of
Thames River and the aborted acquisition of C-Quadrat, costs
associated with the subsequent integration of Thames River, legal
expenses and certain share-based payment costs. Offset against
these, and also excluded from underlying results, are gains from
foreign exchange movements and exceptional gains from
restructuring our pension benefits. 
As a result of increased revenues and reduced costs, the Group
increased its underlying operating profit (excluding foreign exchange
movements) for 2010 to £69.2 million (2009: £59.9 million), resulting
in an increased underlying operating margin of 28.5% (2009:
26.6%).
Underlying earnings per share for the year were 5.9 pence 
(2009: 5.8 pence).
On a statutory basis, which includes amortisation and exceptional
items, the Group made a loss after tax of £13.4 million (2009: profit
of £18.7 million). A substantial element of the year-on-year
movement is attributable to the exceptional gain of £27.9 million on
the 2009 debt exchange transaction.
04 Business Review F&C Asset Management
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Chief Executive’s Report Statement of Financial Position
The Group closed the year with £178.8 million of shareholders’ cash
reserves and net debt of £95.9 million. A significant proportion of the
shareholders’ cash reserves are held in our regulated subsidiaries
against their capital requirements.
Gross debt of £275 million (2009: £265 million) comprises 
£125 million of subordinated loan notes and £150 million of senior
loan notes, neither of which include any financial covenants. The
£150 million senior loan notes include a £20 million issue
undertaken in September 2010 to repay a loan facility provided 
to part-finance the acquisition of Thames River.
As part of our strategy we intend to reduce net debt over 
the medium term.
Business Developments
F&C manages significant assets for insurance-led clients under
contractual arrangements which carry certain exclusivity rights
extending out to between October 2013 and October 2015 at which
point they typically revert to notice periods of between 6 and 12
months. During the year we set out three medium-term strategic
priorities for the Group ahead of the maturity of these contracts:
• Grow new revenues and further diversify the Group beyond its
insurance client base
• Create a more flexible cost base that will adjust more readily to
any changes in our business mix
• Improve capital strength by targeting the reduction of debt on
our balance sheet
A key development in our revenue diversification strategy was the
completion of our acquisition of Thames River in September 2010.
Following the Thames River acquisition, on a run-rate basis some 
75 per cent. of revenues are now derived from non-insurance clients
and we believe the organic growth potential of the Group has 
been enhanced.
Thames River has provided the Group with complementary product
and distribution capabilities. In particular it has added expertise in
absolute return strategies, principally through UCITS III fund
structures, has enabled a step-change in the scale of our multi-
manager business and has added proven distribution in the wealth
management sector, an area where our presence had been limited.
UCITS absolute return funds and retail multi-manager products are
two areas of the funds industry experiencing strong growth.
Thames River has been successfully integrated into the Group and
is now positioned as “the Funds Business” of F&C with responsibility
for the distribution of all open-ended fund products from across the
Group into the retail and wholesale client channels. A trade paper
advertising campaign commenced in the fourth quarter, along with a
series of marketing roadshows in the UK and Europe.
A key project was the merger of the F&C and Thames River retail
multi-manager ranges, which completed in December, removing one
of the few areas of direct product overlap. The UK fund of funds
segment has been growing at twice the rate of the broader market
and our recently combined multi-manager business, with assets of
£1.5 billion, is the second largest in the UK IFA market. This leaves
us well positioned to help IFAs address some of the challenges
arising from the Financial Services Authority’s Treating Customers
Fairly initiative and the implementation of the recommendations of
the Retail Distribution Review by providing adviser firms with a
robust investment process which provides their clients with access
to best of breed funds from across the industry. We expect to see
IFAs increasingly advising clients to transfer existing portfolios of
individual funds into multi-manager products, as well as greater use
of multi-manager funds for new investments.
Progress has also been made introducing Thames River capabilities
to the institutional market, with initial interest focused on the Global
Bond, Water & Agriculture and Funds of Alternative Investment
Funds products. 
Thames River generated £1.8 million of performance fees in its first
four months as part of the Group. At 31 December 2010 some 65
per cent. of Thames River funds which incorporate performance fee
structures were at, or within 5 per cent. of, their high water marks.
In our 2009 Annual Report we confirmed that we had completed the
major infrastructure projects initiated in 2007, including the
consolidation of our operations onto a single platform. Following this
and the acquisition of Thames River we have undertaken significant
work to develop a new operational model that will more readily
adjust to future changes in F&C’s business mix as we focus on
diversifying the business and cater for evolving client needs. 
As part of the implementation of this model, we have reached
Heads of Terms with a leading specialist provider on an outsourcing
arrangement for certain back office and middle office functions. We
expect to reach a definitive agreement by the end of the second
quarter of 2011. The outsourcing project is expected to reduce our
operations staff headcount by around 70 per cent. as well as
reorganise certain other functions around the new model. This
restructuring programme, which does not affect the staffing of
investment, distribution or client servicing functions, will create an
operational cost base that varies with assets under management
and transaction levels and is expected, once fully implemented, to
generate annualised savings of at least £12 million, including 
£3 million from reduced premises costs. We anticipate the first of
these savings will be realised later this year, with the full savings
achieved in 2013.
F&C Asset Management Chief Executive’s Report  Business Review 05
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 06 Business Review Chief Executive’s Report F&C Asset Management
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Outlook and Summary
In our view the macroeconomic outlook continues to be challenging
and we therefore see the potential for continued volatility in global
markets. Growth remains anaemic in the UK and high public deficits
across the developed world are multi-year problems that have only
just begun to be tackled. Inflation is a growing concern across the
globe and rising commodity prices add to the risk of social and
political unrest in developing markets, such as we have seen
recently across North Africa and the Middle East. These
uncertainties are a timely reminder of the importance of being a 
well diversified business by sources of revenue and asset class and
with a product set that can take advantage of the opportunities
available at various points in the cycle as client needs and risk
appetites change. 
On 6 January 2011 the Board wrote to shareholders with notice of a
General Meeting requisitioned on behalf of funds managed by
Sherborne Investors GP , LLC. The purpose of the General Meeting
was to vote on Resolutions to remove two Directors, including the
then Chairman, and elect three new Directors. At the General
Meeting on 3 February all these Resolutions were supported 
by shareholders.
With the Board having been reconstructed in accordance with the
wishes of shareholders and the appointment of Ed Bramson as
Chairman, the Board and management team are focused on the
future success of the business.
Major building blocks for a recovery in our underlying profitability
have been put in place, with progress in diversifying our sources of
revenue, improved fund flows at higher average fee margins and the
planned migration to a new operational model which will lower our
expense base and generate future cost flexibility. Furthermore, to
maximise the delivery of shareholder value, the Board is conducting
a review of the Group’s strategy which we will report on in due
course. In the meantime, our operational focus for 2011 will be to
sustain competitive investment track records, gather momentum in
improving fund flow trends and accelerate the cross-selling of
products between F&C and Thames River. 
Alain Grisay
Chief Executive
9 March 2011 F&C Asset Management Business Review 07
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
This is F&C
The purpose of this review is to provide shareholders with a
snapshot summary setting out the business objectives of the
Company, the Board’s strategy to achieve those objectives,
the risks faced, the regulatory environment and the key
performance indicators (KPIs) used to measure performance.
What we do
F&C’s sole activity is asset management. We are not a bank. We are
not an insurance company. We are an active international investor
with a client focus on the UK and Continental Europe. 
We operate across multiple locations, with a physical presence in
eight countries. Our organisational philosophy has two key
parameters – to seek to avoid duplication by, for example, managing
each asset class from only one location, and to place client service
functions where appropriate in order to meet client requirements. 08 Business Review  This is F&C F&C Asset Management
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Our clients
Our clients comprise a wide range of insurance, institutional and
retail investors, across multiple geographies and jurisdictions, for
whom we manage a diverse spread of investments including
equities, fixed income, property and alternative asset classes. 
How we manage money
With over 285 investment professionals, F&C has one of the largest
investment teams in Europe. Our scale gives us a competitive edge
in research resources and access to the most senior management
at companies. We believe individuals work best as part of a small,
focused team. Our investment professionals are therefore organised
into dedicated teams, focused on specific products or market
segments. We provide them with a high degree of autonomy over
their investment process. We do this in order to foster a strong
culture of enterprise and accountability for delivering performance.
This approach – of being both large in terms of resource, but
entrepreneurial in structure – is what we describe as a ‘multi-
specialist’ fund management model. 
Responsible investments
We seek to deliver strong investment performance through active
management. However, as a shareholder representative, we seek to
engage with the companies in which we invest, aiming to enhance
and protect long-term shareholder value. Our approach is to have
constructive dialogue with companies. We cast votes on
shareholder resolutions globally, and disclose this to our clients on
our website.
Key risks
In addition to the “normal risks” facing the business relating to the
market, interest rates and foreign currency, the Board has identified
the following as the key risks facing the business:
• The regulatory environment
• Litigation
• Loss of key clients
• Loss of key employees
Our objective is simple: to create value by delivering first quartile
performance in everything our clients expect from us. 
2009 2010
£bn £bn
1 Insurance Funds 57.2 59.5
2 Institutional Funds 27.7 29.3
3 Sub-Advisory 4.0 3.0
4 Investment Trusts 5.1 5.9
5 Open Ended Funds (UK Onshore) 2.5 3.5
6 Open Ended Funds (Offshore) 1.3 4.6
2009 2010
(restated)
£bn £bn
1 Fixed Interest 57.8 62.0
2 Equities 24.6 28.7
3 Property 8.0 8.2
4 Other Alternative Investments 1.4 2.4
5 Money Market 6.0 4.5
Assets Under Management by Client Category
as at 31 December
Assets Under Management by Asset Class
as at 31 December
1
2
3
4
56
1
2
3
4
56
2010
£105.8bn
2009
£97.8bn
1
2
3
4
5
1
2
3
4
5
2009
£97.8bn
2010
£105.8bn F&C Asset Management Business Review 09
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Client service
2010 key points
• Successfully integrated the Thames River and F&C sales and
client servicing teams so that Thames River is now focused on
the Group’s retail and wholesale clients and F&C exclusively on
institutional clients
• Won the Incisive Media Gold Standard Award for Fund
Management for the fifth year in succession
• Achieved a Four Star Rating in the Financial Adviser 
Service Awards
• Overall Winner of the Top 50 Call Centres for Customer 
Services Awards
2011 key priorities
• Complete the outsourcing of key operations functions without
disrupting client service
• Sustain overall strong investment performance across 
the business 
• Continue to broaden the range of products rated by investment
consultants and fund rating agencies
• Retain key investment personnel 
Key performance indicators 
Corporate Health – The Board considers a report on the Group’s
Operations and IT systems, Human Resources, and Audit, Risk and
Compliance functions at each Board Meeting.
Investment performance
2010 key points
• 72 per cent. of fixed income assets were ahead of agreed
benchmarks or targets over three years as at year end
• 63 per cent. of equity assets were ahead of agreed benchmarks
or targets over three years as at the year end
• Aggregate performance of all property portfolios monitored by
Investment Performance Databank (‘IPD’) ranked F&C REIT in
the 19th percentile over three years with 100 per cent. of IPD
monitored portfolios ahead of benchmark
• 65 per cent. of products managed by Thames River which
incorporate performances fee structures were at or within 5 per
cent. of their high water marks at year end
• £12.9 million performance fees earned across the Group
Key performance indicators
Average percentage of Fixed Income assets above benchmark 
or peer group on an asset weighted basis
% (3 years)
72 2010
72 2009
Average percentage of Equity assets above benchmark 
or peer group on an asset weighted basis
% (3 years)
63 2010
72 2009
Average percentage of Property assets above benchmark 
or peer group on an asset weighted basis
% (3 years)
100 2010
100 2009
Our strategy
• Deliver strong investment performance and client service
• Grow new revenues and further diversify the client base 
• Focus on higher margin and specialist areas for new business 
• Create greater flexibility in our cost base
• Improve capital strength
Deliver strong investment performance and client service
We seek to define and deliver top quartile performance in everything we do. Our strategy is grounded in our belief in a virtuous circle: delivering
excellent performance will be validated by organic growth which will, in turn, translate into earnings growth and stock price performance. 10 Business Review   Our strategy F&C Asset Management
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Grow new revenues and further diversify the 
client base
We actively seek to be a well diversified business by asset class,
client type and geography and investment capabilities. We are
focused primarily on the UK and Continental Europe, however, we
will increasingly seek to expand distribution into other regions. Our
priorities are organic growth and to further diversify our revenues
beyond our core insurance clients.
2010 key points
• Good progress with institutional investment consultants, with 
43 product buy ratings achieved by the end of the year
• Generated £6.1 billion of new business (ex. Insurance flows),
with a further pipeline of £1.5 billion in institutional mandates
awaiting funding 
• Net inflows, ex. insurance, of £272 million after four years of 
net outflows 
• Thames River generated £310 million of net new business and
gross sales of £621 million in its first four months as part of 
the Group
• Proportion of run-rate revenues generated by non-insurance
clients has increased to circa 75 per cent. following Thames
River acquisition 
2011 key priorities
• Capitalise on improved position with investment consultants to
significantly accelerate institutional inflows with the goal of
generating annualised gross institutional inflows of £6 billion by
the end of 2013
• Deliver on our target of achieving gross sales of £2 billion in the
retail/wholesale channels over the 16 month period ending 
31 December 2011
Key performance indicators
Gross institutional new business
£bn
3.9 2010
2.5 2009
Net sales in third-party mutual funds
£m
425 2010
64 2009
Focus on higher margin and specialist areas for 
new business
We are targeting net new business in higher margin and specialist
areas. These include retail, alternatives and specialist institutional
mandates.
2010 key points
• Average basis points (excluding performance fees) increased
from 21.8 in 2009 to 22.6 in 2010
• Acquisition of Thames River has increased our presence in
higher fee product lines and client channels, with the average net
fee margin on Thames River products (post acquisition) being
86.3 basis points (excluding performance fees)
• Average fee margin on new institutional business won during
2010 was 39 per cent. higher than on outflows
• Key institutional products include emerging market debt, equity-
linked bond funds, governance & sustainable investments,
liability driven investments and real-estate
• In the UK retail market key focus remains multi-manager and the
‘Lifestyle’ funds
• In the wholesale segments key products included global bonds,
global credit and global convertibles
2011 key priorities
• Gather momentum in the cross-selling of Thames River products
into the institutional market and expansion of presence in the
retail/wholesale markets 
• Rationalise product range to focus on key strengths and most
profitable opportunities 
• Expand the range of higher fee products with investment
consultant ratings
• Launch new absolute return products focused on European
equities and global emerging markets
Key performance indicators
Average basis points earned on assets under management*
22.6 2010
21.8 2009
22.9 2008
22.5 2007
21.6 2006
*excluding performance fees
Performance fees earned
£m
12.9 2010
18.7 2009
7.9 2008
20.8 2007
9.5 2006 F&C Asset Management Our strategy  Business Review 11
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Create greater flexibility in our cost base
We will continue with a disciplined approach to cost control and also
increasingly align costs with sources of revenue. A strategic priority
is to enhance the flexibility of our cost base so that it better adjusts
to changes in our business mix.
2010 key points
• Underlying operating costs reduced by £4.2 million
• Commenced a Group-wide efficiency and business 
simplification project
• Completed the merger of the Thames River and F&C retail multi-
manager ranges in December
• Initiated a project to outsource certain back and middle office
functions to create an operational cost base that will adjust with
assets under management and transaction levels. Annualised
cost savings, once implemented, expected to be £12 million
2011 key priorities
• Conclude the operational outsourcing agreement
• Explore opportunities to rationalise our product range
Key performance indicators
Operating margin (ex FX)
%
28.5 2010
26.6 2009
25.8 2008
Improve capital strength
We will actively manage our financial position to ensure the business
is resilient and has the flexibility to respond to changes in the 
market environment.
2010 key points
• Rebased dividend to a level which meets the Board policy of
achieving at least 150 per cent. cover on underlying earnings,
enabling us to allocate free capital towards debt reduction over
the medium term
• Retained investment grade credit rating from Standard 
& Poors
2011 key priorities 
• Grow revenues while controlling costs
• Reduce net debt
Key performance indicators
Net debt
£m
95.9 2010
78.5 2009 12 Governance F&C Asset Management
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Company Directors
Non-executive Directors
1 Edward Bramson
‡
Chairman  Age 60
Mr Bramson joined the Board and was
appointed Chairman in February 2011. He is
currently a partner of Sherborne Investors and
the chairman of Nautilus, Inc and was formerly
chairman of Spirent Communications plc,
Elementis plc, 4imprint Group plc and Ampex
Corporation. 
2 Keith Bedell-Pearce CBE, LLB, MSc *
†‡
Senior Independent Director  Age 66
Mr Bedell-Pearce, a solicitor, joined the Board in
December 2002. Until December 2001, 
Mr Bedell-Pearce was an executive director of
Prudential plc with over 30 years experience in
the financial services industry. He is currently
Chairman of 4D Data Centres Ltd and a member
of the Council of the University of Warwick.
3 Ian Brindle
Age 67
Mr Brindle joined the Board in February 2011.
Mr Brindle was UK Chairman of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and deputy
chairman of the Financial Reporting Review
Panel. He is currently the chairman of Sherborne
Investors (Guernsey) A Limited and a non-
executive director of Spirent Communications
plc, Elementis plc and 4imprint Group plc. 
4Kieran Poynter FCA *
†‡
Independent Director  Age 60
Mr Poynter joined the Board in June 2009. Prior
to his appointment, Mr Poynter was Chairman
and Senior Partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP having spent 37 years with the firm. He is a
Director of Nomura International plc,
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA and
British American Tobacco plc.
5 Derham O’Neill*
†
Independent Director  Age 67
Mr O’Neill joined the Board in February 2011.
Prior to his appointment, Mr O’Neill was a senior
partner of Clifford Chance LLP . He is currently
the chairman of Schroder Asian Property
Managers Limited (Bermuda) and was formerly
the chairman of Scotty Group plc and a non-
executive director of Cedar plc, Georgica plc,
and Schroder Venture Managers Limited
(Bermuda). 
6 Gerhard Roggemann Ass.iur *
†‡
Independent Director  Age 63
Mr Roggemann joined the Board in June 2007
as an Independent Director. He is currently vice
chairman of Hawkpoint Partners Europe and an
independent director of Resolution Limited and
Friends Provident Holdings plc. He is chairman
of the Supervisory Board of G P Guenter
Papenburg AG, deputy chairman of the
Deutsche Börse AG and a director of Deutsche
Beteiligungs AG and Fresenius SE & Co KG. He
spent much of his professional career with
financial services firm JP Morgan.
7Jeff Medlock*
†
B.Sc(Econ), FIA
Independent Director  Age 70
Mr Medlock joined the Board in October 2004.
Mr Medlock was Chief Executive Officer of
Eureko from its formation in 1992 until 1999
when he became Chief Financial Officer at
Achmea. He returned to the board of Eureko in
2002 shortly after its merger with Achmea and
Seguros e Pensoes as Chief Financial Officer
until his retirement in 2004. He is also a trustee
of the children’s charity Coram Life Education.
Executive Directors
8 Alain Grisay
Chief Executive  Age 57
Mr Grisay joined the Board in October 2004
having previously been Deputy Chief Executive
of F&CGH and head of the institutional business.
Prior to joining F&C in April 2001, Mr Grisay was
at JP Morgan for 20 years, serving as Managing
Director responsible for the investment bank’s
market client business in Europe.
9 David Logan BA, CA
Chief Financial Officer  Age 41
Mr Logan joined the Board on 31 July 2006.
Prior to his appointment, Mr Logan spent
seventeen years in the accounting profession,
including four years as a partner at Deloitte 
& Touche LLP and three years as a partner 
at Andersen.
‡
Member of the Nomination Committee
*Member of the Remuneration Committee
†
Member of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee
12 3 4 5
67
8
9 F&C Asset Management Governance 13
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Extracts from the Report of 
the Directors
Directors’ interests
The Directors who held office at the year end and their interests
(together with those of their connected persons) in the share capital
of the Company are shown below:
Ordinary Shares 31 Dec 10** 31 Dec 09**
Edward Bramson Beneficial Nil Nil
Non Beneficial
‡
96,329,200 Nil
Keith Bedell-Pearce Beneficial 51,285 51,285
Ian Brindle Beneficial Nil Nil
Alain Grisay Beneficial
†
2,062,657 1,304,847
Non Beneficial* 64,176 64,176
Brian Larcombe Beneficial* 20,000 20,000
David Logan Beneficial 198,428 95,485
Non Beneficial* 64,176 64,176
Nick MacAndrew Beneficial 50,000 25,000
Jeff Medlock Beneficial 20,000 10,000
Derham O’Neill Beneficial Nil Nil
Kieran Poynter Beneficial 30,000 30,000
Gerhard Roggemann Beneficial Nil Nil
* Alain Grisay and David Logan are Directors of F&C Group ESOP Trustee
Limited, a company incorporated in 1995 as a discretionary employee
benefit trust to encourage and facilitate the acquisition and holding of shares
in the Company by employees.
**Or date of appointment if later.
†
These shares include Mr Grisay’s participation in the Purchased Equity Plan.
‡
Edward Bramson is an associate of SIGA, LP , a member of the Sherborne
Group.
Since the year end, the following Directors’ dealings in the Company’s shares
have taken place:
On 15 March 2011, Mr Grisay sold 1,000,000 shares in the Company at a
price of 77.12 pence per share.
On 25 March 2011, Messrs Grisay and Logan received 740,740 shares and
284,900 shares respectively in the Company that vested under the terms of the
Company’s Executive Director Remuneration Plan. On 31 March 2011 Mr Grisay
sold 740,740 shares and Mr Logan sold 147,354 shares in the Company at a
price of 77.87 pence per share.
In addition, Mr Logan subscribes for £125 worth of shares each month under
the Company’s Share Incentive Plan.
Substantial interests in share capital
The Company has been informed of the following substantial
interests, above 3 per cent. as at 6 April 2011:
Ordinary
Shares Percentage
Sherborne 98,853,454 18.6
Eureko B.V. 51,128,190 9.6
Aviva 45,797,939 8.6
Employee Benefit Trusts 17,177,070 3.2
Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’)
The Company will hold its AGM on Tuesday, 3 May 2011 at The
Gibson Hall, 13 Bishopsgate, London EC2N 3BA. 
The Meeting will start at 11 a.m. (UK time). Details of all resolutions
being put to shareholders are set out in the Notice of Annual
General Meeting commencing on page 27.
Board changes
On 3 February 2011, at a General Meeting of the Company,
shareholders approved the appointment of Messrs Bramson,
Brindle and O’Neill to the Board and resolved that Messrs
MacAndrew and Larcombe be removed from the Board. 
Mr Roggemann has expressed his intention to retire on conclusion
of this year’s Annual General Meeting. The  Nomination Committee
and the Board have commenced a search for two additional
independent Non-executive Directors. 
Authority to allot ordinary shares and disapplication
of pre-emption rights 
Ordinary resolution 8 will be put to the AGM of the Company to
renew the Directors’ power to allot shares. The Directors currently
have a general authority to allot relevant securities up to a maximum
amount of £160,715.81 together with specific authorities to allot
shares to satisfy the consideration payable in connection with the
acquisition of Thames River and the related commutation
arrangements and for the settlement of awards made under the
management share plans (“the Specific Authorities”). The Resolution
proposes that a similar general authority be granted in substitution
of the existing general authority to allot securities up to a maximum
amount of £177,355.19, representing approximately 33.33 per cent.
of the Company’s total issued ordinary share capital (excluding
treasury shares) as at the date of this report. The Specific Authorities
will remain unaffected by the passing of this resolution.
In addition, in accordance with guidance issued by the Association
of British Insurers in December 2008, the Company is seeking
additional authority to allot securities in connection with a pre-
emptive rights issue up to a maximum amount of £90,562.02,
representing approximately 17.0 per cent. of the Company’s total
issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) as at the
date of this report. The benefit to the Company of obtaining such
authority on an annual basis is that it would allow the Company to
implement a rights issue of an amount equal to approximately 50.34
per cent. of the issued ordinary share capital without the need to call
an additional general meeting. This would shorten the
implementation timetable for such a rights issue. The Directors have
no present intention of exercising this authority. The authority will
expire at the end of the AGM to be held in 2012, unless previously
cancelled or varied by the Company in general meeting. It is the
intention of the Directors to renew this authority annually at each
AGM. To the extent that this authority is used by the Directors, all
Directors will offer themselves for re-election at the next General
Meeting of the Company.
Special resolution 9 will renew the present power to allot unissued
ordinary share capital and to sell ordinary shares held in treasury for
cash without first being required to offer such shares to existing
shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Such power will apply to the allotment of unissued ordinary shares
and treasury shares sold up to a maximum nominal amount of
£26,605.94 representing approximately 5 per cent. of the
Company’s issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this
report, except that: 
(1) the maximum nominal amount of shares that can be allotted in
connection with a pre-emptive rights issue is £267,917.21
representing approximately 50.34 per cent. of the Company’s
Extracts from the Report of the Directors,
Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance 
and the Directors’ Remuneration Report total issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) as
at the date of this report; and
(2) the maximal nominal amount of unissued ordinary shares that
can be allotted or treasury shares sold: 
(a) pursuant to any other pre-emptive offering (where legal or
regulatory requirements prevent the issue of shares wholly
on a pre-emptive basis); or
(b) in order to satisfy options or awards under any share
scheme for employees or share incentive plan approved by
the Company in general meeting, is £177,355.19,
representing approximately 33.33 per cent. of the
Company’s total issued ordinary share capital (excluding
treasury shares) as at the date of this report.
The Directors consider that the authority proposed to be granted by
resolution 8 and the power proposed to be granted by resolution 9
are necessary in order to take advantage of opportunities as they
arise and to retain flexibility. The Directors do not have any intention
of exercising such authority or power at the present time other than
for the purposes referred to in (2)(b) above.
Purchase of own shares
Special resolution 10 will be put to the AGM to renew the present
power to make market purchases of the Company’s own ordinary
shares. Pursuant to the renewed power, the maximum aggregate
number of ordinary shares which may be purchased pursuant to the
authority shall be 53,211,879 (being approximately 10 per cent. of
the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of
this report. The minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary
share shall be 0.1 pence (exclusive of expenses). The maximum
price for an ordinary share (again exclusive of expenses) shall be an
amount equal to 105 per cent. of the average of the middle market
quotations for the Company’s ordinary shares for the five business
days immediately preceding the date of purchase. The power
conferred by this resolution will expire on the earlier of the date
falling 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution and
the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be
held in 2012.
As at the date of this report, the Company had 119,769,934 options
to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding (representing 22.5 per
cent. of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at the
same date, excluding treasury shares). If the buy-back authority is
renewed at the 2011 AGM and is then utilised in full, the options
outstanding at the date of this report would represent 25.01 per
cent. of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company (excluding
treasury shares). 
Any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority would
either be held as treasury shares or cancelled. While any shares are
held in treasury, voting rights are suspended and currently no
dividends (or any other distribution) are paid (or made) on such
shares. The Directors consider it appropriate to have in place the
facility to acquire shares in circumstances where they believe that
future shareholder returns can be enhanced by taking such action.
This authority, if renewed, will only be exercised if to do so would
result in an increase in earnings per ordinary share and if it is
considered to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Directors fees
Ordinary Resolution 11 will be put to the AGM to increase the overall
limit on the fees paid to, and the benefits in kind received by, the
Directors of the Company for their services to the office of Directors
from £600,000 to £800,000 per annum. This increase is intended 
to provide the Board with the flexibility to make additional 
Non-executive appointments in the future.   
Proposed amendment to the Company’s Long Term
Remuneration Plan (‘LTRP’)
The Board believes the continued stability of the Company’s key
employees is fundamental to the successful achievement of the
Company’s strategy and places the highest priority on the retention
of the Company’s top performing executives. To reinforce retention
value the Company’s policy is to provide a strong emphasis on long-
term share-based awards that provide alignment of long-term
interest between employees and shareholders. The LTRP is the
Company’s principal long-term retention plan.
In accordance with their terms of reference and best market
practice, the Remuneration Committee and the Board keep the
terms and the effectiveness of the Company’s share schemes under
review. Having conducted a recent review, the Board’s assessment
is that in one important aspect the rules of the LTRP do not provide
the necessary retention value required during a period of uncertainty
within the business and as such should be amended.
Under the current rules of the LTRP , a participant whose
employment is terminated in certain “good leaver” circumstances
(namely, redundancy, retirement at normal retirement age, the
transfer of his employing business or company out of the F&C
group, or any other reason at the discretion of the Board) receives
only a pro-rata award (to reflect the period of service) and at a future
date, being the original vesting date of the award.
Resolution 12 is proposing to enhance the retention value of the
restricted share awards to the above categories of “good leavers” by
resolving, in respect of any awards made in 2011, that the Board has
the discretion to disapply the time pro-rating reduction that would
otherwise be applied to those awards. Thereafter the current rules
will apply. The Ordinary Shares of the Company to which the former
employee will become entitled as a result of a restricted award will
remain dependent on the performance conditions attached to the
award at the date of grant and will continue to be measured over the
performance period. The original vesting date of any awards made
(being three years after the date of award) will also continue to apply. 
Further details of the proposed amendments to the LTRP rules 
are set out in the appendix to the notice of meeting contained on
page 30. The LTRP rules, marked up to show the proposed
amendments, are available for inspection at the Company’s
Registered Office or Head Office.
Notice of General Meetings 
We are currently able to call general meetings (other than AGMs) on
14 days’ notice. We are proposing Special resolution 13 at the
Meeting so that we can continue to be able to do so. The flexibility
offered by this resolution will only be used where it is, in the opinion
of the Directors, appropriate in relation to the business to be
considered at the meeting and merited in the interests of the
Shareholders as a whole.
The authority being sought pursuant to Special resolution 13 will
expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2012. It is the
current intention of the Directors to renew this authority annually.
14 Governance  Extracts from the Report of the Directors F&C Asset Management
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Extracts from the Directors’ Report
on Corporate Governance 
The Company is committed to, and strives for, best practice in
corporate governance. The Board is accountable to the Company’s
shareholders for good corporate governance. This statement
describes how the principles of corporate governance set out in
section one of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance
issued in 2008 (‘the Code’) have been applied.
Statement of compliance
The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the 
year ended 31 December 2010 and up to the date hereof, applied
the principles and met the requirements of the Code with the
following exception: 
• Following the appointment of Edward Bramson as the
Company’s Chairman on 3 February 2011, the Board has not
been in compliance with Code provision A.3.1. in that Mr
Bramson, as a representative of the Company’s largest
shareholder, was not independent on appointment. 
The Chairmen of the Audit, Risk & Compliance, Remuneration and
Nomination committees will be available to answer questions at this
year’s Annual General Meeting to be held on Tuesday, 3 May 2011.
F&C Asset Management Extracts from the Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance  Governance 15
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Extracts from the Directors’
Remuneration Report
Statement of the policy on Directors’ remuneration
The Company’s compensation policy detailed below is based upon
the following key principles:
a) Remuneration policies, procedures and practices should be
consistent with and promote sound and effective risk
management. The Policy should not incentivise risk-taking that
exceeds the approved risk appetite of F&C. 
b) The Remuneration Policy should be aligned with the business
strategy, objectives, values and long-term interests of F&C. 
c) The quantum of total variable remuneration should not limit the
ability of F&C to strengthen its capital base.
d) Total variable remuneration should in general reflect the financial
performance of the Company without jeopardising the ability to
attract, retain and motivate the key talent required to achieve 
its goals. 
In applying its policy the Company takes a total compensation
approach with a strong emphasis on variable pay. The Board
believes that shareholders’ interests are best served by containing
fixed costs and increasing the proportion of total compensation that
is directly performance related and thus aligned with shareholders’
interests. Total remuneration will comprise basic salary, pension
provision, annual bonus and any awards under the long term share 
incentive schemes.
The total cash component of compensation is benchmarked to
market median for solid performers and to upper quartile for
exceptional performers. A range of benchmark data is used, based
on comparable asset management businesses, with appropriate
data being used for each geographic location.
16 Governance  Extracts from the Directors’ Remuneration Report F&C Asset Management
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Statement on Directors’ Remuneration
The remuneration of the Chairman and the other Directors who held office during the year ended 31 December 2010 is set out in the
table below:
Total Total
Benefits 2010 2009
Salary and (excluding (excluding Pension
and fees Bonus allowances pension pension Contributions Total Total
2010 2010 2010 contribution) contribution) 2010 2010 2009
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive Directors
Alain Grisay 337 800 10 1,147 1,029
†
21 1,168 1,049
†
David Logan 262 320 3 585 593 38 623 625
Chairman and Non-executive Directors
Nick MacAndrew (Chairman) 150 –– 150 114 – 150 114
Keith Bedell-Pearce* 95 –– 95 83 – 95 83
Brian Larcombe 73 –– 73 70 – 73 70
Jeff Medlock 40 –– 40 40 – 40 40
Gerrhard Roggemann 62 –– 62 50 – 62 50
Kieran Poynter* 57 –– 57 29 – 57 29
Total 1,076 1,120 13 2,209 2,008 59 2,268 2,060
* Appointed as a member of the TRC Advisory Councils on 1 September 2010.
†
In addition, in 2009, Alain Grisay received £300,000 deferred for three years in Compulsory Purchased Equity under the terms of the Purchased Equity Plan.
No sums were paid to third parties in respect of any Executive Director’s services.
The Company received £Nil (2009: £Nil) in fees payable to Executive Directors in respect of any external directorships held. No Executive
Director receives any fees in respect of external appointments.
Statement on Directors’ pensions
The number of Directors who held office during the year and to
whom retirement benefits are accruing is set out below:
2010 2009
Number Number
Members of money purchase pension scheme 2 2
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Company contributions paid to money 
purchase pension schemes
Alain Grisay 21 20
David Logan 38 32
During the year, the Company paid a widow’s pension of £100,000
(2009: £95,000) in respect of the pension benefits which had
accrued to a former Chairman.
No Directors were members of a defined benefit scheme during 
the year.
Statement on Directors’ Share Incentive Schemes
The Executive Directors who held office during the year and their
awards under any of the Group’s share incentive schemes at 
31 December 2010 are shown below.
Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the Group’s
long term incentive plans. F&C Asset Management Extracts from the Directors’ Remuneration Report  Governance 17
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Executive Director Remuneration Plan
Details of awards made under the Executive Director Remuneration Plan are set out below:
Share Price Share price
at date at date of
Date of Grant Nature of Award Alain Grisay David Logan of award vesting
21 May 2007 Deferred 1,300,000 200,574 193.0p –
27 Mar 2008 Deferred 740,740 284,900 192.5p –
6 Jul 2009 Deferred 1,649,452 539,540 64.9p –
Opening position at 1 January 2010 3,690,192 1,025,014 ––
Deferred awards that vested during the year (1,300,000)(200,574) 193.0p 58.0p
Deferred awards that lapsed during the year –– ––
Deferred awards remaining at 31 December 2010 2,390,192 824,440 ––
21 May 2007 Restricted 2,500,000 360,000 193.0p
Opening position at 1 January 2010 2,500,000 360,000 ––
Restricted awards that vested during the year –– ––
Restricted awards that lapsed during the year (2,500,000)(360,000)– –
Restricted awards remaining at 31 December 2010 –– –
Long Term Remuneration Plan awards
Details of awards made under the Long Term Remuneration Plan are
set out below:
Share Price
Nature of Alain David at date 
Date of Grant Award Grisay Logan of award
4 May 2010 Restricted 2,795,929 990,557 64.8p
No restricted awards made to Mr Grisay or Mr Logan vested or
lapsed during the year.
Performance graph for the share incentive schemes
The graph below compares the performance of the Company with
a notional investment made up of shares of the group of companies
from which the FTSE 250 Financial Companies Index of companies
is calculated for the period from creation of the index in July 2006
to 31 December 2010. The graph is based on the TSR for each
period (assuming all dividends are reinvested). The FTSE 250
Financial Companies Index has been chosen as the comparator
index as it is the index that includes the Company and is
considered the most appropriate benchmark as there are very few
comparable listed asset management businesses. 
TSR performance compared to FTSE 250 Financial
Companies Index
For the five financial periods ending 31 December
TSR performance compared to FTSE 250 Index
For the five financial periods ending 31 December
The graph below compares the performance of the Company with a
notional investment made up of shares of the group of companies
from which the FTSE 250 Index of companies is calculated for the
five financial periods ending 31 December 2010. The graph is based
on the TSR for each period (assuming all dividends are reinvested).
200
150
100
1 150
10 100
31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2006 31 Dec 2005
FCAM FTSE 250 Source: Datastream
200
150
100
50
0
31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec
2006
FCAM FTSE Financials Source: Datastream We have examined the summary financial statements for the year
ended 31 December 2010 which comprises Consolidated Income
Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income,
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Equity, Earnings per Share, Extracts 
from the Report of the Directors, Extracts from the Directors’ 
Report on Corporate Governance and Extracts from the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report, set out on pages 13 to 17 
and pages 19 to 24.
This statement is made solely to the company’s members, as a
body, in accordance with section 428 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
company’s members those matters we are required to state to them
in such a statement and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to
anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a
body, for our work, for this statement, or for the opinions we have
formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the 2010 Summary
Annual Report and Financial Statements in accordance with
applicable United Kingdom law. Our responsibility is to report to you
our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statements
within the 2010 Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements
with the full annual financial statements, the Report of the Directors
and the Directors’ Remuneration Report, and its compliance with
the relevant requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006
and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the 2010 Summary
Annual Report and Financial Statements and consider the
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary
financial statement.
Basis of opinion
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008/3 The
auditor’s statement on the summary financial statement in the
United Kingdom issued by the Auditing Practices Board. Our report
on the group’s full annual financial statements describes the basis of
our audit opinion on those financial statements, the Report of the
Directors and the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Opinion
In our opinion the summary financial statements are consistent with
the full annual financial statements, the Report of the Directors and
the Directors’ Remuneration Report of F&C Asset Management plc
for the year ended 31 December 2010 and comply with the
applicable requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006
and the regulations made thereunder. 
Simon Pashby (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
Edinburgh
6 April 2011
18 Summary Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Independent Auditor’s Statement to the 
Members of F&C Asset Management plc F&C Asset Management Summary Financial Statements 19
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
2010 2009
£m £m
Revenue
Investment management fees 258.2 237.8
Other income 1.6 4.1
Total revenue 259.8 241.9
Fee and commission expenses (16.6) (16.8)
Net revenue 243.2 225.1
Net gains and investment income on unit-linked assets 74.3 136.0
Movement in fair value of unit-linked liabilities (73.3) (134.6)
Operating expenses
Operating expenses (169.7) (164.8)
Distributions to members of LLPs (6.0) –
Amortisation of intangible assets – management contracts (50.7) (49.8)
Unrealised gains on forward currency contracts – 1.2
Other exceptional net operating expenses (20.9) (19.0)
Total operating expenses (247.3) (232.4)
Operating loss (3.1) (5.9)
Finance revenue 11.1 11.5
Finance costs (33.6) (30.3)
F&C REIT put option fair value gain 6.4 5.6
Gain on debt exchange – 27.9
Impairment of financial investments – (0.1)
(Loss)/profit before tax (19.2) 8.7
Tax – Shareholders 6.2 10.4
Tax – Policyholders (0.4) (0.4)
Tax income 5.8 10.0
(Loss)/profit for the year (13.4) 18.7
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (16.6) 15.9
Minority interests 3.2 2.8
(Loss)/profit for the year (13.4) 18.7
Basic (loss)/earnings per Ordinary Share (3.31)p 3.24p
Diluted (loss)/earnings per Ordinary Share (3.31)p 3.19p
£m £m
Memo – dividends paid 24.5 29.5
Memo – dividends proposed 10.3 19.5
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2010 20 Summary Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
2010 2009
£m £m
(Loss)/profit for the year (13.4) 18.7
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Foreign exchange movements on translation of foreign operations (4.7) (15.2)
Foreign exchange transfer to Income Statement on liquidation of subsidiary (1.3) –
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension schemes 10.4 (27.2)
Gains on available for sale financial investments 1.3 0.1
Tax (expense)/income on items taken directly to equity (3.5) 7.6
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 2.2 (34.7)
Total comprehensive expense for the year (11.2) (16.0)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (14.4) (18.8)
Minority interests 3.2 2.8
(11.2) (16.0)
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 December 2010 F&C Asset Management Summary Financial Statements 21
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
as at 31 December 2010
31 December 31 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 8.3 8.4
Intangible assets:
– Goodwill 611.9 595.1
– Management contracts 175.5 206.7
– Software and licences 1.0 0.6
788.4 802.4
Financial investments 3.5 2.2
Other receivables 2.0 1.9
Deferred acquisition costs 6.0 6.4
Deferred tax assets 30.9 34.3
Total non-current assets 839.1 855.6
Current assets
Financial investments 548.7 634.9
Reinsurance assets 2.0 1.9
Stock of units and shares 0.1 0.3
Deferred acquisition costs 2.8 2.6
Trade and other receivables 162.6 91.4
Current tax receivable 0.1 5.8
Cash and cash equivalents:
– Shareholders 178.8 186.2
– Policyholders 23.4 27.7
202.2 213.9
Total current assets 918.5 950.8
Total assets 1,757.6 1,806.4
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 273.7 253.9
Other payables 12.1 6.7
Provisions 8.1 10.1
Pension deficit 27.6 46.7
Employee benefits 11.6 9.6
Deferred income 8.1 9.1
Other financial liabilities 49.5 60.4
Deferred tax liabilities 48.1 58.3
Total non-current liabilities 438.8 454.8
Current liabilities
Investment contract liabilities 559.2 649.9
Insurance contract liabilities 2.0 1.9
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – 10.0
Trade and other payables 138.5 64.1
Provisions 9.0 8.9
Employee benefits 24.3 21.3
Members’ liabilities 4.4 –
Deferred income 3.7 3.8
Other financial liabilities 4.5 1.3
Current tax payable 1.6 1.5
Total current liabilities 747.2 762.7
Total liabilities 1,186.0 1,217.5
Equity
Ordinary Share capital 0.5 0.5
Share premium account 51.8 33.8
Capital Redemption reserve 0.8 0.8
Merger reserve 383.3 416.6
Other reserves (19.5) (14.5)
Retained earnings 138.2 132.5
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 555.1 569.7
Minority interests 16.5 19.2
Total equity 571.6 588.9
Total liabilities and equity 1,757.6 1,806.4
The Summary Consolidated Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 6 April 2011. They
were signed on its behalf by:
Edward Bramson Alain Grisay 
Chairman Chief Executive 22 Summary Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Foreign
Ordinary Share Capital currency
Share premium Redemption Merger translation Fair value Acquisition Retained Minority Total
capital account reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2009 0.5 33.8 – 456.8 65.3 1.3 (66.0) 119.4 18.7 629.8
Profit for the year –– ––– –– 15.9 2.8 18.7
Other comprehensive
(expense)/income –– –– (15.2) 0.1 – (19.6) – (34.7)
Total comprehensive
(expense)/income –– –– (15.2) 0.1 – (3.7) 2.8 (16.0)
Realised element of merger
reserve to offset amortisation
of intangible assets –– – (40.2) –– – 40.2 ––
Purchase of own shares –– ––– –– (7.4) – (7.4)
Share-based payment
charges credited to equity –– ––– –– 14.3 – 14.3
Transfer to Capital Redemption 
reserve on redemption of 
Preference Share capital –– 0.8 –– –– (0.8) ––
Final 2008 dividend paid –– ––– –– (19.8) – (19.8)
Interim 2009 dividend paid –– ––– –– (9.7) – (9.7)
Distributions to minority interests –– ––– ––– (2.3) (2.3)
Balance at 31 December 2009 0.5 33.8 0.8 416.6 50.1 1.4 (66.0) 132.5 19.2 588.9
(Loss)/profit for the year –– ––– –– (16.6) 3.2 (13.4)
Other comprehensive
(expense)/income –– –– (6.0) 1.0 – 7.2 – 2.2
Total comprehensive
(expense)/income –– –– (6.0) 1.0 – (9.4) 3.2 (11.2)
Realised element of merger
reserve to offset amortisation
of intangible assets –– – (33.3) –– – 33.3 ––
Transfer of investment in own shares 
into equity on acquisition of TRC –– ––– –– (0.8) – (0.8)
Purchase of own shares –– ––– –– (9.7) – (9.7)
Settlement proceeds received
on disposal of own shares –– ––– –– 1.1 – 1.1
Share-based payment
charges credited to equity –– ––– –– 19.5 – 19.5
Share capital allotted on
placement of shares – 14.2 –– –––– – 14.2
Share capital allotted in respect of 
TRC Commutation arrangements – 3.8 –– ––– (3.8) ––
Final 2009 dividend paid –– ––– –– (19.4) – (19.4)
Interim 2010 dividend paid –– ––– –– (5.1) – (5.1)
Distributions to minority interests –– ––– ––– (5.9) (5.9)
Balance at 31 December 2010 0.5 51.8 0.8 383.3 44.1 2.4 (66.0) 138.2 16.5 571.6
The total of foreign currency translation reserve, fair value reserve and acquisition reserve constitutes ‘Other reserves’ as disclosed in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and amounts to a debit of £19.5m at 31 December 2010 (31 December 2009: £14.5m debit).
Cumulative defined benefit pension scheme actuarial losses recognised as at 31 December 2010 are £34.3m which are included in retained
earnings (31 December 2009: £44.7m).
The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at
meetings of the Company.
The share premium recognised during 2010 is stated net of £0.4m of transaction expenses associated with the related share placing.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2010 Basic (loss)/earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the (loss)/earnings for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the
parent by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the earnings for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by
the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares that
would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential Ordinary Shares into Ordinary Shares at the reporting date.
In the opinion of the Directors the ‘underlying earnings’ as quantified in the ‘Reconciliation of (loss)/earnings’ table below, more accurately
reflects the underlying earnings performance of the Group.
2010 2009
Reconciliation of basic earnings per share p p
Basic (loss)/earnings per Ordinary Share (3.31) 3.24
Amortisation of intangibles 6.48 6.80
F&C REIT put option fair value gain (1.28) (1.14)
Corporate advisory fees 1.97 0.45
F&C Partners litigation expense 0.88 0.83
TRC Commutation expenses 1.24 –
Exceptional employment and staff related (income)/expense (0.38) 0.89
F&C REIT variable minority interest SBP (income)/expense (0.06) 0.75
TRC Management Retention and Incentive Plans 0.30 –
TRC integration expenses 0.18 –
Foreign exchange transfer from reserves on liquidation of subsidiary (0.26) –
Prior year unrealised losses on forward currency contracts, now realised (0.18) (1.45)
Investment Trust VAT income – (0.37)
Exceptional client compensation expense – 0.37
Exceptional property expense – 0.37
Gain on debt exchange – (6.00)
Unrealised gains on forward currency contracts – (0.16)
Underlying earnings per Ordinary Share 5.58 4.58
Foreign exchange losses included within underlying earnings per share 0.28 1.18
Underlying earnings per Ordinary Share excluding foreign exchange losses 5.86 5.76
2010 2009
p p
Diluted earnings per Ordinary Share* (3.31) 3.19
* Where the Group has incurred a basic loss per Ordinary Share, no dilution arises despite the ‘dilutive potential weighted average number of Ordinary Shares’ being
greater than the ‘weighted average number of Ordinary Shares used to determine the basic loss per share’. As a result, the reported basic and diluted loss per
Ordinary Share are the same in 2010.
All amounts disclosed in the table above are stated net of any attributable tax, as presented in the Reconciliation of (loss)/earnings table below.
F&C Asset Management Summary Financial Statements 23
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Earnings per Share Earnings per share continued
The following tables disclose the earnings and share capital data used in the basic and diluted (loss)/earnings per share calculations:
2010 2009
Gross Tax Net Gross Tax Net
Reconciliation of (loss)/earnings £m £m £m £m £m £m
(Loss)/earnings attributable to ordinary equity holders
of the parent for basic (loss)/earnings per share (22.1) 5.5 (16.6) 5.9 10.0 15.9
Amortisation of intangibles
(1)
47.3 (14.8) 32.5 46.4 (13.0) 33.4
F&C REIT put option fair value gain (6.4) – (6.4) (5.6) – (5.6)
Corporate advisory fees 9.9 – 9.9 2.6 (0.4) 2.2
F&C Partners litigation expense 6.0 (1.6) 4.4 4.1 – 4.1
TRC Commutation expenses 6.2 – 6.2 –––
Exceptional employment and staff related (income)/expense
(2)
(2.6) 0.7 (1.9) 6.1 (1.7) 4.4
F&C REIT variable minority interest SBP (income)/expense (0.3) – (0.3) 3.7 – 3.7
TRC Management Retention and Incentive Plans 1.8 (0.3) 1.5 –––
TRC integration expenses 1.1 (0.2) 0.9 –––
Foreign exchange transfer from reserves on liquidation of subsidiary (1.3) – (1.3) –––
Prior year unrealised losses on forward currency contracts, now realised (1.3) 0.4 (0.9) (9.9) 2.8 (7.1)
Investment Trust VAT income ––– (2.5) 0.7 (1.8)
Exceptional client compensation expense ––– 2.5 (0.7) 1.8
Exceptional property expense ––– 2.5 (0.7) 1.8
Gain on debt exchange ––– (27.9) (1.6) (29.5)
Unrealised gains on forward currency contracts ––– (1.2) 0.4 (0.8)
Underlying earnings attributable to ordinary equity
holders of the parent 38.3 (10.3) 28.0 26.7 (4.2) 22.5
Foreign exchange losses included within underlying earnings 2.0 (0.6) 1.4 8.1 (2.3) 5.8
Underlying earnings attributable to ordinary equity holders
of the parent excluding foreign exchange losses 40.3 (10.9) 29.4 34.8 (6.5) 28.3
(1)
Excludes £2.3m (2009: £2.4m) of amortisation of intangibles (net of tax) which is attributable to minority interests.
(2)
Excludes £0.1m (2009: £nil) of costs (net of tax) which is attributable to minority interests.
2010 2009
Share capital No. No.
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for basic (loss)/earnings per share
(3)
501,469,251 491,145,219
Dilutive potential weighted average number of Ordinary Shares 520,838,263 498,926,216
(3)
Excluding own shares held by Nominees/Employee Benefit Trusts.
24 Summary Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 F&C Asset Management Summary Financial Statements 25
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Historical summaries
The Five Year Record is shown based on International Financial Reporting Standards which have been adopted by the Group. 
2008
2006 2007 (as restated
#
) 2009 2010
£m £m £m £m £m
Consolidated Income Statements
Revenue
Investment management fees 257.6 267.2 244.2 237.8 258.2
Other income 3.7 10.6 1.1 4.1 1.6
Total revenue 261.3 277.8 245.3 241.9 259.8
Fee and commission expenses (10.5) (13.3) (15.4) (16.8) (16.6)
Net revenue 250.8 264.5 229.9 225.1 243.2
Net gains/(losses) and investment income on unit-linked assets 106.7 45.0 (208.7) 136.0 74.3
Movement in fair value of unit-linked liabilities (105.0) (43.9) 210.5 (134.6) (73.3)
Operating expenses
Operating expenses (159.4) (183.8) (171.0) (164.8) (169.7)
Distributions to members of LLPs –––– (6.0)
Amortisation of intangible assets – management contracts (43.0) (42.4) (48.9) (49.8) (50.7)
Impairment of intangible assets – management contracts (58.5) – (48.3) – –
Unrealised (losses)/gains on forward currency contracts –– (12.3) 1.2 –
Other exceptional net operating costs (11.6) (10.6) (10.6) (19.0) (20.9)
Total operating expenses before restructuring costs (272.5) (236.8) (291.1) (232.4) (247.3)
Operating (loss)/profit before restructuring costs (20.0) 28.8 (59.4) (5.9) (3.1)
Restructuring costs:
– Reorganisation costs post acquisition of F&CGH Group (9.7) ––– –
Operating (loss)/profit after restructuring costs (29.7) 28.8 (59.4) (5.9) (3.1)
Finance revenue 20.6 23.8 25.7 11.5 11.1
Finance costs (22.0) (27.3) (29.4) (30.3) (33.6)
F&C REIT put option fair value gain ––– 5.6 6.4
Gain on debt exchange ––– 27.9 –
Loss on disposal of subsidiaries and associates (0.1) – (4.1) – –
Impairment in associates and other financial investments (0.8) – (0.1) (0.1) –
Share of profit of associates 1.5 0.6 –– –
(Loss)/profit before tax (30.5) 25.9 (67.3) 8.7 (19.2)
Tax – Shareholders 8.9 (6.6) 17.6 10.4 6.2
Tax – Policyholders (0.9) (0.6) (0.9) (0.4) (0.4)
Tax income/(expense) 8.0 (7.2) 16.7 10.0 5.8
(Loss)/profit for the year (22.5) 18.7 (50.6) 18.7 (13.4)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (23.5) 17.1 (52.5) 15.9 (16.6)
Minority interests 1.0 1.6 1.9 2.8 3.2
(Loss)/profit for the year (22.5) 18.7 (50.6) 18.7 (13.4)
Underlying earnings per Ordinary Share 12.80p 10.37p 7.76p 4.58p 5.58p
Basic (loss)/earnings per Ordinary Share (4.91)p 3.54p (10.66)p 3.24p (3.31)p
Diluted (loss)/earnings per Ordinary Share (4.91)p 3.43p (10.66)p 3.19p (3.31)p
Dividends
Memo
Final dividend for 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 33.5 33.8 19.7 19.8 19.4
Interim dividend for 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 19.2 9.7 9.9 9.7 5.1
52.7 43.5 29.6 29.5 24.5
Final dividend per Ordinary Share for 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 7.0p 7.0p 4.0p 4.0p 4.0p
Interim dividend per Ordinary Share for 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 4.0p 2.0p 2.0p 2.0p 1.0p
Dividend cover
†
(0.45) 0.39 (1.78) 0.54 (0.68)
Dividend cover before exceptional items
†
1.17 1.15 1.29 0.76 1.14
# As restated for the amendment to IFRS 2: Share-based Payment.
† Based on the dividends paid during 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010.
Five Year Record 26 Summary Financial Statements F&C Asset Management
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
The following tables reconcile the reported earnings to underlying earnings and demonstrate the impact of foreign exchange gains and losses.
In addition, the calculation of key performance indicators is also given below.
Year ended 31 December 2010
£ millions unless otherwise stated Underlying EPS Underlying EPS ex FX
Adjusted Adjustments Adjusted
Reported Income for FX (gains)/ Income
earnings Adjustments Statement losses Statement
A Net Revenue 243.2 – 243.2 – 243.2
Net policyholder income 1.0 – 1.0 – 1.0
Operating expenses (169.0) – (169.0) – (169.0)
Exchange losses (1.6) – (1.6) 1.6 –
Realised gains attributable to closed FX contracts 0.9 – 0.9 (0.9) –
FX contract losses recognised in prior periods – (1.3) (1.3) 1.3 –
Operating expenses (169.7) (1.3) (171.0) 2.0 (169.0)
Distribution to members of LLPs (6.0) – (6.0) – (6.0)
Amortisation of intangible assets (50.7) 50.7 –––
Other exceptional net operating expenses (20.9) 20.9 –––
Total operating expenses (247.3) 70.3 (177.0) 2.0 (175.0)*
B Operating (loss)/profit (3.1) 70.3 67.2 2.0 69.2
F&C REIT put option fair value gain 6.4 (6.4) –––
Interest paid (22.3) – (22.3) – (22.3)
Interest and investment income received 1.6 – 1.6 – 1.6
Other non-operating items (1.8) – (1.8) – (1.8)
Minority interest – (6.4) (6.4) – (6.4)
(Loss)/profit before tax (19.2) 57.5 38.3 2.0 40.3
Tax income/(expense) 5.8 (16.1) (10.3) (0.6) (10.9)
C (Loss)/profit for year (13.4) 41.4 28.0 1.4 29.4
Underlying EPS (C÷D) 5.6p 5.9p
Group operating margin (B÷A) 27.6% 28.5%
D Weighted average number of shares (000’s) 501,469 501,469
* This represents “underlying operating expenses”
Year ended 31 December 2009
£ millions unless otherwise stated Underlying EPS Underlying EPS ex FX
Adjusted Adjustments Adjusted
Reported Income for FX (gains)/ Income
earnings Adjustments Statement losses Statement
A Net Revenue 225.1 – 225.1 – 225.1
Net policyholder income 1.4 – 1.4 – 1.4
Underlying operating expenses (166.6) – (166.6) – (166.6)
Exchange losses (4.1) – (4.1) 4.1 –
Realised gains attributable to closed FX contracts 5.9 – 5.9 (5.9) –
FX contract losses recognised in prior periods – (9.9) (9.9) 9.9 –
Operating expenses (164.8) (9.9) (174.7) 8.1 (166.6)
Amortisation of intangible assets (49.8) 49.8 –––
Unrealised gains attributable to open FX contracts 1.2 (1.2) –––
Other exceptional net operating expenses (19.0) 19.0 –––
Total operating expenses (232.4) 57.7 (174.7) 8.1 (166.6)
B Operating (loss)/profit (5.9) 57.7 51.8 8.1 59.9
Gain on debt exchange 27.9 (27.9) –––
F&C REIT put option fair value gain 5.6 (5.6) –––
Interest paid (20.3) – (20.3) – (20.3)
Interest and investment income received 3.6 – 3.6 – 3.6
Other non-operating items (2.2) – (2.2) – (2.2)
Minority interest – (6.2) (6.2) – (6.2)
Profit before tax 8.7 18.0 26.7 8.1 34.8
Tax income/(expense) 10.0 (14.2) (4.2) (2.3) (6.5)
C Profit for year 18.7 3.8 22.5 5.8 28.3
Underlying EPS (C÷D) 4.6p 5.8p
Group operating margin (B÷A) 23.0% 26.6%
D Weighted average number of shares (000’s) 491,145 491,145
Key Performance Indicators F&C Asset Management Shareholder Information 27
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Notice is hereby given that the thirty first Annual General Meeting 
of F&C Asset Management plc will be held at The Gibson Hall, 
13 Bishopsgate, London EC2N 3BA on Tuesday 3 May 2011 at 
11 a.m. (UK time) for the following purposes:
Ordinary Business
To be proposed as ordinary resolutions:
1. To receive the Financial Statements and the Reports of the
Directors and the Independent Auditors for the year ended 
31 December 2010.
2. To declare a final dividend of 2.0 pence per share on the
ordinary shares of the Company to be paid on 27 May 2011 
to members whose name appears on the register of members
at the close of business on 1 April 2011.
3. To re-elect Keith Bedell-Pearce as a Director.
4. To re-elect Edward Bramson as a Director.
5. To re-elect Jeff Medlock as a Director.
6. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year
ended 31 December 2010.
7. To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company to
hold office until the conclusion of the next General Meeting at
which Financial Statements are laid before the Company and to
authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
8. THAT:
(A) pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 
(‘the Act’), the Directors be generally and unconditionally
authorised to allot:
(1) shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe
for or to convert any security into shares in the
Company, up to a maximum nominal amount of
£177,355.19, subject to paragraph A(2); and
(2) shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe
for or to convert any security into shares in the
Company, comprising equity securities (within the
meaning of section 560(1) of the Act) up to a maximum
nominal amount (when aggregated with any allotment
made pursuant to paragraph A(1)) of £267,917.21 in
connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer undertaken by
means of a rights issue;
(B) the authorities given in this Resolution:
(1) shall be in substitution for all pre-existing authorities to
allot shares under section 551 of the Act (other than the
specific authorities granted at the general meeting of
the Company held on 18 June 2010 to allot shares to
satisfy the consideration payable in relation to the
acquisition of Thames River and the related
commutation arrangements and for the settlement of
awards made under the management share plans) but
without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority
prior to the date hereof; and
(2) unless renewed, revoked or varied in accordance with
the Act, shall expire at the completion of the Annual
General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2012,
save that the Company may before such expiry make
an offer or agreement which would or might require the
allotment of shares in the Company, or the right to
subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in
the Company, after such expiry; and
(C) for the purpose of this Resolution, “Pre-Emptive Offer”
means an offer of equity securities to:
(1) holders of ordinary shares (other than the Company) on
a fixed record date in proportion to their respective
holdings of such shares; and
(2) other persons entitled to participate in such offer by
virtue of the rights attaching to any other equity
securities held by them,
in each case, subject to such exclusions or other
arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or
appropriate in relation to fractional entitlements, legal,
regulatory or practical problems under the laws or the
requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange of
any territory or otherwise.
To be proposed as special resolutions:
9. THAT:
(A) subject to the passing of resolution 8 set out in this Notice
(‘the Allotment Authority’), the Directors be given power
pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 (‘the
Act’) to allot equity securities (within the meaning of section
560(1) of the Act) for cash, pursuant to the authorities given
by the Allotment Authority, and to sell treasury shares wholly
for cash, as if section 561(1) of the Act did not apply to any
such allotment or sale, provided that such power shall be
limited to the allotment of equity securities or the sale of
treasury shares:
(1) in the case of paragraph A(1) of the Allotment
Authority, (a) in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer (as
defined in the Allotment Authority); or (b) in order to
satisfy options or awards under any share scheme for
employees or share incentive plan approved by the
Company in general meeting; or (c) otherwise, up to a
maximum nominal amount of £26,605.94;
(2) in the case of paragraph A(2) of the Allotment
Authority, in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer
undertaken by means of a rights issue;
(B) the power given in this Resolution:
(1) shall be in substitution for all pre-existing authorities
under section 570 of the Act but without prejudice to
the exercise of any such authority prior to the date
hereof; and
(2) unless renewed in accordance with the Act, shall expire
at the same time as the Allotment Authority, save that
the Company may before such expiry make an offer or
agreement which would or might require equity
securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold
after such expiry.
This power applies to a sale of shares which is an allotment
of equity securities by virtue of section 560(3) of the Act as 
if the words “in the case of paragraph A(1) of the Allotment
Authority,” and “in the case of paragraph A(2) of the
Allotment Authority,” were omitted from, respectively,
paragraphs A(1) and A(2) of this resolution.
Notice of Annual General Meeting  10. THAT, in substitution for any existing power under section 701
of the Companies Act 2006 (‘the Act’), but without prejudice to
the exercise of any such power prior to the date hereof, the
Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally
authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with section 701 of
the Act, to make market purchases (within the meaning of
section 693 of the Act) of fully paid ordinary shares of 0.1 pence
each in the capital of the Company (‘ordinary shares’) in such
terms and in such manner as the Directors of the Company may
decide, provided that:
(i) the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby
authorised to be purchased is 53,211,879 (being
approximately 10 per cent. of the issued ordinary share
capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at 
31 March 2011);
(ii) the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share
is 0.1 pence (exclusive of expenses); and
(iii) the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be
paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per
cent. of the average of the middle market quotations (as
derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock
Exchange) for the ordinary shares for the five business days
immediately preceding the date of purchase,
such authority to expire on the earlier of the date falling 15
months after the date of the passing of this resolution and the
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be
held in 2012, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed by
the Company in general meeting, save that the Company may
at any time prior to the expiry of such authority enter into a
contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under such
authority which will or might be completed or executed wholly or
partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a
purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract
or contracts as if this authority had not expired.
Special Business
To be proposed as ordinary resolutions:
11. THAT for the purposes of Article 95 of the Articles of Association
of the Company the maximum aggregate amount of fees paid
to, and benefits received by, the Directors for their services in
the office of director shall be increased from £600,000 per
annum to £800,000 per annum. 
12. THAT the proposed amendments to the rules of The F&C Asset
Management plc Long Term Remuneration Plan summarised in
the appendix to this Notice be and are hereby approved and the
Directors be and are hereby authorised to do all such things as
may be necessary to carry the same into effect. 
To be proposed as a special resolution:
13. THAT the period of notice for calling a general meeting (other
than an Annual General Meeting) shall be not less than 14 clear
days provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of
the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2012. 
By order of the Board
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
6 April 2011
Notes
(i) A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to
appoint one or more proxies to attend and speak and vote on his/her
behalf. A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each
proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares. A
member may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights
attached to any one share. A proxy need not be a member of the
Company.
(ii) A Form of Proxy for use by Ordinary Shareholders in connection with the
meeting is enclosed with these Accounts. To be valid, the Form of Proxy
should be completed and signed and sent or delivered, together with any
power of attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is signed or an
extract from the Books of Council and Session or a notarially certified
copy or a copy certified in accordance with the Powers of Attorney Act
1971 of such power or authority, in accordance with the instructions
contained therein, so as to reach the Company’s registrars, at the
address stated thereon, not later than 11 a.m. (UK time) on 1 May 2011
(iii) Alternatively, shareholders who would like to lodge their proxy
electronically may do so via the Sharevote website
(www.sharevote.co.uk) or through CREST in each case so as to be
received by no later than 11 a.m. (UK time) on 1 May 2011. Further
details relating to proxy appointments through CREST are set out in note
(xvi) below. If you return more than one valid proxy appointment in
respect of the same share, either by paper or electronic communication,
the one which is received last will take precedence; if the Company is
unable to determine which of them was received last, none of them will
be treated as valid in respect of that share.
(iv) Completing and returning a Form of Proxy will not prevent an Ordinary
Shareholder from attending in person at the meeting referred to above
and voting should he or she wish to do so.
(v) To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting (and for the purposes of
the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast),
shareholders must be registered in the register of members of the
Company at 6.00 p.m. on Thursday, 29 April 2011 (or, in the event of any
adjournment, on the date which is two days (excluding any part of a day
that is not a working day) before the time of the adjourned meeting).
Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be
disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at
the meeting.
(vi) If you are not a member of the Company but you have been nominated
by a member of the Company to enjoy information rights, you do not
have a right to appoint a proxy. See note (vii) below.
(vii) If you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 of the
Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights:
• You may have a right under an agreement between you and the
member of the Company who has nominated you to have
information rights (‘Relevant Member’) to be appointed or to have
someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
• If you either do not have such a right or if you have such a right but
do not wish to exercise it, you may have a right under an agreement
between you and the Relevant Member to give instructions to the
Relevant Member as to the exercise of voting rights.
(viii) Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more
corporate representative(s) who may exercise on its behalf all of its
powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the
same shares.
28 Shareholder Information F&C Asset Management
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 (ix) Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders meeting the
threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the
Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter
relating to: (i) the audit of the Company’s accounts (including the auditor’s
report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the
meeting; or (ii) any circumstance connected with an auditor of the
Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which
annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of
the Companies Act 2006. The Company may not require the
shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses
in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under
section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to
the Company’s auditor not later than the time when it makes the
statement available on the website. The business which may be dealt
with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been
required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a
website.
(x) Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to
the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be
given if (a) to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the
meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, (b) the
answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to
a question, or (c) it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the
good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
(xi) In accordance with section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the
contents of this notice, details of the total number of shares in respect of
which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting and,
if applicable, any members’ statements, members’ resolutions or
members’ matters of business received by the Company after the date of
this notice of meeting will be available on the Company’s website at
www.fcamplc.com. 
(xii) As at 31 March 2011 (being the latest practicable date prior to
publication of this notice) the Company’s issued share capital consisted
of 532,118,789 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each carrying one vote
each. No shares are held in treasury. Therefore, total voting rights in the
Company as at 31 March 2011 are 532,118,789.
(xiii) Copies of the following documents will be made available for inspection
at the registered office of the Company and at the Company’s head office
during normal business hours on any week day (Saturdays, Sundays and
public holidays excepted) from the date of this notice until the close of the
meeting, and at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to and
during the continuance of the meeting:
• the Executive Directors’ service contracts and Non-executive
Directors’ letters of appointment; 
• the rules of The F&C Asset Management plc Long Term
Remuneration Plan marked up to show the proposed amendments;
and
• the articles of association of the Company.
(xiv) A member may not use any electronic address provided either in this
Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents to
communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those
expressly stated.
(xv) The Company has made provision for shareholders who would like 
to vote by electronic means.
(xvi) CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the
CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the
procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST Personal Members
or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who
have appointed a service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor
or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate
action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST
service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a ‘CREST Proxy
Instruction’) must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear
UK & Ireland Limited’s specifications, and must contain the information
required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual
(available via www.euroclear.com/CREST). The message, regardless of
whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to
the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be
valid, be transmitted so as to be received by our Registrars, Equiniti (ID
RA19) by 11 a.m. (UK time) on 1 May 2011. For this purpose, the time of
receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the time stamp
applied to the message by the CREST Application Host) from which the
issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the
manner prescribed by CREST. After this time any change of instruction to
proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the
appointee through other means. CREST members and, where applicable,
their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that
Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special
procedures in CREST for any particular message. Normal system timings
and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST
Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member
concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal
member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service
provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s)
take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is
transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this
connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST
sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those
sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the
CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the
circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated
Securities Regulations 2001.
F&C Asset Management Shareholder Information 29
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 30 Shareholder Information F&C Asset Management
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Appendix
Summary of the proposed amendments to the F&C Asset
Management plc Long Term Remuneration Plan
1. Introduction
Under the rules of the LTRP , the Board can grant two different forms
of awards over Ordinary Shares, namely:
(i) awards that are subject to performance targets which must be
satisfied if they are to vest (‘Restricted Awards’); and 
(ii) awards that are not subject to such performance targets
(‘Deferred Awards’)
Under the rules of the LTRP , no Deferred Awards can be granted to
F&C’s executive directors. 
2. Existing LTRP provisions relating to cessation of a
Restricted Award holder’s employment
Currently, the provisions of the LTRP that apply where the holder of
a Restricted Award ceases employment with the F&C Group can be
summarised as follows: 
(i) If the participant leaves the employment of the F&C Group for
any reason (other than as specified below) prior to the vesting of
his Awards (which will normally take place on the third
anniversary of grant to the extent that applicable performance
targets have been satisfied) then they will lapse immediately. 
(ii) If, prior to vesting, the participant dies or ceases employment by
reason of injury, ill-health or disability then his Awards will vest
immediately provided that such vesting will only occur if, and to
the extent that, the applicable performance targets have been
satisfied at that time. 
(iii) If, prior to vesting, the participant ceases employment by reason
of redundancy, retirement at normal retirement age or because
the participant’s employing company or part of the business in
which he is employed is transferred out of the F&C Group, or
any other reason at the discretion of the Board, then his Awards
will continue to vest on the third anniversary of grant but again
only if, and to the extent that, the applicable performance
conditions have been satisfied. In addition, the amount of an
Award which vests in these circumstances will be reduced pro-
rata in line with the proportion of the vesting period that had
elapsed at the time the participant ceased to be employed by
the F&C Group. 
3. Proposed amendments to above provisions relating to
cessation of a participant’s employment.
The above provisions will be amended in respect of certain
Restricted Awards (see below) so as to provide that if, prior to
vesting, a participant ceases employment with the F&C Group in 
the circumstances set out in paragraph 2(iii) above then the Board
will have the discretion to disapply the time pro-rating reduction 
that would otherwise have been made. However, in these cases
vesting will continue to occur on the third anniversary of grant to the
extent that applicable performance conditions have been satisfied.
For the avoidance of doubt, no other amendments will be made to
the provisions summarised at paragraph 2 above. Similarly, no
changes are being made to the terms of the LTRP that apply to
Deferred Awards. 
4. Application of proposed amendments
The amendments summarised at paragraph 3 above will only apply
to any Restricted Awards granted between 1 January 2011 and 
31 December 2011. Performance Awards granted after 
31 December 2011 will be subject the current provisions 
summarised at paragraph 2 above. 
5. Rationale for proposed amendments
A summary of the rationale for these proposed amendments to the
LTRP is set out on page 14.
Defined Terms
In this appendix, the following words and expressions bear the
following meanings unless the context requires otherwise:
“Board” the board of directors of F&C, or a duly authorised
committee thereof;
“F&C” F&C Asset Management plc;
“F&C Group” the group of companies of which F&C is the holding
company;
“LTRP” The F&C Asset Management plc Long Term Remuneration
Plan; and
“Ordinary Shares” Ordinary Shares of 0.1p each in the capital 
of F&C. F&C Asset Management Shareholder Information 31
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Shareholders should consult their own tax advisors as to the tax
considerations applicable to them relating to the purchase,
ownership and disposition of our ordinary shares (the ‘Shares’),
including the applicability of US Federal state and local tax laws and
non-US tax laws. This discussion does not address tax
considerations applicable to US Shareholders other than the passive
foreign investment company rules. 
F&C Asset Management plc (the ‘Company’) and certain of its
subsidiaries may be treated as passive foreign investment
companies (each, a ‘PFIC’) within the meaning of section 1297 of
the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ‘Code’) for
US Federal income tax purposes. 
Treatment of the Company or any of its subsidiaries as a PFIC could
result in adverse tax consequences for US Shareholders. 
A foreign corporation generally will be treated as a PFIC in any year
in which either 75 per cent. or more of its gross income constitutes
passive income or at least 50 per cent. of the value of its assets is
attributable to assets which produce or are held for the production
of passive income. In applying these tests, a non-US corporation
that directly or indirectly owns at least 25 per cent., by value, of the
stock of another corporation is treated as if it held directly its
proportionate share of the other corporation’s assets and received
directly its proportionate share of the other corporation’s income. 
Whether a non-US company is a PFIC is determined annually, and
the status of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, could change
depending among other things upon the changes in the
composition of its gross receipts and assets, and the nature of its
business. 
US Shareholders are particularly urged to consult their own Tax
Advisors regarding the US tax considerations relating to an
investment in a company that may be or may become a PFIC,
including the availability and consequences of elections that may be
available to mitigate the adverse Federal income tax consequences
of owning or disposing of PFIC shares. In that regard, US
Shareholders should be aware that the Company does not intend to
satisfy the record keeping and other requirements that would permit
a US Shareholder to make a qualified electing fund (‘QEF’) election
with respect to the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Each taxpayer is hereby notified that: (a) any discussion of US
Federal tax issues herein is not intended or written to be used, and
cannot be used by the taxpayer, for the purpose of avoiding
penalties that may be imposed on the taxpayer under US Federal
tax law; (b) any such discussion is written to support the promotion
or marketing of the transactions or matters addressed herein; and
(c) the taxpayer should seek advice based on its particular
circumstances from an independent tax advisor.  
Notice To US Shareholders –
Certain PFIC Considerations  32 Shareholder Information F&C Asset Management
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Directors
Edward Bramson, Chairman
‡
Alain Grisay, Chief Executive
Keith Bedell-Pearce, Senior Independent Non-executive*
†‡
Ian Brindle, Non-executive
David Logan, Chief Financial Officer
Jeff Medlock, Non-executive*
†
Derham O’Neill, Non-executive*
†
Kieran Poynter, Non-executive*
†‡
Gerhard Roggemann, Non-executive*
†‡
‡
Member of Nomination Committee
*Member of Remuneration Committee
†
Member of Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee
Head Office
Exchange House
Primrose Street
London
EC2A 2NY
Telephone 020 7628 8000
Facsimile 020 7628 8188
Email: enquiries@fandc.com
Secretary and Registered Office
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
80 George Street
Edinburgh
EH2 3BU
Telephone 0131 718 1000
Facsimile 0131 225 2375
Solicitors
Norton Rose LLP
3 More London Riverside
London
SE1 2AQ
Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP
1 Exchange Crescent
Conference Square
Edinburgh
EH3 8UL
Principal Bankers
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
142-144 Princes Street
Edinburgh
EH2 4EQ
Stockbrokers
JPMorgan Cazenove
10 Aldermanbury
London
EC2V 7RF
Citigroup Global Markets Limited
Citigroup Centre
Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London
E14 5LB
HSBC Bank plc
8 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London
E14 5HQ
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
Saltire Court
20 Castle Terrace
Edinburgh
EH1 2EG
Registrar and Transfer Office
Equiniti Limited
34 South Gyle Crescent
South Gyle Business Park
Edinburgh
EH12 9EB
Corporate information
F&C Asset Management plc
Registered in Scotland
Company Registration Number SC73508
Website
Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website 
www.fcamplc.com
Corporate Information 
Shareholder services available from Equiniti Limited
Shareview
The Company’s registrar, Equiniti, offers a Shareview service enabling shareholders to have more control over their shares and other
investments:
Direct access to data held on the share register including recent share movements and dividend details. 
The ability to change address details or dividend payment instructions online.
To sign up for Shareview, shareholders need the “shareholder reference” printed on the proxy form or dividend stationery, and there is no
charge to register.
On registration, shareholders can select their preferred format (post or e-mail) for shareholder communications. Shareholders selecting “e-mail”
as their mailing preference will be sent shareholder communications, such as proxy forms and notice of Company results by e-mail instead of
post, as long as this option is available. Shareholders selecting “post” as their preference will be sent paper documents as usual.
Details of software and equipment requirements are given on the website, www.shareview.co.uk
Voting Online
In accordance with good governance practice, the Company is offering shareholders use of an online voting service, “sharevote”, offered 
by Equiniti, at www.sharevote.co.uk. Shareholders can use this service to vote or appoint a proxy online. The same voting deadline 
(11 a.m. (UK time) on 1 May 2011) applies as for the Personalised Voting Form to vote or appoint a proxy by post to vote. Shareholders need 
to use the unique personal identification details (Reference Number, Card ID and Account Number) that are printed on the Personalised Voting
Form to use this service. F&C Asset Management plc 
Head Office: Exchange House Primrose Street London EC2A 2NY
Telephone: 020 7628 8000 Email: enquiries@fandc.com
Website: www.fcamplc.com 
