 F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
a Business Overview Welcome from the Chairman Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Expect excellence
Trusted for
over a
century
F&C Asset Management plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
b Business Overview Welcome from the Chairman Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
About F&C
F&C is a leading asset management
company providing solutions that
deliver superior performance and
service.
With offices in 11 countries we are
a global business with a strong
presence in Europe. Our clients are
both retail and institutional
investors, representing over three
million individuals – for whom we
manage approximately £100 billion.
Our values
Client focus
Accountable performance
Commercial innovation
Mutual respect
Definitions
“F&C, FCAM, Group or Company” F&C Asset Management plc and its subsidiaries
“FP” Friends Provident plc
“F&CGH” F&C Group (Holdings) Limited and its subsidiaries
“F&C REIT” F&C REIT Asset Management LLP and its subsidiaries
“REIT” REIT Property Asset Management LLP and its subsidiaries
 
Contents
Business Review
 01 Our year in brief
 02 Welcome from the Chairman
 06 Chief Executive’s report
 10 This is F&C
 13 Managing risk
 16 Our strategy
 19 Our view of the market
 21 Our trading performance and outlook
 22 Our financial performance
 25 Our strategic approach and commitment 
       to corporate responsibility
Governance
 27 Company Directors
 28 Report of the Directors
 33 Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance
 39 Directors’ Remuneration Report
 46 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
Financial Statements
 47 Independent Auditor’s Report
 48 Consolidated Income Statement
 49 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive
Income
 50 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
 51 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
 52 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 53 Accounting Policies
 63 Notes to the Consolidated Financial               
       Statements
124 Five Year Record
125 Key Performance Indicators
126 Company Balance Sheet
127 Company Accounting Policies
131 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
139 Notice of Annual General Meeting
141 Notice to U.S. Shareholders
IBC Corporate Information
Forward-looking statements
This Annual Report and Financial Statements may contain certain “forward-looking statements” with
respect to certain of the Group’s plans and its current goals and expectations relating to its future
financial condition, performance, results, strategy and objectives. Statements containing the words
“believes”, “intends”, “expects”, “plans”, “seeks” and “anticipates”, and words of similar meaning, are
forward-looking.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to
future events and circumstances which are beyond the Group’s control including among other things,
UK domestic and global economic and business conditions, market related risks such as fluctuations
in market indices interest rates and exchange rates, and the performance of financial markets
generally; the policies and actions of regulatory authorities, the impact of competition, inflation and
deflation; the timing, impact and other uncertainties of future acquisitions or combinations within
relevant industries; and the impact of changes in capital, solvency or accounting standards, and tax
and other legislation and regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
As a result, the Group’s actual future financial condition, performance and results may differ materially
from the plans, goals, and expectations set forth in the Group’s forward-looking statements. F&C
undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report
and Financial Statements. Nothing in this publication should be considered as a profit forecast. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
01 Business Review Our year in brief Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Business highlights 2009
•    Strong investment performance across fixed income, equities and property.
•    Improving outlook for fund flows.
•    Resilient revenues.
•    Unchanged dividend.
Net revenue
£225.1m
Profit after taxation
£18.7m
Underlying earnings per share
5.8p
Dividend per share
6.0p
Net revenue
£m
£m
2008
229.9
2009
225.1 
Statutory reported 
(loss)/profit after tax
£m
£m
2008
(50.6)
2009
18.7 
Basic earnings/(loss) per 
ordinary share
pence
£m
2008
(10.7)
2009
3.2 
Underlying profit after 
taxation*
£m
£m
38.2
2009
28.3
(ex FX)
Group operating margin
%
£m
2008
26.4
2009
23.0 
Assets under management 
at 31 December 
£bn
£m
2008
98.6
2009
97.8
Underlying earnings per 
ordinary share*
pence
£m
7.6
(ex FX) 
2009
5.8
(ex FX)  
Total dividends per 
ordinary share
pence
£m
2008
6.0
2009
6.0 
* Underlying profit after taxation and underlying earnings per share are shown both inclusive and exclusive of the impact of foreign exchange gains
and losses (“ex FX”).
Reconciliations between reported earnings and underlying earnings and between basic earnings/(loss) per share and underlying earnings per share
are given in note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Calculations of key performance indicators are given on page 125.
The 2008 results have been restated for the amendment to IFRS2: Share-based Payments – vesting conditions and cancellations. 
7.8 
4.6 
37.3
(ex FX) 
22.5 
2008 2008 2009
2008 2008 2009 F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
02 Business Review Welcome from the Chairman Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Welcome
from the
Chairman
“. . . We are looking forward to 
building on our new
independent status . . .” 
on 7 May 2010 to shareholders on the register at 26 March
2010.  This brings full-year dividends to 6.0 pence per
share.
 
Ownership
After a prolonged period of corporate uncertainty, F&C was
demerged from the Friends Provident group on 3 July
2009.  This transaction, which involved Friends Provident
distributing its controlling 52 per cent. stake in F&C to its
own shareholders, has resulted in an enormous broadening
of our shareholder register. 
Board Developments
There were a number of changes to the Board during the
year, both ahead of the Group’s demerger from Friends
Provident and upon its completion.
At the Annual General Meeting in May, Robert Jenkins
retired as Chairman of the Company and stepped down
from the Board.  I would like to pay tribute to Bob’s many
years of service to F&C, as Chief Executive of F&C Group
prior to its merger with ISIS Asset Management in 2004
and subsequently as the first Chairman of F&C Asset
Management plc.  At the same meeting Dick de Beus also
retired as an independent Non-Executive Director.  Dick’s
tenure on the Board pre-dated the 2004 merger and his
experience and insights were greatly valued.  On behalf of
the Board, I wish Bob and Dick well and extend thanks to
them both.
In June we welcomed two new Independent Non-
Executive Directors. Kieran Poynter joined the Board and
Nick MacAndrew
Chairman
2009 was another turbulent year for the asset management
industry and, for the Group, one of considerable change. It
began with a further severe downturn in global equity and
bond markets, exacerbating the difficulties of 2008.
However, from March onwards both equities and bonds
staged a strong rally through to the end of the year.
Despite this welcome recovery, average equity market
levels in 2009 were still lower than the previous year.  This
resulted in a tough operating environment for asset
managers. 
Results and Dividend
The Group’s underlying profit after tax (excluding foreign
exchange gains and losses) was £28.3 million compared to
£37.3 million in 2008.  This represented underlying
earnings per share of 5.8 pence for 2009 compared to 7.6
pence in the previous year. Including the impact of foreign
exchange gains and losses, underlying earnings per share
were 4.6p for 2009 and 7.8p for 2008.
On a statutory reported basis, which includes exceptional
and non-cash items, we made a profit after tax of £18.7
million, compared to a loss after tax of £50.6 million in
2008.  This represents a basic earnings per share of 3.2
pence compared to a loss of 10.7 pence in the previous
year.
After considering the results for the year, the challenging
market conditions and the exceptional corporate
uncertainty which impacted them, as well as the improving
outlook for the business, the Board is recommending an
unchanged final dividend of 4.0 pence per share, payable  F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
03 Business Review Welcome from the Chairman Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Conclusion
We are looking forward to building on our new independent
status and, while we recognise that there are, as ever,
many internal and external challenges, we are optimistic
that F&C will meet those challenges in the pursuit of
enhancing shareholder value. 
Nick MacAndrew
Chairman
31 March 2010
the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, having
recently retired as Chairman and Senior Partner of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP .  The Board was also joined
in June by Roger Yates, former Chief Executive of
Henderson Group.  Regrettably, Roger stepped down in
December 2009 following his appointment as Chief
Executive of another asset management organisation.  We
are currently seeking a replacement. 
Following the demerger of F&C from the Friends Provident
group, both Sir Adrian Montague, former Chairman of
Friends Provident, and Trevor Matthews, Chief Executive
Officer of Friends Provident, stepped down as Non-
Executive Directors.  I would like to thank both Sir Adrian
and Trevor for their service. Friends Provident continues to
be an important client of the Group. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
4 Business Overview Welcome from the Chairman Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
04 Business Review Our values: the foundations of excellence Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Accountable performance
Our values: the foundations of excellence F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
5 Business Overview Welcome from the Chairman Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
05 Business Review Our values: the foundations of excellence Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
We expect individuals to take responsibility and deliver solutions.
Every employee knows the role they play, and the measures that will
be used to judge their performance. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
06 Business Review Chief Executive’s report Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Market Overview
2009 was a year in which the world's major economies
endured the worst recession since the 1930s.  Despite this,
investors in financial markets benefitted from a remarkable
rally in both equities and bonds.  Even accounting for
significant equity market declines in the first quarter, the
FTSE 100 Index returned a 27.3 per cent gain during 2009
and investment grade bonds produced their best returns in
a decade.
Notwithstanding the scale of the rally since March, the
average level of the FTSE 100 Index during 2009 was 4568
points compared to 5363 points during 2008, a reduction
of 14.8 per cent.  Consequently, 2009 was another tough
year for asset managers as lower average market levels fed
through to reduced management fee revenues.
Against this challenging market environment, F&C
continued to make progress in the implementation of its
strategy with strong investment performance and good
progress with investment consultants.
Financial Results
With a diversified asset base, F&C’s assets under
management are less exposed to equity markets than
some of our peers.  We were relatively defensively
positioned during the sharp equity market declines in 2008,
and thus were more limited in our participation in the equity
recovery during 2009.  We ended the year with assets
under management of £97.8 billion, broadly flat on the year
(31 December 2008: £98.6 billion). 
Over the year, the strengthening of Sterling against the
Euro had an adverse impact on our assets under
management, partially mitigating the recovery in market
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Chief
Executive’s
report
 
Alain Grisay
Chief Executive
levels.  At 31 December some 55 per cent of our assets
under management were in Euro-denominated portfolios.
Net revenues, of £225 million, remained relatively stable
(2008: £230 million).  While net investment management
fees were some £18.6 million lower, performance-related
management fees increased to £18.7 million (2008: £7.9
million) on the back of strong investment performance.
Underlying operating costs were £5.7 million lower
reflecting the cost reduction measures implemented at the
start of the year, which were partially offset by the acquired
cost base of REIT Asset Management.
The Group made an underlying profit after tax, excluding
foreign exchange gains and losses, of £28.3 million (2008:
£37.3 million).  This resulted in underlying earnings per
share of 5.8 pence (2008: 7.6 pence).
The Group also recognised a number of exceptional and
non-recurring items.  These included the gain on debt
refinancing, corporate advisory costs, and the exceptional
employment costs of implementing our cost reduction
programme. 
On a statutory basis our profit after tax was £18.7 million
compared to a loss of £50.6 million in 2008. 
Statement of Financial Position
The Group closed the year with £186 million of shareholder
cash reserves and net debt of some £79 million. 
In the second half of the year we took advantage of
prevailing conditions in the subordinated debt markets and
executed an exchange offer to existing holders of our
subordinated loan notes.  This enabled bondholders to
exchange part of their subordinated notes for new
guaranteed notes, and the Group to raise £25 million of
additional finance.  As a result of this transaction we were
able to repay £25 million of vendor loan notes issued in
relation to the acquisition of REIT Asset Management in
2008, and to reduce gross and net debt by some £30
million.
Strategic and Operational Review
Our strategy is to develop the Group as a leading multi-
specialist asset manager, focused on delivering a
competitive range of investment products, supported by
excellent client service, for a broad range of insurance,
institutional, wholesale and retail investors.  We are on a
long-term journey to diversify beyond our traditional core
business mix by expanding our presence across multiple
client segments in specialist business areas which offer
scaleable, high growth potential. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
07 Business Review Chief Executive’s report Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
environmental, social and governance services,
emerging market debt, emerging equities, equity-linked
bond funds, and commercial property.
We generated £2.5 billion of new institutional business
during the year and had a further pipeline of mandates
that were won but awaiting funding of £1.4 billion at the
year end.  Institutional outflows were at their lowest
level since the merger of F&C and ISIS in 2004,
reducing significantly from prior year levels to £4.8
billion (2008: £7.6 billion). 
Third-party mutual fund sales (OEICs and SICAVs) of
£710 million were down 31 per cent from the peak
levels achieved in 2008.  In particular, due to our fund
range we did not participate in the strong industry
preference in 2009 for investment grade corporate
bond products.
•    Infrastructure – The major infrastructure projects
initiated as part of our three-year plan have now been
completed.  These include the consolidation of our
operations on to a single platform and the upgrading of
our Decision, Risk and Dealing systems to support our
investment teams.
F&C REIT Asset Management
F&C REIT, our property asset manager, was accretive to
the Group’s underlying earnings per share in its first full-
year as part of the Group.  
Property investment performance was strong during 2009.
The aggregate of all F&C REIT property portfolios
monitored by Investment Property Databank (IPD) ranked
F&C REIT’s UK performance in the 8th percentile.  All three
closed ended listed UK commercial property vehicles
managed by the Group outperformed the IPD Quarterly
Index throughout the year.
Outlook
Despite the sharp recovery in asset prices during 2009, the
economic outlook for 2010 remains uncertain.  Spiralling
public debt is forcing governments to take tough action in
the form of spending cuts and tax rises.  These measures,
combined with the winding down of stimulus packages,
also have the potential to choke off economic recovery.
We therefore remain cautious in our short term market
outlook and will continue to rigorously manage our cost
base. 
With both private investors and pensions schemes needing
to rebuild capital, the business is well positioned for an
upturn in fund flows.
Alain Grisay
Chief Executive
31 March 2010
The Group’s product strategy has three distinct pillars:
•    Advisory and client solutions – servicing strategic
clients with solutions including liability matching,
fiduciary management, governance overlays, asset
allocation and risk-profiled products
•    Alpha investing – active portfolio management across
a range of traditional and alternative asset classes
•    Responsible investing – developing our strong
market presence in the management of ethical and
responsible investment products
We will seek to add scale and enhance our product set and
distribution capabilities both organically and through
acquisitions.  We believe that the acquisition of REIT Asset
Management has demonstrated our ability to acquire and
preserve the value of entrepreneurial businesses. We will
therefore look to build on this model with further
acquisitions should we find them to be attractive, value
creating opportunities that can be structured to minimise
disruption to the business.
Business Developments
Three years ago we initiated a fundamental restructuring of
the business.  This aimed to improve investment
performance, build our distribution capability, expand our
presence in specialist investment areas and enhance our
infrastructure to support future growth.  We are pleased to
report that the three-year objectives that we had set
ourselves for core investment performance and
infrastructure development have been, in the main,
achieved.  New business wins did not reach our targets
largely because of elements outside of our control; two
years of unexpected ownership uncertainty and the impact
of the market turmoil.
The following was achieved by the end of 2009:
•    Investment Performance – Overall investment
performance was strong across all asset classes during
2009.  On an asset weighted basis we outperformed
agreed benchmarks or targets on 71 per cent of
actively managed equity portfolios and 94 per cent of
actively managed fixed income portfolios.  As reported
below, 2009 was also an excellent year for property
investment performance, where all our funds
outperformed their benchmark.  Strong investment
performance resulted in a 137 per cent increase in
performance fees compared to the previous year.
Mutual funds and other pooled funds represent a
minority of our assets under management with the
majority of portfolios in insurance funds and segregated
accounts.  Our overall pooled fund performance, while
competitive in a number of specialist areas, does not
yet reflect the strong outperformance delivered for our
institutional and insurance clients. Improvements in
pooled fund performance are therefore a priority for the
business in 2010.
•    Distribution – Since the end of the uncertainty over
our ownership we have made good progress with
institutional investment consultants, the prerequisite to
winning new mandates.  At the year end we had a
record 43 consultant ratings, spanning a number of
products including liability driven investments, F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
8 Business Overview Welcome from the Chairman Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
08 Business Review Our values: the foundations of excellence Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Client focus
Our values: the foundations of excellence F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
9 Business Overview Welcome from the Chairman Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
09 Business Review Our values: the foundations of excellence Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
F&C is a service business. Each employee needs to excel in
everything we do for our clients, adding value and building
relationships. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
10 Business Review This is F&C Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
This is 
F&C 
The Board has prepared this review on pages 10 to 26 in accordance with the
requirements of Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 and it forms part of the
Directors’ Report. The law requires the Company’s auditors to report on whether the
information given in the Directors’ Report and Business Review is consistent with the
financial statements. The auditor’s opinion is included in their report on page 47.
The purpose of this review is to provide shareholders with a snapshot summary setting
out the business objectives of the Company, the Board’s strategy to achieve those
objectives, the risks faced, the regulatory environment and the key performance
indictors (KPIs) used to measure performance.
What we do
Our offices
F&C’s sole activity is asset management. We are not a
bank. We are not an insurance company. We are an active
international investor with a client focus on the UK and
Continental Europe. 
We operate across multiple locations, with a physical
presence in eleven countries. Our organisational philosophy
has two key parameters – to seek to avoid duplication by,
for example, managing each asset class from only one
location, and to place client service functions where
appropriate in order to meet client requirements.
Our objective
Our objective is simple: to create value by delivering first
quartile performance in everything our clients expect
from us. 
Boston Dublin
Lisbon 
London
Hong Kong
Paris Geneva
Frankfurt
Dorking
Edinburgh
Amsterdam
Stockholm
Mumbai  F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
11 Business Review This is F&C Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
In addition to the “normal risks” facing the business relating
to the market, interest rates and foreign currency, the
Board has identified the following as the key risks facing
the business:
Deterioration in the world economies
Failure of the Group’s operational platforms
Weaknesses within the front office control processes
Loss of key clients
Loss of key employees
Our clients
Our clients comprise a wide range of insurance,
institutional and retail investors, across multiple
geographies and jurisdictions, for whom we manage a
diverse spread of investments including equities, fixed
income, property and alternative asset classes. 
Responsible investments
We seek to deliver strong investment performance through
active management. However, as a shareholder
representative, we seek to engage with the companies in
which we invest, aiming to enhance and protect long-term
shareholder value. Our approach is to have constructive
dialogue with companies. We cast votes on shareholder
resolutions globally, and disclose this to our clients on our
website.
Key risks – see page 13 How we manage money
With over 230 investment professionals, F&C has one of
the largest investment teams in Europe. Our scale gives us
a competitive edge in research resources and access to
the most senior management at major companies. We
believe individuals work best as part of a small, focused
team. Our investment professionals are therefore organised
into dedicated teams, focused on specific products or
market segments. We provide them with a high degree of
autonomy over their investment process. We do this in
order to foster a strong culture of enterprise and
accountability for delivering performance. This approach –
of being both large in terms of resource, but entrepreneurial
in structure – is what we describe as a ‘multi-specialist’
fund management model. 
Assets under management by client category
at 31 December £bn
                                                                                 2008                            2009
                                                                                   £bn                              £bn
1 Insurance Funds                                         57.0                        57.2
2 Institutional Funds                                      28.6                        27.7
3 Sub-Advisory                                                4.8                          4.0
4 Investment Trusts                                         4.9                          5.1
5 OEICs (UK Onshore Mututal Funds)              2.2                          2.5
6 SICAVs (Mutual Funds)                                 1.1                          1.3
Assets under management by asset class
at 31 December £bn
                                                                                 2008                            2009
                                                                                   £bn                              £bn
1 Fixed Interest                                              60.6                        58.3
2 Equities                                                      24.3                        24.8
3 Property                                                       7.9                          8.0
4 Other Alternative Investments                       2.4                          1.6
5 Money Market                                              3.4                          5.1 Executive Management
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
12 Business Review This is F&C Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
David Logan
Chief Financial Officer
Cristobal Mendez de Vigo
Head of Distribution and
Business Development
Fernando Ribeiro
Head of Advisory and
Strategic Relationships
Nick Criticos
Chief Executive, F&C REIT
Asset Management
Alain Grisay
Chief Executive Officer
Jacob deWit
Head of Fixed Income
Richard Wilson
Head of Equities
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Examples of matters reserved for EXECOM as
delegated authorities from the Board:
The approval of day-to-day business issues linked to the
strategy or the annual budget and including the launch of
new products.
Approval of contractual commitments.
Approval of expenditure and the management of any
issue that could have a potential legal or reputational
impact on the Group.
Executive Directors and Executive Committee
Messrs Grisay and Logan are the Executive Directors of the
Company. These Executive Directors, together with Messrs
Criticos, deWit, Mendez de Vigo, Ribeiro and Wilson form
the Executive Committee (EXECOM). EXECOM is
accountable and responsible for implementing Board
strategy, proposing development of new elements of
strategy and for the day-to-day running of the business. In
addition to overseeing the implementation of the strategy,
EXECOM regularly reviews business issues and matters not
reserved for the Board as a whole. EXECOM has reserved
lists to assist it in carrying out its functions.
                                         Gold Standard Award – winners of the Fund Management category for fourth
successive year – recognises excellence in overall capabilities, client service, trust
and value form money
                                         Incisive Media, (November 2009)
                                         European Socially Responsible Investment Programme of the Year – identified as the
market leader for engagement on Environmental, Social & Governance matters
                                         Funds Europe magazine (December 2009)
                                         Best Child Trust Provider and Best Performing Fund in a CTF 
(Higher Risk Category)
                                         Moneywise magazine (2009)
                                         Lipper Fund Awards, 2009 – Category winner F&C European High Yield Bond Fund
                                         Lipper Fund Awards 2009 in Switzerland, Netherlands, Nordics and Germany
                                         Investment Trust of the Year Awards 2009 – Category winner 
F&C US Smaller Companies PLC
                                         Investment Week, 2009
                                         Investment, Life & Pensions Moneyfacts Awards – 
Best Investment Trust Provider
                                         ILP Moneyfacts Awards, 2009 (September 2009)
                                         Top 50 Call Centres for Customer Service 
(CCF magazine) – Ranked First Place
                                         Award for Operational Excellence, 
UK Customer Experience Awards (CSN)
2009 Key Awards F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
13 Business Review Managing risk Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Key risk
Deterioration in the world economies
Deterioration in the global economic environment is likely to
adversely impact F&C’s ability to attract and retain clients.
Falling market levels and asset values have a direct impact
on our revenues.
Failure of the Group’s operational platforms
Failure in the operational platforms would, at least in the
short term, adversely impact client service and the abiity to
manage client assets.
Weaknesses within the front office control processes
There are inherent risks in managing client assets. These
include a failure to manage client assets in accordance with
the investment remit determined by the client. Ineffective
front office control processes could lead to inaccurate
investment decision making and errors.
Loss of key clients
The success of the Group depends on the relationships it
has with its clients. The retention of clients and the winning
of new mandates is often driven by historical performance
and the quality of client service.
Loss of key employees
The success of the Group depends on the support of its
employees. The loss of key employees could lead to client
outflows and the loss of key mandates, may prevent the
Company from winning new business and potentially
expose the Group to greater risk of regulatory, financial or
operational failure.
Mitigation
The Group manages a wide range of clients across a
diverse asset base and a number of geographic territories.
The Group has a detailed Business Continuity Plan that is
tested annually. All departments have their own
Departmental Continuity Plans to ensure the business can
continue to operate if an incident occurs at any of the
Group’s locations.
Further progress has been made in relation to pre and post
trade compliance to mandate checking. Also, further
functionality has been built into eFunds (the system used to
record all client information) to ensure that the eFunds
system is able to fully capture and accurately reflect all
client requirements and restrictions. This aids both
compliance to mandate checking and also improves our
client servicing proposition.
Long-term contracts are in place with our key strategic
clients and a number of new initiatives focussing on new
business opportunities have been agreed. In addition,
investment performance has improved significantly over the
course of 2009. 
The Group operates competitive share plans and
benchmarks the total cash component of compensation to
market data. All employees receive an annual appraisal
which reviews their performance against clearly defined
objectives.
Managing
risk
The Directors are committed to a strong control
environment throughout the Group. F&C has a
culture that emphasises the importance of 
rigorous disciplines and procedures to safeguard
the interests of our clients, and other key
stakeholders. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
14 Business Overview Welcome from the Chairman Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
14 Business Review Our values: the foundations of excellence Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Commercial innovation
Our values: the foundations of excellence F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
15 Business Overview Welcome from the Chairman Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
15 Business Review Our values: the foundations of excellence Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Innovation is perhaps the most critical capability for continuing
success. We encourage our people to constantly challenge the way
things are done, to improve service and the results they deliver to our
clients. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
16 Business Review Our strategy Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Our strategy
•      Focus on performance to deliver client satisfaction
•      Seek and develop distribution opportunities in key
markets to deliver organic growth
•      Focus on higher margin and specialist areas for new
business
•      Maintain diversity of revenues while leveraging our scale
Focus on performance to deliver client satisfaction
We seek to define and deliver top quartile performance in everything we do. Our strategy is grounded in our belief in a virtuous circle: delivering
excellent performance will be validated by organic growth which will, in turn, translate into earnings growth and stock price performance.
2009 key points
We completed the integration of our
operational processes on to a single
platform enabling us to deliver consistent
high standards for all of our clients
We rationalised our OEIC and SICAV fund
ranges and reallocated management
responsibilities on a number of funds to
provide greater focus for our investment
teams
We won the Incisive Media Gold Standard
Award for Fund Management for the fourth
year in succession; the Award for
Operational Excellence in the UK Customer
Experience Awards; and the Overall Winner
Award in the Top 50 and Call Centres for
Customer Services Awards
2010 key priorities
Sustain overall strong investment
performance across the business and
address specific areas of weakness in our
pooled fund range
Continue to broaden the range of products
rated by investment consultants and by fund
rating agencies
Retain key investment personnel
Key performance indicators
Corporate Health
The Board considers a report on the Group’s
Operations and IT systems, Human
Resources, and Audit, Risk and Compliance
functions at each Board Meeting. 
 
2009 key points
After a turbulent Q1, both equities and credit
markets posted strong recoveries during the
remainder of the year, generating strong
calendar year returns
94 per cent. of fixed income assets were
ahead of agreed benchmarks or targets at
the end of the year
71 per cent. of equity assets were ahead of
agreed benchmarks or targets at the end of
the year
Aggregate performance of all property
portfolios monitored by Investment
Performance Databank ranked the Group in
the 8th percentile with an absolute
performance of 9.1 per cent.
All single strategy hedge funds generated
positive absolute returns
£18.7 million performance fees earned, an
increase of 137 per cent. over prior year
Investment awards
European Socially Responsible Investor of
the Year, Funds Europe Awards
Best Investment Trust Provider, ILP
Moneyfacts Awards
Category Winner – F&C European High Yield
Bond Fund, Lipper Fund Awards (Germany,
Netherlands, Nordics, Switzerland)
Category Winner – F&C US Smaller
Companies PLC, Investment Week
Investment Trust Awards
Best Performing Balanced Fund – F&C REIT
Ireland / Friends First Unit Linked Fund, IPD
European Property Investment Awards
Investment performance
Key performance indicators
 
2008
38
2009
72 
Percentage 
of Fixed Income
assets above
benchmark or
peer group on
an asset
weighted basis
% (3 years)
2008
59
2009
72 
Percentage 
of Equity
assets above
benchmark or
peer group on
an asset
weighted basis
% (3 years) F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
17 Business Review Our strategy Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Seek and develop distribution opportunities in key markets to deliver organic growth
Our business model is based on intermediaries and partnerships. We are focused primarily on the UK and Continental
Europe, however, we will increasingly seek to expand distribution into other regions. Our priority is organic growth,
however, we will take an opportunistic approach towards further acquisitions.
2009 key points
Significant progress made with investment
consultants, with 43 ratings achieved by the
end of the year, a record level for the
business
Generated £2.5 billion of new institutional
business, with a further unfunded pipeline of
£1.4 billion 
Third-party mutual fund (OEIC and SICAV)
gross sales of £710 million 
Over 100 distribution agreements in place
with more than 60 per cent. active
Registered new mutual funds into Hong
Kong, Spain, Austria and Switzerland
Signed 9 new distribution agreements with
mid to large adviser firms for our Lifestyle
range of multi-manager funds, with links
now in place to multiple product and life
office platforms
Agreed to establish a joint venture fund
management company in mainland China
with Hua Xia Bank
2010 key priorities
Capitalise on improved position with
investment consultants to significantly
accelerate institutional inflows
Focus on improving inflows from recently
established distribution agreements
Position UK retail product set and
proposition to address the implications of
the Retail Distribution Review
 
Key performance indicators
2008
221 
2009
64 
Net sales in
third-party
mutual funds
£m
2008
2.4
2009
2.5 
Institutional
new
business
£bn Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
18 Business Review Our strategy
Focus on higher margin and specialist areas for new business
We are targeting net new business in higher margin and specialist areas. These include retail, alternatives and specialist
institutional mandates yielding performance fees.
2009 key points
While average basis points (excluding
performance fees) declined from 22.9 in
2008 to 21.8 in 2009, the comparable
margin inclusive of performance fees
increased slightly to 23.8. The change in fee
mix reflects a combination of a move to
lower risk assets by some clients and the
introduction of lower base fees in
conjunction with new performance fee
arrangements for some clients
In the institutional market we had strong
momentum in specialist area of Liability
Driven Investments
In the UK retail market we focused on our
Lifestyle range of multi-manager funds
In the wholesale segments we focused on
funds with derivative overlays, emerging
market debt, global convertibles and
emerging equities
Key performance indicators
* revenue margin in 2008 and 2009, disclosed both
inclusive and exclusive of performance fees (2005 to
2007 exclusive of performance fees)
2008
23.7 
2009
21.8 
2007
22.5
2006
21.6
2005
20.8
Maintain diversity of earnings while leveraging scale
We are a diversified business by client type, asset mix and geography. This provides us with a robust business model
across market cycles. We benefit from scale in terms of research, infrastructure, distribution and access to the market.
2009 key points
51 per cent. of revenues earned from non-
Sterling clients, with 55 per cent. of assets
under management in Euro-denominated
portfolios at year end
Closed the year with 60 per cent. of assets
under management in fixed income, 25 per
cent. in equities, 8 per cent. in property,
5 per cent. in money markets and 2 per
cent. in alternatives
Geographical sources of assets under
management were 42 per cent. UK, 32 per
cent. Netherlands, 16 per cent. Portugal,
3 per cent. Germany, 3 per cent. Ireland,
1 per cent. France and 3 per cent. other
countries
2010 key priorities
Organic growth focus on third-party
institutional business, wholesale and UK
retail
Key performance indicators
Average basis
points earned
on assets under
management*
2008
26.4
2009
23.0 
2007
30.9
2006
36.5
2005
44.1
Operating
margin
%
2010 key priorities
Further develop our sustainable investment
franchise with new products, including a
sustainable emerging equity strategy
Achieve first close on our UK opportunities
commercial property fund and launch a
German property fund 
Expand the range of higher fee products
with investment consultant ratings
2008
7.9 
2009
18.7 
2007
20.8 
2006
9.5 
2005
13.0 
Performance
fees earned
£m 
23.8 
22.9 F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
19 Business Review Our view of the market Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Our view of
the market
 
sharp selling of Sterling and the Euro. Until these fears
ease, bond and currency markets will likely remain volatile. 
 Repairing government balance sheets will require both
aggressive public spending cuts and tax increases. Such
actions, in conjunction with the winding down of fiscal
stimulus packages, run the risk of choking off the global
recovery. For these reasons we remain cautious in our
macro outlook. While a slow, anaemic recovery is our
base case for the UK, a double-dip recession cannot be
ruled out.
For investors in equity and bond markets, we believe that
the stellar performance of 2009, which saw total returns of
16.5 per cent. from the MSCI World Index, 27.3 per cent.
from the FTSE 100 Index, a record year for high yield
bonds and the best returns in a decade for investment
grade credits, will not be repeated during 2010. Since
hitting a trough in the first quarter of 2009, both equity and
credit markets have re-rated significantly. In our view, both
equity and credit markets have moved from being heavily
oversold to approaching fair value.
Within the asset management industry, we anticipate
further change as a result of the experience of the last two
years when business models were severely stress tested.
Consolidation will continue to be a theme as banks,
insurance companies and other financial institutions
implement strategic decisions to exit asset management or
are forced to dispose of specialist divisions, such as hedge
fund and private equity units, as a result of proposed
legislation from the Obama administration. 
We also expect to see continued convergence between
alternative asset managers and traditional asset managers
as they each seek to diversify beyond their existing
business lines and compete to bring absolute return
strategies into the mutual fund market place. An increasing
number of products are being launched, utilising the wider
investment powers available under UCITS 3 fund
structures, to implement absolute return strategies within
mutual fund structures offering daily pricing and liquidity.
In the UK retail market, we see further repositioning of
Independent Financial Adviser business models ahead of
the implementation of the recommendations of the Retail
Distribution Review in 2012. In our view this will accelerate
the growth of multi-managers and risk-based funds, and
provide a boost to the discretionary wealth management
industry, as IFA firms seek to partner with businesses that
can provide them with outsourced investment solutions. 
In the institutional market we anticipate growth in both the
Defined Contribution (DC) pension market and in
Implemented Consulting. 
7,000
6,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
UK equity market performance – FTSE 100 index
at 31 December
£m
2008 2007
4,434
6,457
2009
5,413
2006
6,221
2005
5,619
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
UK Government bond market performance – 
FTA British Government Fixed All Stocks total return
at 31 December
2008 2007
2,315
2,052
2009
2,288
2006
1,949
2005
1,935
After the near meltdown of the global financial system 2009
saw the major economies languish in the worst recession
since the 1930s as the squeeze on credit rippled out into
the real economy and individuals curtailed spending. 
Although significant interventions by governments and
monetary authorities to recapitalise the banks and pump
liquidity into the financial system successfully averted the
near term threat of a major banking collapse, the impact on
the real economy has been somewhat tempered by the
reluctance of the banks to increase lending.
While the major developed economies have now begun to
emerge from recession, we expect the pace of recovery to
be long and protracted in the UK, but more resilient in the
US, Continental Europe and emerging economies.
Furthermore, a high degree of uncertainty prevails in the
global economy as massive stimulus packages wind down
and the outlook for interest rates and inflation becomes
more challenging.
In particular, attention has shifted to the scale of
government debt, particularly in the Eurozone and UK,
leading to concerns about sovereign credit ratings and F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
20 Business Review Our view of the market Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
In the US the DC pensions market is mature and estimated
to be twice the size of the Defined Benefit (DB) market. The
UK DC pension market, while well established, remains at a
much earlier phase, perhaps around a third of the asset
size of the DB market. However, we are seeing the pace of
DB scheme closures quicken, along with the cessation of
future accrual in a number of high profile DB schemes,
meaning that UK DC asset growth is now rapidly climbing.
This will create opportunities for asset managers able to
provide DC-dedicated investment structures and develop a
strong presence on life platforms, a core route to market
for Corporate IFAs. 
We also see a trend towards Implemented Consulting as
asset consultants develop services to replicate and adapt
the fiduciary management model which has gained
momentum in recent years in The Netherlands. These
services provide a governance model for pension schemes,
which incorporates advice on asset allocation and manager
selection into an integrated service. In this environment the
ability of an asset management company to demonstrate
that it has a portfolio of clearly differentiated specialist
expertise will be more important than its perceived overall
capabilities. 
After a very strong investment driven finish to 2009,
performance in the Real Estate marketplace is expected to
moderate in early 2010 although sheer momentum will
keep total returns strongly positive. As the year progresses,
a tighter economic policy, weak occupier fundamentals, a
narrowing yield gap with gilts and a possible upturn in
supply of investment stock will all act to move property
back to its traditional role where total returns will be driven
by income return. There could be some further pressure on
capital values but we see total returns remaining positive
over the short and medium-term.
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Assets under management
at 31 December £bn
2008 2007
98.6
103.6
2009
97.8 
1,000
750
500
250
0
UK Real Estate Market Performance – IPD Monthly Index
at 31 December
 
2008 2007
661 
853 
2009
675 
2006
902 
2005
764  F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
21 Business Review Our trading performance and outlook
 Insurance Funds
F&C has strong expertise in the management of insurance
funds and oversees significant assets for insurance groups
including Friends Provident, Achmea, BCP-Fortis and
Friends First. At 31 December 2009 assets under
management in insurance funds were £57.2 billion (2008:
£57.0 billion). 
Due to the maturity profile of some of the insurance funds
we manage there has historically been a trend of annual
net outflows. Across 2009 net insurance outflows were
£2.2 billion (2008: £4.4 billion). Insurance net outflows
represented 38 per cent. of total net outflows during the
year.
Institutional
F&C is a major manager of assets for pension schemes
and other institutional clients. We manage assets from
institutional clients in a number of countries with our largest
presence being in The Netherlands and UK. Institutional
assets under management were £27.7 billion at
31 December 2009 (2008: £28.6 billion).
The UK and Continental European institutional investment
market is heavily intermediated through firms of investment
consultants. Prior to F&C’s demerger from Friends
Provident in July 2009, our ability to win new institutional
mandates was severely curtailed by the suspension of buy
ratings on our products by investment consultants, arising
from the uncertainty around our ownership. Since the
demerger, and the ending of the corporate uncertainty, we
have made considerable progress with investment
consultants. At the end of 2009 the Group had
43 consultant product ratings, a record level for the
business, compared to 28 product ratings 12 months
earlier. 
Although the Group has made good progress with
investment consultants since its demerger, there was a net
outflow of £2.3 billion from institutional clients during 2009.
This outflow was significantly reduced from the £5.2 billion
net outflow in 2008. Additionally, at 31 December 2009 the
business had won an additional £1.4 billion of institutional
new business that had yet to be funded.
Sub-Advisory
Sub-advisory assets under management, where we
provide portfolio management services for the mutual fund
ranges of strategic clients, were £4.0 billion at
31 December 2009 (2008: £4.8 billion). Net outflows from
sub-advisory funds were £1.3 billion during the year, partly
reflecting the decision of a client in Portugal to bring
in-house a range of money market funds.
Our trading
performance
and outlook
 
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Investment Trusts
Investment Trust assets under management increased to
£5.1 billion (2008: £4.9 billion) benefitting from the recovery
in equities. A net outflow of £224 million from Investment
Trusts principally related to share buybacks and changes in
gearing levels by our clients.
On 10 December 2009, the Board of Foreign & Colonial
Eurotrust plc, an investment trust with assets under
management of £285 million, announced the appointment
of a new investment manager with effect from 1 February
2010. The resulting outflow from this client loss will
therefore be reported with our Q1 2010 fund flows.
Open Ended Investment Companies (OEICs)
OEICs are the principal form of mutual fund that we
distribute through UK-based Independent Financial
Advisers, although institutional investors and wealth
managers may also invest in OEICs.
Assets under management in OEICs increased to £2.5
billion (2008: £2.2 billion) as a result of improved market
levels. Whilst net flows were negative by £57 million across
the year, they improved strongly in the fourth quarter.
Across the industry a significant proportion of the inflows
during 2009 were into investment grade corporate bond
funds, an area where F&C does not have a sizeable
product in its OEIC range. As investors’ risk appetites
increase, we anticipate improved opportunities for
generating OEIC sales in areas such as Strategic Bonds,
UK and European equities and multi-manager funds.
Société d'investissement à Capital Variable funds
(SICAV funds)
SICAV funds are the principal form of F&C-branded mutual
fund that we distribute in Continental Europe, primarily
through wholesale relationships with banks, private banks,
wealth managers, multi-managers and platforms. 
Assets under management in SICAV funds increased to
£1.3 billion at 31 December 2009 (2008: £1.1 billion)
reflecting a combination of improved markets and a net
inflow of £121 million. Our key products during the year
were specialist fixed income funds and products with
derivative overlay strategies. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
22 Business Review Our financial performance Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Total return
We view share price total return (including dividends) as a
key performance measure. Our total shareholder return for
the year ended 31 December 2009 was 42.5%.  In the
same period, the total shareholder return on the FTSE 250
index was 50.7% and the FTSE100 was 27.4%.  
Strategic background
2009 was a year of considerable volatility in financial
markets; the FTSE 100 index opened the year at 4,434,
subsequently falling to a low of 3,512 on 3 March, before
recovering sharply to close the year at 5,413.  Despite this
recovery, it is worth noting that the average level of the
FTSE 100 during 2009 was some 15% lower than the prior
year.  Accordingly, we positioned the business to withstand
a sustained decline in market levels, which, for an asset
manager, directly impacts revenues and profitability.
However, despite the reduction in average market levels
and the constraints on our ability to gather new institutional
assets arising from the continued corporate uncertainty
during the first half of the year, our net revenues of
£225.1m fell by only 2.1% from 2008 levels, benefitting
from the full year impact of the acquisition of REIT Asset
Management (REIT) in 2008.  While the adverse market
conditions encountered in 2008 and early 2009
necessitated cost reductions, we targeted these measures
carefully to avoid disrupting our distribution and investment
capabilities. This has positioned us to benefit from
improved investor sentiment during 2010.
Presentation of financial results
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) require
our financial statements to consolidate the results of our
managed pension funds business on a line-by-line basis,
impacting the presentation of both our Income Statement
and Statement of Financial Position.  Our managed
pension funds business provides certain clients with asset
management services inside an insurance product
wrapper.  The requirement to consolidate this business has
a significant effect on the financial investments and
investment contract liability captions included in our
Statement of Financial Position, the risks of which are
substantially borne by the clients of this business.  In
addition, our Statement of Financial Position includes some
£27.7m of cash also attributable to policyholders of this
business and which is not available for corporate purposes. 
Net revenue
Net revenue for the year was £225.1m (2008: £229.9m).
This included £18.7m (2008: £7.9m) of performance fee
income, reflecting the strong investment performance
achieved across asset classes in 2009.  While new
business of £3.5 billion, excluding insurance flows, was
funded during the year, this was more than offset by
outflows of £7.2 billion and net insurance outflows of £2.2
billion.  The combination of improved market levels, partially
offset by adverse exchange rate variances, added a net
£5.1 billion to our assets under management during 2009.
Net funds flows and related annualised revenues represent
a key performance indicator and are indicative of the
Our financial
performance
 
growth potential of the business.  While we experienced
net outflows during 2009, continuing the trend in prior
years, our outflows have tended to be in lower fee margin
areas, such as insurance and legacy institutional business. 
Revenue margin
Our revenue margin, measured as our net management fee
income divided by average assets under management,
decreased from 22.9 basis points in 2008 to 21.8 basis
points in 2009.  However our total net fee margin, including
performance fees, rose marginally from 23.7 basis points in
2008 to 23.8 basis points in 2009.  There are three
principal reasons for this.  Firstly, a number of insurance
clients reduced their risk appetite during 2009 and
switched investments to lower risk asset classes; while
certain insurance mandates operate on a composite fee
rate, irrespective of the underlying asset classes, in some
cases, the management fees we earn for insurance clients
are asset class specific, with lower fees being earned on
certain fixed income assets.  Secondly, during 2009 we
renegotiated fee structures with several clients, agreeing a
lower base management fee but introducing performance
fee arrangements.  Thirdly, as previously noted, investment
performance was strong throughout 2009, resulting in a
significant increase in performance fees earned.
Operating expenses
Our operating expenses, excluding amortisation of
intangible assets, the impact of unrealised gains and losses
on forward currency contracts and exceptional items, were
£164.8m in 2009, compared to £171.0m in 2008.  After
excluding exchange gains and losses, which are
substantially outwith the control of management, our
operating expenses were £166.6m in 2009, compared to
£172.3m in 2008, a reduction of some £5.7m. However,
this headline movement masks reductions in core
operating costs of some £12.4m, partially offset by the full
year impact (£6.7m) of the cost base added through the
acquisition of REIT in Q3 2008.
One of the key costs for an asset management business is
remuneration costs, which are correlated to personnel
numbers.  At 31 December 2009, our headcount, on a full-
time equivalent basis, was 868, compared to 933 at 31
December 2008.  In addition, the profile of our variable
remuneration has altered in line with market conditions,
with the discretionary cash bonus pool reduced by some
20%.  
During 2009, we incurred a number of exceptional
operating costs, which are excluded from our underlying
results. These comprise exceptional employment costs,
corporate advisory costs, onerous lease provisions, client
compensation costs and other provisions. 
Exceptional employment costs of £6.1m principally
represent amounts payable to former employees on
termination of employment. The majority of these costs
were incurred to reduce headcount and generate cost
savings in 2009 and beyond. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
23 Business Review Our financial performance Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Corporate advisory costs of £2.6m represent project and
advisory costs incurred in separating the company from
Friends Provident, together with professional advisers'
costs incurred until 31 December 2009 in connection with
potential acquisitions.   
During 2009, the tenant in one of the Group’s sub-let
premises sought to exercise a break clause in their lease
and vacate the premises. As it was economically beneficial
to retain that tenant rather than seek to market the vacant
premises, additional rental inducements of some £2.5m
were granted to the existing tenant. Given both the
quantum plus the fact that this lease was acquired with a
historical corporate acquisition rather than relating to
premises occupied by the Group, the resulting impact has
been treated as exceptional.
The exceptional client compensation expense of £2.5m
represents the potential cost to the Company of amounts
reimbursable to a client as a result of breach of their
investment mandate. This provision relates to a single
event in respect of one client, attributable to a unique set of
circumstances. 
As previously disclosed, the Company has received a put
option notice from both founder members of F&C Partners
LLP (“Partners”), the Group’s majority owned fund of hedge
funds business. These options seek to require the
Company to purchase the individuals’ interest in Partners.
The Company vigorously denies the validity of the put
option notices under the Partnership Agreement but, to
date has incurred some £4.1m of exceptional legal and
provisioning expenses in respect of this matter. 
During 2007, the Company provided for potential sums
due to investment trust clients in respect of historical VAT
matters.  Related discussions and negotiations with clients
have now been completed and the net excess provision of
£2.5m has been released.  As the cost of this provision
was treated as an exceptional item, the release has also
been treated as an exceptional item.
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets
Under IFRS, when an acquisition is made, there is a
requirement to recognise separately the fair value attributed
to intangible assets, in our case, management contracts.
The excess of consideration over the fair value of net
assets acquired represents the business value and
infrastructure and is recognised as goodwill.
Management contracts are separated by client type and
are amortised over their estimated useful lives. Where an
indicator of impairment occurs, such as greater than
anticipated fund losses, we are required to review the
carrying value of these contracts.
No such indicators of impairment arose during 2009 and
accordingly no impairment charges were recognised. 
We are also required to conduct an annual impairment
review of the carrying value of goodwill. This review
demonstrated that there was no impairment and hence no
requirement to write down goodwill.
Foreign exchange
A large proportion of the Group’s business is conducted
outside the UK and consequently, the Group has significant
exposure to foreign exchange rate movements.  The main
areas which are potentially exposed to exchange rate
fluctuations are our revenues and our assets and liabilities.
Approximately 55% of the Group’s assets under
management are denominated in Euros and, accordingly, a
significant proportion of the Group’s revenues are earned in
Euros.  As disclosed in last year’s annual report and
financial statements, during 2008 the Company entered
into a series of forward currency contracts to partially
hedge Euro denominated cash flows.  While a number of
the contracts expired in 2008 and 2009, the final contract
matures in H1 2010.  IFRS requires that open contracts are
revalued at year end exchange rates.  This revaluation
resulted in an unrealised gain being recognised in the 2009
Income Statement in respect of forward currency contracts
which mature in 2010.  As this contract protects 2010 cash
flows, the unrealised gain of £1.2m has been excluded
from 2009 underlying earnings. 
In addition, during 2009, exchange losses of some £1.8m
were incurred, comprising a gain of £5.9m on forward
currency contracts which matured during the year offset by
a £4.1m exchange loss on the retranslation of assets and
liabilities held in foreign currencies.  As these amounts do
not reflect the ongoing profitability of the business, they
have been excluded from underlying earnings.
REIT acquisition
Under the terms of the acquisition of REIT disclosed in last
year's annual report, the vendors of REIT currently own
30% of F&C REIT, the property business created on the
merger of F&C’s property asset management business with
REIT.  In certain circumstances, the REIT vendors can
require F&C to purchase their interests in F&C REIT at
future dates and, under IFRS, a liability for this potential
obligation is included in our financial statements.  As this
option requires to be carried at its fair value, representing
30% of the value of F&C REIT, it is revalued each year, with
any revaluation gain or loss reflected in the Income
Statement.  During 2009, this revaluation resulted in a gain
of £5.6m being included in the 2009 Income Statement.
This gain is excluded from underlying earnings. 
In addition to the arrangements described above, the REIT
vendors have the opportunity to increase their ownership
interest from 30% to 40%, should F&C REIT achieve
certain stretching financial targets over agreed periods.  For
accounting purposes, the valuation of the option provided
by the earn-out mechanism is treated as a share-based
payment expense and included in the Income Statement.
The 2009 expense of £3.7m has been excluded from
underlying earnings, consistent with the treatment adopted
in 2008. 
Underlying earnings
The Board utilises underlying earnings per share as one of
its key metrics in assessing financial performance.  The
reconciliation between underlying earnings and statutory
earnings is provided in note 11 to the consolidated financial
statements.  Underlying earnings per share for the year
ended 31 December 2009 were 5.8p (2008: 7.6p)
excluding the impact of all foreign exchange gains and
losses and 4.6p (2008: 7.8p) after the inclusion of realised
exchange gains and losses.  The decline principally relates
to the reduction in finance revenue discussed below under
‘Interest profile’. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
24 Business Review Our financial performance Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Dividends
Our dividend policy is to achieve at least 150% cover on
underlying earnings, and where possible, to grow the
dividend. As set out above, our underlying earnings for the
year were 5.8p per share. An interim dividend of 2p per
share was paid during the year.  After a review of the
results for the year, the market conditions that prevailed
during the year and the business outlook for 2010, the
Board has declared an unchanged final dividend of 4p per
share. This dividend, together with the interim dividend, will
result in a total dividend for the year of 6p per share, a level
in excess of underlying earnings. Future dividend levels will
be set in light of financial results and the business and
economic outlook. 
Cash resources
The Company has gross debt of some £265m (2008:
£295m). During the year, the Group completed an
exchange offer for a proportion of its subordinated loan
notes.  As a result of that offer, the Company acquired
£135m of its subordinated loan notes in exchange for the
issue of 2016 senior loan notes.  The difference between
the nominal value of the senior loan notes issued and the
nominal value of the subordinated loan notes repurchased,
net of costs, represents a gain of £27.9m, which, under
IFRS, is recognised in the Income Statement.  This gain
has been excluded from underlying earnings.  As part of
the exchange offer, the Company also raised an additional
£25m which was used to partially redeem the loan notes
issued as part of the REIT acquisition.
At 31 December 2009, the Group's borrowings therefore
comprise £125m of remaining subordinated loan notes,
some £130m of senior loan notes, and £10m of REIT
vendor loan notes.  Neither the subordinated loan notes
nor the senior loan notes include any financial covenants. 
At 31 December 2009, the Group held cash resources of
£213.9, of which some £27.7m relates to policyholders
and is not available for corporate purposes. A significant
portion of cash is held in our regulated subsidiaries against
their capital requirements.  As asset management is a cash
generative business, we should not require significant cash
for working capital purposes beyond our regulatory capital
requirements.  
Interest profile
The majority of our borrowings carry fixed rates of interest.
The subordinated loan notes currently bear interest at
6.75% and the senior loan notes carry a fixed 9% interest
rate.
Our cash resources earn interest based on bank deposit
rates.  As interest rates reached a record low during the
year, bank deposit rates were significantly lower during
2009 than in the prior year.  Bank interest income
accordingly declined from £9.8m in 2008 to £1.8m in
2009.  In addition, during 2008 we also received other
investment income of £2.1m, whereas no such income
was received in 2009.   F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
25 Business Review Our strategic approach and commitment to corporate responsibility Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Our strategic approach
and commitment to
corporate responsibility (CR)
F&C identifies its key stakeholders as shareholders, clients,
employees, suppliers, government and non-government
organisations, the wider community, other asset
management companies and companies in which we
invest. We engage widely with stakeholder groups through
regular dialogue tailored to meet the requirements of each
stakeholder group.
CR categories supporting the strategic ambitions
F&C has established key performance indicators (KPIs) for
each of the CR categories detailed below, details of which
can be found on the Corporate Responsibility section of
the Company’s website. A summary of our objectives in
each area is set out below.
Marketplace
F&C will use the influence of its clients’ assets to engage
with companies on all relevant CR matters where this will
improve business performance. F&C intends to increase
the number of milestones achieved (being an instance in
which a company improves its policies, procedures or
practices following engagement and where F&C’s
participation has been a major factor) to 300 by 2010.
F&C will issue voting instructions in line with its Corporate
Governance Operational Guidelines on 100% of global
resolutions that it is mandated to on behalf of clients and
will publish its voting history. F&C will contact 100% of
companies following an abstention or vote against
management.
Environment
F&C is targeting carbon neutrality internally and is
committed to helping our clients and suppliers cut carbon
emissions. Over the next three years F&C will obtain 100
per cent. of its energy usage from renewable sources,
where such markets exist.
F&C will source 100 per cent. of its paper from chlorine free
recycled supplies, reduce waste to landfill by 20 per cent.
and increase its own recycling by 20 per cent.
F&C will actively embark on an internal education
programme on the effect that water and waste
management has on the environment.
F&C, through its marketplace engagement activity, will
widen its influence to the companies in which it invests.
                                     2008                      Existing                2010
                                     position                  position                target
BITC Corporate 
Responsibility                                                       Platinum
Index                    Gold status    Gold status   status
EIRIS/
FTSE4Good         Inclusion         Inclusion       Inclusion
UN Global 
Compact CCP      Inclusion         Inclusion       Inclusion
Carbon 
Disclosure 
Project                 Member         Member        Member
Principles for 
Responsible          Founding        Founding       Founding
Investment            signatory         signatory       signatory
External validation
CR commitment
The Board is committed to maintaining the highest
standards of governance and corporate citizenship. We
recognise that in addition to our responsibilities to clients
and shareholders we also have responsibilities to
employees, suppliers, the environment, the companies in
which we invest and the wider community in which we
operate.
CR strategy
The Company has two overarching strategic ambitions:
To enable our clients to respond effectively to changing
dynamics in the world economy through our products
and through influencing companies to improve
business performance.
To ensure that we meet the highest practicable
standards of corporate responsibility in our own
operations.
We have defined four key categories supporting our
strategic ambitions: Marketplace, Environment, Workplace
and Community.
We are committed to monitoring and reporting on progress
against the targets set within each category, both internally
(on a quarterly basis) and externally (at least annually).
F&C’s CR policies are guided by a number of broadly
accepted international standards and benchmarks.
Wherever practicable, we seek external validation of our
progress and publish these results.
F&C considers the following key external measures to
validate our relative CR performance. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
26 Business Review Our strategic approach and commitment to corporate responsibility Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Workplace
F&C is committed to ensuring good practices in managing
its own workplace issues.
F&C will undertake an employee survey and will, by 2010,
target top decile employee participation levels.
F&C always seeks to employ the best person for each job
and does not discriminate on grounds of gender, race,
ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, age or physical
disability. F&C will educate 100 per cent. of employees on
the importance of recognising and embracing diversity in
the workplace and the community as a whole.
F&C encourages share ownership and will continue to
operate all-employee share schemes.
Community
F&C intends, over the next three years, to introduce
financial support and, wherever practicable, offer
employees time off work to support Charitable Activities.
In 2010 F&C is targetting 75 per cent. of all employees
dedicating at least one working day per year to a charitable
or community programme.
F&C targets 15 per cent. of employees participating in the
Give As You Earn scheme and will match employee
contributions up to a set monthly level.
How is Corporate Responsibility implemented by
F&C?
The Board is ultimately responsible for CR within the Group.
Development of F&C’s policies on CR and their
implementation throughout the Group are co-ordinated by
the CR Committee, chaired by David Logan.
Alain Grisay                 David Logan
31 March 2010              31 March 2010
Category                                       KPI/statistic                                                                                                                                                                                         2009 performance     2010 targets
Marketplace                   Number of resolutions voted on during the year                                                                                99.97%              100%
                                          Proportion of companies contacted following an abstention or vote against management                    100%                 100%
                                          reo® engagement successes in year                                                                                                 376                     350
Community                     Staff participation in GAYE                                                                                                                 12%                   15%
                                          Employees participating in charitable events and charitable fundraising                                                 462                      475
                                          Staff volunteering for community projects                                                                                               34%                    75%
Environment                  Carbon neutrality                                                                                                                                    Full                      Full
                                          Reduction in paper consumption                                                                                                            5%                      5%
Workplace                      Employee survey participation                                                                                                                75%                    Top decile
                                          Staff satisfaction                                                                                                                                     70%                    75%
                                          Diversity training (staff coverage)                                                                                                             100%                  100%
Corporate responsibility key performance indicators
Some of our
2009 community or
charity events
In July, a team of F&C fund
managers travelled to a primary
school in Lewisham to transform
an overgrown patch within the
school to a vegetable and herb
garden.
In February, several members
of the CR Committee travelled
to a primary school in Camden
to paint a classroom.
Stewart McAndie took part in
the London Marathon in April.
He raised over £3,000 for the
Tusk Trust, a conservation
charity whose work is spread
over 17 African countries.
75 F&C employees took park in
the JP Morgan Chase
Corporate Challenge in
Battersea Park, London,
raising funds for SportsAid . F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
27 Governance Company Directors Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Brian Larcombe
† 
*
§
Age 56
Independent Director
Mr Larcombe joined the Board in January
2005. Prior to his appointment, Mr
Larcombe was Chief Executive of 3i
Group plc and is currently a Non-
executive Director of Smith & Nephew
plc, Gategroup Holding AG and Incisive
Media Holdings Limited. 
Kieran Poynter FCA 
† 
Age 59
Independent Director
Mr Poynter joined the Board in June 2009.
Prior to his appointment, Mr Poynter was
Chairman and Senior Partner of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP having
spent 37 years with the firm. He is a
Director of Nomura plc.
Keith Bedell-Pearce CBE, LLB, MSc 
† 
*
§
Age 64
Senior Independent Director
Mr Bedell-Pearce, a solicitor, joined the
Board in December 2002. Until December
2001, Mr Bedell-Pearce was an Executive
Director of Prudential plc with over
30 years experience in the financial
services industry. He is the former
Chairman of The Student Loans
Company Limited Directgov and the
Norwich & Peterborough Building Society.
He is currently Chairman of 4D Data
Centres Ltd. 
Alain Grisay
Age 55
Chief Executive
Mr Grisay joined the Board in October
2004 having previously been Deputy Chief
Executive of F&CGH and head of the
institutional business. Prior to joining F&C
in April 2001, Mr Grisay was at JP
Morgan for 20 years, serving as Managing
Director responsible for the investment
bank’s market client business in Europe.
David Logan
Age 40
Chief Financial Officer
Mr Logan joined the Board on 31 July
2006. Prior to his appointment, Mr Logan
spent seventeen years in the accounting
profession, including four years as a
partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP and
three years as a partner at Andersen. 
Jeff Medlock B.Sc(Econ), FIA
Age 69
Mr Medlock joined the Board in October
2004. Mr Medlock was Chief Executive
Officer of Eureko from its formation in
1992 until 1999 when he became Chief
Financial Officer at Achmea. He returned
to the board of Eureko in 2002 shortly
after its merger with Achmea and Seguros
e Pensoes as Chief Financial Officer until
his retirement in 2004. He is also a trustee
of the children’s charity Coram Life
Education. 
Gerhard Roggemann Ass.iur 
† 
*
§
Age 62
Independent Director
Mr Roggemann joined the Board in June
2007 as an Independent Director. He is
currently Vice Chairman of Hawkpoint
Partners Europe and an independent
director of Resolution Limited and Friends
Provident Holdings plc. He is Chairman of
the Supervisory Board of G P Guenter
Papenburg AG and Deputy Chairman of
the Deutsche Börse AG. He spent much
of his professional career with financial
services firm, JPMorgan.
Nick MacAndrew FCA 
§
Age 63
Chairman
Mr MacAndrew, a Chartered Accountant,
joined the Board in May 2007 and was
appointed Chairman in May 2009. He
worked for Schroders plc for over
30 years until 2002, latterly as finance
director. He is a Non-executive Director of
Fuller Smith & Turner plc, Jardine Lloyd
Thompson Group plc and Wates Group
Limited and chairs the audit committees
of each of these companies. He was
previously Chairman of Save the Children. 
Non-executive Directors Executive Directors
*Member of the Remuneration Committee
†
Member of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee
§
Member of the Nomination Committee
Company Directors F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
28 Governance Report of the Directors Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Results, business review and dividend
The Group’s results for the year ended 31 December 2009
are shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page
48. A business review of the year ended 31 December
2009 and future developments are covered on pages 10 to
26. This review, together with the Directors’ Report on
Corporate Governance on pages 33 to 38, forms part of
the Report of the Directors.
The Group profit for the year, after tax, amounted to £18.7
million.
The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 4.0
pence per share, amounting to £19.5 million, resulting in a
total of 6.0 pence and £29.2 million for the year. Preference
dividends of £8,200 were also incurred during the year.
The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on
7 May 2010 to ordinary shareholders whose names are on
the register on 26 March 2010. No liability for the proposed
dividends has been recognised as at 31 December 2009,
in accordance with IFRS.
Principal activity and status
The Group’s business is asset management. Details of the
progress of the business during the year and of future
prospects are contained in the Chairman’s Statement, the
Chief Executive’s Report and the Business Review.
The Company is registered as a Public Limited Company in
terms of the Companies Act 2006 and is currently a
constituent of the FTSE 250 Index. The Company is
registered in Scotland, registered number 73508 and is
domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Details of the principal entities within the Group are contained
in note 41 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. There
are also five branch offices in the Group outside the UK, in
The Netherlands, France, Germany, Ireland and Sweden.
Significant agreements
In addition to the significant management contracts with
Friends Provident plc and the Achmea Group, details of
which are contained in Note 42 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, F&C is party to the following
significant contracts that take effect, alter or terminate
upon a change of control of the Company.
Millennium BCP Group (BCP)
The consequences of termination of the various
agreements with BCP related funds are regulated by an
Umbrella Agreement with BCP which provides that
compensation is payable if any of these agreements are
terminated before 29 June 2013. These agreements may
be terminated on written notice with immediate effect in the
event that a person acquires an interest which is larger
than the aggregate interest of Friends Provident and
Eureko in the shares of F&C. Under such circumstances,
compensation is payable by BCP to F&C based on
prescribed compensation periods which in turn are linked
to when the change of control takes place.
Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust Plc
The Investment Management Agreement in place with
Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust Plc can be terminated
by the investment trust on a minimum of six months’ notice
expiring at the end of any calendar month. In the event that
there is a change of control in F&C (as defined in Section
840 of ICTA 1988), then the investment trust is entitled to
terminate the agreement on not less than 3 months’ notice
to expire at the end of any calendar month.
F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
The Investment Management Agreement in place with F&C
Commercial Property Trust Limited can be terminated by
the investment trust on not less than six months’ notice.
Early termination can be undertaken by the investment
trust, but only subject to the payment of compensation to
F&C based on revenue stream. Immediate termination is
possible by the investment trust in the event that there is a
change of control in F&C (as defined in Section 840 of ICTA
1988) which has not been consented to by its Board.
F&C Partners LLP (the “LLP”) 
The F&C Partners Limited Liability Partnership Agreement,
dated 3 December 2004, is between F&C Alternative
Investments (Holdings) Limited and the two individual
Founder Members. 
The LLP Agreement provides that in the event of a change
of control of F&C, F&C Alternative Investments (Holdings)
Limited has the right within three months of such change of
control to declare to the individual members that such
change of control is a trigger event. Upon the declaration of
a trigger event, the individual members of the LLP have no
right to require the Company to purchase their interests for
a period of twelve months. Following the expiry of this
twelve month period, the individual members have a period
of three months during which they can choose to require
the Company to purchase their interests.
F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
The F&C REIT Asset Management LLP (the “LLP”) Limited
Liability Partnership Agreement, dated 21 July 2008, is
between F&C Asset Management plc (“F&C”), the two
individual members and a separate company controlled by
discretionary trusts.
Where there is a change of control of F&C following 3
September 2011 or a second change of control during the
first three years from 3 September 2008, F&C can elect to
change the arrangements for voting at LLP members’
meetings such that F&C’s interests are represented by one
vote and the REIT Parties’ aggregate interests are
represented by one vote. If F&C does not so elect, then
F&C must offer to sell its interests to the other members of
the LLP at a price determined by an independent valuer.
Property, plant and equipment
Details of changes in property, plant and equipment are
disclosed in note 13 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. At 31 December 2009, there were no
significant differences between the net book and market
values of property, plant and equipment.
Financial instruments
Details of financial instruments are disclosed in notes 15
and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The
financial risk management objectives and policies of the
Group are contained in note 38.
Share capital and directors’ interests
During the year the Company issued 3,547,806 ordinary
shares in respect of vested awards or options under the
Company’s long term incentive schemes.
Report of the Directors F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
29 Governance Report of the Directors Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Details of shares under option at 31 December 2009 are
shown on pages 94 to 101. Details of all shares issued
during the year ended 31 December 2009, are given in note
33. The Directors who held office at the year end and their
interests in the share capital of the Company are shown
below:
                                                                                                   31                     31 
                                                                                     December          December
                                                                                            2009**               2008**
                                                                                        Ordinary             Ordinary
                                                                                           Shares               Shares
Nick MacAndrew          Beneficial              25,000        25,000
Keith Bedell-Pearce      Beneficial              51,285        51,285
Alain Grisay                  Beneficial†       1,304,847   1,386,094
                                    Non Beneficial*     64,176               Nil
Brian Larcombe            Beneficial              20,000        20,000
David Logan                 Beneficial              95,485          2,218
                                    Non Beneficial*     64,176               Nil
Jeff Medlock                 Beneficial              10,000        10,000
Kieran Poynter              Beneficial              30,000               Nil
Gerhard Roggemann    Beneficial                     Nil               Nil
*  Alain Grisay and David Logan are Directors of F&C Group ESOP Trustee Limited, a company
incorporated in 1995 as a discretionary employee benefit trust to encourage and facilitate the
acquisition and holding of shares in the Company by employees.
** Or date of appointment if later.
†  These shares include Mr Grisay’s participation in the Purchased Equity Plan. Further details of this
plan are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 45.
Directors’ and officers’ liability
The Group maintains insurance cover in respect of
directors’ and officers’ liability.
The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provision set
out in the Company’s Articles of Association at article 166
which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision as
defined in the Companies Act 2006. 
Charitable and political contributions
During the year, the Group made contributions to charity of
£86,000 (2008: £139,000). No political donations were
made during the year (2008: £nil). Further details on the
criteria for charitable giving are contained on the Company’s
website.
Payment policy and practice
It is the Group’s policy to ensure settlement of suppliers’
accounts in accordance with the stated terms. In certain
circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior to any
business taking place. It is our policy to abide by those
terms.
At 31 December 2009, trade creditors represented the
equivalent of 6 days (2008: 5 days) of the annual purchases
invoiced by the suppliers to the Group.
Substantial interests in share capital
The Company has been informed of the following
substantial interests, above 3 per cent., as at 31 March
2010:
                                                                                        Ordinary
                                                                                           Shares          Percentage
Eureko B.V.                                        51,128,190              10.6
Aviva                                                  24,301,321                5.0
Artemis Investment Management       23,556,805                4.9
Fidelity                                               22,696,416                4.7
Lloyds Banking Group                        22,425,948                4.6
Greenlight Capital LP                         16,450,119                3.4
Employees
At 1 March 2010, there were 798 full-time employees and
75 part-time employees within the Group (1 March 2009:
845 full-time employees and 73 part-time employees).
Disabled employees
The Group gives full consideration to applications for
employment from disabled persons where the
requirements of the job can be adequately fulfilled by a
handicapped or disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the
Group’s policy wherever practicable to provide continuing
employment under normal terms and conditions and to
provide training, career development and promotion to
disabled employees wherever possible.
Employee involvement
During the year, the policy of providing employees with
information about the Group has been continued through
internal presentations by the Executive Directors and
Executive Committee and the internal publication of
relevant information. Wherever appropriate, employees are
consulted to ensure that their views are taken into account
before decisions are taken which are likely to affect their
interests.
Equal opportunities
The Group aims to provide equal opportunities for all,
without discrimination on the grounds of race, religion,
marital status, age, sex, sexual orientation or disability. We
recruit and promote those best suited for the job. The
Group respects the dignity of individuals and their beliefs.
The Group does not tolerate any sexual, racial, physical or
mental harassment of staff in the work place.
Share incentive schemes
During the year, employees participated directly in the
business through a number of Employee Share Schemes,
details of which are included within the Directors’
Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 45 or the notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 94 to 101.
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The Company will hold its AGM on Tuesday, 4 May 2010 at
The Gibson Hall, 13 Bishopsgate, London EC2N 3BA. 
The meeting will start at 11 a.m. (UK time). Details of all
resolutions being put to shareholders are set out in the
Notice of Annual General Meeting commencing on page 139.
Board changes
On 7 May 2009, Robert Jenkins, the Company’s former
Chairman and Dick de Beus, an independent Non-
executive Director, retired from the Board. 
Coincident with the demerger of Friends Provident plc on
3 July 2009, Sir Adrian Montague and Trevor Matthews,
both of whom were Friends Provident’s nominated
shareholder representatives, retired from the Board. 
On 1 June 2009, Kieran Poynter and Roger Yates joined
the Board as independent Non-executive Directors. Roger
Yates subsequently resigned from the Board in December
2009 to take up an executive role overseas.
The Nomination Committee and the Board have
commenced a search for an independent Non-executive
Director. 
General Meeting
Authority to allot ordinary shares and disapplication
of pre-emption rights 
Ordinary resolution 9 will be put to the AGM of the
Company to renew the Directors’ power to allot shares.
The Directors currently have authority to allot relevant
securities up to a maximum amount of £164,730.35. The
Resolution proposes that a similar authority be granted in
substitution of the existing authority to allot securities up to F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
30 Governance Report of the Directors Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
a maximum amount of £160,715.81, representing
approximately 33.33 per cent. of the Company’s total
issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) as
at the date of this report.
In addition, in accordance with guidance issued by the
Association of British Insurers in December 2008, the
Company is seeking additional authority to allot securities
in connection with a pre-emptive rights issue up to a
maximum amount of £140,011.07, representing
approximately 29.04 per cent. of the Company’s total
issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) as
at the date of this report. The benefit to the Company of
obtaining such authority on an annual basis is that it would
allow the Company to implement a rights issue of an
amount equal to approximately 62.37 per cent. of the
issued ordinary share capital without the need to call an
additional general meeting. This would shorten the
implementation timetable for such a rights issue. The
Directors have no present intention of exercising this
authority. The authority will expire at the end of the AGM to
be held in 2011, unless previously cancelled or varied by
the Company in general meeting. It is the intention of the
Directors to renew this authority annually at each AGM.
As at the date of this report the Company holds
17,077,485 ordinary shares in treasury. This represents
approximately 3.54 per cent. of the Company’s ordinary
share capital in issue (excluding treasury shares) as at the
date of this report.
Special resolution 10 will be put to the AGM of the
Company to renew the present power to allot unissued
ordinary share capital and to sell ordinary shares held in
treasury for cash without first being required to offer such
shares to existing shareholders in proportion to their
existing shareholdings.
Such power will apply to the allotment of unissued ordinary
shares and treasury shares sold up to a maximum nominal
amount of £24,963.65, representing approximately 5 per
cent. of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital as at
the date of this report, except that: 
(1)  the maximum nominal amount of shares that can be
allotted in connection with a pre-emptive rights issue is
£300,726.88, representing approximately 62.37 per
cent. of the Company’s total issued ordinary share
capital (excluding treasury shares) as at the date of this
report; and
(2)  the maximal nominal amount of unissued ordinary
shares that can be allotted or treasury shares sold: 
(a)  pursuant to any other pre-emptive offering (where
legal or regulatory requirements prevent the issue of
shares wholly on a pre-emptive basis); or
(b)  in order to satisfy options or awards under any
share scheme for employees or share incentive
plan approved by the Company in general meeting,
     is £160,715.81, representing approximately 33.33 per  
     cent. of the Company’s total issued ordinary share        
     capital (excluding treasury shares) as at the date of 
     this report.
The Directors consider that the authority proposed to be
granted by resolution 9 and the power proposed to be
granted by resolution 10 are necessary in order to take
advantage of opportunities as they arise and to retain
flexibility. The Directors do not have any intention of
exercising such authority or power at the present time
other than for the purposes referred to in (2)(b) above.
Purchase of own shares
Special resolution 11 will be put to the AGM to renew the
present power to make market purchases of the
Company’s own ordinary shares. Pursuant to special
resolution 11 the maximum aggregate number of ordinary
shares which may be purchased pursuant to the authority
shall be 48,219,564 (being approximately 10 per cent. of
the issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares)
of the Company as at the date of this report). The minimum
price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 0.1
pence (exclusive of expenses). The maximum price for an
ordinary share (again exclusive of expenses) shall be an
amount equal to 105 per cent. of the average of the middle
market quotations for the Company’s ordinary shares for
the five business days immediately preceding the date of
purchase. As at the date of this report, the Company had
24,339,183 options to subscribe for ordinary shares
outstanding (representing 5.05 per cent. of the issued
ordinary share capital of the Company (excluding treasury
shares) at the same date). If the buy-back authority is
renewed at the 2010 AGM and is then utilised in full, the
options outstanding at the date of this report would
represent 5.61 per cent. of the issued ordinary share
capital of the Company (excluding treasury shares). The
power conferred by this resolution will expire on the earlier
of the date falling 15 months after the date of the passing
of this resolution and the conclusion of the Annual General
Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011.
Any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority
would either be held as treasury shares or cancelled. While
any shares are held in treasury, voting rights are suspended
and currently no dividends (or any other distribution) are
paid (or made) on such shares. The Directors consider it
appropriate to have in place the facility to acquire shares in
circumstances where they believe that future shareholder
returns can be enhanced by taking such action. This
authority, if renewed, will only be exercised if to do so
would result in an increase in earnings per ordinary share
and if it is considered to be in the best interests of
shareholders generally.
In 2009, the Group purchased 11,043,017 ordinary shares
(2008: 345,845 ordinary shares) representing 2.2 per cent.
of the ordinary shares in issue at 31 December 2009
pursuant to this authority. The aggregate consideration
paid for own share purchases in 2009 was £7.4 million
(2008: £0.6 million). The maximum number of own shares
held during the year was 11,797,023 representing 2.4 per
cent. of the ordinary shares in issue. 4,487,231 own shares
representing 0.9 per cent. of the ordinary shares in issue
were transferred during the year pursuant to employee
share schemes. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
31 Governance Report of the Directors Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Amendment to Articles of Association
Special Resolution 12 will propose the amendment of the
Company’s Articles of Association primarily to take account
of the coming into force of the Companies (Shareholders’
Rights) Regulations 2009 (the “Shareholders’ Rights
Regulations”) and the implementation of the last parts of
the Companies Act 2006. The principal proposed changes
to the Articles are summarised below:
1.    The Company’s objects
The provisions regulating the operations of the Company
are currently set out in the Company’s memorandum and
articles of association. The Company’s memorandum
contains, among other things, the objects clause which
sets out the scope of the activities the Company is
authorised to undertake. This is drafted to give a wide
scope.
The Companies Act 2006 significantly reduces the
constitutional significance of a company’s memorandum.
The Companies Act 2006 provides that a memorandum
will record only the names of subscribers and the number
of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the
company. Under the Companies Act 2006 the objects
clause and all other provisions which are contained in a
company’s memorandum, for existing companies at 1
October 2009, are deemed to be contained in the
company’s articles of association but the company can
remove these provisions by special resolution.
Further, the Companies Act 2006 states that, unless a
company’s articles provide otherwise, a company’s objects
are unrestricted. This abolishes the need for companies to
have objects clauses. For this reason the Company is
proposing to remove its objects clause together with all
other provisions of its memorandum which, by virtue of the
Companies Act 2006, are treated as forming part of the
Company’s articles of association as of 1 October 2009.
Resolution 12 set out in the Notice of the Annual General
Meeting confirms the removal of these provisions for the
Company. As the effect of this resolution will be to remove
the statement currently in the Company’s memorandum of
association regarding limited liability, the revised articles of
association also contain an express statement regarding
the limited liability of shareholders.
2.    Articles which duplicate statutory provisions
Provisions in the current articles of association which
replicate provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006
are in the main amended to bring them into line with the
Companies Act 2006.
3.    Change of name
Under the Companies Act 1985, a company could only
change its name by special resolution. Under the
Companies Act 2006 a company will be able to change its
name by other means provided for by its articles. To take
advantage of this provision, the revised articles of
association enable the directors to pass a resolution to
change the Company's name.
4.    Authorised share capital and unissued shares
The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a
company to have an authorised share capital and the
revised articles of association reflect this. Directors will still
be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time
allot because allotment authority continues to be required
under the Companies Act 2006, save in respect of
employee share schemes.
5.    Redeemable shares
Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to
issue redeemable shares, it had to include in its articles the
terms and manner of redemption. The Companies Act
2006 enables directors to determine such matters instead
provided they are so authorised by the articles. The revised
articles of association contain such an authorisation. The
Company has no plans to issue redeemable shares but if it
did so the directors would need shareholders’ authority to
issue new shares in the usual way.
6.    Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate
and sub-divide shares, and reduce share capital
Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required
specific enabling provisions in its articles to purchase its
own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to
reduce its share capital or other undistributable reserves as
well as shareholder authority to undertake the relevant
action. The current articles of association include these
enabling provisions. Under the Companies Act 2006 a
company will only require shareholder authority to do any of
these things and it will no longer be necessary for articles
to contain enabling provisions. Accordingly, the relevant
enabling provisions have been removed from the revised
articles of association.
7.    Use of seals
Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required
authority in its articles to have an official seal for use
abroad. Under the Companies Act 2006, such authority will
no longer be required. Accordingly, the relevant
authorisation has been removed in the revised articles of
association.
8.    Suspension of registration of share transfers
The current articles of association permit the directors to
suspend the registration of transfers. Under the Companies
Act 2006 share transfers must be registered as soon as
practicable. The power in the current articles of association
to suspend the registration of transfers is inconsistent with
this requirement. Accordingly, this power has been
removed in the revised articles of association.
9.    Vacation of office by directors
The current articles of association specify the
circumstances in which a director must vacate office. The
revised articles of association update these provisions to
reflect the approach taken on mental and physical
incapacity in the model articles for public companies
produced by the Department for Business, Innovation and
Skills.
10.  Voting by proxies on a show of hands
The Shareholders' Rights Regulations have amended the
Companies Act 2006 so that it now provides that each
proxy appointed by a member has one vote on a show of
hands unless the proxy is appointed by more than one
member in which case the proxy has one vote for and one
vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or
more members to vote for the resolution and by one or
more members to vote against the resolution. The current
articles of association have been amended to reflect these
changes.
11.  Voting by corporate representatives
The Shareholders’ Rights Regulations have amended the
Companies Act 2006 in order to enable multiple
representatives appointed by the same corporate member
to vote in different ways on a show of hands and on a poll.
The revised articles of association contain provisions which
reflect these amendments. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
32 Governance Report of the Directors Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
12.  Chairman’s casting vote
The revised articles of association remove the provision
giving the chairman a casting vote in the event of an
equality of votes at a general meeting as this is no longer
permitted under the Companies Act 2006.
13.  Notice of general meetings
The Shareholders’ Rights Regulations amend the
Companies Act 2006 to require the company to give 21
clear days’ notice of general meetings unless the company
offers members an electronic voting facility and a special
resolution reducing the period of notice to not less than 14
days has been passed. Annual general meetings must be
held on 21 clear days’ notice. The revised articles of
association amend the provisions of the current articles of
association to be consistent with the new requirements.
14.  Adjournments for lack of quorum
Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the
Shareholders’ Rights Regulations, general meetings
adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least 10 clear
days after the original meeting. The current articles of
association have been changed to reflect this requirement.
15.  Voting record date
Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the
Shareholders’ Rights Regulations, the company must
determine the right of members to vote at a general
meeting by reference to the register not more than 48
hours before the time for the holding of the meeting, not
taking account of days which are not working days. The
current articles of association have been amended to
reflect this requirement.
16.  Extraordinary general meetings
The concept of extraordinary general meetings no longer
exists in the Companies Act 2006. Accordingly, references
to extraordinary general meetings will simply refer to
general meetings.
17.  Retirement of directors by rotation
The provisions on retirement by rotation have been
amended to reflect the requirements of the Combined
Code. Under the Combined Code directors must offer
themselves for re-election at regular intervals and at least
every three years and so the revised articles of association
provide that each director shall retire at the annual general
meeting held in the third calendar year following the year in
which he was elected or last re-elected by the Company
and a director (other than a director holding executive
office) shall retire at each annual general meeting from the
ninth anniversary of the date in which he was appointed or
elected (as the case may be). In addition, any director who
has been appointed by the board since the last annual
general meeting is required to retire. All such retiring
directors may offer themselves for election or re-election. 
18.  Electronic communications
Provisions of the Companies Act 2006 enable companies
to communicate with members by electronic and/or
website communications. The proposed revised articles of
association continue to allow communications to members
in electronic form and, in addition, they also permit the
Company to take advantage of the provisions of the
Companies Act 2006 relating to website communications.
Before the Company can communicate with a member by
means of website communication, the relevant member
must be asked individually by the Company to agree that
the Company may send or supply documents or
information to him by means of a website, and the
Company must either have received a positive response or
have received no response within the period of 28 days
beginning with the date on which the request was sent.
The Company will notify the member (either in writing, or by
other permitted means) when a relevant document or
information is placed on the website and a member can
always request a hard copy version of the document or
information.
Notice of General Meetings 
We are currently able to call general meetings (other than
AGMs) on 14 days’ notice. We are proposing special
resolution 13 at the Meeting so that we can continue to be
able to do so. The flexibility offered by this resolution will
only be issued where it is, in the opinion of the directors,
merited in the interests of the Shareholders as a whole.
The authority being sought pursuant to Special Resolution
13 will expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in
2011. It is the current intention of the Directors to renew
this authority annually.
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc have expressed their willingness to
continue in office as auditors and a resolution proposing
their re-appointment and for the Directors to determine
their fees will be submitted at the AGM.
Details of the auditor’s remuneration is provided in note 5(c)
to the Consolidated Financial Statements and further detail
on how the Board ensures the independence of the
auditors is detailed on pages 37 and 38 within the
Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance.
Adequacy of the information provided to the auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approving this
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the
Company’s auditor is unaware, and each Director has
taken all the steps that he is obliged to take as a Director in
order to make himself aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is
aware of that information.
By order of the Board,
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
31 March 2010 F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
33 Governance Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
The Company is committed to, and strives for, best
practice in corporate governance. The Board is
accountable to the Company’s shareholders for good
corporate governance. This statement describes how the
principles of corporate governance set out in section one
of the Combined Code issued in 2006 (“the Code”) have
been applied.
Statement of compliance
The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout
the year ended 31 December 2009 and up to the date
hereof, applied the principles and met the requirements of
the Code with the following two exceptions: 
For the period from 7 May 2009 until the appointment of
Messrs Poynter and Yates on 1 June 2009, the
composition of the Board did not meet code provision
A3.2 in that half the Board, excluding the Chairman, did
not comprise of independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board has complied fully with this provision since
1 June 2009.
For the period from 11 December 2009 until the
appointment of Gerhard Roggemann on 18 January
2010, the composition of the Remuneration Committee
did not meet code provision B2.1 in that it only had two
members. No Committee meetings ocurred during that
period and the Remuneration Committee has complied
with this provision since 18 January 2010. 
The Chairmen of the Audit, Risk & Compliance,
Remuneration and Nomination committees will be available
to answer questions at this year’s Annual General Meeting
to be held on Tuesday, 4 May 2010.
Going concern
The Code requires Directors to report, under the terms set
out in the relevant guidelines to the Code, on the
appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis in
preparing Financial Statements.
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors
likely to affect its future development, performance and
position are set out in the Business Review on pages 10 to
21. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and
liquidity position are described in the Business Review on
pages 22 to 24. In addition, note 38 to the Financial
Statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and
processes for managing its capital; its financial risk
management objectives; details of its financial instruments
and hedging activities; and its exposure to credit risk and
liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together
with long-term contracts with a number of clients across
different geographic areas and industries. After making
enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that
the Company and the Group have adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial
Statements.
The Board
The Board of Directors currently comprises the Chairman,
two Executive Directors and five Non-executive Directors,
four of whom the Board has identified as Independent
Directors. Jeff Medlock, who in 2004 retired as Chief
Financial Officer of Achmea, a 10 per cent. shareholder in
the Company is the only Non-executive Director who does
not meet the criteria of independence as set out in the
accepted guidance. 
The biographies of the Directors appear on page 27. These
demonstrate a range of experience, skills and personal
standing sufficient to bring independent judgement on
issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards
of conduct which are vital to the success of the Group. All
Directors have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for
ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that
applicable rules and regulations are complied with. The
Board meets formally on a regular basis and is responsible
for approving the Group’s objectives and policies. The
Board focuses mainly on strategy, investment and financial
performance, the Group’s control environment and
executive management and Board succession. To enable
the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive
appropriate and timely information ensuring that they are
properly briefed on issues for consideration in advance of
meetings. In addition, all Directors have access to senior
management and can request, either during meetings or at
other appropriate times, further explanation or written
papers on matters as they see fit.
The Board has a detailed list of matters specifically
reserved to it – the “Board Reserved List”. This is contained
in “The Directors’ Guide”, a training and reference
document issued to all Directors on appointment and
updated as appropriate. The Board Reserved List is
reviewed annually and clearly sets out that authority is
delegated from the Board to Board Committees and to
management. This ensures that matters of significance are
overseen and reviewed by the Board prior to
implementation. Examples of matters reserved for the
Board as set out in the Board Reserved List are the
approval of: The Group strategy; the annual budget; the
composition and terms of reference of any of the Board
Committees; the high level organisational structure; and the
review of the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal
control.
The composition of the Board is reviewed annually.
The Board committees
The Board has established a number of standing
committees to facilitate the smooth transaction of business
within the Group.
The terms of reference of each Board Committee outlining
its authority and duties are reviewed and approved annually
by the Board, are published on the Company’s website and
are available on written request from the Company
Secretary. The terms of reference of each of the Board
Committees provide the authority to take independent
professional advice, if necessary, at the Company’s
expense.
(a) Statement of the Nomination Committee
Purpose and Terms of Reference
The Committee leads the process, and makes
recommendations to the Board, for all new Board
appointments and the appointment of Non-executive
Directors to any Board Committee. It is responsible for
evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience
Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
34 Governance Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
on the Board and ensuring that a formal, rigorous and
transparent appointment process exists.
Membership
The Committee is chaired by Nick MacAndrew. The
Committee comprises the Chairman and three Non-
executive Directors, all of whom are Independent
Non-executive Directors. Throughout 2009, the Committee
met formally on two occasions.
Members of the Nomination Committee:
Nick MacAndrew (Chairman), Keith Bedell-Pearce, 
Brian Larcombe and Gerhard Roggemann.
Activities and work of the Committee
On 7 May 2009, the Company’s former Chairman, Robert
Jenkins, and Dick de Beus, an independent Non-executive
Director, retired from the Board. In April 2009 the
Committee formally engaged an external search
consultancy to conduct a search for two independent 
Non-executive Directors and on 1 June 2009, Kieran
Poynter and Roger Yates joined the Board as independent
Non-executive Directors. Roger Yates resigned from the
Board on 11 December 2009 following his appointment to
a full-time position overseas. On 3 July 2009 Sir Adrian
Montague and Trevor Matthews retired from the Board. The
Committee and the Board are currently undertaking a
search for an independent Non-executive Director. 
As an integral part of its succession planning, the
Committee reviews the balance and composition of the
Board including the number of Directors serving thereon.
On an annual basis the Committee reviews the terms and
conditions of appointment of Non-executive Directors set
out in the standard letter of appointment to ensure that
they continue to meet the requirements of the Code. This
standard letter of appointment can be inspected during
normal working hours at the Company’s registered office
by contacting the Company Secretary. The Committee
considers, on an annual basis, the time required of Non-
executive Directors for the fulfilment of their duties and
assesses the contribution of the Directors, their
independence and their suitability for re-election prior to an
appropriate resolution being put to shareholders. All
Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first
opportunity after their appointment and to re-election at
least every three years.
For the Board
Nick MacAndrew
Chairman, Nomination Committee
31 March 2010
(b) Statement of the Audit, Risk & Compliance
Committee
Purpose and Terms of Reference
The Committee vouchsafes the processes and controls
surrounding the production of the Group’s Financial
Statements and provides the Board with assurance that
the processes and controls exist to facilitate reporting on
the Group’s risk management activities, including those
related to Social, Environmental and Ethical matters,
internal control and adherence to policies and procedures.
Membership
The Committee is chaired by Keith Bedell-Pearce. The
Committee comprises solely independent Non-executive
Directors. 
Members of the Audit, Risk & Compliance
Committee:
Keith Bedell-Pearce (Chairman), Brian Larcombe, Kieran
Poynter and Gerhard Roggemann. The Board is satisfied
that at least one member of the Committee has recent and
relevant financial experience, a position that should
continue throughout 2010.
Activities and work of the Committee
The Committee normally discharges its responsibilities, as
allocated by its terms of reference, within a schedule of four
meetings. Two meetings are held early in the year, one to
deal with matters of governance (for example, compliance
with the Code, the Financial Services Act, the effectiveness
of internal controls and risk management systems,
monitoring and reviewing the internal Audit Risk &
Compliance department and monitoring and reviewing the
independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external
audit process) and the other to consider the integrity of the
year-end Financial Statements and any formal
announcements relating to the Company’s and the Group’s
financial performance, including any significant financial
reporting judgements contained therein. A similar process
is adopted at the interim reporting stage, with a final
meeting taking place late in the year to consider relevant
year-end matters. The Committee also considers and
reviews other risk management or control documentation
including the Company’s policy on whistleblowing, the
results of internal and external audit and compliance
reports or management letters, and oversees the award of
any non-audit related consultancy work. On an annual
basis the Committee considers and makes a
recommendation to the Board as to the appointment, re-
appointment or removal of the external auditors and
approves their remuneration and terms of engagement.
Other meetings of the Committee are called at the request
of the Chairman to consider ad hoc control issues that may
emerge during the year as well as other matters that the
Board has asked the Committee to consider or investigate.
For the Board
Keith Bedell-Pearce
Chairman, Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee
31 March 2010 F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
35 Governance Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Attendance at meetings
The following table identifies the number of Board and formal committee meetings held in 2009 and the attendance
record of the individual Directors as members of committees of the Board. In addition to the meetings detailed below a
number of Directors’ meetings, sub-committees of the Board and Board Committees were held.
                                                                                                                                 Non-executive
                                                                                                                                            Director                    Audit, Risk &
                                                                                                                            meetings without                     Compliance         Remuneration              Nomination
                                                                                                     Board     management present                       Committee               Committee               Committee
Number of meetings held 2009/(2008)                    7(9)                          2(2)                          4(4)                   6(4)                  2(3)
Nick MacAndrew 
(1) (2)
                                                7                             2                             2                       3                      –
Alain Grisay                                                               7                              –                              –                       –                      –
Keith Bedell-Pearce 
(2)
                                              6                             2                             4                       5                      –
Dick de Beus 
(3)
                                                         3                             1                              –                       –                      2
Robert Jenkins
(3)
                                                       3                             1                              –                       –                      2
Brian Larcombe                                                         7                             2                             4                       6                      2
David Logan                                                              7                              –                              –                       –                      –
Jeff Medlock                                                              7                             2                              –                       –                      –
Kieran Poynter 
(4)
                                                       4                             1                             2                       –                      –
Trevor Matthews 
(5)
                                                    4                             1                              –                       –                      –
Sir Adrian Montague 
(5)
                                              4                             1                              –                       –                      2
Gerhard Roggemann
(6)
                                             7                             2                             2                       –                      –
Roger Yates 
(7)
                                                           4                             1                              –                       3                      –
(1)
  Appointed Chairman and resigned from the Remuneration Committee and Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee on 7 May 2009
(2)
  Appointed a member of the Nomination Committee on 7 May 2009
(3)
  Resigned as a member of the Board and relevant Board Committees on 7 May 2009.
(4)
  Appointed as a member of the Board and relevant Board Committee on 1 June 2009.
(5)
  Resigned as a member of the Board and relevant Board Committee on 3 July 2009.
(6)
  Appointed a member of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee and Nomination Committee on 7 May 2009.
(7)
 Appointed as a member of the Board and relevant Board Committee on 1 June 2009 and resigned from the Board and relevant Board Committee on 
11 December 2009
(c) Statement of the Remuneration Committee
Purpose and Terms of Reference
Full details of the purpose, terms of reference, activities and
work of the Committee are set out in the Directors’
Remuneration Report.
Membership
The Chairman of the Committee is Brian Larcombe. The
Committee comprises solely independent 
Non-executive Directors.
Members of the Remuneration Committee:
Brian Larcombe (Chairman), Keith Bedell-Pearce and
Gerhard Roggemann (appointed 18 January 2010).
Mr MacAndrew served as a member of the Committee until
his appointment as Chairman of the Company on 7 May
2009. Mr Yates served as a member of the Committee
from 1 June 2009 to 11 December 2009.
Attendees at the Remuneration Committee
The Company’s Chairman, Chief Executive and Group
Head of Human Resources attended all meetings of the
Committee in 2009. Mr Medlock also attended all
Committee meetings in 2009.
Activities and work of the Committee
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Group’s
remuneration policy (as set out in the Directors’
Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 45). Within that
policy, the Committee is responsible for determining the
remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and
making recommendations and monitoring the specific
remuneration packages of senior management below
Board level. It is also responsible for the Company’s
incentive schemes for employees, including the bonus
scheme and the grant of awards under the long term
incentive schemes.
During 2009 the Committee considered the remuneration
related guidance issued by the FSA and is satisfied that the
remuneration policies of the Group do not unduly
encourage excessive risk taking.
For the Board
Brian Larcombe
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
31 March 2010 F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
36 Governance Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Board roles
Chairman
The Chairman of the Company is Nick MacAndrew. As
Chairman, Mr MacAndrew is responsible for leadership of
the Board and ensuring the effective running and
management of the Board. The role profile of the Chairman
outlines the specific responsibilities of the Chairman and
includes the following:
Ensuring that the Board agenda for each meeting takes
account of the issues and concerns of each Board
member and that members of the Board receive
accurate, timely and clear information on the Company
and related matters to enable them to monitor the
Company’s performance and take sound decisions.
Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and
ensuring that the Board develops an understanding of
the views of major investors.
Ensuring that, in conjunction with the Company
Secretary, a formal induction and development process,
including any relevant internal and external training,
exists for all Directors and the Board as a whole with a
view to enhancing the Board’s effectiveness.
Ensuring constructive relations between Executive and
Non-executive Directors and an effective contribution
from all Directors.
The performance of the Chairman since his appointment as
Chairman during 2009 was reviewed by the Non-executive
Directors in a meeting chaired by Keith Bedell-Pearce, the
Senior Independent Director. The Non-executive Directors
concluded at the meeting that Nick MacAndrew displayed
the characteristics expected of a Chairman.
Chief Executive
The Chief Executive of the Company is Alain Grisay. As
Chief Executive, Mr Grisay is responsible for overseeing the
implementation of the strategy as set by the Board,
providing strategic vision and executive leadership to all the
Group’s business activities and ensuring the effective
running of the business and the Executive Committee.
Non-executive Directors
Messrs Bedell-Pearce, Larcombe, Poynter, Medlock and
Roggemann are the Company’s Non-executive Directors.
As Non-executive Directors they are responsible for:
promoting entrepreneurial leadership and the highest
standards of governance within a framework of prudent
and effective controls; constructively challenging and
helping develop strategic proposals; ensuring that the
Group has in place the necessary resources to meet its
strategic objectives; reviewing management performance;
determining appropriate levels of Executive Director
Remuneration (Remuneration Committee members), taking
a prime role in appointing, and where necessary removing,
Executive Directors; setting the Company’s values and
standards to ensure its obligations to its stakeholders are
understood and met; and reviewing communication with
shareholders.
Board evaluation and professional development
A comprehensive and rigorous evaluation of the
performance of the Board, its principal Committees and the
Chairman was conducted during the year. The Board
evaluation was carried out with the assistance of the
Company Secretary and was led by the Chairman. The
procedure adopted was for each Director to complete a
detailed questionnaire, on a non-attributable basis, on their
perception of the composition, operation and effectiveness
of the Board and its Committees. Each Director is then
interviewed by the Chairman in order to explore certain
issues in greater depth and to identify areas requiring
improvement.
The Company has a full and formal induction process for all
new appointments to the Board. The Chairman, in
consultation with the Company Secretary and individual
Directors, is responsible for assessing the professional
development needs of each Director. The induction
process and ongoing professional development is
facilitated by the Company Secretary who, in consultation
with the individual Director, identifies the most appropriate
method of ensuring professional development. The
Company Secretary also assists in organising attendance
at internal or external courses to develop familiarity with the
Company’s business operations.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
From 1 October 2008, Directors have a statutory duty to
avoid a situation in which they have or can have an interest
that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of
the Company. A Director will not be in breach of that duty if
the relevant matter has been authorised in accordance with
the Articles of Association by the other Directors. The
Articles of Association were amended to include the
relevant authorisation for Directors to approve such
conflicts by a resolution of shareholders at the AGM held
on 13 May 2008.
Directors and Directors’ election and re-election
The Directors who served at any time during the year
ended 31 December 2009 are as shown in the Directors’
Remuneration Report on page 44. Details of the Executive
Directors’ service contracts and Non-executive Directors’
letters of appointment can be found on page 43.
Kieran Poynter, an independent Non-executive Director,
was appointed during the year. As such, he will retire at the
Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer
himself for election. 
Under the terms of the Company’s Articles of Association,
at least one third of Directors eligible to stand for re-
election must do so at each Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, Messrs Logan and MacAndrew have been
selected by the Nomination Committee and the Board to
retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-
election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Nomination Committee has reviewed the structure,
size and composition of the Board, and confirms that all
Directors offering themselves for re-election at the Annual
General Meeting demonstrate commitment to their role and
devote sufficient time to perform their roles as members of
the Board and any Board Committee.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, during
2009, the Nomination Committee gave more detailed
consideration to the proposed re-election of Mr Bedell-
Pearce, given that he is currently serving in his third
three-year term of appointment. It has been agreed that
Mr Bedell-Pearce will seek annual re-election from
shareholders.
The Nomination Committee believes that all Directors
submitting themselves for election and re-election should
be re-elected and can confirm that all Non-executive
Directors display the qualities expected of an effective 
Non-executive Director.
Details of the Directors offering themselves for election or
re-election can be found on page 27. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
37 Governance Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Directors on the Combined Code” (the “Turnbull
Guidance”). Such procedures have been in place
throughout the year and up to 10 March 2010, the date of
approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements. A
high-level overview of the ongoing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing significant risks including social,
environmental and ethical issues is detailed below. This
process is regularly reviewed by the Board to ensure it
complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
Control environment
The Group is committed to the highest standards of
business conduct and seeks to maintain these standards
across all areas of the business. The Group has in place
appropriate procedures for the reporting and resolution of
activities that do not meet the required standards of
business conduct.
The Group has an appropriate organisational structure for
planning, executing, controlling and monitoring business
operations in order to achieve its objectives. The structure
is designed to provide clear responsibilities and a control
framework for key areas of the Group’s business.
Operational responsibility rests with the Chief Executive
and is devolved through a documented executive structure
with clearly delegated and appropriate levels of authority.
Members of Group management are, therefore,
accountable for the operation of the systems of internal
controls within the Group’s business.
Business risks
The identification of major business risks is carried out by
the Board in conjunction with management and
procedures to control these risks, where possible, are
reviewed and agreed.
Quarterly reports are prepared by each area of the
business, covering all locations. These quarterly reports
include issues of material business risk which are
discussed in detail by the Executive Committee which
includes both Executive Directors. All significant items
identified are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
The key risks facing the Group at the year-end and the
mitigating actions assigned to these risks are detailed in
the Business Review on page 13.
Monitoring and corrective action
There is a formal compliance function, which is integrated
with the internal audit function and operational risk
function, to form an Audit, Risk & Compliance department.
The Audit, Risk & Compliance department conducts
regular monitoring of various business areas and control
procedures in line with a plan agreed annually with the
Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee. Any issues of
significance are brought to the attention of the Board by
the Audit, Risk & Compliance department and through the
regular reporting process. Planned corrective actions are
independently monitored for timely completion and
reviewed by the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee.
The Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee reviews the
effectiveness of the operation of this framework at least
twice each year.
Independence of the auditors
The Board has in place rigorous systems for ensuring the
independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Group’s
auditors and has satisfied itself that during the year no
aspect of their work was impaired on these grounds. In
maintaining a clear perception of independence and
Board succession planning
The Nomination Committee has a detailed succession plan
for the Board’s Non-executive Directors. The plan was
shaped by the aforementioned skills profile, projected and
expected normal retirements, and the Company’s
commitment to corporate governance best practice. The
plan is approved annually by the Board.
Relations with shareholders
The Board as a whole acknowledges its responsibility for
ensuring satisfactory dialogue with shareholders and that
communications are given high priority. The Company
welcomes the views of shareholders and, where
practicable, enters into dialogue with institutional
shareholders based on the need for mutual understanding
of objectives. The Company’s Chief Executive and Chief
Financial Officer regularly meet the largest institutional
shareholders and Company analysts following the
announcement of the year end and interim results; the
Senior Independent Director and all other Non-executive
Directors have the opportunity to attend these meetings.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company provides a
forum, both formal and informal, for investors to meet and
discuss issues with Directors and senior management of the
Company. Details of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual
General Meeting on Tuesday, 4 May 2010 can be found in
the Notice of the meeting commencing on page 139.
At its Annual General Meeting, the Company complies with
the provision of the Code relating to the disclosure of proxy
votes, the separation of resolutions and the attendance of
the Committee Chairmen. The timing of the despatch of
the formal notice of the Annual General Meeting complies
with the Code. The results of the votes cast at the Annual
General Meeting are posted on the Company’s website.
Following the de-merger from Friends Provident plc, Nick
MacAndrew met with a number of the Company’s largest
shareholders and presented their feedback on the
Company to the Board. Unattributable feedback from a
number of the Company’s shareholders, facilitated by the
Company’s brokers, is also presented to the Board
following management’s year-end results presentations.
Electronic communications
Copies of the 2009 Annual Report and Financial
Statements, the Notice of Annual General Meeting, other
corporate publications, press releases and announcements
are available on the Company’s website. Shareholders are
encouraged to take advantage of the provisions allowing
the Company to communicate electronically.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a
regular basis. Management’s role is to implement and
operate the Board policies on risk and risk management.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
The Company, as required by the FSA Listing Rules,
complied with the Code provisions on internal control for
the year ended 31 December 2009.
The procedures that the Directors have established are
designed to provide effective control within the Group and
accord with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on
the Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants
in England and Wales “Internal Control: Guidance for F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
38 Governance Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
balancing that with the best interests of the Group, the
Board has a clear policy that it follows when considering
the award of non-audit work to the Group’s auditors. The
policy applied during 2009 is detailed below.
The Company does not impose an automatic ban on the
Group’s auditors undertaking non-audit work. The Group’s
aim is always to have any non-audit work involving
accountancy firms carried out in a manner that affords
value for money while taking into account relevant ethical
guidance. The firm must not be in a position of conflict in
respect of the work in question and must have the skill,
competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best
interests of the Group.
Auditors of the Company are permitted to perform non-
audit work in areas where, in the opinion of the Audit,
Risk & Compliance Committee, it is appropriate for them
to do so and there are no actual or perceived
independence issues.
The Chairman of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee
is authorised to approve the use of auditors for non-audit
work provided that the cost does not exceed £50,000 and
the aggregate value does not exceed the audit fee for the
financial year in question. In other circumstances, the
approval of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee is
required.
The performance, independence, competence and cost of
the auditors are reviewed annually by the Audit, Risk &
Compliance Committee. When the Committee considers it
appropriate, the provision of audit services will be formally
market-tested through a tender process involving those
audit firms judged competent to meet the needs of the
Group. The frequency of this market-testing will depend on
the views of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee, on
the needs of the Group and prevailing leading practice.
The last competitive audit tender exercise was undertaken
in 2006.
During the year a number of accountancy firms, all of
whom are independent of KPMG, the external auditors,
provided non-audit related services to the Group. Details of
fees paid to these firms during 2009 are disclosed in note
5(c) on page 67 of the notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
Future developments
The Board believes that the controls in place during 2009
have been appropriate to the needs of the Group.
Nevertheless, it is committed to the highest standards of
governance and business conduct and will ensure that
those controls continue to develop in line with the
requirements of the FSA and leading practice.
By order of the Board,
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
31 March 2010 F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
39 Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Directors since 2007. This remuneration report provides
detail of the ‘deferred awards’ which were granted to the
Executive Directors under the EDRP during 2009. The
Committee has determined that this will be the final grant
of time-vesting awards to the executive directors, other
than awards under the Purchased Equity Plan which
mandates the deferral in shares of one third of any annual
cash bonus in excess of £100,000. 
The EDRP also provided for ‘restricted awards’ granted to
the Executive Directors once only in 2007, covering the
three financial years ending December 2009. Vesting of
these awards was based on achieving stretching EPS
targets in the 2009 financial year. These targets were not
met and the awards to Mr Grisay and Mr Logan with a face
value at the date of award of £4.8 million and £0.7 million
repectively will lapse in 2010. The EDRP comes to the end
of its term in early 2010. 
During recent months, the Committee has considered the
structure of the long-term incentives taking into account
specific feedback from shareholders and recent
developments in market practice. The Committee has
concluded that future awards to Executive Directors will be
made annually under the existing Long Term Remuneration
Plan (‘LTRP’) with vesting subject to appropriately
challenging performance conditions. The first award made
in 2010, vests according to performance over the three-
year period ending December 2012. 
For the awards granted in 2010 the following four
performance measures apply with equal weighting:
– Growth in Earnings per Share relative to the Retail Prices
Index
 – Total Shareholder Return relative to a peer group
comprised of FTSE 250 Financial Companies
– Achievement of annual net new business targets as
approved by the Board
 – Relative investment performance compared to
benchmarks. 
These measures have been selected as they are
considered by the Committee to be the most relevant in
capturing the critical elements of performance which
reinforce value creation for shareholders. 
In implementing this new structure, awards with a total face
value of £2.37 million will be made to the Executive
Directors. On finalising the details of the performance
conditions, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
will contact major shareholders with further details. A full
report will be provided in the Directors' Remuneration
Report for 2011.
It is intended that the executive committee team will
participate in the same long-term incentive structure for
awards to be made in 2011. 
In addition to these revised long-term arrangements and to
further align executive and shareholder interests, senior
executives will be expected to retain as a proportion of
salary a number of vested shares over a reasonable period
as will be determined by the Remuneration Committee. 
Conclusion
The Committee believes the new long-term incentive
arrangements outlined above address the issues raised by
shareholders, reinforce the alignment of executives and
shareholders, are consistent with market and best
practices and will help ensure that only those who perform
will be rewarded. The Committee recommends that you
vote to approve the remuneration report at the 2010
Annual General Meeting.
Brian Larcombe
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Introduction from the Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee
2009 has been a significant year for the Company and for
the fund management sector as a whole. The continuing
turmoil in the investment markets has thoroughly tested the
ability of all fund management teams. Furthermore, the
recent changes in F&C’s shareholder base was preceeded
by a significant period of uncertainty for staff as the
Company was in an offer period for over twelve months. 
Remuneration Policy
In this demanding business environment it has been the
priority of the Remuneration Committee to ensure the
Company’s remuneration strategy enables it to continue to
attract, motivate and retain the best talent required to
maximise long-term value for our shareholders. The
Committee has reaffirmed its commitment to the fundamental
principle of awarding competitive total remuneration as
warranted by the performance of both the Company and the
individual. The senior executive remuneration package
comprises both fixed salary and variable pay (annual bonus
and share awards, the values of which are directly linked to
the profitability of the Company). The emphasis will continue
to be on performance-related variable pay which will continue
to constitute the vast majority (typically more than 80%) of the
senior executive pay package.
Given the corporate and market uncertainty during the last
12 months, the Committee undertook a comprehensive
review of the senior executive remuneration policy during
the latter part of the year. In particular, the Committee was
concerned to address issues with the long-term incentive
structure raised by shareholders. The Committee has
concluded that whilst the salary and bonus policies fulfil
their purpose, the structure of the long-term awards for
senior executives required to be changed to ensure close
alignment with the Company’s performance, as detailed
below.
The following is a summary of the key decisions that have
been implemented during 2010:
Salary  
The Company recognises the importance of achieving an
appropriate balance between fixed and variable pay. Whilst
the policy is to review the salaries of all employees annually
in relation to the level of responsibility and to appropriate
comparators, the practice has been to maintain a tight
control over salary costs. As a result, salaries for Executive
Directors, senior employees and managers have been
frozen for some years. Following a review against market
benchmarks in 2009, the Committee has agreed to
increase the CEO’s and CFO’s salaries to £350,000 and
£275,000 respectively, effective 1 July 2010. 
Annual bonus award
The Committee expects the size of the annual bonus pool
to be directly linked to Group profit to ensure that the
performance of the Company is a key determinant of senior
executive remuneration levels. Consequently, the size of the
bonus pool is determined each year in the context of
market practice and corporate earnings, subject to strict
limits as to the proportion of Group profits funding the pool.
For the 2009 financial year, the Committee has agreed that
the aggregate cash bonus pool is funded by the same
proportion of profits as in 2008 and is therefore
approximately 20% lower than in the prior year as a result
of the decline in underlying operating profits. Consequently,
bonuses paid to the Executive Directors for the 2009
financial year are commensurately lower than that for the
2008 financial year. 
Long-term awards
The Executive Director Remuneration Plan (‘EDRP’) has
been the primary long-term incentive plan for the Executive
Directors’ Remuneration Report F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
40 Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Statement of the policy on Directors’ remuneration
The Company’s compensation policy detailed below is
based upon the following key principles:
a single compensation policy applying across the
business;
a focus on market-competitive total compensation;
differentiation by merit and performance;
an emphasis on variable, performance-driven
remuneration;
alignment with shareholders’ interests through equity
participation; and
clarity, transparency, and fairness of process.
A total compensation approach is central to the operation
of the Company’s compensation philosophy, with a strong
focus on variable compensation. The Board believes that
shareholders’ interests are best served by containing fixed
costs and increasing the proportion of total compensation
that is directly performance related and thus aligned with
shareholders’ interests. Total remuneration will comprise
basic salary, pension provision, annual bonus and any
awards under the long term share incentive schemes.
The total cash component of compensation is
benchmarked to market median for solid performers and 
to upper quartile for exceptional performance. A range of
benchmark data is used, based on comparable asset
management businesses, with appropriate data being used
for each geographic location.
Policies on the individual elements of remuneration
and employment
(a) Salaries
The salaries of all employees, including Executive Directors,
are reviewed annually and are determined by reference to
external market research.
(b) Bonus
The size and distribution of the bonus pool is
recommended by the Remuneration Committee to the
Board for consideration and approval. In considering the
size and in determining the distribution of the bonus pool,
the Committee considers the performance of the business,
the need to recruit, motivate and retain high-calibre
individuals, the arrangements operated by the Company’s
competitors and the need to maintain an appropriate
balance between salary and performance-related
remuneration that ensures the achievement of objectives is
rewarded. Bonus awards to all staff, including the
Executive Directors, are made under the discretionary
bonus scheme. The purpose of this scheme is to reward all
staff and the Executive Directors for performance relative to
agreed targets.
A Purchased Equity Plan operates in conjunction with the
discretionary bonus scheme and is intended to encourage
shareholding by management and employees of the Group
by providing for:
the compulsory purchase of shares using annual bonus
above a threshold level; and
voluntary purchase of shares using annual bonus, with
associated matching shares.
Governance
In designing the total compensation arrangements for the
Group and in preparing this report, the Board and the
Remuneration Committee have complied with the
provisions of the Combined Code (“the Code”), Part 15 of
the Companies Act 2006 the Large and Medium sized
Companies and Group (Accounts and Reports)
Regulations 2008 and the FSA Listing Rules. An ordinary
resolution for the approval of this report will be put to
shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Legislation requires the Group’s auditors to audit certain
disclosures within this report. Where disclosures have been
audited they are indicated as such.
The following policies represent the policies now adopted
by the Group for the forthcoming year and subsequent
financial years.
The Committee has been established by the Board to:
(a) recommend to the Board the Group’s policy on
Directors’ remuneration;
(b) ensure that the Executive Directors and senior
employees are fairly rewarded and that a significant
proportion of Executive Directors’ remuneration is linked
to the Group’s corporate, and their individual,
performance;
(c) demonstrate to shareholders that the remuneration of
Executive Directors and senior employees of the Group
is determined by a committee of Board members which
has no personal interest in the level of remuneration of
the Group’s Executive Directors or senior employees
and who will pay due regard to the interests of
shareholders and to the financial and commercial health
of the Group; and
(d) ensure that full consideration has been given to Section
B and Schedule A of the Code’s best practice
provisions as annexed to the Listing Rules.
A Statement of the Remuneration Committee detailing
membership of the Committee and the activities and work
of the Committee is set out on page 35.
Research and advice
The Remuneration Committee received advice from 
Kepler Associates during the year on general remuneration
strategy, senior executive pay benchmarking and the
redesign of the LTRP . Kepler Associates was appointed 
by the Committee in 2007 as its independent advisor and
provided no other services to the Company during the year.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee also
received independent remuneration research 
undertaken by McLagan & Partners, Deloitte and
PricewaterhouseCoopers, leading firms of executive
remuneration consultants to assess comparability of the
Group’s remuneration policies to the marketplace and in
particular the remuneration policies of the Group’s
competitors. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
41 Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
The SIP is a share scheme that enables employees to
purchase F&C shares in a tax efficient manner on a monthly
basis at the prevailing market price. The Share Save is a
personal savings scheme that enables employees to either
purchase discounted F&C shares, the price of which is
determined at the time of offering, at the end of a three-
year or five-year saving period, or to receive the
accumulated cash value, including accrued interest, on a
tax-free basis.
At 31 December 2009, 135 employees (31 December
2008: 218 employees) participated in the Share Save and
332 employees (31 December 2008: 362 employees)
participated in the SIP .
Shares under option within the Share Save at 31
December 2009 are detailed below: 
Number of options                                       Term (years)          Exercise price
March 2004 Participation
1,083                                         5                   181.0 pence
March 2005 Participation
88,548                                       5                   186.6 pence
March 2006 Participation
2,187                                         3                   171.0 pence
86,270                                       5                  171.0 pence
March 2007 Participation
240,059                                     3                   144.3 pence
116,141                                     5                   144.3 pence
At 31 December 2009 571,691 shares (31 December
2008: 404,803 shares) were held in trust for employees
within the SIP . Both “all-employee share schemes” seek to
buy shares in the market to remove any possible impact of
dilution.
(d) Share incentive schemes
The Board believes that the share incentive schemes
increase the potential for greater importance to be placed
upon the performance related element of total
remuneration.
In any 10 year period, the aggregate number of Ordinary
Shares which will be placed under award under any share
incentive scheme, shall not, when aggregated with the
number of Ordinary Shares placed under option or issued
in that period under any other employees’ share scheme
operated by the Company, exceed 10 per cent. of the
Company’s issued ordinary share capital at that time. For
the purposes of measurement against this limit the
following will be disregarded: any Ordinary Shares that
have been, or will be purchased, rather than allotted; and
any awards or grants that have lapsed or become
incapable of vesting.
In order to ensure that the assessment of performance
conditions in relation to the share incentive schemes
detailed below is independent, PricewaterhouseCoopers
will report to the Remuneration Committee as to whether
the performance criteria under all schemes have been met.
The F&C Asset Management plc Executive Director
Remuneration Plan (EDRP)
The EDRP was an arrangement tailored to address the
retention and incentive required for the Executive Directors
of the Company during the term of the three-year business
plan that expired at the end of 2009. 
The EDRP comprised two components: Deferred Share
Awards and Restricted Share Awards. 
No further awards will be made under either component of
the EDRP .
Under the terms of the Purchased Equity Plan, participation
can arise in two ways:
on an annual basis, eligible employees who are awarded
in a financial year an aggregate bonus in excess of a
threshold level of £100,000 will be required to defer one
third of the element exceeding £100,000 into shares
(comprising a range of investment products managed by
the Company or the Company’s shares) (“Compulsory
Purchased Equity”) for three years; and
as and when determined by the Board, eligible
employees may be invited to elect to defer into shares in
the Company any remaining proportion of their gross
cash bonus not subject to deferral on a compulsory
basis for three years (subject to a minimum deferral of
£1,500) (“Voluntary Purchased Equity”).
The Board has resolved to suspend the compulsory
element of the Purchased Equity Plan, for all staff excluding
the Chief Executive, in respect of any bonus awards made
in respect of performance for the year ended 31 December
2009. 
The Compulsory Purchased Equity will not benefit from any
form of matching award and is subject to forfeiture in the
event that the employee leaves the Group for any reason
(other than as a “good leaver”) in the three-year retention
period.
In the year ended 31 December 2009, the Compulsory
Purchased Equity element of the Purchased Equity Plan
was applied to 26 employees (2008: 55 employees) in
respect of their performance in 2008. Awards equivalent to
£1.1 million (2008: £2.7 million) were made under the
Compulsory Purchased Equity element of the Purchased
Equity Plan.
To encourage participants to defer their bonus on a
voluntary basis, a matching award will be made for
Voluntary Purchased Equity. The matching award will
provide, at most, one share for every two shares received
as Voluntary Purchased Equity. Vesting of any matching
award is dependent on the satisfaction of performance
conditions and continued service. The conditions will relate
to real earnings per share growth measured over a three-
year period as set out below.
     
Growth in the Group’s earnings per share*   Matching Purchased Equity awards for
over three-year period                                 each performance period
Below PI + 9%                           1 for 5
PI + 9%                                      1 for 5
PI + 24% or higher                     1 for 2
*Earnings per share (EPS) is calculated by reference to underlying earnings of the
Group (where PI stands for an appropriate index of price inflation – the Retail Price
Index (RPI)).
For levels of EPS performance between those shown in the
table, the Matching Purchased Equity award will vary on a
straight-line basis between the minimum and maximum
levels shown.
Invitations to participate in the Voluntary Purchased Equity
element of the plan are at the discretion of the Board and
will be offered only when the Board considers it appropriate
to do so. To date no such invitations have been made.
(c) Savings-related share schemes
To foster a culture of share ownership throughout the
Group, the Board operates a Share Save Scheme (Share
Save) and a Share Incentive Plan (SIP) for all eligible
employees. Both schemes are “all-employee share
schemes” and all employees including Executive Directors
who meet certain criteria are eligible to participate. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
42 Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
The Company’s total shareholder return (“TSR”) ranked 109
out of a FTSE 250 Index comparator group of 218
companies* in the period from 1 January 2009 to
31 December 2009.
In respect of awards made in 2007, the Company’s total
shareholder return (“TSR”) ranked 168 out of a FTSE 250
Index comparator group of 177 companies* in the period
from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2009.
The share price at 31 December 2009 was 75.90 pence.
During the year the highest price was 91.75 pence per
share and the lowest price was 56.50 pence.
No restricted share awards made to date under the LTRP
or EDRP have vested. 
Policy on grants and awards under the share
incentive schemes
The Company’s policy for the granting of awards under the
LTRP is that awards and grants are based on an
assessment of individual contribution to the business and
independent advice obtained on current remuneration
practices. Award levels will be determined by the
Remuneration Committee with reference to Group
performance, market competitiveness (assessed on a total
compensation basis using independent market total
compensation data), and individual performance. Because
of the active policy of reducing the emphasis on base
salary, the Company will not link or limit any awards under
the LTRP explicitly to a multiple of base salary, believing
that making such a linkage provides an incentive to
increase base salaries, and therefore fixed costs, which is
contrary to shareholders’ interests.
Any share incentive awards made to Executive Directors
from 2009 performance year awards will be LTRP restricted
awards.
Performance graph for the share incentive schemes
The graph below compares the performance of the
Company compared with a notional investment made up of
shares of the group of companies from which the FTSE
250 Index of companies is calculated for the five financial
periods ending 31 December 2009 based on the TSR for
each period (assuming all dividends are reinvested). The
FTSE 250 Index has been chosen as the comparator index
as it is the index that includes the Company and is
considered an appropriate benchmark as there are very
few comparable listed asset management businesses. 
Source: Datastream
250
200
150
100
50
0
TSR performance compared to FTSE 250 Index
For the five financial periods ending 31 December
£m
31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2006 31 Dec 2005
FCAM
FTSE 250
 
Deferred awards
Vesting of the Ordinary Shares that are subject to a
deferred award under the EDRP will be contingent solely
on the continued employment of the Executive Director
over the three-year period.
During the year, 2,188,992 deferred awards were made
under the EDRP (2008: 1,025,640 deferred awards).
Restricted awards
No restricted awards were made during the year (2008: Nil).
The performance conditions attached to the restricted
awards made in 2007 based on the performance of the
Group’s EPS have not been met and the awards will lapse
in 2010. 
The F&C Asset Management plc Long Term
Remuneration Plan (LTRP)
The LTRP is the primary long term incentive arrangement of
the Company.
The LTRP is a discretionary contingent share award
scheme unapproved by HM Revenue and Customs. The
LTRP is designed to support the business objectives of the
Group.
Under the LTRP , contingent awards of shares are made
under two categories:
Deferred awards
Vesting of the Ordinary Shares that are subject to a
deferred award under the LTRP will be contingent solely on
the continued employment of the relevant participant over
a three-year period.
During the year, 15,139,943 deferred awards were made
under the LTRP (2008: 10,216,710). Deferred awards were
made to 120 staff (2008: 260 staff).
The Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in
deferred share awards under the rules of the LTRP .
Restricted awards
Vesting of the Ordinary Shares that are currently the subject
of a restricted award under the LTRP will be contingent
upon both the specified performance conditions and
conditions of continued service.
The performance conditions applied to restricted awards
under the LTRP are determined by the Board and are
measured over a three-year period. 
The performance conditions attached to the restricted
awards made in 2007 based on the performance of the
Group’s EPS and TSR have not been met and the awards
will lapse in 2010. 
No restricted awards have been made under the LTRP
since 2007.
Achievement of performance conditions
During 2009, the growth in the Group’s underlying EPS
underperformed the growth in the RPI by 43.4 percentage
points (2008: underperformed, by 26.0 percentage points,
2007 underperformed by 22.8 percentage points).
*In line with the definition of the performance condition, the constituent
companies of the FTSE 250 Index were taken as at the date of award
and 31 December 2009. Only companies appearing in the index on both
dates are included for the purpose of the analysis. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
43 Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report
every three years and are not eligible for bonuses or
participation in savings related share schemes or share
incentive schemes. Non-executive Directors are not eligible
to join any of the Company’s pension schemes. No
pension contributions are made on their behalf and no
Non-executive Director receives a salary from the
Company. The remuneration of Non-executive Directors is
determined by the Board as a whole within the limits
stipulated in the Company’s Articles of Association. All fees
are reviewed annually.
Apart from the Chairman and the Senior Independent
Director, Non-executive Directors are paid a basic fee. In
the year ended 31 December 2009 the Non-executive
base fee was £40,000 per annum. Non-executive Directors
are separately remunerated for their services on Board
Committees. During the year the Board approved an
increase to the fees payable to the Chairman and to the
Chair of each of the Board Committees. 
The Chairman of the Board, who chairs the Nomination
Committee, receives an annual all inclusive fee of £150,000
and the Senior Independent Director receives a £15,000
supplemental fee to the Non-executive base fee.
The Remuneration Committee sets the Chairman’s annual
remuneration. The Board as a whole determines the fees for
Non-executive Directors, the Senior Independent director
supplement and the additional fees payable for membership
and chairing Board Committees. The supplemental member
and Chairman’s fees paid for Board Committees are set out
below.
                                                                                                      Chairman’s fee
                                                                                                      (payable in
                                                                 Committee                   addition to
                                                                 Member’s fee (£)           the member’s) (£)
Audit,Risk & Compliance          10,000                10,000
Remuneration                           7,500                  10,000
Nomination                               5,000                  10,000*
* Currently included within the all inclusive fees payable to Nick MacAndrew.
Statement on Executive Directors’ service contracts and Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment
Messrs Grisay and Logan have current service contracts with the Company that are for a rolling period of one year,
details of which are summarised below. No employee of the Group has a service contract that cannot be brought to an
end within one year.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Provisions for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   compensation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  payable by the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Company on
                                                                           Date of                                                 Notice                                           Unexpired                                  early termination
Executive Directors                                            contract                                                 period                                                    term                                                   £000
Alain Grisay                           11 Oct 2004                     Twelve months            rolling twelve months                                      329
David Logan                         31 July 2006                     Twelve months            rolling twelve months                                      253
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Provisions for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   compensation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  payable by the
                                                                                                                                                                                             Unexpired                                       Company on
Chairman and                                                     Date of                                                 Notice                                                    term                                  early termination
Non-executive Directors                                    contract                                                 period                               at 31 March 2009                                                   £000
Nick MacAndrew                  13 May 2008                                    None                   fourteen months                                        Nil
Keith Bedell-Pearce               7 May 2009                                    None                twenty six months                                        Nil
Brian Larcombe                     7 May 2009                                    None                twenty six months                                        Nil
Jeff Medlock                        13 May 2008                                    None                   fourteen months                                        Nil
Kieran Poynter                      1 June 2009                                    None                                     N/A*                                        Nil
Gerhard Roggemann           13 May 2008                                    None                   fourteen months                                        Nil
* Appointed during 2009.
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
(e) Policy on other benefits
The Group provides all staff with life assurance cover. The
Group’s policy in relation to cars is to provide cars only to
employees where the use of a car is essential to the
fulfilment of their role.
(f) Policy on pension
The Group’s policy on pension provision is to provide a
means whereby each employee either receives a pension
at retirement age or funding to operate a money purchase
pension plan. New UK employees are provided with
funding to enable them to operate a money purchase
pension plan. The funding rate varies according to the age
of the employee.
Pension payments are based on basic salary and no other
cash payments or benefits are pensionable.
(g) Policy on contracts of employment
The Company’s policy regarding contracts of employment
is that all senior employees, including Executive Directors,
should be offered rolling contracts of no longer than twelve
months. Where it is commercially appropriate to protect
the Company, a longer-term initial contract with any
employee, including an Executive Director, may be entered
into. On completion of the initial contract, the Company’s
standard terms will be applied. The Remuneration
Committee, in considering contracts, has regard to
compensation commitments in respect of termination and
believes that these are best addressed by restricting the
term of the contract. In the event of a termination, the
Remuneration Committee would consider all the relevant
factors and seek a just solution.
(h) Policy on Non-executive Directors’ remuneration
Non-executive Directors’ fees for the year to 31 December
2009 are set out below. None of the Non-executive
Directors has a service contract. Letters of appointment
provide for an initial period of three years, subject to review.
Non-executive Directors must submit to re-election at least F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
44 Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Statement on Directors’ Remuneration (audited)
The remuneration of the Chairman and the other Directors who held office during the year ended 31 December 2009 is
set out in the table below:
                                                                                                                                                          Total                   Total
                                                                                                                                                          2009                   2008
                                                                             Salary                          Benefits and         (excluding           (excluding             Pension
                                                                         and fees            Bonus    allowances             pension              pension    contributions               Total                Total
                                                                                2009               2009               2009     contribution)        contribution)                   2009               2009               2008
                                                                                £000               £000               £000                   £000                   £000                   £000               £000               £000
Executive Directors
Alain Grisay*                                        325           700               4           1,029              974                20        1,049        1,877
David Logan                                        250           340               3              593              535                32           625           560
Chairman and Non-executive Directors                 
Nick MacAndrew (Chairman) 
(1)
            114                –                –              114                55                  –           114             55
Robert Jenkins 
(2)
                                   44                –               2                46              128                  –             46           128
Dick de Beus 
(3)
                                     16                –                –                16                45                  –             16             45
Keith Bedell-Pearce 
(4)
                           83                –                –                83                78                  –             83             78
Brian Larcombe                                     70                –                –                70                68                  –             70             68
Trevor Matthews 
(5)
                                  –                –                –                 –                 –                  –               –               –
Sir Adrian Montague
(6)
                            –                –                –                 –                 –                  –               –               –
Jeff Medlock                                          40                –                –                40                40                  –             40             40
Gerhard Roggemann 
(7)
                         50                –                –                50                40                  –             50             40
Kieran Poynter 
(8)
                                   29                –                –                29                 –                  –             29               –
Roger Yates 
(9)
                                       25                –                –                25                 –                  –             25               –
Total                                                 1,046        1,040               9           2,095           1,963                52        2,147        2,891
*      In addition, Alan Grisay received £300,000 which has been deferred for three years in Compulsory Purchased Equity under the terms of the
Purchased Equity Plan.
(1)   Appointed as Chairman on 7 May 2009.
(2)   Resigned as Chairman on 7 May 2009.
(3)   Resigned as a Director on 7 May 2009.
(4)   Appointed to the Nomination Committee on 7 May 2009.
(5)   Resigned as a Director on 3 July 2009.
(6)   Resigned as a Director on 3 July 2009.
(7)   Appointed to the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee and the Nomination Committee on 7 May 2009.
(8)   Appointed as a Director and a member of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee on 1 June 2009.
(9)   Appointed as a Director and a member of the Remuneration Committee on 1 June 2009. Resigned as a Director on 11 December 2009.
No sums were paid to third parties in respect of any Executive Director’s services.
The Company received £Nil (2008: £Nil) in fees payable to Executive Directors in respect of any external directorships held. No Executive Director
receives any fees in respect of external appointments.
The Non-executive Directors’ fees of Trevor Matthews and Sir Adrian Montague, which would have been payable to Friends Provident plc, were
waived in 2009 by Friends Provident in lieu of the services provided by Alain Grisay to their Board in his capacity as a Director of Friends Provident
in 2009.
Statement on Directors’ pensions (audited)
The number of Directors who held office during the year and to whom retirement benefits are accruing is set out below:
                                                                                                                                                        2009                                          2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Number                             Number
Members of money purchase pension scheme                                                                                             2                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2009                                          2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £000                                  £000
Company contributions paid to money purchase pension schemes
Alain Grisay                                                                                                                                                20                         236
David Logan                                                                                                                                               32                           25
     
During the year, the Company paid a widow’s pension of £95,000 (2008: £95,000) in respect of the pension benefits
which had accrued to a former Chairman.
No Directors were members of a defined benefit scheme during the year.
During the year and until his retirement from the Board in May 2009, Mr Jenkins had an entitlement from F&C to an
unfunded pension benefit of £100,000 per annum from age 60, index-linked with attaching spouse’s benefits.
                                                   Gross                 Increase in                          Total               Value of net                                                       Value of                     Value of
                                              decrease                     accrued                     accrued                 increase in               Toal change                     accrued                     accrued
                                            in accrued               pension net                 pension at               accrual over           in value during                 pension at                 pension at
                                                pension                  of inflation               31/12/2009                        period                        period               31/12/2009               31/12/2008
R Jenkins                  (£1,700)                       –          £114,400                       –            £71,000       £2,716,000       £2,645,000
(a)   Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement at age 60. The pension will be indexed before and after
retirement in line with the Retail Prices Index on 1 January each year from 11 October 2004 following the completion of the deal to form F&C
Asset Management plc.
(b)   Transfer values have been calculated using the same method and basis as is set by the Trustees of the F&C Asset Management Pension Plan
to be consistent with legislation and the rules of the Plan.
(c)   The transfer values represent the actuarial value of a liability to the Company, and are not a sum paid or payable to Mr Jenkins.
(d)   The increase in the transfer value over the year is due to factors beyond the control of the Company and Directors. 
Statement on Directors’ share incentive schemes (audited)
The Executive Directors who held office during the year and their awards under any of the Group’s share incentive
schemes at 31 December 2009 are shown below.
Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the Group’s long term incentive plans. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
45 Governance Directors’ Remuneration Report Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Executive Director Remuneration Plan (audited)
Details of the Executive Director Remuneration Plan are set out on pages 41 and 42.
During the year both Alain Grisay and David Logan participated in the plan.
                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Share Price at
Date of Grant                                                                     Nature of Award                             Alain Grisay                               David Logan                             date of award
21 May 2007                                                    Deferred                   1,300,000                         200,574                           193.0p
27 Mar 2008                                                     Deferred                     740,740                         284,900                           192.5p
6 Jul 2009                                                        Deferred                   1,649,452                         539,540                             64.9p
Total Deferred Awards Outstanding                                              3,690,192                      1,025,014                                      
21 May 2007                                                 Restricted*                   2,500,000                         360,000                           193.0p
Total Restricted Awards Outstanding                                           2,500,000                         360,000                                      
* representing 100 per cent. of the maximum 140 per cent. of the award.
Long Term Remuneration Plan awards (audited)
Details of the Long Term Remuneration Plan are set out on page 42.
At 31 December 2009 there are no awards outstanding to any Executive Director under the Long Term Remuneration
Plan (31 December 2008: Nil).
Share options (audited)
Details of the share option schemes are set out on pages 100 to 101. No options have been granted to Directors or
former Directors since 2003.
At 31 December 2009, David Logan held 6,548 options at an exercise price of 144.3 pence by saving £250 per month in
the F&C Asset Management plc Share Save Scheme for 3 years.
Other senior executives
There are a number of senior executives who make a significant contribution to the Group. These senior executives
directly support the Company’s Executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee has regard to the remuneration of
these senior executives whose total remuneration including salary, bonus and benefits, but excluding pension
contributions and share scheme participation, is summarised below. These numbers have been prepared on a
comparable basis with the figures shown in the column headed “Total 2009 (excluding pension contribution)” within the
Statement on Directors remuneration on page 44.
The table below covers the total remuneration of all senior executives who served at any time during the year.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                        Number of senior                        Number of senior
Total                                                                                                                                                                         executives (excluding                  executives (excluding
remuneration                                                                                                                                                               Executive Directors)                    Executive Directors)
£000                                                                                                                                                                                                      2009                                          2008
100-125                                                                                                                                     76                               76
126-150                                                                                                                                     30                               41
151-175                                                                                                                                     30                               25
176-200                                                                                                                                     23                               20
201-225                                                                                                                                     13                               17
226-250                                                                                                                                       4                               17
251-300                                                                                                                                       6                               11
301-400                                                                                                                                       4                               10
401-500                                                                                                                                       3                                 3
501-600                                                                                                                                       4                                 2
601-700                                                                                                                                       1                                  –
>701                                                                                                                                            1                                 1
By order of the Board,
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
31 March 2010 F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
46 Governance Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual
Report and the Consolidated and Company Financial
Statements in accordance with applicable law and
regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare
Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for each
financial year. Under that law they are required to prepare
the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as
adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to
prepare the Company Financial Statements in accordance
with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
The Consolidated Financial Statements are required by law
and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the
financial position and the performance of the Group; the
Companies Act 2006 provides in relation to such Financial
Statements that references in the relevant part of that Act
to financial statements giving a true and fair view are
references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Company Financial Statements are required by law to
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
Company. In preparing each of the Consolidated and
Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required
to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
for the Consolidated Financial Statements, state whether
they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as
adopted by the EU;
for the Company Financial Statements, state whether
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed
and explained in the Company Financial Statements; and
prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
Group and the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper
accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy
at any time the financial position of the Company and
enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply
with the Companies Act 2006. They have general
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open
to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also
responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance
Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and
integrity of the corporate and financial information included
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing
the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility Statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with
the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position
and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings
included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
the Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Report and
Business Review include a fair review of the development
and performance of the business and the position of the
issuer and the undertakings in the consolidation taken as
a whole, together with a description of the principal risks
and uncertainties that they face.
Nick MacAndrew
Chairman
31 March 2010
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual Report and the Financial Statements F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
47 Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of F&C Asset Management plc
We have audited the financial statements of F&C Asset
Management plc for the year ended 31 December 2009
set out on pages 48 to 123 and 126 to 138. The financial
reporting framework that has been applied in the
preparation of the group financial statements is applicable
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs)
as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework
that has been applied in the preparation of the parent
company financial statements is applicable law and UK
Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken
so that we might state to the company’s members those
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the
company’s members, as a body, for this report, or for the
opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities
Statement set out on page 46, the directors are
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s
(APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial
statements is provided on the APB’s web-site at
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKP .
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the
state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs
as at 31 December 2009 and of the group’s profit for the
year then ended;
the group financial statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
the parent company financial statements have been
properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice;
the financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act
2006; and, as regards the group financial statements,
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with
the Companies Act 2006; and
the information given in the Directors’ Report for the
financial year for which the financial statements are
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by
exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report
to you if, in our opinion:
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
the parent company financial statements and the part of
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified
by law are not made; or
we have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
the directors’ statement, set out on page 33, in relation
to going concern; and
the part of the Directors’ Report on Corporate
Governance relating to the company’s compliance with
the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code
specified for our review.
Simon Pashby (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
Edinburgh
31 March 2010                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (as restated†) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Notes                     £m                       £m
Revenue                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Investment management fees                                                                                                                                                     3           237.8            244.2
Other income                                                                                                                                                                              3               4.1                1.1
Total revenue                                                                                                                                                                            3           241.9            245.3
Fee and commission expenses                                                                                                                                                   3            (16.8)            (15.4)
Net revenue                                                                                                                                                                              3           225.1            229.9
Net gains/(losses) and investment income on unit-linked assets                                                                                       4           136.0           (208.7)
Movement in fair value of unit-linked liabilities                                                                                                                                 (134.6)          210.5
Operating expenses                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Operating expenses                                                                                                                                                                5(b)          (164.8)          (171.0)
Amortisation of intangible assets – management contracts                                                                                                       14            (49.8)            (48.9)
Impairment of intangible assets – management contracts                                                                                                         14                  –             (48.3)
Unrealised gains/(losses) on forward currency contracts                                                                                                          7(a)               1.2             (12.3)
Other exceptional net operating expenses                                                                                                                               7(b)            (19.0)            (10.6)
Total operating expenses                                                                                                                                                    5(a)          (232.4)          (291.1)
Operating loss                                                                                                                                                                                          (5.9)            (59.4)
Finance revenue                                                                                                                                                                          8             11.5              25.7
Finance costs                                                                                                                                                                              9            (30.3)            (29.4)
F&C REIT put option fair value gain                                                                                                                                          7(c)               5.6                   –
Gain on debt exchange                                                                                                                                                           7(d)             27.9                   –
Loss on partial disposal of property business                                                                                                                        16(c)                  –               (4.1)
Impairment of financial investments                                                                                                                                           15              (0.1)              (0.1)
Profit/(loss) before tax                                                                                                                                                                              8.7             (67.3)
Tax – Policyholders                                                                                                                                                                                      (0.4)              (0.9)
Tax – Shareholders                                                                                                                                                                                     10.4              17.6
Tax income                                                                                                                                                                              10             10.0              16.7
Profit/(loss) for the year                                                                                                                                                                          18.7             (50.6)
Attributable to:                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Equity holders of the parent                                                                                                                                                                        15.9             (52.5)
Minority interests                                                                                                                                                                                          2.8                1.9
Profit/(loss) for the year                                                                                                                                                                          18.7             (50.6)
Basic earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share                                                                                                                            11           3.24p        (10.66)p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share                                                                                                                         11           3.19p        (10.66)p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       £m                            £m
Memo – dividends paid                                                                                                                                                      12(a)             29.5              29.6
Memo – dividends proposed                                                                                                                                             12(a)             19.5              19.8
†
As restated for the amendment to IFRS 2: Share-based Payment as disclosed in note 1.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
48 Financial Statements Consolidated Income Statement Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2009                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (as restated†) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Notes                     £m                       £m
Profit/(loss) for the year                                                                                                                                                                          18.7             (50.6)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income:                                                                                                                                                                         
Foreign exchange movements on translation of foreign operations                                                                                                            (15.2)            54.2
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension schemes                                                                                                 27(d)            (27.2)              2.5
Gains/(losses) on available for sale financial investments                                                                                                                               0.1               (0.5)
Fair value gains on available for sale financial investments transferred to the Income Statement                                                                       –               (1.1)
Tax income/(expense) on items taken directly to equity                                                                                                             10               7.6               (0.3)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year                                                                                                                        (34.7)            54.8
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year                                                                                                                          (16.0)              4.2
Total comprehensive (expense)/income attributable to:                                                                                                                                                 
Equity holders of the parent                                                                                                                                                                       (18.8)              2.3
Minority interests                                                                                                                                                                                          2.8                1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (16.0)              4.2
†
As restated for the amendment to IFRS 2: Share-based Payment as disclosed in note 1.
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
49 Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 December 2009                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2009                   2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Notes                     £m                      £m
Assets                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Non-current assets                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Property, plant and equipment                                                                                                                                                 13               8.4             10.6
Intangible assets:                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
– Goodwill                                                                                                                                                                                14           595.1           595.1
– Management contracts                                                                                                                                                         14           206.7           266.9
– Software and licences                                                                                                                                                           14               0.6               1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                14           802.4           863.2
Financial investments                                                                                                                                                               15               2.2               2.1
Other receivables                                                                                                                                                                     21               1.9               0.6
Deferred acquisition costs                                                                                                                                                        17               6.4               7.8
Deferred tax assets                                                                                                                                                              18(a)             34.3             26.5
Total non-current assets                                                                                                                                                                     855.6           910.8
Current assets                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Financial investments                                                                                                                                                         19(a)(i)           634.9           718.0
Reinsurance assets                                                                                                                                                                  20               1.9               2.1
Stock of units and shares                                                                                                                                                  19(a)(ii)               0.3               0.3
Deferred acquisition costs                                                                                                                                                        17               2.6               3.3
Trade and other receivables                                                                                                                                                     21             91.4             85.9
Current tax receivable                                                                                                                                                                                 5.8                   –
Cash and cash equivalents:                                                                                                                                                                                                 
– Shareholders                                                                                                                                                                         22           186.2           223.1
– Policyholders                                                                                                                                                                        22             27.7             46.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                22           213.9           269.8
Total current assets                                                                                                                                                                             950.8        1,079.4
Total assets                                                                                                                                                                                        1,806.4        1,990.2
Liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Non-current liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Interest bearing loans and borrowings                                                                                                                                      24           253.9           294.0
Other payables                                                                                                                                                                        25               6.7               7.1
Provisions                                                                                                                                                                                26             10.1               9.0
Pension deficit                                                                                                                                                                         27             46.7             21.8
Employee benefits                                                                                                                                                                                       9.6               4.4
Deferred income                                                                                                                                                                      29               9.1             11.2
Other financial liabilities                                                                                                                                                            30             60.4             68.4
Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                                                                            18(a)             58.3             77.0
Total non-current liabilities                                                                                                                                                                 454.8           492.9
Current liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Investment contract liabilities                                                                                                                                                   31           649.9           753.1
Insurance contract liabilities                                                                                                                                                     32               1.9               2.1
Interest bearing loans and borrowings                                                                                                                                      24             10.0                   –
Trade and other payables                                                                                                                                                        25             64.1             53.5
Provisions                                                                                                                                                                                26               8.9               9.0
Employee benefits                                                                                                                                                                                     21.3             23.0
Deferred income                                                                                                                                                                      29               3.8               4.4
Other financial liabilities                                                                                                                                                            30               1.3               9.9
Current tax payable                                                                                                                                                                                     1.5             12.5
Total current liabilities                                                                                                                                                                         762.7           867.5
Total liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                    1,217.5        1,360.4
Equity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Ordinary Share capital                                                                                                                                                              33               0.5               0.5
Share premium account                                                                                                                                                           34             33.8             33.8
Capital Redemption reserve                                                                                                                                                     34               0.8                   –
Merger reserve                                                                                                                                                                         34           416.6           456.8
Other reserves                                                                                                                                                                         34            (14.5)              0.6
Retained earnings                                                                                                                                                                    34           132.5           119.4
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent                                                                                                                  569.7           611.1
Minority interests                                                                                                                                                                      34             19.2             18.7
Total equity                                                                                                                                                                                           588.9           629.8
Total liabilities and equity                                                                                                                                                                 1,806.4        1,990.2
The Consolidated Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 31 March 2010. They were signed on its
behalf by:
Nick MacAndrew                                                                           Alain Grisay 
Chairman                                                                                       Chief Executive
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
50 Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
as at 31 December 2009
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information                                                                                                                                                                                                           Foreign
                                                                                                                       Ordinary          Share        Capital                         currency             Fair
                                                                                                                            Share     premium Redemption        Merger  translation           value Acquisition     Retained      Minority            Total
                                                                                                                          capital      account       reserve       reserve       reserve       reserve       reserve     earnings     interests         equity
                                                                                                                                 £m               £m               £m               £m               £m               £m               £m               £m               £m               £m
Balance at 1 January 2008                                                      0.5        33.8             –      499.3        11.1          2.5             –      145.2          1.1      693.5
(Loss)/profit for the year (as restated
†
)                                         –             –             –             –             –             –             –       (52.5)         1.9       (50.6)
Other comprehensive income/(expense)                                     –             –             –             –        54.2         (1.2)            –          1.8             –        54.8
Total comprehensive income/(expense)                                      –             –             –             –        54.2         (1.2)            –       (50.7)         1.9          4.2
Realised element of merger reserve to offset amortisation 
and impairment of intangible assets                                            –             –             –       (42.5)            –             –             –        42.5             –             –
Issue of F&C REIT put options on acquisition                              –             –             –             –             –             –       (66.0)            –             –       (66.0)
Purchase of own shares                                                             –             –             –             –             –             –             –         (0.6)            –         (0.6)
Settlement proceeds received on exercise of share options        –             –             –             –             –             –             –          0.2             –          0.2
Share–based payment charges credited to equity (as restated
†
)   –             –             –             –             –             –             –        12.4             –        12.4
Final 2007 dividend paid                                                             –             –             –             –             –             –             –       (19.7)            –       (19.7)
Interim 2008 dividend paid                                                         –             –             –             –             –             –             –         (9.9)            –         (9.9)
Minority interest arising on acquisition of REIT                             –             –             –             –             –             –             –             –        17.3        17.3
Distributions to minority interests                                                –             –             –             –             –             –             –             –         (1.6)        (1.6)
Balance at 31 December 2008                                                0.5        33.8             –      456.8        65.3          1.3       (66.0)     119.4        18.7      629.8
Profit for the year                                                                        –             –             –             –             –             –             –        15.9          2.8        18.7
Other comprehensive (expense)/income                                     –             –             –             –       (15.2)         0.1             –       (19.6)            –       (34.7)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income                                      –             –             –             –       (15.2)         0.1             –         (3.7)         2.8       (16.0)
Realised element of merger reserve to offset amortisation
of intangible assets                                                                     –             –             –       (40.2)            –             –             –        40.2             –             –
Purchase of own shares                                                             –             –             –             –             –             –             –         (7.4)            –         (7.4)
Share–based payment charges credited to equity                      –             –             –             –             –             –             –        14.3             –        14.3
Transfer to Capital Redemption reserve on redemption of
Preference Share capital                                                             –             –          0.8             –             –             –             –         (0.8)            –             –
Final 2008 dividend paid                                                             –             –             –             –             –             –             –       (19.8)            –       (19.8)
Interim 2009 dividend paid                                                         –             –             –             –             –             –             –         (9.7)            –         (9.7)
Distributions to minority interests                                                –             –             –             –             –             –             –             –         (2.3)        (2.3)
Balance at 31 December 2009                                             0.5        33.8          0.8      416.6        50.1          1.4       (66.0)     132.5        19.2      588.9
†
As restated for the amendment to IFRS 2: Share-based Payment as disclosed in note 1.
The total of foreign currency translation reserve, fair value reserve and acquisition reserve constitutes ‘Other reserves’ as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Financial
Position and amounts to a debit of £14.5m at 31 December 2009 (31 December 2008: £0.6m credit).
Cumulative defined benefit pension scheme actuarial losses recognised as at 31 December 2009 are £44.7m which are included in retained earnings (31 December 2008: £17.5m).
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
51 Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2009                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2009                   2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (as restated†)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Notes                     £m                      £m
Cash flows from operating activities                                                                                                                                                                                  
Operating loss                                                                                                                                                                                             (5.9)            (59.4) 
Cash outflow relating to restructuring costs                                                                                                                                                     –               (1.0) 
Adjustments for non-cash items                                                                                                                                          35             58.5            125.8 
Changes in working capital and provisions                                                                                                                        35            (27.9)            (13.1) 
Cash generated from operating activities*                                                                                                                                           24.7              52.3 
Income tax paid                                                                                                                                                                                         (16.4)            (14.6) 
Net cash inflow from operating activities                                                                                                                                               8.3              37.7 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Cash flows from investing activities                                                                                                                                                                                   
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment                                                                                                                                               (0.9)              (1.6) 
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment                                                                                                                                –                0.2 
Purchase of software and licences                                                                                                                                                              (0.2)              (1.1) 
Loan repayment from former associate                                                                                                                                                         0.5                1.0 
Payments to acquire investments                                                                                                                                                                (1.6)            (18.6) 
Proceeds from disposal of investments                                                                                                                                                        6.5              15.2 
Payment in respect of acquisition of REIT                                                                                                                                                        –             (25.0) 
Expenses of acquisitions                                                                                                                                                                             (0.2)              (4.3) 
Fair value of cash acquired with REIT                                                                                                                                                               –                0.2 
Distributions received from former associate                                                                                                                                                    –                0.1 
Investment income – investments                                                                                                                                                                    –                2.1 
Investment income – interest and dividends                                                                                                                                                  2.5              10.2 
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities                                                                                                                                6.6             (21.6) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Cash flows from financing activities                                                                                                                                                                                  
Proceeds from issue of Guaranteed Loan Notes 2016                                                                                                              24             25.0                   – 
Repayment of REIT Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010                                                                                                             24            (25.0)                  – 
Expenses in respect of debt exchange                                                                                                                                                        (1.3)                  – 
Interest paid on Loan Notes                                                                                                                                                                      (19.8)            (18.2) 
Other interest paid                                                                                                                                                                                       (0.2)              (0.2) 
Equity dividends paid                                                                                                                                                             12(a)            (29.5)            (29.6) 
Interest on Preference Shares                                                                                                                                                                      (0.1)              (0.1) 
Repayment of Preference Share capital                                                                                                                                                       (0.8)                  – 
Distributions to minority interests                                                                                                                                                                 (2.3)              (1.6) 
Purchases and disposals of own shares                                                                                                                                                      (7.4)              (0.3) 
Net cash outflow from financing activities                                                                                                                                          (61.4)            (50.0) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                                        (46.5)            (33.9) 
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held                                                                                                                                        (9.4)            29.3 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January                                                                                                                                                   269.8            274.4 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December                                                                                                                       22           213.9            269.8 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Shareholders                                                                                                                                                                             22           186.2            223.1 
Policyholders                                                                                                                                                                            22             27.7              46.7 
                                                                                                                                                                                                 22           213.9            269.8 
†
As restated for the amendment to IFRS 2: Share-based Payment as disclosed in note 1.
* Cash inflows from operating activities includes investments and disinvestments relating to unit-linked assets attributable to policyholders in the Group’s insurance company. These
activities can result in significant fluctuations in “cash flows from operating activities”.
Non-cash transactions
In addition to the above, £135.0m of Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 were exchanged for £104.7m of Guaranteed Fixed Rate
Loan Notes 2016, as detailed in note 24.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
52 Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31 December 2009 F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
53 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Basis of preparation and statement of compliance
These are the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C Asset Management plc and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) which have been prepared on a
going concern basis and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the European Union (“adopted IFRS”),
and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under adopted IFRS. The Consolidated Financial Statements are
presented in millions of pounds Sterling, rounded to one decimal point, except where otherwise indicated.
The Group has adopted the following new or revised standards and interpretations as of 1 January 2009:
(a)     IFRS 2: Share-based Payment – vesting conditions and cancellations
The adoption of the following amendment to IFRS 2: Share-based Payment is to be applied retrospectively and, as a result, a prior period
adjustment has been made, as disclosed in note 1.
Vesting conditions are restricted to service conditions and performance conditions. All features of a share-based payment arrangement other than
service conditions and performance conditions will be considered to be non-vesting conditions. In cases where the company or an employee can
choose whether to meet the non-vesting condition these are to be treated as cancellations. When cancellations occur the Company recognises
immediately the amount of the expense that would otherwise have been recognised over the remainder of the vesting period.
(b)     IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Statements
The revised standard separates owner and non-owner changes in equity. The Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (‘Statement of
Changes in Equity’) includes only details of transactions with owners, with non-owner changes in equity presented as a single line. In addition, the
standard introduces the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (‘Statement of Comprehensive Income’): it presents all items of
recognised income and expense, either in one single statement, or in two linked statements. The Group has elected to present two statements.
     
Assets and liabilities classified as held for trading in accordance with IAS 39: Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are not
automatically classified as current in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (‘Statement of Financial Position’). The Group amended its
accounting policy accordingly and analysed whether management’s expectation of the period of realisation of financial assets and liabilities differed
from the classification of the instrument. This did not result in any re-classification of financial instruments between current and non-current in the
Statement of Financial Position.
(c)     IFRS 8: Operating Segments
This standard requires disclosure of information about the Group’s operating segments and replaces the requirement to determine primary and
secondary reporting segments of the Group. Adoption of this standard did not have any effect on the financial position or performance of the
Group. The Group determined that the operating segments are the same as the business segments previously identified under IAS 14: Segment
Reporting. Segment disclosures are shown in note 2, including revised comparative information.
(d)     IFRS 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosures
The amended standard requires additional disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk. Fair value measurements related to items
recorded at fair value are to be disclosed by source of inputs using a three-level fair value hierarchy, by class, for all financial instruments
recognised at fair value. In addition, a reconciliation between the opening and closing balance for level 3 fair value measurements is now required,
as well as disclosure of significant transfers between levels in the fair value hierarchy. The amendments also clarify the requirements for liquidity
risk disclosures with respect to derivative transactions and assets used for liquidity management. The fair value measurement disclosures are
presented in note 19(b). The liquidity risk disclosures are not significantly impacted by the amendments and are presented in note 39(b).
(e)     IAS 32: Financial Instruments – Presentation and IAS 1: Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation
The standards have been amended to allow a limited scope exception for puttable financial instruments to be classified as equity if they fulfil a
number of specified criteria. The adoption of these amendments did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group as
the criteria were not met.
(f)      IAS 16: Property, Plant and Equipment
In line with the revised standard, the Group amended its accounting policy by replacing the term “net selling price” with “fair value less costs to
sell”, which did not result in any change in the financial position.
(g)     The amendments to the following standards and new interpretations below did not have any impact on the accounting
policies, financial position or performance of the Group:
– IAS 8:    Accounting Policies, Change in Accounting Estimates and Errors
– IAS 10:  Events after the Reporting Period
– IAS 18:  Revenue
– IAS 19:  Employee Benefits
– IAS 20:  Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosures of Government Assistance
– IAS 23:  Borrowing Costs
– IAS 28:  Investment in Associates
– IAS 31:  Interests in Joint Ventures
– IAS 34:  Interim Financial Reporting
– IAS 36:  Impairment of Assets
– IAS 40:   Investment Property
– IAS 41:   Agriculture
– IFRIC 9: Re-assessment of Embedded Derivatives and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement
Accounting Policies F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
54 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Accounting Policies
Parent Company Financial Statements
The parent Company has continued to present individual financial statements prepared on a UK GAAP basis as permitted by section 395(1) of the
Companies Act 2006, adopting the exemption of omitting the Profit and Loss Account and related notes conferred by section 408 of that Act. The
Parent Company Financial Statements, together with their respective accounting policies and notes, are presented on pages 126 to 138.
Accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements
The preparation of the Financial Statements necessitates the use of estimates, assumptions and judgements. These estimates, assumptions and
judgements affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, contingent assets and contingent liabilities at the reporting date as well as the
reported income and expenses for the year. While estimates are based on management’s best knowledge and judgement using information and
financial data available to them, the actual outcome may differ from these estimates.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies are disclosed, where appropriate, in the
following notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements:
(a)     Impairment testing of intangible assets
         The projected revenue growth, projected operating cost growth and discount rates applied to cash flow projections, as disclosed in note 14.
(b)     Pension assumptions
         The mortality assumptions, expected rates of return, discount rates, rates of salary increases and rate of inflation increases, as disclosed in
note 27.
(c)     Minority interest put options
         The fair value of the F&C REIT minority interest put options is subject to uncertainties in respect of future performance and valuation of the
F&C REIT Group. Details of these put options are disclosed in notes 16(a) and 30.
(d)     Provisions
         Details of provisions are disclosed within note 26. Actuarial valuations are used for the guaranteed product, long-term sickness and long-
term service awards using assumptions consistent with the pension assumptions disclosed in note 27. Onerous contract provisions for
premises are subject to uncertainties over time, including market rent reviews and break-options within the lease arrangments.
Summary of significant accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of the Consolidated Financial
Statements for the years ended 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008.
(a)     Consolidation
(i)       Subsidiaries
         Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies so as to
obtain benefits from their activities. All subsidiaries follow accounting policies consistent with those of the Group. The subsidiaries all have
coterminous reporting periods, with one immaterial exception.
         The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the assets, liabilities, results and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries. The
results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the period are included in the consolidated results from the date of acquisition or up to the
date of disposal. Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions
are eliminated in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
         Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries not held by the Group and are presented separately in
the Consolidated Income Statement (‘Income Statement’) and within equity in the Statement of Financial Position, separately from parent
shareholders’ equity.
(ii)      Business combinations
         A business combination is the bringing together of separate entities or businesses into one reporting entity. The result is that one entity, the
acquirer, obtains control of one or more entities or businesses.
         
         The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at
the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities
assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of the acquisition
over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
(b)     Foreign currencies
The Group’s presentational currency is pounds Sterling. Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the
financial statements of each entity are measured in that functional currency.
(i)       Foreign currency transactions
         Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the
reporting date, and any exchange differences arising are taken to the Income Statement. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
55 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
         Non-monetary assets and liabilities, other than intangible assets arising on the acquisition of foreign operations (measured at historical cost
in a foreign currency) are translated using the exchange rate at the date of transaction and are not subsequently restated. Non-monetary
assets and liabilities stated at fair value in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate at the date the fair value was determined.
When fair value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected in the Income Statement, the corresponding exchange movements are also
recognised in the Income Statement. Similarly, when fair value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected directly in equity, the
corresponding exchange movements (except any relating to available for sale monetary assets) are also recognised directly in equity.
(ii)      Foreign operations
         The functional currency of foreign operations is predominantly the Euro.
         The assets and liabilities of, or relating to, foreign operations are translated to Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the reporting date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to Sterling at foreign exchange rates approximating to the rates ruling at the
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations into Sterling, including related intangible
assets, are recognised directly in the Group’s Foreign Currency Translation Reserve (“FCTR”), which is a separate component of equity, and
reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. These exchange differences are recognised as income or expenses in the period in
which the foreign operations are disposed of. 
(c)     Revenue recognition
Management fees, investment advisory fees and other revenue generated from the Group’s asset management activities are recognised in the
Income Statement over the period for which these investment management services are provided.
Initial fees received in advance, arising on OEIC contracts, are taken to the Statement of Financial Position and amortised over the period of the
asset management service. The Group enters into standard contractual terms for all investors. Therefore, the period of provision of asset
management services is estimated based upon the Group’s experience of the average holding periods of OEIC investors. The average holding
period is reassessed on an annual basis.
The Group is entitled to earn performance fees from a number of clients if the actual investment performance of clients’ assets exceeds defined
benchmarks by an agreed level of outperformance, generally in a set time period. Most of the Group’s performance fee arrangements are
assessed on a calendar year basis. Performance fees are recognised when the quantum of the fee can be estimated reliably, which is when the
performance period ends, when this occurs on or before the reporting date, or where there is a period of less than six months remaining to the
end of the performance period and there is evidence at the reporting date which suggests that the current performance will be sustainable.
(d)     Leases
All leases entered into by the Group are operating leases, being leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership
of the leased asset. Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease
incentives are recognised by the Group as a reduction in the rental expense, allocated on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Accounting
policy “(t) Provisions” discusses the recognition of provisions on onerous property leases when the leased space has ceased to be occupied by
the Group.
(e)     Fee and commission expenses
Fee and commission expenses comprise two main elements – costs associated with gaining new OEIC asset management contracts and
subsequent commission paid to agents. The costs associated with gaining OEIC contracts are deferred and amortised over the estimated term of
the contracts (in line with the treatment of the associated initial OEIC fees received), while the subsequent renewal commission paid to agents is
expensed as the services are provided.
(f)      Exceptional income and costs
Where the Group incurs significant non-recurring expenditure or earns significant non-recurring income in respect of items that arise outwith the
Group’s normal business activities and which are sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure, then such items are disclosed in the Income
Statement as exceptional items, either separately or collectively, depending on their nature.
(g)     Finance revenue
Finance revenue comprises interest, dividends, expected return on pension assets and fair value adjustments through the Income Statement in
respect of shareholder investments. Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. Interest income is
recognised in the Income Statement on an effective interest rate basis as it accrues.
(h)     Finance costs
Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings, interest on pension liabilities, amortisation of loan issue costs, unwinding of discount on
provisions and dividends on Preference Shares. Borrowing costs are recognised in the Income Statement on an effective interest rate basis.
(i)      Income taxes
The income tax expense or income disclosed on the face of the Income Statement represents the aggregate of current tax and the movement in
deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the Income Statement for the period, except to the extent that it is attributable to a gain or loss that is
recognised directly in equity. In such cases the gain or loss shown in equity is stated separately from the attributable income tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable to the taxation authorities on the taxable profit for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively
enacted at the reporting date, and includes any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
56 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Accounting Policies
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the Financial
Statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit, accounted for using the reporting date liability method.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax
rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is
probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised, except:
•       where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a
business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither the accounting nor taxable profit or loss; or
•       in respect of taxable or deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, where the timing of the
reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient
taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Any income tax expense or income in respect of taxable gains or losses attributable to policyholders falls to be borne by or to the benefit of the
Group’s unit-linked policyholders. As a result, the Directors consider it appropriate to differentiate on the face of the Income Statement between
tax attributable to policyholders and that attributable to shareholders.
(j)      Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment is capitalised on initial recognition. Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised when it is probable
that there will be future economic benefits associated with the expenditure which can be measured reliably. All other expenditure is recognised in
the Income Statement as an expense as incurred.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated so as to write off the cost of assets, using the straight-line method, over their estimated useful lives,
as follows:
Leasehold improvements         – over 10 years
Motor vehicles                         – over 3-4 years
Office furniture & equipment    – over 3-5 years
Computer equipment              – over 3-4 years
Depreciation is recognised as an expense in the Income Statement.
The carrying value of assets and their useful lives are reviewed at each reporting date. If an indication of impairment exists, the assets are written
down to their recoverable amount and the impairment is charged to the Income Statement in the period in which it arises.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no further future economic benefits are expected from its use.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset (calculated as the fair value less costs to sell) is included in the Income Statement in the year
the asset is derecognised.
(k)     Intangible assets
(i)       Goodwill
         Goodwill arising from a business combination is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the
Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities. Following initial recognition, goodwill is
measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Business combinations arising after 1 July 2002 are accounted for under IFRS 3:
Business Combinations using the purchase method. Where the initial amount of goodwill can only be determined on a provisional basis at
the end of the financial reporting period, adjustments are made to the amount of goodwill up to 12 months from the date of acquisition.
Other adjustments to goodwill are made for amounts that are contingent on future events and on the realisation of potential benefits of the
acquiree’s tax losses carried forward and other deferred tax assets that did not satisfy the criteria for separate recognition on acquisition.
         Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be
impaired.
(ii)      Investment management contracts
         Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business
combination is fair value as at the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated
amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
         The useful lives of management contracts are finite and such contracts are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful
lives or average contractual term, with amortisation being charged to the Income Statement. The amortisation period is reviewed at each
financial year-end. Details of estimated useful lives are shown in note 14. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
57 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
(iii)     Software and licences
         Separately purchased intangible assets have a finite life and are shown at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment
losses. Amortisation is charged to the Income Statement in equal annual instalments, based on the following useful economic lives:
         Software       – 3 years
         Licences       – over the contractual term (3-5 years)
     
         Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is expensed as incurred.
(l)      Impairment of intangible assets
At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when
annual impairment testing is required, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the
higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, and is determined for an individual asset, unless the
asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of
an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. Any impairment arising
is recognised in the Income Statement. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to a cash-generating unit, or group of cash-
generating units, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is so
allocated represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the
operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Except for any goodwill impairments, which cannot be reversed, an assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any
indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the recoverable
amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the
asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. In such a case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its
recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or
amortisation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in the Income Statement. After
such a reversal, the amortisation or depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount, less any
residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
(m)    Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value, plus directly attributable transaction costs, in the case of investments not at fair value
through profit or loss.
The fair value of instruments that are actively traded in organised financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid prices (mid
price for Open Ended Investment Companies) at the close of business on the reporting date. For investments where there is no active market, fair
value is determined using valuation techniques. Such techniques include using recent arm’s length market transactions; reference to the current
market value of another instrument which is substantially the same; discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
Financial instruments are classified into the categories described below:
(i)       Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss include investments that are held for trading purposes or that have been specifically
designated as ‘at fair value through profit or loss’. They are carried in the Statement of Financial Position at fair value and movements in fair
value are taken to the Income Statement in the period in which they arise. The following assets and liabilities are classified as financial
instruments at fair value through profit or loss:
         Current assets:
         •   Financial investments
         •   Stock of units and shares
         Current liabilities:
         •   Investment contract liabilities
         •   Other financial liabilities
         Non-current liabilities:
         •   Other financial liabilities
         The Group has adopted “trade date” accounting for purchases or sales of financial assets under a contract whose terms require delivery of
the asset within the time frame established in the marketplace concerned. Accordingly, such financial instruments are recognised on the
date the Group commits to the purchase of the investments, and are derecognised on the date it commits to their sale.
         The Group has adopted the Fair Value Option in IAS 39, which enables the liabilities in respect of the Group’s unit-linked investment
contracts to be matched to the fair value of the related assets which are solely attributable to the investment contract policyholders, thus
reflecting the contractual entitlement of the policyholders. Differences in fair values are taken to the Income Statement. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
58 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Accounting Policies
(ii)      Available for sale financial assets are also carried at fair value in the Statement of Financial Position. In respect of unquoted instruments, or
where the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is established by using recognised valuation methodologies, in
accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines. Where insufficient information exists to produce a
valuation then the price of recent investments is used. Such techniques include using recent arm’s length market transactions; reference to
the current market value of another instrument which is substantially the same; discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
         For unquoted investments in early stage enterprises and enterprises with revenues but without significant profits or significant positive cash
flows, fair value is determined using the “Price of a Recent Investment” method. Repayments are treated as reductions to carrying value.
After an appropriate period, an assessment is made as to whether the circumstances of the investment have changed such that another
valuation methodology is appropriate, and whether there is any evidence of deterioration or strong defensible evidence of an increase in
value. In the absence of these indicators, fair value is determined to be that reported at the previous reporting date.
         Unquoted investments with revenues, maintainable profits and/or maintainable cash flows are valued by deriving an Enterprise Value of the
underlying business.
         Movements in fair value, other than impairment losses and foreign exchange movements on monetary assets, are taken to the fair value
reserve in equity until derecognition of the asset, at which time the cumulative amount in this reserve is recognised in the Income Statement.
The following assets are classified as available for sale:
         Non-current assets:
         •   Financial investments
(iii)     Loans and receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs incurred. Subsequent
to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Gains and losses are
recognised in the Income Statement when loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation
process. The following assets are classified as loans and receivables:
         Non-current assets:
         •   Other receivables
         Current assets:
         •   Cash and cash equivalents
         •   Trade and other receivables
•   Current tax receivable
(iv)     Other financial liabilities include the minority interest put options and forward currency contracts which are recognised at fair value through
profit or loss.
         The minority interest put options, over equity in majority owned subsidiaries, are recognised at fair value at the reporting date. Upon initial
recognition the fair value of the put option is debited to equity. Subsequent movements to the fair value are reflected in the Income Statement.
Fair value is the amount at which a derivative could be exchanged in a transaction at the reporting date between willing parties.
         The remaining financial liabilities are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest rate after initial recognition. The following
liabilities are classified as other financial liabilities:
         Non-current liabilities:
         •   Interest bearing loans and borrowings
         •   Other payables
         Current liabilities:
         •   Trade and other payables
•   Interest bearing loans and borrowings
•   Current tax payable
         Expenses incurred in respect of raising capital on interest bearing loans and borrowings are amortised over the term of the loan on an
effective interest rate basis. These expenses are offset against the loan amount.
         Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
         Financial assets
         A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset, is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have
expired.
         Financial liabilities
         A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
59 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
         Impairment of financial assets
         The Group assesses at each reporting date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
         Assets carried at amortised cost
         If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of
the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted
at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised
in the Income Statement.
         If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring
after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss
is recognised in the Income Statement to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal
date.
         Available for sale financial assets
         If an available for sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost (net of any principal payment and
amortisation) and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the Income Statement, is transferred from equity to
the Income Statement. Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available for sale are not recognised in the Income
Statement. Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are taken through the Income Statement if the increase in fair value of the
instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the Income Statement.
(n)     Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets acquired with the intention to dispose of them subsequently through sale are classified as held for sale and measured at the
lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Assets are only considered to be classified as held for sale if:
(i)       the carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use;
(ii)      management is committed to the sale within one year of acquisition;
(iii)     the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition;
(iv)     the asset is marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value.
Upon sale, pre-tax gains or losses on such assets are recognised in the Income Statement as finance revenue.
(o)     Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments in money
market instruments with original maturity dates of three months or less.
(p)     Investment contracts
The Group sells unit-linked pension investment contracts through its insurance entity, F&C Managed Pension Funds Limited (“MPF”). These unit-
linked contracts involve both the transfer of a financial instrument and the provision of investment management services. The financial instrument
component is classified as a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss. The financial liability is measured using a valuation technique based
on the carrying value of the assets and liabilities that are held to back the contract, adjusted to take account of the effect on the liabilities of
discounting for the time value of tax payments on assets sold in the fund.
Unit-linked policyholder assets held by MPF and related policyholder liabilities are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value taken to profit
or loss.
Amounts received from and paid to investors under these contracts are accounted for as deposits received or paid and therefore not recorded in
the Income Statement. At the reporting date the value of these contracts is stated at an amount equal to the fair value of the net assets held to
match the contractual obligations.
(q)     Insurance contract liabilities
Insurance contract liabilities are measured in accordance with actuarial principles and guidance. Any change in the value of the liability is taken to
“Movement in fair value of unit-linked liabilities” in the Income Statement. Where these liabilities are reinsured, the element of the risk reinsured is
valued on the same basis as the related liability and is included as an asset in the Statement of Financial Position. Changes in the value of the
asset are taken to the Income Statement. Amounts recoverable under reinsurance contracts are assessed for impairment at each reporting date.
(r)      Employee benefits
(i)       Short-term employee benefits
         Short-term employee benefits are recognised as an undiscounted expense and liability when the employee has rendered services during an
accounting period. Short-term compensated absences are recognised, in the case of accumulating compensated absences, when the
employees render service that increases their entitlement to future compensated absences or, in the case of non-accumulating
compensated absences, when the absences occur. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
60 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Accounting Policies
(ii)      Profit-sharing and bonus payments
         These are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation to make such payments as a result of past events and a
reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
(iii)     Pension obligations
         Defined benefit schemes
         The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension arrangements. These schemes provide benefits based on final pensionable salary.
The assets of the funded schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds.
         The pension liability recognised in the Statement of Financial Position is the present obligation of the employer, which is the estimated
present value of future benefits that employees have earned in return for their services in the current and prior years, less the value of the
plan assets in the schemes. The discount rate applied to the employees’ benefits is the appropriate AA corporate bond yield at the
reporting date. A qualified actuary performs the calculation annually using the projected unit credit method. The pension costs of the
schemes in the Income Statement are analysed into:
         •   Current service cost, which is the actuarially calculated present value of the benefits earned by the active employees in each period;
         •   Past service costs, which relate to employee service in prior periods, and arise as a result of the introduction of, or improvement to,
retirement benefits in the current period. These are recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the period in which
the increase in benefits vest;
         •   Settlements or curtailments which are recognised in the Income Statement to the extent that they are not allowed for in the actuarial
assumptions. Gains or losses on settlements or curtailments are recognised at the date on which there is a demonstratable commitment
to making a significant reduction in the number of employees covered by the plan or an amendment to the terms of the plan; and
         •   The expected return on pension assets, which is recognised within ‘Finance revenue’; and 
         •   The interest on pension obligations which is recognised in ‘Finance costs’.
         The actuarial gains and losses, which arise from any new valuation and from updating the previous actuarial valuation to reflect conditions at
the reporting date, are taken in full to the Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period.
         Defined contribution schemes
         Contributions made to these schemes are charged to the Income Statement as they become payable in accordance with the rules of the
scheme.
(iv)     Other long-term employee benefits
         Other long-term employee benefits are recognised at the discounted present value of the obligation at the reporting date. The benefit is
determined using actuarial techniques to estimate the amount of benefit employees have earned for their services at the reporting date.
(v)      Termination benefits
         Termination benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense when the Group is committed to the termination of employment before the
normal retirement date. A commitment to such termination benefits arises when the Group has initiated detailed plans which cannot
realistically be withdrawn.
(s)     Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of share scheme arrangements which require to be accounted for as share-based payments.
All grants of shares, share options or other share-based instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 have been recognised as an
expense. The fair values of share-based payment awards are measured using a valuation model applicable to the terms of the awards (Black
Scholes, Binomial or Monte Carlo simulation). The fair value is measured by an independent external valuer at the date the award is granted and
the expense is spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to exercise the awards, known as the vesting
period. The cumulative expense recognised in the Income Statement is equal to the estimated fair value of the award multiplied by the number of
awards expected to vest. Vesting of awards typically depends upon meeting defined performance criteria such as underlying earnings per share
(“EPS”) targets and/or share price return targets or continued employment.
The fair value of share-based payment awards, where it is not considered possible to estimate reliably the fair value of these awards at the grant
date, has been determined by measurement of the equity instruments at intrinsic value. The intrinsic value is spread over the vesting period.
Vesting of equity-settled employee share awards depends upon meeting “market” and/or “non-market related” performance conditions. The type
of vesting criteria affects the calculation of the expense charged to the Income Statement and subsequent adjustments, as follows:
(i)       Non-market related conditions are performance criteria not directly linked to Company share price targets, such as EPS targets and/or
continued employment. The probability of meeting non-market conditions is incorporated into the expense charge via the estimate of the
number of awards expected to vest. The total cumulative expense is ultimately adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards which vest.
Therefore, if no awards vest, no cumulative expense charge is ultimately recognised.
(ii)      Market related conditions are performance criteria linked to Company share price targets. The probability of meeting market conditions is
incorporated into the calculation of the fair value of the award. Should the market-based performance condition not ultimately be met, no
“true up/down” adjustment is made to reflect this. Therefore, an expense charge is made whether market-based awards ultimately vest or
not. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
61 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
IFRS 2: Share-based Payment makes a distinction between awards settled in equity and those settled in cash. Equity-settled awards are charged
to the Income Statement with a corresponding credit to equity. Cash-settled awards are charged to the Income Statement with a corresponding
credit to liabilities. The estimated fair value of cash-settled awards is re-measured at each reporting date until the payments are ultimately settled.
Awards to employees treated as “good leavers” or employees who cancel their savings contracts (under the Share Save Scheme) vest
immediately and the remaining full expense of the awards is charged to the Income Statement at that time. Good leavers include retirees and
involuntary redundancies.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of EPS.
(t)      Provisions
A provision is recognised in the Statement of Financial Position when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event
and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by
discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. No provision is established where a reliable estimate of the obligation cannot be made.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be recovered from external parties, the recovery is recognised as a separate asset but only
when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Where the Group has obligations under property leases and where the space has ceased to be used for the purposes of the business, full
provision is made for future net outstanding liabilities under such leases after taking into account the effect of any expected sub-letting
arrangements.
(u)     Share capital
When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial liability of the Company or Group is presented as a liability in the Statement of
Financial Position, measured initially at fair value, net of transaction costs and thereafter at amortised cost until extinguished on conversion or
redemption.
The remainder of the issue proceeds is allocated to the equity component and included in shareholders’ equity, net of transaction costs.
Preference Share capital
The Group’s issued Preference Share capital is classified as a liability. It is carried at amortised cost in the Statement of Financial Position.
Preference dividends are recognised on an accruals basis in the Income Statement as an interest expense.
Ordinary Share capital
When Ordinary Shares are repurchased, the amounts of consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, are recognised in the own share
reserve included within retained earnings and are classified as deductions in equity. The Company’s dealings in its own shares are reflected
through equity. 
Dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised on the date of payment, or if subject to approval, the date approved by the shareholders.
(v)     Accounting for Employee Benefit Trusts (‘EBTs’)
The Group has several EBTs which own shares in the Company to enable it to satisfy certain future settlements of share-based awards. The EBTs
are consolidated into the Group’s results, with these shares included within retained earnings at cost. Consideration received for such shares is
also recognised in retained earnings. No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of
equity shares. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
62 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Accounting Policies
(w)    New standards and interpretations not applied
The International Accounting Standards Board has issued the following standards, relevant to the Group, which have not yet been applied and
have an effective date after the date of these Financial Statements:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Effective Date
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS)                                                                                                                                                          
Endorsed by the European Union and available for early adoption:                                                                                                                 
IFRS 1:      First-time adoption of IFRS 1                                                                                                                                                 1 July 2009
IFRS 3:      Business Combinations – Comprehensive revision on applying the acquisition method                                                         1 July 2009
IFRS 5:      Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations – Amendments resulting from 
                 annual improvements project                                                                                                                                                1 July 2009
IAS 27:      Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements – Consequential amendments arising from changes to IFRS 3                  1 July 2009
IAS 38:      Intangible Assets – Amendments resulting from annual improvements project                                                                       1 July 2009
IAS 1:        Presentation of Financial Statements – Amendments resulting from annual improvements project                                   1 January 2010
IAS 7:        Statement of Cash Flows – Amendments resulting from annual improvements project                                                    1 January 2010
IAS 17:      Leases – Amendments resulting from annual improvements project                                                                                1 January 2010
IAS 36:      Impairment of Assets – Amendments resulting from annual improvements to IFRS                                                         1 January 2010
IAS 39:      Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement – Amendments resulting from annual improvements to IFRS        1 January 2010
IAS 32:      Financial Instruments: Presentation – Amendments relating to classification of rights issues                                          1 February 2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Not yet endorsed by the European Union:                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
IFRS 2:      Share-based Payment – Amendments relating to group cash-settled share-based payment transactions                       1 January 2010
IAS 24:      Related Party Disclosures                                                                                                                                                1 January 2011
IFRS 9:      Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement                                                                                                     1 January 2013
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards will materially impact the Group’s financial results in the period of initial
application although there will be revised presentations to the primary financial statements and additional disclosures. No material impact on the
Group is expected to arise from any other standards which are available for early adoption. Any future business combinations will be affected by
the revisions to IFRS 3. The Group intends to adopt the standards in the reporting period when they become effective. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
63 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
1.      Prior period adjustment
With effect from 1 January 2009 the Group has adopted the revision to IFRS 2: Share-based Payment – vesting conditions and cancellations. The
revision clarifies vesting conditions and the circumstances giving rise to cancellations. There are two categories of non-vesting conditions where
the grant of equity instruments is considered cancelled: employees who elect to cease saving into the Group’s Share Save Scheme or employees
who are “good leavers” and have ceased saving for the Share Save Scheme. In both cases, the Group immediately recognises the amount of the
expense that would otherwise have been recognised over the remainder of the vesting period. Previously these events were treated as forfeitures.
The amendments are applied retrospectively and hence a prior period adjustment has been made at the transition date, 31 December 2007, and
for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The effect of the Income Statement and Statement of Financial Position is as follows:
At 31 December 2007:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         £m
Statement of Financial Position impact*                                                                                                                                         
Retained earnings – share-based payment credit to equity                                                                                                                                             0.3
Retained earnings – share-based payment charged to operating expenses                                                                                                                   (0.3)
Year ended 31 December 2008:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         £m
Statement of Financial Position impact                                                                                                                                          
Retained earnings – share-based payment credit to equity                                                                                                                                             0.1
Income Statement impact                                                                                                                                                             
Operating expenses – share-based payment expenses                                                                                                                                                 (0.1)
* As the adjustment is within retained earnings there is no impact on the Statement of Financial Position at 31 December 2007 and accordingly a Statement of Financial Position 
has not been re-presented at that date.
There is no income tax effect on the above adjustments.
The impact of the prior period adjustment on the year ended 31 December 2008 loss per share is to increase the basic and diluted loss from
10.64p to 10.66p as disclosed in note 11.
2.      Operating segments
The Group has adopted IFRS 8: Operating Segments for the year ended 31 December 2009, which has replaced IAS 14: Segment Reporting.
The adoption of the new standard has not altered the make-up of the Group’s reportable operating segments.
The Group operates two operating units and therefore presents two operating segments for segment reporting purposes: Investment
Management and Property Asset Management. F&C REIT, the property business acquired on 3 September 2008, has a separate Board of
Directors with considerable autonomy, and operationally F&C REIT is managed separately from the rest of the F&C Group. Prior to 3 September
2008, the Group operated as a single asset management business which did not comprise different operating segments.
While there are different sources of revenue within the investment management operating segment and distinct distribution channels, and assets
under management can be categorised by client type and asset class, the Directors do not consider these to constitute separate operating
segments within the meaning of IFRS 8: Operating Segments as the internal financial reporting and performance monitoring is not further
segregated below the level of the aforementioned operating segments.
Management monitors the operating results of its two operating segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource
allocation and performance assessment.
Transfer prices between the operating segments reflect the arm’s-length agreements entered into at the time of acquiring REIT and creating the
property asset management operating segment. Segment revenue, segment expense and segment result include transactions between operating
segments, which are eliminated on consolidation. The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those of the Group.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.      Operating segments continued
(a)     Operating segments
                                                                                                                                                                                 Investment management  Property asset management                        Total
                                                                                                                                                                                       2009                 2008                 2009                 2008                 2009                 2008
                                                                                                                                                                                         £m                    £m                    £m                    £m                    £m                    £m
Revenue                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
External clients                                                                                                               203.1          232.8            38.8            12.5          241.9          245.3
Inter-segment revenue                                                                                                       1.3              0.6                 –                 –              1.3              0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Segment revenue                                                                                                        204.4          233.4            38.8            12.5          243.2          245.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Fee and commission expenses                                                                                       (13.5)          (15.0)            (3.3)            (0.4)          (16.8)          (15.4)
Net gains/(losses) and investment income on unit-linked assets                                     136.0         (208.7)                –                 –          136.0         (208.7)
Movement in fair value of unit-linked liabilities                                                                (134.6)         210.5                 –                 –         (134.6)         210.5
Operating expenses*                                                                                                    (206.4)        (282.0)          (27.3)            (9.7)        (233.7)        (291.7)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Operating (loss)/profit                                                                                                 (14.1)          (61.8)             8.2              2.4             (5.9)          (59.4)
Finance revenue                                                                                                               11.4            25.7              0.1                 –            11.5            25.7
Finance costs                                                                                                                 (30.3)          (29.4)                –                 –           (30.3)          (29.4)
F&C REIT put option fair value gain                                                                                    5.6                 –                 –                 –              5.6                 –
Gain on debt exchange                                                                                                    27.9                 –                 –                 –            27.9                 –
Impairment of financial investments                                                                                   (0.1)            (0.1)                –                 –             (0.1)            (0.1)
Loss on partial disposal of property business                                                                        –             (4.1)                –                 –                 –             (4.1)
Tax income/(expense)                                                                                                      11.4            18.2             (1.4)            (1.5)           10.0            16.7
Profit/(loss) for the year                                                                                               11.8           (51.5)             6.9              0.9            18.7           (50.6)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Segment assets                                                                                                       1,594.4       1,777.8          222.2          215.6       1,816.6       1,993.4
Segment liabilities                                                                                                   1,151.4       1,333.0            29.6              8.8       1,181.0       1,341.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Other information                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Expenditure on non-current assets                                                                                    0.5              2.0              0.6          128.2              1.1          130.2
Depreciation and amortisation                                                                                          41.8            49.4            11.5              3.5            53.3            52.9
Impairment of intangible assets                                                                                             –            48.3                 –                 –                 –            48.3
Non-cash income/(expenses) other than depreciation, amortisation and impairment       (22.7)           23.5              0.8              0.2           (21.9)           23.7
                                                            
* Operating expenses include depreciation, amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
Revenues from two external clients each represent ten per cent or more of the Group’s total revenues. Revenues from the largest client amount to
£35.1m (2008: £37.2m) and are earned in the investment management segment. Revenues from the second largest client amount to £29.8m
(2008: £31.6m) and are earned across both segments.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
64 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
2.      Operating segments continued
(b)     Reconciliations to Group Financial Statements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Total revenue                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Total revenue for reportable segments                                                                                                                                                      243.2            245.9
Elimination of inter-segment revenue                                                                                                                                                           (1.3)              (0.6)
Group revenue                                                                                                                                                                                       241.9            245.3
Operating expenses                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Total operating expenses for reportable segments                                                                                                                                    233.7            291.7
Elimination of inter-segment expenses                                                                                                                                                         (1.3)              (0.6)
Group operating expenses                                                                                                                                                                   232.4            291.1
Profit/(loss) after tax                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Total profit/(loss) for reportable segments                                                                                                                                                   18.7             (50.6)
Adjustments                                                                                                                                                                                                    –                   –
Group profit/(loss) for the period                                                                                                                                                           18.7             (50.6)
Assets                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Total assets for reportable segments                                                                                                                                                     1,816.6         1,993.4
Elimination of inter-segment assets                                                                                                                                                              (7.4)              (3.2)
Reclassification between assets and liabilities                                                                                                                                              (2.8)                  –
Group assets                                                                                                                                                                                       1,806.4         1,990.2
Liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Total liabilities for reportable segments                                                                                                                                                   1,181.0         1,341.8
Elimination of inter-segment liabilities                                                                                                                                                           (7.4)              (3.2)
Reclassification between assets and liabilities                                                                                                                                              (2.8)                  –
Unallocated defined benefit pension liabilities                                                                                                                                              46.7              21.8
Group liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                   1,217.5         1,360.4
The reportable segments’ totals for all other line items reported in the table at note 2(a) are the same as those for the Group, with no reconciling
differences.
(c)     Geographical information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2009                    2008
Revenue by location of clients                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              £m                       £m
United Kingdom                                                                                                                                                                                         95.2            108.5
Continental Europe*                                                                                                                                                                                  127.7            124.8
Rest of the World                                                                                                                                                                                       19.0              12.0
Group total                                                                                                                                                                                             241.9            245.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2009                    2008
Non-current assets by domicile
†
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        £m                       £m
United Kingdom                                                                                                                                                                                       116.6            118.5
Continental Europe*                                                                                                                                                                                    76.0            135.0
Rest of the World                                                                                                                                                                                       23.1              25.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                215.7            278.7
Unallocated                                                                                                                                                                                              595.1            595.1
Group total                                                                                                                                                                                             810.8            873.8
* Continental Europe is defined as being within the European Economic Area.
† 
Excluding financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
3.      Net revenue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            £m                       £m
Base management fees                                                                                                                                                                            219.1            236.3
Performance related management fees                                                                                                                                                      18.7                7.9
Total investment management fees                                                                                                                                                    237.8            244.2
Other income                                                                                                                                                                                               4.1                1.1
Total revenue                                                                                                                                                                                         241.9            245.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Renewal commission on open-ended investment products                                                                                                                         (9.3)            (10.5)
Other selling expenses                                                                                                                                                                                (7.5)              (4.9)
Fee and commission expenses                                                                                                                                                             (16.8)            (15.4)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Net revenue                                                                                                                                                                                            225.1            229.9
Other income in 2009 includes £3.8m associated with the finalisation of the consideration payable to Eureko B.V. in respect of the 2004
acquisition of F&C Group Holdings and its subsidiaries. 
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
65 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 4.      Net gains/(losses) and investment income on unit-linked assets
         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Notes                     £m                       £m
Interest income on policyholders’ cash                                                                                                                                        8               0.4                2.0
Interest income on other financial instruments attributable to policyholders                                                                                 8               9.2              12.1
Dividend income                                                                                                                                                                                         16.8              21.5
Movement in fair values of unit-linked assets                                                                                                                                            109.6           (244.3)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 31           136.0           (208.7)
Note 19(a)(i)(1) gives further background to the unit-linked assets held by the Group.
5.      Expenses
(a)     Total operating expenses
Total operating expenses, including exceptional costs, can be summarised into the following categories:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (as restated†)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Employee benefit and related expenses*                                                                                                                                                  121.6            119.2
Premises expenses                                                                                                                                                                                    12.6                9.0
Communication and information technology expenses                                                                                                                               13.5              15.2
Third party administration expenses                                                                                                                                                             6.5                6.6
Promotional and client servicing expenses                                                                                                                                                    5.5                7.6
Depreciation and amortisation expenses                                                                                                                                                    53.3              52.9
Impairment expenses                                                                                                                                                                                      –              48.3
Other expenses                                                                                                                                                                                          19.4              32.3
Total operating expenses                                                                                                                                                                     232.4            291.1
†
As restated for the amendment to IFRS 2: Share-based Payment as disclosed in note 1.
* This includes £6.1m (2008: £7.1m) of employment related expenses, which are not included in the employee benefit expense table in note 6.
(b)     Operating expenses
Operating expenses include the following:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Notes                     £m                       £m
Depreciation of owned tangible property, plant and equipment                                                                                                  13               2.8                3.0
Amortisation of software and licences                                                                                                                                       14               0.7                1.0
Auditor’s remuneration – audit of these financial statements                                                                                                                         0.6                0.4
Auditor’s remuneration – audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation                                                                        0.3                0.3
Auditor’s remuneration – other services                                                                                                                                                        0.4                0.5
Operating lease rentals – land and buildings (head leases)                                                                                                                          11.5              10.8
Operating lease rentals – vehicles                                                                                                                                                                 0.6                0.5
Operating lease rentals – other*                                                                                                                                                                    4.5                3.6
Rentals receivable – operating leases (sub-leases)                                                                                                                                       (4.3)              (4.0)
Loss/(gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment                                                                                                                             0.2               (0.1)
Realised exchange (gains)/losses on forward currency contracts                                                                                                                (5.9)              5.0
Other foreign exchange losses/(gains)                                                                                                                                                          4.1               (6.3)
* Stated net of amounts receivable from brokers under Commission Sharing Arrangements.
Sub-lease rentals of £4.3m (2008: £4.0m) were received during the year of which £4.2m (2008: £3.8m) relates to guaranteed payments and
£0.1m (2008: £0.2m) relates to contingent payments.
All amounts included within operating lease and sub-lease rental payments represent minimum lease payments.
(c)     Auditor’s remuneration
Fees paid to the Group’s auditors’ are summarised as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KPMG Audit Plc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Annual audit fees – 2009                                                                                                                                                                              0.4                   –
Annual audit fees – 2008                                                                                                                                                                              0.2                0.4
Audit of these financial statements                                                                                                                                                         0.6                0.4
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation                                                                                                               0.3                0.3
Total audit fees of the Group                                                                                                                                                                   0.9                0.7
Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation                                                                                                                                     0.1                0.1
Other services relating to taxation                                                                                                                                                                    –                0.1
Services relating to recruitment and remuneration                                                                                                                                            –                0.1
All other services                                                                                                                                                                                          0.3                0.2
Total auditor’s remuneration                                                                                                                                                                    1.3                1.2
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
66 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
5.      Expenses continued
The Group’s policy on the award of non-audit services to accountancy firms is outlined in the Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance. During
the year the fees paid by F&C to other accountancy firms for non-audit services were as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Ernst & Young                                                                                                                                                                                              0.4                0.6
PricewaterhouseCoopers                                                                                                                                                                             0.4                0.5
Deloitte                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3                0.2
BDO                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2                   –
Jebensmensching                                                                                                                                                                                        0.1                   –
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.4                1.3
During 2009, in addition to the above, £0.1m (2008: £0.8m) was paid to Deloitte for services relating to acquisitions. These fees have been
capitalised and are included within expenses of acquisition (see note 16).
In addition to the above, the following fees were paid by OEICs, unit trusts and SICAVs, for which Group companies are the Authorised Corporate
Director or Manager, for services provided directly to them:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
PricewaterhouseCoopers                                                                                                                                                                             0.5                0.4
6.      Employee benefit expenses
Total employee benefit expenses, including remuneration of the Directors, were:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (as restated†)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Notes                     £m                       £m
Short-term employee benefits:                                                                                                                                                                                                
Salaries and related benefits                                                                                                                                                             56.6              58.6
Bonus                                                                                                                                                                                              15.9              18.6
Wages and salaries                                                                                                                                                                                    72.5              77.2
Social Security costs                                                                                                                                                                                  11.2                7.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  83.7              85.1
Post-employment benefits:                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Defined contributions scheme expenses                                                                                                                      27(h)               4.2                4.5
Defined benefits scheme expenses                                                                                                                              27(d)               2.6                3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.8                8.0
Total of wages and salaries, Social Security costs and post-employment benefits                                                                        90.5              93.1
Other long-term employee benefits                                                                                                                                                               0.1                   –
Termination benefits                                                                                                                                                                                      4.6                4.6
Share-based payment expenses                                                                                                                                               28             20.3              14.4
Total employee benefits expenses                                                                                                                                                      115.5            112.1
†
As restated for the amendment to IFRS 2: Share-based Payment as disclosed in note 1.
The monthly average number of employees (including Executive Directors) of the Group during 2009 was 923 (2008: 1,052). F&C Asset
Management plc had no employees during either year.
The above table includes £6.1m (2008: £4.8m) of exceptional employment costs, as disclosed in note 7(b).
7.      Exceptional income and expenditure
(a)     Unrealised gains/(losses) on forward currency contracts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Unrealised gains/(losses) on forward currency contracts                                                                                                                               1.2             (12.3)
During 2008, the Group entered into a series of forward currency contracts to provide certainty to the Sterling value of a portion of the Group’s
Euro denominated cash flows. In line with accounting requirements, open contracts are carried in the Statement of Financial Position at their fair
value. During the 12 months ended 31 December 2009 an unrealised gain of £1.2m was recognised. Unrealised gains/(losses) are excluded from
the calculation of underlying earnings. Realised gains or losses on such contracts are included in determining underlying earnings.
(b)     Other exceptional operating (expenses)/income
The Group has classified the following operating (expenses)/income as exceptional:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Corporate advisory fees                                                                                                                                                              (i)              (2.6)              (4.4)
Exceptional employment and staff related costs                                                                                                                         (ii)              (6.1)              (4.8)
F&C REIT variable minority interest SBP expense                                                                                                                      (iii)              (3.7)              (1.4)
Investment Trust VAT income                                                                                                                                                    (iv)               2.5                   –
Exceptional client compensation expense                                                                                                                                  (v)              (2.5)                  –
Exceptional property expense                                                                                                                                                   (vi)              (2.5)                  –
Put option claim expense                                                                                                                                                         (vii)              (4.1)                  –
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (19.0)            (10.6)
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
67 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
68 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
7.      Exceptional costs continued
(i)      Corporate advisory fees
During 2008, Friends Provident announced its intention to divest of its 52 per cent. shareholding in F&C, which was effected on 3 July 2009.
During 2008, legal, commercial and corporate finance advisors fees were incurred in seeking to identify acquisition opportunities which would
create value for F&C’s shareholders. During 2009, a further £2.6m of corporate advisory fees and costs relating to the separation of F&C from
Friends Provident were incurred. The Directors consider these advisory costs to be exceptional in nature and have therefore excluded this
expense from the measurement of underlying earnings.
(ii)     Exceptional employment and staff related costs
As a result of the challenging and volatile market conditions experienced in 2008 and the adverse consequential impact on the Group’s revenues,
management identified and initiated actions in 2008 and 2009 to achieve annualised cost savings. Management sought to avoid any cost saving
initiative which would significantly impede the Group’s distribution capabilities which are key for business growth.
The Directors consider significant redundancy and related costs to be exceptional in nature and have therefore excluded the associated
employment costs of £6.1m incurred during 2009 from the measurement of underlying earnings.
(iii)    F&C REIT variable minority interest share-based payment (SBP) expense
F&C controls 70 per cent. of F&C REIT, the Group’s property business, and the former owners of REIT, two of whom occupy key management
roles within F&C REIT, hold a 30 per cent. stake. 
The former owners have the opportunity to increase their ownership by a further 10 per cent. through the achievement of certain performance
targets over the next five years. This earn-out mechanism meets the criteria of a share-based payment and results in a charge of £3.7m to the
Income Statement in 2009. This expense has been excluded from underlying earnings as it is considered to be capital in nature, which is
consistent with the treatment of share scheme costs associated with previous acquisitions. Full details of this arrangement are given in note 28(c).
(iv)    Investment Trust VAT income
During 2007, following the outcome of litigation, HM Revenue and Customs (“HMRC”) concluded that investment management fees paid by
investment trusts were not subject to VAT.
In 2007 a provision was recognised for the VAT and associated interest costs which the Directors considered may be payable to investment trust
clients in respect of historic periods, beyond the amounts recoverable from HMRC. The Group has now settled all amounts payable in respect of
this matter, and the credit of £2.5m recognised in the Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2009 represents the excess provision,
net of professional costs incurred in respect of the matter during 2009.
The Directors have excluded this income from underlying earnings to be consistent with the treatment of the expense when the provision was
initially recognised. Details and movements in the associated provision are given in note 26.
(v)     Exceptional client compensation expense
The exceptional client compensation expense of £2.5m represents the net expected cost to the Group of amounts reimbursable to a client as a
result of a breach of their investment mandate. This expense relates to a single event in respect of one client, attributable to a unique set of
circumstances. 
Given the scale of the compensation, the Directors consider it appropriate to exclude this cost from the measurement of underlying earnings.
(vi)    Exceptional property expense
The Group has a number of onerous sub-let properties, which have arisen from historic acquisitions, as the Group has reduced its space
requirements for its own operations. During 2009, the tenant in one of the Group’s sub-let premises sought to exercise a break clause in their
lease and vacate the premises. As it was economically beneficial to retain that tenant rather than seek to re-market the vacant premises,
additional lease incentives of some £2.5m were granted to the existing tenant. 
Given both the quantum of the increase in this provision and the fact that this lease was acquired with a historical corporate acquisition, the
Directors consider it appropriate to exclude the associated exceptional expense from the measurement of underlying earnings.
(vii)   Put option claim expense
Note 26 outlines the circumstances surrounding the put option notice received from the founder members of F&C Partners LLP (“Partners”), the
Group’s majority owned fund of hedge funds business. The Company vigorously denies the validity of that put option notice under the Partnership
Agreement, but has incurred legal and associated costs of £4.1m, including provisioning, in respect of this matter. 
Given the quantum and nature of this claim, the Directors consider it appropriate to treat this cost as exceptional in nature and exclude it from the
measurement of underlying earnings. Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
7.      Exceptional costs continued
(c)     F&C REIT put option fair value gain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
F&C REIT put option fair value gain                                                                                                                                                              5.6                   –
The fair value of the F&C REIT put option liability, as disclosed in note 30, reflects the value of the F&C REIT business which is currently owned by
the minority interest partners and which is the subject of options, as detailed in note 16. The reduction in the fair value of the options during the
year of £5.6m has been recognised as a fair value gain in the Income Statement. 
The Directors consider the value of the options and movements therein to be of a capital nature, and have therefore excluded this fair value gain
from the measurement of underlying earnings.
(d)     Gain on debt exchange
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Gain on debt exchange                                                                                                                                                                              27.9                   –
During 2009 the Group executed a debt exchange programme, as outlined in note 24, which sought to capitalise on the prevailing market
conditions. A net gain of £27.9m arose on the partial extinguishment of existing subordinated debt, after accounting for the fees and other costs
associated with the extinguishment of this debt.
The Directors consider the quantum and nature of this gain to be exceptional and consider it appropriate to exclude this gain from the
measurement of underlying earnings.
8.      Finance revenue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Note                     £m                       £m
Loans and receivables:                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Bank interest receivable                                                                                                                                                                                1.8                9.8
Other interest receivable                                                                                                                                                                               0.6                0.2
Designated as fair value through profit or loss:                                                                                                                                                               
Movement in fair value of investments                                                                                                                                                          1.2                3.9
Designated as available for sale:                                                                                                                                                                                       
Investment income receivable                                                                                                                                                                          –                2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.6              16.0
Other finance revenue:                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Expected return on pension plan assets                                                                                                                                27(d)               7.9                9.7
Total finance revenue                                                                                                                                                                              11.5              25.7
Investment income receivable primarily represents distributions from interests in private equity investments.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Note                     £m                       £m
Bank interest receivable                                                                                                                                                                                1.8                9.8
Other interest receivable                                                                                                                                                                               0.6                0.2
Interest income on policyholders’ cash                                                                                                                                        4               0.4                2.0
Interest income on other financial instruments attributable to policyholders                                                                                 4               9.2              12.1
Total interest income                                                                                                                                                                               12.0              24.1
9.      Finance costs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Notes                     £m                       £m
Interest expense on financial liabilities recognised at cost using the effective interest rate method:                                                                       
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Loan Notes 2016/2026                                                                                                                          14.9              17.6
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016                                                                                                                                                     3.4                   –
Floating Rate Secured Loan Notes 2010                                                                                                                                                      1.5                0.8
Cumulative Preference Shares                                                                                                                                               12(b)                  –                0.1
Bank charges                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1                0.1
Other interest payable                                                                                                                                                                                      –                0.2
Total interest expense                                                                                                                                                                             19.9              18.8
Amortisation of Subordinated Notes issue costs                                                                                                                                           0.2                0.3
Unwinding of discount on onerous provisions                                                                                                                                               0.2                0.3
Other finance costs:
Interest cost on pension obligations                                                                                                                                      27(d)             10.0              10.0
Total finance costs                                                                                                                                                                                  30.3              29.4
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
69 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 10.    Income tax
(a)     Analysis of tax income in the year
The major components of tax (income)/expense recognised in the Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income are:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            £m                       £m
Current income tax:                                                                                                                                                                                       
UK                                                                                                                                                                                                               (2.4)            17.5
Double tax relief in UK on overseas earnings                                                                                                                                                    –             (11.5)
Overseas                                                                                                                                                                                                      8.8                9.7
Adjustments in respect of previous years                                                                                                                                                     (0.6)              (6.8)
Deferred income tax:                                                                                                                                                                                      
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences                                                                                                                      (14.0)            (27.8)
Adjustments in respect of previous years                                                                                                                                                     (1.8)              2.2
Tax income reported in the Income Statement                                                                                                                                   (10.0)            (16.7)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2009                         2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       £m                            £m
Deferred and current income tax related to items charged or credited directly to equity:                                                                     
Loss on financial investments                                                                                                                                                                          –               (0.5)
Actuarial (loss)/gains on defined benefit pension schemes                                                                                                                           (7.6)              0.8
Tax (income)/expense recognised directly in the Statement of Comprehensive Income                                                                 (7.6)              0.3
(b)     Factors affecting the tax income for the year
A reconciliation between the actual tax income and the accounting profit/(loss) multiplied by the Group’s domestic tax rate for the years ended
31 December 2009 and 2008 is as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (as restated†)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            £m                       £m
Profit/(loss) before tax                                                                                                                                                                              8.7             (67.3)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
At the Group’s statutory income tax rate of 28.0% (2008: 28.5%)                                                                                                                 2.4             (19.2)
Adjustments in respect of previous years                                                                                                                                                     (2.4)              (4.6)
Disallowed expenses                                                                                                                                                                                    2.3                3.0
Non-taxable income                                                                                                                                                                                  (11.8)              (0.7)
Overseas tax                                                                                                                                                                                               (0.4)              0.3
Utilisation of unrecognised losses                                                                                                                                                                    –               (0.1)
Share-based payments                                                                                                                                                                               (0.1)              4.6
Tax income reported in the Income Statement                                                                                                                                   (10.0)            (16.7)
†
As restated for the amendment to IFRS 2: Share-based Payment as disclosed in note 1.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown in note 18.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
70 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
11.    Earnings per Share
Basic earnings/(loss) per share amounts are calculated by dividing the earnings/(loss) for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the
parent by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share amounts are calculated by dividing the earnings/(loss) for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the
parent by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares
that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential Ordinary Shares into Ordinary Shares.
In the opinion of the Directors the ‘underlying earnings’ as quantified as in the ‘Reconciliation of earnings/(loss)’ table below, more accurately
reflects the underlying earnings performance of the Group.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2009                 2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Basic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Basic     (as restated†)
Reconciliation of Basic Earnings per Share                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       p                       p
Earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share                                                                                                                                                         3.24         (10.66)
Amortisation of intangibles                                                                                                                                                                            6.80            6.95
Impairment of intangibles                                                                                                                                                                                   –            7.00
Unrealised (gains)/losses on forward currency contracts                                                                                                                              (0.16)           1.79
Prior year unrealised losses on forward currency contracts, now realised                                                                                                    (1.45)                –
Corporate advisory fees                                                                                                                                                                               0.45            0.87
Exceptional employment and staff related costs                                                                                                                                           0.89            0.69
F&C REIT variable minority interest SBP expense                                                                                                                                         0.75            0.29
Investment Trust VAT income                                                                                                                                                                       (0.37)                –
Exceptional client compensation expense                                                                                                                                                    0.37                 –
Exceptional property expense                                                                                                                                                                      0.37                 –
Put option claim expense                                                                                                                                                                             0.83                 –
F&C REIT put option fair value gain                                                                                                                                                             (1.14)                –
Gain on debt exchange                                                                                                                                                                               (6.00)                –
Loss on partial disposal of property business                                                                                                                                                     –            0.83
Underlying earnings per share                                                                                                                                                                 4.58            7.76
Foreign exchange losses/(gains) included within underlying earnings per share                                                                                            1.18           (0.18)
Underlying earnings per share excluding foreign exchange gains and losses                                                                                   5.76            7.58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2009                 2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (as restated†)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  p                       p
Diluted Earnings per Share*                                                                                                                                                                     3.19         (10.66)
† As restated for the amendment to IFRS 2: Share-based Payment as disclosed in note 1.
*  Where the Group has incurred a basic loss per Ordinary Share, no dilution arises despite the ‘dilutive potential weighted average number of Ordinary Shares’ being greater than the
‘weighted average number of Ordinary Shares used to determine the basic loss per share’. As a result, the reported basic and diluted loss per Ordinary Share are the same in 2008.
All amounts disclosed in the table above are stated net of any attributable tax, as presented in the Reconciliation of earnings/(loss) table below.
The following tables disclose the earnings and share capital data used in the basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per share calculations:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2009                                                        2008 (as restated†)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                     Gross                   Tax                   Net                Gross                    Tax                    Net
Reconciliation of earnings/(loss)                                                                                                                                      £m                    £m                    £m                    £m                    £m                    £m
Earnings/(loss) attributable to Ordinary equity holders of the parent for 
basic earnings/(loss) per share                                                                                     5.9            10.0            15.9           (69.0)           16.5           (52.5)
Amortisation of intangibles*                                                                                              46.4           (13.0)           33.4            47.9           (13.7)           34.2
Impairment of intangibles                                                                                                      –                 –                 –            48.3           (13.8)           34.5
Unrealised (gains)/losses on forward currency contracts                                                   (1.2)             0.4             (0.8)           12.3             (3.5)             8.8
Prior year unrealised losses on forward currency contracts, now realised                          (9.9)             2.8             (7.1)                –                 –                 –
Corporate advisory fees                                                                                                     2.6             (0.4)             2.2              4.4             (0.1)             4.3
Exceptional employment and staff related costs                                                                 6.1             (1.7)             4.4              4.8             (1.4)             3.4
F&C REIT variable minority interest SBP expense                                                               3.7                 –              3.7              1.4                 –              1.4
Investment Trust VAT income                                                                                            (2.5)             0.7             (1.8)                –                 –                 –
Exceptional client compensation expense                                                                          2.5             (0.7)             1.8                 –                 –                 –
Exceptional property expense                                                                                            2.5             (0.7)             1.8                 –                 –                 –
Put option claim expense                                                                                                   4.1                 –              4.1                 –                 –                 –
F&C REIT put option fair value gain                                                                                   (5.6)                –             (5.6)                –                 –                 –
Gain on debt exchange                                                                                                   (27.9)           (1.6)         (29.5)                –                 –                 –
Loss on partial disposal of property business                                                                        –                 –                 –              4.1                 –              4.1
Underlying earnings attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent             26.7             (4.2)           22.5            54.2           (16.0)           38.2
Foreign exchange losses/(gains) included within underlying earnings                                 8.1             (2.3)             5.8             (1.3)             0.4             (0.9)
Underlying earnings attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 
excluding foreign exchange gains and losses                                                           34.8             (6.5)           28.3            52.9           (15.6)           37.3
† As restated for the amendment to IFRS 2: Share-based Payment as disclosed in note 1.
* Excludes £2.4m (2008: £0.7m) of amortisation of intangibles (net of tax) which is attributable to minority interests.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
71 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 11.    Earnings per Share continued
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2009                              2008
Share capital                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     No.                                No.
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares (excluding own shares held by 
Employee Benefit Trusts) for basic earnings/(loss) per share                                                                                                   491,145,219        492,685,954
Weighted average dilutive potential Ordinary Shares exercisable:                                                                                                                               
The Long Term Remuneration Plan awards                                                                                                                                5,505,284            5,625,653
The Executive Director Remuneration Plan awards                                                                                                                    1,079,472               489,667
Purchased Equity Plan awards                                                                                                                                                   1,066,603            1,390,522
Discretionary awards                                                                                                                                                                       93,327            1,133,495
Share Save Scheme options                                                                                                                                                           36,311                   9,105
Dilutive potential weighted average number of Ordinary Shares                                                                                  498,926,216        501,334,396
Certain former employees are entitled to exercise their 1995 or 2002 Executive Share Options for a defined period after leaving the Company, in
accordance with scheme rules. Where the option prices are below the average share price for the year, these options have been treated as
dilutive.
The F&C REIT variable minority interest SBP , details of which are disclosed in note 28(c), gives the F&C REIT minority partners the opportunity to
increase their ownership of F&C REIT from 30% to 40% before 31 December 2014. This would potentially dilute the profits attributable to the
equity holders of the parent. The potential effect of the dilution on the profits for the year are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (as restated†)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            £m                       £m
Profits/(losses) attributable to equity holders of the parent                                                                                                                          15.9             (52.5)
Dilution of profits through increase in F&C REIT minority interest ownership                                                                                                 (0.8)              (0.3)
Profits/(losses) attributable to equity holders of the parent after dilution                                                                                         15.1             (52.8)
†
As restated for the amendment to IFRS 2: Share-based Payment as disclosed in note 1.
However, the principle of the incentive is that the incremental profits which would become attributable to minority interests as a result of achieving
the performance criteria are funded from the increased level of absolute profits generated by F&C REIT for the year in which vesting arises, rather
than diluting the current level of profits attributable to equity holders of the parent. There can be no guarantee that, subsequent to vesting, the
higher level of profits which met the vesting criteria would necessarily be sustainable.
In the period between the reporting date and the approval of the Consolidated Financial Statements, no share awards (2008: 417,586) vested
which were satisfied by the issue of Ordinary Share capital.
Potential future dilution
The Group operates several share-based payment schemes which could potentially dilute basic earnings per share in the future but which were
not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share as they were anti-dilutive for the years presented.
The share-based payment schemes with relevant performance criteria must meet such criteria for each scheme before the exercise of options is
possible. The only exception to this is for “good leavers”, where there is usually a period of time over which the employees can exercise their
options in accordance with the specific rules of each scheme regardless of whether the performance criteria have been met.
The remaining options granted under the 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme vested during 2006, as the performance criteria had been met. 
At 31 December 2009 the 532,122 (31 December 2008: 884,182) options outstanding, at exercise prices between 214.00p and 455.83p, are
now potentially dilutive, as settlement would be made by the issue of new shares.
The remaining options granted under the 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme vested during 2006, as the performance criteria had been met. 
At 31 December 2009 the 1,082,028 (31 December 2008: 1,082,028) options outstanding, at exercise prices between 139.00p and 240.83p, 
are now potentially dilutive, as settlement would be made by the issue of new shares.
Details of other awards exercisable at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 are disclosed in note 28, together with the total number of
awards outstanding for each scheme.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
72 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
12.    Dividends
(a)     Ordinary dividends
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            £m                       £m
Declared and paid during the year                                                                                                                                                               
Equity dividends on Ordinary Shares:                                                                                                                                                                
Final dividend for 2008: 4.0p (2007: 4.0p)                                                                                                                                       19.8              19.7
Interim dividend for 2009: 2.0p (2008: 2.0p)                                                                                                                                      9.7                9.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  29.5              29.6
               
Proposed for approval at the Annual General Meeting                                                                                                                              
Equity dividends on Ordinary Shares:                                                                                                                                                                
Final dividend for 2009: 4.0p (2008: 4.0p)                                                                                                                                       19.5              19.8
The entitlement of Employee Benefit Trusts to receive dividends (on some of their holdings of F&C shares) has been waived by the Trustees. This
has resulted in the following dividends being waived:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Shares                      £m  
2009 Dividends                                                                                                                                                                                               
2008 Final                                                                                                                                                                                1,461,036                0.1
2009 Interim                                                                                                                                                                           11,202,711                0.2
2008 Dividends                                                                                                                                                                                               
2007 Final                                                                                                                                                                                2,612,286                0.1
2008 Interim                                                                                                                                                                             2,522,040                0.1
(b)     Non-equity dividends on Cumulative Preference shares
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Note                     £m                       £m
Interest expense during the year                                                                                                                                            9                  –                0.1
13.    Property, plant and equipment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Office
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Leasehold        Computer   furniture and               Motor
                                                                                                                                                                                                improvements       equipment       equipment           vehicles                 Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                    £m                    £m                    £m                    £m
Cost:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
At 1 January 2008                                                                                                                              12.4            10.6              2.8              0.2            26.0
Fair value of additions arising on business combinations                                                                          –              0.1              0.1              0.4              0.6
Additions                                                                                                                                               0.1              0.8              0.1              0.2              1.2
Disposals                                                                                                                                             (0.1)            (0.8)            (0.5)            (0.1)            (1.5)
Foreign exchange gains                                                                                                                        0.6              0.1              0.1                 –              0.8
At 31 December 2008                                                                                                                         13.0            10.8              2.6              0.7            27.1
Additions                                                                                                                                               0.4              0.2              0.2              0.2              1.0
Disposals                                                                                                                                             (0.1)            (3.4)            (0.5)                –             (4.0)
Foreign exchange losses                                                                                                                      (0.1)                –                 –                 –             (0.1)
At 31 December 2009                                                                                                                      13.2              7.6              2.3              0.9            24.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Depreciation and impairment:                                                                                                                                                                                            
At 1 January 2008                                                                                                                                4.1              8.6              1.8              0.1            14.6
Depreciation charge for the year                                                                                                           1.3              1.3              0.3              0.1              3.0
Disposals                                                                                                                                             (0.1)            (0.8)            (0.4)            (0.1)            (1.4)
Foreign exchange losses                                                                                                                       0.2              0.1                 –                 –              0.3
At 31 December 2008                                                                                                                           5.5              9.2              1.7              0.1            16.5
Depreciation charge for the year                                                                                                           1.4              1.0              0.2              0.2              2.8
Disposals                                                                                                                                             (0.1)            (3.4)            (0.2)                –             (3.7)
At 31 December 2009                                                                                                                        6.8              6.8              1.7              0.3            15.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Net book values:                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
At 31 December 2007                                                                                                                           8.3              2.0              1.0              0.1            11.4
At 31 December 2008                                                                                                                           7.5              1.6              0.9              0.6            10.6
At 31 December 2009                                                                                                                        6.4              0.8              0.6              0.6              8.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Cumulative impairment losses:                                                                                                                                                                                          
At 31 December 2008                                                                                                                           2.0                 –                 –                 –              2.0
At 31 December 2009                                                                                                                        2.0                 –                 –                 –              2.0
There are no restrictions on the Group’s title to the above assets and none are pledged as security for liabilities, other than the security over
FCAM’s holding in F&C REIT which effectively yields beneficial entitlement to some of the Group’s property, plant and equipment. Details of this
security are given in note 24.
The cost of fully depreciated property, plant and equipment which is still in use at 31 December 2009 is £7.4m (31 December 2008: £10.9m).
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
73 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 14.    Goodwill and other intangible assets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Management  Software and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Goodwill         contracts           licences                 Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            £m                    £m                    £m                    £m
Cost:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
At 1 January 2008                                                                                                                                                569.9          585.1              4.9       1,159.9
Fair value of additions arising on business combinations                                                                                             –            71.3                 –            71.3
Additions                                                                                                                                                                56.0                 –              1.1            57.1
Disposals                                                                                                                                                              (30.8)                –             (0.1)          (30.9)
Foreign exchange gains                                                                                                                                               –            39.1                 –            39.1
At 31 December 2008                                                                                                                                          595.1          695.5              5.9       1,296.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Additions                                                                                                                                                                     –                 –              0.1              0.1
Disposals                                                                                                                                                                    –                 –             (1.2)            (1.2)
Foreign exchange losses                                                                                                                                             –           (10.4)            (0.1)          (10.5)
At 31 December 2009                                                                                                                                        595.1          685.1              4.7       1,284.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Amortisation and impairment:                                                                                                                                                                                           
At 1 January 2008                                                                                                                                                       –          331.4              3.8          335.2
Amortisation charge for the year                                                                                                                                  –            48.9              1.0            49.9
Disposals                                                                                                                                                                    –                 –             (0.1)            (0.1)
Impairment losses                                                                                                                                                       –            48.3                 –            48.3
At 31 December 2008                                                                                                                                                 –          428.6              4.7          433.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Amortisation charge for the year                                                                                                                                  –            49.8              0.7            50.5
Disposals                                                                                                                                                                    –                 –             (1.2)            (1.2)
Foreign exchange gains                                                                                                                                               –                 –             (0.1)            (0.1)
At 31 December 2009                                                                                                                                               –          478.4              4.1          482.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Net book values:                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
At 31 December 2007                                                                                                                                          569.9          253.7              1.1          824.7
At 31 December 2008                                                                                                                                          595.1          266.9              1.2          863.2
At 31 December 2009                                                                                                                                        595.1          206.7              0.6          802.4
Goodwill
Goodwill arose on various business combinations, and prior to September 2008, related to the business as a whole following the fundamental
integration, rationalisation and re-organisation which took place after each acquisition. Following the acquisition of the REIT Group in September
2008, the business was re-organised into two distinct operating segments: Investment Management (IM) and Property Asset Management (PAM).
These are separate business operations and are regarded as reportable segments under IFRS 8: Operating Segments. These operating segments
represent the cash generating units (CGUs) and the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored by the Board and tested for impairment.
The goodwill existing prior to the REIT acquisition was split between these two operating segments on the basis of the values in use of the
respective business operations and resulted in £102.7m being allocated to PAM, leaving £467.2m attributable to IM. 
The additional goodwill arising in 2008 relates to the acquisition of the REIT Group, while the goodwill disposed of relates to the 30 per cent.
transfer of F&C’s existing property business to the former owners of REIT; both amounts relate to the transactions arising on creation of the PAM
operating segment. Details of the acquisition and disposal are given in note 16.
At the end of 2008 and 2009, of the total goodwill of £595.1m, £127.9m relates to PAM, and £467.2m relates to IM, there having been no
movement in goodwill in either segment during 2009.
Goodwill is not amortised but requires to be tested for impairment annually or when indicators of potential impairment are identified. The carrying
value of goodwill attributable to each operating segment has been tested for impairment at the reporting date, as described below. Accumulated
goodwill impairment losses at 31 December 2009 were £nil for both operating segments (31 December 2008: £nil).
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
74 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
14.    Goodwill and other intangible assets continued
Management contracts
Management contracts predominantly relate to contracts arising from business acquisitions. The addition during 2008 of £71.3m is the value
attributed to the management contracts acquired through the REIT business combination.
Management contracts are amortised over their expected useful lives and are tested for impairment only when indicators of potential impairment
are identified. No such indicators have been identified since the last impairment review undertaken as at 31 December 2008 and therefore no
impairment review of management contracts has been undertaken this year. The management contract impairment losses recognised in prior
years relate entirely to the IM operating segment; the accumulated impairment losses at 31 December 2009 were £218.3m, (31 December 2008:
£218.3m). Details of impairment recognised in 2008 are disclosed below.
The foreign exchange losses in the year arise from the relative weakening of the Euro over the course of 2009, reducing the value of contracts
denominated in that currency (primarily F&C insurance contracts), in Sterling terms.
The categories of management contracts, their carrying amounts at the year-end, remaining amortisation periods and estimated useful lives are as
follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                31 December 2009                                            31 December 2008
                                                                                                                                                                                         Net       Remaining                                             Net         Remaining
                                                                                                                                                                                      book   amortisation        Estimated                 book      amortisation          Estimated
                                                                                                                                                                                    values              period        useful life               values               period           useful life
                                                                                                                                                                                         £m               (years)              (years)                   £m                (years)              (years)
RSAI insurance contracts                                                                                                   1.7                 2               10              2.4                 3               10
RSAI retail contracts/F&C OEICs                                                                                      13.5           2 – 5               10            17.9           3 – 6               10
F&C insurance contracts                                                                                                  76.2                 5               10          100.2                 6               10
F&C institutional contracts (fixed term / non-fixed term)                                                    17.7           5 / 1         10 / 4            29.4           6 / 2         10 / 4
F&C investment trust contracts                                                                                        14.0            6
1
/2              10            16.1            71/2              10
F&C advisory and sub-advisory contracts                                                                        25.0                 5               10            32.0                 6               10
Private equity fund of funds                                                                                                0.9               15               20              1.0               16               20
REIT property contracts                                                                                                   57.7                 6                 7            67.9                 7                 7
                                                                                                                                      206.7                                                266.9                                      
         
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets
Goodwill
The recoverable amount of the CGUs has been determined on their value in use (including terminal value) at each respective testing date for 2008
and 2009. The value in use is calculated by discounting the cash flow projections based on the latest annual financial budget approved by the
Board, and management’s forecasts. A long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows because of the long-term nature of the
Group’s business making up the CGUs and the Board’s current view that there is no reason to believe that they will not continue in operation in
perpetuity.
The key assumptions adopted in these calculations for each business segment are as follows:
                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                        31 December 2009                                                                                              31 December 2008
                                                                                                              IM                 PAM                                                                       IM                                                                     PAM                         
                                                                                                                                                                                     Year 1               Year 2             Year 3+               Year 1               Year 2             Year 3+
Discount rate                                                    10.25%      10.25%                         10.15%      10.15%      10.15%      10.15%      10.15%      10.15%
Market growth rate*                                            5.35%        4.15%                           0.00%        6.00%        5.55%        (4.15%)        0.00%        4.15%
Inflation rate**                                                      4.25%        4.25%                                    *        3.75%        3.75%                 *        3.75%        3.75%
*   In 2008, separate market growth rates were assumed over the first three years of the projections due to the market conditions and the outlook at that time, and the assumptions
adopted for the 2009 budget. In 2009, the valuation models have reverted to applying constant long-term growth rates across years.
** The costs included in year 1 of the projections reflect those included in the Board approved budget for the respective year.
The discount rate is based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital to estimate a market relevant rate, calculated as at the year-end, and
takes into account the relative risks associated with the Group’s various revenue streams included in operating segments. The discount rate
disclosed above is the post-tax rate which has been applied in the projections; the pre-tax discount rate is 11.40% (2008: 10.93%). All discount
rates shown subsequently within this note are stated after tax.
Revenues are based on the Board-approved budget for each operating segment, and management’s forecasts for the subsequent four years.
Thereafter, revenues have been grown in line with the Group’s long-term view of market growth, consistent with that experienced historically, in the
long-term, across the markets in which assets are invested. The different rates reflect the composite mix of assets held in each operating segment
for each period. Net new business revenues are included at the levels assumed in the 2010 budget and management’s forecasts up to 2014 with
no further net new business included thereafter. Additional costs associated with the increased revenues have been included in the projections,
primarily to reflect variable remuneration costs. Revenues earned from significant contracts with a fixed term are assumed to terminate at the end
of the fixed term, with operating costs falling by an amount which assumes associated profit margins of 70%.
Projected operating costs for the first year are driven by the budgeted profit margins for each operating segment for 2010. Thereafter, both
existing budgeted costs and, as noted above, further costs added associated with net new business revenue forecasts have been grown at
inflation rates to accord with anticipated future salary and other cost increases. 
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
75 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 14.    Goodwill and other intangible assets continued
Goodwill continued
Values in use are compared to the carrying values of goodwill, attributable management contracts and other intangible assets (net of associated
deferred tax provisions), and property, plant and equipment in order to ascertain whether any impairment exists. 
As this annual impairment review of goodwill determined surpluses in both segments, no impairment has been recognised in the year in respect of
goodwill (31 December 2008: £nil).
The key assumptions to which the calculated values in use are most sensitive are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     31 December 2009                                    31 December 2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IM                          PAM                              IM                          PAM
Discount rate                                                                                                                                 10.25%            10.25%             10.15%             10.15%
Long-term market growth rate                                                                                                         5.35%              4.15%               5.55%               4.15%
Inflation rate                                                                                                                                     4.25%              4.25%               3.75%               3.75%
The above assumptions, together with the inclusion of forecast net new business revenues and associated costs in the 2009 cash flow
projections, result in the following surpluses of goodwill:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     31 December 2009                                    31 December 2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IM                         PAM                              IM                          PAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                            £m                             £m                             £m
Excess of recoverable amount over carrying value                                                                   615.1                  74.6                  74.4                  55.0
In order to assess the sensitivity of the key assumptions on the carrying values of goodwill, an analysis was conducted to ascertain the change
that would be required to derive values in use which approximated to the carrying values of goodwill, and beyond which impairment would arise.
The absolute levels, on a standalone basis, of the key assumptions which most closely resulted in a match in the values in use to the carrying
values of goodwill were as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     31 December 2009                                    31 December 2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IM                          PAM                              IM                          PAM
Discount rate                                                                                                                                 17.00%            13.35%             11.00%             12.40%
Long-term market growth rate                                                                                                         2.55%              1.28%               5.15%               1.65%
Inflation rate                                                                                                                                     7.65%              9.20%               4.25%               7.20%
Per cent achievement of new business targets                                                                              <0.00%            41.85%                       –                       –
Intangible assets with finite lives
During 2008, the significant fall in equity markets and consequent reduction in management fee revenues arising from management contracts was
considered to be an indicator of potential impairment of certain management contract intangible assets. Previously, indicators of impairment had
only arisen where fund outflows were significantly greater than the levels which had been forecast when the assets were recognised or when
subsequent impairment reviews were performed. No indicators of potential impairment of management contracts have been identified since the
2008 review, and therefore no impairment reviews of management contracts have been undertaken for 2009. The information which follows in the
remainder of this note is the disclosure in respect of the comparative period.
In accordance with IAS 36: Impairment of Assets, a full impairment review of assets where impairment indicators were identified was undertaken
as at 31 December 2008. The review resulted in impairment losses being recognised in respect of the assets below, across reportable operating
segments as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2009                                                                  2008
                                                                                                                                                                                          IM                 PAM                 Total                     IM                  PAM                  Total
                                                                                                                                                                                         £m                    £m                    £m                    £m                    £m                    £m
RSAI retail contracts/F&C OEICs                                                                                           –                 –                 –            11.3                 –            11.3
F&C institutional contracts                                                                                                     –                 –                 –            10.5                 –            10.5
F&C investment trust contracts                                                                                             –                 –                 –              7.9                 –              7.9
F&C advisory and sub-advisory contracts                                                                             –                 –                 –            18.6                 –            18.6
Total impairment recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement                         –                 –                 –            48.3                 –            48.3
The recoverable amounts of the assets were determined based on value in use calculations using cash flow projections, for each contract
category, based on the latest annual financial budget approved by the Board. 
The key assumptions adopted in the 2008 calculations were as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Discount rate                              Market growth rates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Year 1               Year 2             Year 3+
RSAI retail contracts/F&C OEICs                                                                                                                       10.65%        0.00%        7.50%        6.35%
F&C institutional contracts – fixed term                                                                                                               9.65%        0.00%        5.90%        5.60%
F&C institutional contracts – non-fixed term                                                                                                      10.65%        0.00%        5.90%        5.60%
F&C investment trust contracts                                                                                                                         10.65%        0.00%        8.95%        6.85%
F&C advisory and sub-advisory contracts                                                                                                         10.65%        0.00%        6.35%        5.80%
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
76 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
14.    Goodwill and other intangible assets continued
Intangible assets with finite lives continued
The discount rates reflect the varying risks and uncertainties inherent in the revenues from the underlying assets, using the Group’s weighted
average cost of capital of 10.15%, calculated as at 31 December 2008, as a benchmark. 
Consistent with the Board-approved budget for 2009, revenues for the first year of the projections assumed no market growth. In year two,
revenues were grown at market rates estimated to be experienced in 2010 when the Board anticipated capital markets would begin to recover;
these estimates were based on a combination of in-house and analysts’ views in light of the prevailing market conditions at the time. Beyond that,
revenues were grown in line with the Group’s long-term view of market growth, consistent with that experienced historically, in the long-term,
across the markets in which assets are invested. The different rates across the contract types reflect the composite mix of asset classes held in
each category; the actual growth rates applied to each asset class were identical to those used in the 2008 goodwill impairment reviews. The
projections were derived using the estimated average lives of the underlying contracts and assumed a constant loss of revenues over the
projection periods, except in the case of fixed term contracts.
Projected operating costs were driven by the reportable operating segment projected operating profit margins, as determined for the purposes of
the 2008 goodwill impairment review, including the cost inflation assumptions inherent therein, noted above.
Impairment was determined by comparing the results of the value in use calculations to the carrying values (cost less aggregate amortisation and
prior years’ impairment) of the assets at 31 December 2008, with the deficits arising constituting impairment to be recognised for the year. 
15.    Financial investments
The following assets are designated as available for sale:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
Unquoted investments                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     £m                       £m
At 1 January                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.1                3.8
Fair value gains transferred to the Income Statement                                                                                                                                       –               (1.1)
Fair value movement in the year                                                                                                                                                                   0.2               (0.5)
Impairment expense                                                                                                                                                                                    (0.1)              (0.1)
At 31 December                                                                                                                                                                                         2.2                2.1
Unquoted investments include the Group’s direct investment, co-investments and carried interest entitlement in private equity limited partnerships.
The fair value of the unquoted investments has been estimated using International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
The Directors believe that the estimated fair values resulting from the valuation technique applied to unquoted shares which are recorded in the
Statement of Financial Position, and the related realised fair value gains recorded in the Income Statement, are reasonable and the most
appropriate at the reporting date.
The investments have no fixed maturity date or coupon rate.
Included within the unquoted financial investments at 31 December 2009 are £0.1m (31 December 2008: £0.2m) of equity instruments measured
at the price of recent investments. The fair value of these investments cannot be measured reliably as the Group does not have access to the
underlying information to produce fair value valuations for these investments. These investments consist of loans and carried interest in private
equity limited partnerships. These investments are managed by external fund managers and the Group obtains income when the investments are
realised. The Group intends to hold these investments until all the private equity investments are realised. In 2009, the Group received distributions
totalling £nil (2008: £0.9m) which comprised £nil (2008: £0.9m) of investment income and £nil (2008: £nil) return of capital in respect of the
investments held at cost.
16.    Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries
(a)     2008 – Acquisition of REIT Property Asset Management Group
F&C Asset Management plc (“FCAM”) acquired and gained control of the REIT Property Asset Management Group (“REIT Group”) on 3
September 2008. As part of this transaction, FCAM relinquished 30% of its beneficial entitlement in F&C Property Asset Management plc (“F&C
PAM”) by transferring its interest into the newly created F&C REIT Asset Management LLP (“F&C REIT”) Group property business, which is 30%
minority owned. 
F&C REIT ownership interests are initially split as follows 70% of “A” and “B” partnership units are held by FCAM, 30% of “A” units by Kendray
Properties Limited, 22.5% of “B” units are held by Leo Noé and 7.5% of “B” units are held by Ivor Smith (the latter three being collectively known
as the “REIT Parties”). “A” units entitle the holder to profits earned by the overseas sub-group within F&C REIT while “B” units entitle the holder to
profits earned by the other entities within this Group. For each financial year ending on or before 31 December 2014 in which the Earnings Before
Interest Taxation Depreciation and Amortisation (“EBITDA”) of F&C REIT is £45 million or more, FCAM will transfer 3.33% of the total of “A” and
“B” units in F&C REIT to the REIT Parties, subject to a maximum aggregate transfer of 10%. 
The F&C REIT members generally share in the capital, profits and losses of F&C REIT Group in proportion to their respective ownership interests in
F&C REIT. However, where certain EBITDA targets are met in any financial year ending on or before 31 December 2013, the REIT Parties may be
entitled to receive an uplift in their profit allocation for that year, subject to having a maximum profit allocation of 45% in any financial year. 
F&C REIT is governed by the F&C REIT Board, comprising Leo Noé, Ivor Smith, Nick Criticos, Alain Grisay and David Logan. 
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
77 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 16.    Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries continued
(a)     2008 – Acquisition of REIT Property Asset Management Group continued
FCAM acquired 70% ownership of F&C REIT Asset Management LLP , which in turn owned, directly or indirectly, 100% of the following entities at
the date of acquisition:
F&C REIT Asset Management S.à.r.l.                   
Adebai Limited                      
F&C REIT Asset Management Sweden AB                          
F&C REIT Asset Worldwide Limited                     
F&C REIT Asset Management GmbH & Co KG                   
F&C REIT Property Management India Pvt Limited                             
REIT Asset Management Limited                         
REIT (Corporate Services) Limited                        
REIT (Corporate Directors) Limited                       
REIT Corporate Finance Limited                          
RCF Directors Limited                          
Tier Services Limited                            
70% of the REIT Group was acquired from the REIT Parties for an initial consideration of £25.0m in cash, the issue of a £35.0m Floating Rate
Secured Loan Note and the transfer of F&C PAM. While FCAM transferred F&C PAM, a subsidiary undertaking, to F&C REIT, it retains a 70%
beneficial holding in F&C PAM via its 70% holding in F&C REIT.
The total consideration paid by the Group for its 70% holding in F&C REIT was as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         £m
Initial consideration – cash                                                                                                                                                                                               25.0
Initial consideration – loan notes                                                                                                                                                                                      35.0
Fair value of consideration in respect of relinquishment of 30% of F&C PAM                                                                                                                    28.2
Fair value of consideration paid for 70% of the REIT Group                                                                                                                                    88.2
Estimated expenses of acquisition (of which £0.2m was accrued at 31 December 2008)                                                                                                  4.4
Total consideration                                                                                                                                                                                                       92.6
The provisional fair values of assets and liabilities acquired as at 31 December 2008 were as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Provisional fair
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          value to the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Group at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     acquisition, as
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Book                  Acquired                 Fair value      at 31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                               value               intangibles            adjustments                         2008  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                            £m                            £m                            £m
Non-current assets:                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Property, plant and equipment                                                                                                              0.6                       –                       –                    0.6
Intangible assets – management contracts                                                                                         34.0                  71.3                 (34.0)                 71.3
Current assets:                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Trade and other receivables                                                                                                                  0.9                       –                    0.2                    1.1
Cash and short-term deposits                                                                                                               0.2                       –                       –                    0.2
Non-current liabilities:                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Deferred tax                                                                                                                                             –                 (20.0)                      –                 (20.0)
Current liabilities:                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Trade and other payables                                                                                                                     (0.9)                      –                       –                   (0.9)
Current tax payable                                                                                                                              (0.1)                      –                       –                   (0.1)
Estimated net assets acquired                                                                                                       34.7                  51.3                 (33.8)                 52.2
Less: Minority interests’ share of net assets                                                                                                                                                                    (15.6)
Goodwill                                                                                                                                                                                                                          56.0
Total consideration                                                                                                                                                                                                       92.6
As part of the transaction, the fair value of the combined business was agreed as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         £m
Fair value of F&C PAM                                                                                                                                                                                                     94.1
Fair value of REIT Group                                                                                                                                                                                                126.0
Total value of combined business                                                                                                                                                                            220.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         £m
F&C’s 70% share of the combined business                                                                                                                                                           154.1
The REIT Parties have the right to require F&C to acquire all or part of their membership interests in F&C REIT at a valuation determined by an
independent valuer, subject to an overall cap on F&C’s liability of £100.0 million. Leo Noé’s option is exercisable after the seventh anniversary of
Completion and Ivor Smith’s option is exercisable after the third anniversary of Completion. While Kendray Properties Limited does not have any
direct right to require F&C to acquire its holding in F&C REIT, under the terms of the Partnership Agreement Kendray cannot hold a greater interest
in F&C REIT than the aggregate of Leo Noé’s and Ivor Smith’s interests (or the holder of their beneficial interests) and is therefore effectively
required to transfer an element of its holding such that this requirement is achieved. The consideration for such a transfer would be fair value.
Hence, in determining the gross liability of the option, Kendray Properties Limited’s entire holding in F&C REIT has been included. The option
liabilities are given in note 30.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
78 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
16.    Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries continued
(a)     2008 – Acquisition of REIT Property Asset Management Group continued
On Completion, this option was recognised as a liability of £66.0m, being the fair value of 30% of F&C REIT at the time, with the initial charge
being taken to equity.
The following adjustments were made to the book values of the assets and liabilities acquired:
•       An adjustment of £0.2m was made in respect of an estimation of the additional cash which the minority partners will require to inject into the
business in accordance with the transaction agreements.
•       The amount of £34.0m was excluded from the fair value of intangible assets acquired and replaced by the recognition of £71.3m for REIT
management contracts, being their fair value at acquisition. Further details of intangible assets are given in note 14.
The value of goodwill arising on acquisition took account of the value of the property asset management team acquired and the value of future
new business flows.
The fair values of the net assets acquired were provisional until the REIT Completion Accounts review process was finalised in 2009. The
adjustments noted above reflected the Directors’ best estimates of the necessary fair value adjustments to the net assets of the acquired entities.
No provisions for re-organisation or restructuring costs were included in the liabilities of the acquired entities. The profit before tax attributable to
the acquired element of the F&C REIT Group for the period between the date of acquisition and 31 December 2008 was £3.2m.
As a result of the acquired entities not being operated as a Group prior to acquisition and the associated restructuring which was performed
before the acquisition by F&C, it is not possible to determine what the Group results and cashflows would have been had the acquisition been
completed on 1 January 2008. 
(b)     2009 – Acquisition of REIT Property Asset Management Group
Note 16 (a) provides the disclosure given in the 2008 financial statements in respect of the acquisition of REIT, including the provisional fair values
of the net assets acquired. This note provides further analysis of the adjustments made during 2009 to determine the final fair values of the net
assets acquired.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Provisional fair                                           Final fair value
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           value to the Group                          2009        to the Group at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         at acquisition, as at                 Fair value    acquisition, as at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          31 December 2008            adjustments  31 December 2009
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     £m                            £m                            £m
Non-current assets:                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Property, plant and equipment                                                                                                                                        0.6                       –                    0.6
Intangible assets – management contracts                                                                                                                   71.3                       –                  71.3
Current assets:                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Trade and other receivables                                                                                                                                            1.1                    0.2                    1.3
Cash and short-term deposits                                                                                                                                        0.2                       –                    0.2
Non-current liabilities:                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Deferred tax                                                                                                                                                                 (20.0)                      –                 (20.0)
Current liabilities:                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Trade and other payables                                                                                                                                              (0.9)                  (0.2)                  (1.1)
Current tax payable                                                                                                                                                       (0.1)                      –                   (0.1)
Net assets acquired                                                                                                                                                  52.2                       –                  52.2
Less: Minority interests’ share of net assets                                                                                                                 (15.6)                      –                 (15.6)
Goodwill                                                                                                                                                                       56.0                       –                  56.0
Total consideration                                                                                                                                                    92.6                       –                  92.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     £m                            £m                            £m
Discharged by:                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Initial consideration – cash                                                                                                                                            25.0                       –                  25.0
Initial consideration – loan notes                                                                                                                                   35.0                       –                  35.0
Fair value of consideration in respect of relinquishment of 30% of F&C PAM                                                                 28.2                       –                  28.2
Fair value of consideration paid for 70% of the REIT Group                                                                                 88.2                       –                  88.2
Expenses of acquisition (of which £0.1m is accrued at 31 December 2009; 31 December 2008: £0.2m)                       4.4                       –                    4.4
                                                                                                                                                                                    92.6                       –                  92.6
The additional 2009 fair value adjustments are explained below:
•       Trade and other payables have been increased to reflect additional obligations of the acquired entities which existed at 3 September 2008,
but which were not reflected in the Completion Accounts.
•       There have been some reallocations between trade and other receivables and trade and other payables to reflect classification changes and
offsetting of similar items.
•       An adjustment of £0.5m, to a total of £0.7m, has been made in respect of the additional cash which the minority partners are required to
inject into the business in accordance with the “net assets adjustments mechanism” transaction agreements. This mechanism was set to
ensure the net assets contribution of each party was in equal proportions to their holding in F&C REIT. Therefore, the final fair value of assets
acquired on acquisition (£52.2m) remained unchanged from the initial amount recognised in the 2008 Financial Statements.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
79 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 16.    Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries continued
(c)     Loss on partial disposal of property business
As noted above, on 3 September 2008 the Group effectively disposed of 30% of its property business via the relinquishment of its ownership of
F&C PAM. The loss on disposal is quantified below:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         £m
Fair value of deemed consideration on disposal of 30% of F&C PAM                                                                                                                               28.2
Less: Share of net assets attributable to 30% of F&C PAM, being transferred to minority interests                                                                                    (1.5)
Less: Goodwill attributable to share of business transferred                                                                                                                                            (30.8)
Loss on disposal                                                                                                                                                                                                            (4.1)
(d)     Acquisition of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited
Following the review of the Completion Accounts and subsequent fair value adjustments to the purchase consideration for the acquisition of F&C
Group (Holdings) Limited on 11 October 2004, there is an estimated further consideration of £0.7m payable to Eureko B.V. at 31 December 2009
(31 December 2008: £2.9m).
17.    Deferred acquisition costs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
At 1 January                                                                                                                                                                                               11.1              11.9
Costs deferred in the year                                                                                                                                                                            1.2                3.1
Amortisation in the year                                                                                                                                                                               (3.3)              (3.9)
At 31 December                                                                                                                                                                                         9.0              11.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Split as follows:                                                                                                                                                                                              
Non-current assets                                                                                                                                                                                       6.4                7.8
Current assets                                                                                                                                                                                              2.6                3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9.0              11.1
Deferred acquisition costs represent the commission paid to gain new asset inflows into OEICs. These costs are amortised over the expected
terms of the contracts, in line with the initial fees received from investors, as disclosed in note 29.
18.    Deferred tax assets and liabilities
(a)     Recognised deferred assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
                                                                                                                                                                                            December 2009                                                       December 2008
                                                                                                                                                                           Assets          Liabilities                     Net                Assets             Liabilities                     Net
                                                                                                                                                                                 £m                     £m                     £m                      £m                      £m                      £m
Employee benefits*                                                                                                    15.3                  –             15.3               9.0                  –               9.0
Share-based payments                                                                                             12.4                  –             12.4               9.7                  –               9.7
Unused tax losses                                                                                                       0.6                  –               0.6                  –                  –                  –
Property, plant and equipment                                                                                     2.6                  –               2.6               2.5                  –               2.5
Receivables, payables & provisions                                                                             3.4                  –               3.4               5.3                  –               5.3
Intangible assets – management contracts                                                                     –            (57.7)           (57.7)                 –            (74.5)           (74.5)
Unrealised fair value gains on available for sale assets                                                    –              (0.6)             (0.6)                 –              (0.6)             (0.6)
Unremitted overseas earnings                                                                                         –                  –                  –                  –              (1.9)             (1.9)
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities)                                                                       34.3            (58.3)           (24.0)            26.5            (77.0)           (50.5)
*Includes £12.9m (31 December 2008: £5.9m) relating to deferred tax on defined benefit pension deficit.
The Directors believe, based on Board approved budgets and forecasts, that it is appropriate to recognise deferred tax assets at the reporting
date because it is considered probable that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
80 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
18.    Deferrred tax assets and liabilities continued
(b)     Movement in temporary differences during the year
                                                                                                                                                                     1 January      Recognised      Recognised      Revaluation           Acquired    31 December
                                                                                                                                                                              2009          in income            in equity               in year               in year                   2009
                                                                                                                                                                                 £m                     £m                     £m                     £m                     £m                     £m
Employee benefits                                                                                                       9.0              (1.2)              7.6              (0.1)                 –             15.3
Share-based payments                                                                                               9.7               2.7                  –                  –                  –             12.4
Unused tax losses                                                                                                          –               0.6                  –                  –                  –               0.6
Property, plant and equipment                                                                                     2.5               0.1                  –                  –                  –               2.6
Receivables, payables & provisions                                                                             5.3              (1.9)                 –                  –                  –               3.4
Intangible assets – management contracts                                                               (74.5)            14.0                  –               2.8                  –            (57.7)
Unrealised fair value gains on available for sale assets                                                (0.6)                 –                  –                  –                  –              (0.6)
Unremitted overseas earnings                                                                                    (1.9)              1.5                  –               0.4                  –                  –
                                                                                                                                 (50.5)            15.8               7.6               3.1                  –            (24.0)
                                                                                                                                                                       1 January        Recognised        Recognised         Revaluation             Acquired      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                              2008            in income              in equity                 in year                 in year                   2008
                                                                                                                                                                                 £m                      £m                      £m                      £m                      £m                      £m
Employee benefits                                                                                                     10.8              (1.3)             (0.8)              0.3                  –               9.0
Share-based payments                                                                                             10.6              (0.9)                 –                  –                  –               9.7
Unused tax losses                                                                                                       1.8              (1.8)                 –                  –                  –                  –
Property, plant and equipment                                                                                     3.7              (1.2)                 –                  –                  –               2.5
Receivables, payables & provisions                                                                             2.1               3.2                  –                  –                  –               5.3
Intangible assets – management contracts                                                               (71.0)            27.6                  –            (11.1)           (20.0)           (74.5)
Unrealised fair value gains on available for sale assets                                                (0.9)             (0.1)              0.4                  –                  –              (0.6)
Unremitted overseas earnings                                                                                     (1.5)              0.1                  –              (0.5)                 –              (1.9)
                                                                                                                                 (44.4)            25.6              (0.4)           (11.3)           (20.0)           (50.5)
(c)     Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
The Group has unrecognised tax losses which arose in the UK of £0.2m (31 December 2008: £0.2m) that are available indefinitely for offset
against future taxable profits of the companies in which the losses arose. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses
as they cannot be used to offset taxable profits elsewhere in the Group, and they have arisen in companies that have not reported taxable profits
for some time.
19.    Financial instruments
(a)     Analysis of assets and liabilities at the reporting date
Financial investments held in relation to the activities of the Group’s insurance subsidiary have been classified as fair value through profit or loss
within current assets.
Stocks of units and shares are held in relation to fund management activities and are classified as held for trading within current assets.
Financial investments included within non-current assets are classified as available for sale and are carried at fair value (or amortised cost if fair
value cannot be measured reliably). Other loans and receivables included within non-current assets are carried at amortised cost.
(i)      Designated as fair value through profit or loss
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Notes                     £m                       £m
Financial investments in respect of unit-linked contracts                                                                                                            (1)           624.9            709.8
Other financial investments                                                                                                                                                        (2)             10.0                8.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                634.9            718.0
(1)     Financial investments in respect of unit-linked contracts:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Equity securities:                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Listed                                                                                                                                                                                                       431.0            493.1
OEICs and unit trusts                                                                                                                                                                                 12.6              14.2
Total equity securities                                                                                                                                                                           443.6            507.3
Debt and fixed income securities:                                                                                                                                                                                     
Government bonds                                                                                                                                                                                    65.8              86.6
Other listed fixed interest securities                                                                                                                                                             82.2              84.2
Index-linked gilts                                                                                                                                                                                         24.1              22.6
Participation in pooled investments                                                                                                                                                               9.2                9.1
Total debt and fixed income securities                                                                                                                                               181.3            202.5
Total unit-linked financial investments designated as fair value through profit or loss                                                                 624.9            709.8
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
81 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 19.    Financial instruments continued
Financial instruments relating to unit-linked contracts
The Group’s insurance subsidiary, F&C Managed Pension Funds Limited, provides unit-linked pension wrappers. From F&C’s perspective, the
risks and rewards of managing these assets are the same as other assets under management, as the financial risks and rewards attributable to
the assets invested fall to be borne by, or to the benefit of, the Group’s clients. Hence, while a number of significant financial instruments are
recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in respect of this subsidiary, the key risk to the Group is the impact on the level of
management fees which are earned from this entity and which are directly affected by the underlying value of policyholder assets. While F&C
Managed Pension Funds Limited has some insurance risks, these risks are fully reinsured, thereby negating any net insurance risk to the Group’s
equity holders.
The amounts included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in respect of assets and liabilities held within unit-linked funds are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Fair value through profit or loss:                                                                                                                                                                   
Financial investments designated as fair value through profit or loss                                                                                                         624.9            709.8
Loans and receivables:                                                                                                                                                                                  
Deferred acquisition costs                                                                                                                                                                            0.1                0.2
Trade and other receivables                                                                                                                                                                          0.3                0.7
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                                                                         24.6              43.6
Trade and other payables                                                                                                                                                                                –               (1.2)
Total unit-linked assets less liabilities                                                                                                                                                 649.9            753.1
The above does not include £3.1m of non-linked policyholders’ cash (31 December 2008: £3.1m).
These unit-linked assets are matched by the associated investment contract liabilities disclosed in note 31.
(2)     Other financial investments:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Note                     £m                       £m
NIC hedge                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.1                3.2
Corporate bonds                                                                                                                                                                                          0.3                0.7
Purchased Equity Plan                                                                                                                                                       28(d)(ii)               4.7                2.6
Bonuses – investments                                                                                                                                                                                1.9                1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10.0                8.2
The ‘NIC hedge’ represents an investment in equities and other assets made via an Employee Benefit Trust for the purpose of funding future
national insurance contributions (“NIC”) payments on the Deferred Investment Plan and Deferred Investment Option Plan. The provision for the
NIC liability is separately recognised.
‘Corporate bonds’ represents investments in corporate bonds held by F&C Managed Pension Funds Limited.
The ‘Purchased Equity Plan’ represents investments held by an Employee Benefit Trust in F&C funds for the purpose of future settlement of
Purchased Equity Plan awards. A corresponding liability is recognised over the vesting period; details are given in note 28(d)(ii).
‘Bonuses – investments’ represents an investment in managed funds in respect of the future settlement of bonuses. The liability for these bonuses
is separately recognised.
The corporate bonds have the following maturity dates:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
Maturity date                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 £m                       £m
2014                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.3                0.3
2037                                                                                                                                                                                                                –                0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.3                0.7
(ii)     Designated as held for trading
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Stock of units and shares                                                                                                                                                                             0.3                0.3
The Group holds a stock of units and shares in respect of its OEIC and unit trust business. This stock of units and shares is commonly referred to
as the ‘Manager’s Box’. The Group’s stock of units and shares is valued using quoted market values. The Group is therefore exposed to market
value movements in the value of these assets.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
82 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
19     Financial instruments continued
(iii)    Designated as loans and receivables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                                                                  213.9            269.8
Trade and other receivables:                                                                                                                                                                         
Trade debtors                                                                                                                                                                                        14.9                9.5
Accrued income                                                                                                                                                                                    41.3              35.0
Other debtors                                                                                                                                                                                        30.3              28.3
Amounts owed by Eureko Group                                                                                                                                                             1.4                4.8
Amounts owed by Friends Provident Group                                                                                                                                                –                0.4
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities                                                                                                                                   0.1                0.3
Current tax receivable                                                                                                                                                                               5.8                   –
                                                                                                                                                                                                                307.7            348.1
(b)     Fair values
(i)      Fair value hierarchy
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by category of valuation technique:
Level 1: Quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
As at 31 December 2009, the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value:
Assets measured at fair value
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Level 1               Level 2               Level 3                   2009
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     £m                     £m                     £m                     £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:                                                                                                               
Financial investments in respect of unit-linked contracts                                                                             607.2             14.2               3.5           624.9
Other financial investments                                                                                                                             5.1               4.7               0.2             10.0
Classified as held for trading                                                                                                                          0.3                  –                  –               0.3
Available for sale financial assets:                                                                                                                                           
Unquoted investments                                                                                                                                       –                  –               2.2               2.2
                                                                                                                                                                        612.6             18.9               5.9           637.4
                                             
Liabilities measured at fair value                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      31 December 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Level 1               Level 2               Level 3                   2009
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     £m                     £m                     £m                     £m
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:                                                                                                           
Forward currency contracts                                                                                                                               –              (1.3)                 –              (1.3)
F&C REIT put options                                                                                                                                        –                  –            (60.4)           (60.4)
Investment contract liabilities                                                                                                                             –          (649.9)                 –          (649.9)
                                                                                                                                                                               –          (651.2)           (60.4)         (711.6)
Assets/(liabilities) measured at fair value based on level 3
                                                                                                                                                              Financial assets at fair value             Available-for-sale  Financial liabilities
                                                                                                                                                                    through profit or loss                       financial assets                  at FVTPL                                 
                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                  Financial investments in           Other financial                  Unquoted            F&C REIT put                                  
                                                                                                                                      respect of unit-linked contracts               investments               investments                      options                          Total
Fair value measurement at end of the reporting period                                                                 £m                             £m                             £m                             £m                             £m
At 1 January 2009                                                                                                       2.4                    0.3                    2.1                 (66.0)                (61.2) 
Total gains or losses:                                                                                                                                                                                                              
In profit or loss                                                                                                         (0.6)                  (0.1)                  (0.1)                   5.6                    4.8 
In other comprehensive income                                                                                   –                       –                    0.2                       –                    0.2 
Purchases                                                                                                                   2.2                       –                       –                       –                    2.2 
Settlements                                                                                                                (0.5)                      –                       –                       –                   (0.5) 
At 31 December 2009                                                                                               3.5                    0.2                    2.2                 (60.4)                (54.5)
There were no transfers into or out of level 3 during 2009.
Total gains or losses included in profit or loss for the year:
Net gains/(losses) and investment income on unit linked assets                                  (0.6)                      –                       –                       –                   (0.6)
Finance revenue                                                                                                     –                   (0.1)                      –                       –                   (0.1)
Impairment of financial investments                                                                                –                       –                   (0.1)                      –                   (0.1) 
F&C REIT put option fair value gain                                                                                 –                       –                       –                    5.6                    5.6
                                                                                                                                   (0.6)                  (0.1)                  (0.1)                   5.6                    4.8
The gains or losses included in profit or loss for the year were in respect of assets or liabilities held at the reporting date.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
83 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 19.    Financial instruments continued
Sensitivities for level 3
While the Group believes that its estimates of fair value are appropriate, the use of different assumptions could lead to different measurements of
fair value. Potential changes in the assumptions used in the valuation of level 3 financial assets are not considered to have a material impact on
the Income Statement. In respect of level 3 financial liabilities changing one or more of the unobservable inputs to reasonably possible alternative
assumptions would have the following effects.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Effect on other
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Effect on profit or loss                             comprehensive income
At 31 December 2009                                                                                                                                                    Favourable          (Unfavourable)             Favourable          (Unfavourable)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                            £m                            £m                            £m
Financial liabilities at FVTPL:
F&C REIT put options                                                                                                                      4.3                   (8.5)                      –                       –
The results above were derived from reasonable changes to the assumptions, as disclosed in note 30, on the following unobservable inputs:
•       Recurring discount rates +/– 1%
•       Weightings of 2009 results +/– 10%
•       Recurring EBITDA multiple +/– 1x
•       Flexing the relative weightings to the 3 valuation methodologies +/– 10%
(ii)     Fair value comparisons
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Carrying amount                                             Fair value
                                                                                                                                                                                                 31 December            31 December           31 December            31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2009                         2008                          2009                         2008
Financial assets:                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Financial investments: available for sale                                                                                                 2.2                    2.1                    2.2                    2.1
Financial investments: fair value through profit or loss                                                                        634.9                718.0                634.9                718.0
Current tax receivable                                                                                                                           5.8                       –                    5.8                       –
Stock of units and shares: held for trading                                                                                            0.3                    0.3                    0.3                    0.3
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                               213.9                269.8                213.9                269.8
Financial liabilities:                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Interest bearing loans and borrowings:                                                                                                                                                                                  
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026                                                                    (124.2)              (258.2)                (83.2)              (164.6)
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016                                                                                    (129.7)                      –               (129.7)                      –
Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010                                                                                                (10.0)                (35.0)                (10.0)                (35.0)
Preference Share capital                                                                                                                       –                   (0.8)                      –                   (0.3)
Other financial liabilities:                                                                                                                                                                                                        
F&C REIT put options                                                                                                                    (60.4)                (66.0)                (60.4)                (66.0)
Forward currency contracts                                                                                                             (1.3)                (12.3)                  (1.3)                (12.3)
Investment contract liabilities                                                                                                            (649.9)              (753.1)              (649.9)              (753.1)
Current tax payable                                                                                                                              (1.5)                (12.5)                  (1.5)                (12.5)
The fair values of short-term ‘trade and other receivables’ and ‘trade and other payables’ have been excluded from the above table as their
carrying amounts are a reasonable approximation of their fair value.
The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table:
Securities
The fair value of listed investments is based on quoted market prices at the reporting date without any deduction for transaction costs.
The fair value of unlisted investments has been valued in accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines and
in accordance with the underlying limited partnership agreements.
Interest bearing loans and non-equity shares
The fair value of the Subordinated Notes and Guaranteed Loan Notes is based on a quoted market price at the reporting date. The fair value of
other borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates. The valuations have considered
similar instruments available in the market and the liquidity of assets and liabilities.
Unquoted investments
Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated future cash flows are based on management’s best estimates and the discount rate
is a market related rate for a similar instrument at the reporting date. Where other pricing models are used, inputs are based on market related
data at the reporting date.
Put options
Based on an external valuation of the business, as detailed in note 30.
Forward currency contracts
The fair value is based on relevant exchange rates at the reporting dates.
20.    Reinsurance assets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Reinsurers’ share of insurance contract liabilities                                                                                                                                          1.9                2.1
Total reinsurance assets – current assets                                                                                                                                              1.9                2.1
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
84 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
21.    Trade and other receivables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Current:                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Trade debtors                                                                                                                                                                                             14.9                9.5
VAT recoverable                                                                                                                                                                                               –                1.0
Accrued income                                                                                                                                                                                         41.3              35.0
Other debtors                                                                                                                                                                                            29.9              28.0
Prepayments                                                                                                                                                                                                5.2                6.9
Amounts owed by Friends Provident Group                                                                                                                                                     –                0.4
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities                                                                                                                                        0.1                0.3
Amounts owed by Eureko Group                                                                                                                                                                     –                4.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  91.4              85.9
Non-current:                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Other debtors                                                                                                                                                                                               0.4                0.3
Prepayments                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1                0.3
Amounts owed by Eureko Group                                                                                                                                                                  1.4                   –
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.9                0.6
The balances with Friends Provident Group as at 31 December 2009 have been disclosed within the relevant category, following Friends
Provident’s divestment of its entire interest in FCAM on 3 July 2009.
Trade debtors are non-interest bearing and are generally receivable within 30 days.
22.    Cash and cash equivalents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Shareholders:                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Cash at bank and in hand                                                                                                                                                                            1.5                9.6
Short-term deposits                                                                                                                                                                                 184.7            213.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                186.2            223.1
Policyholders:                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Cash at bank and in hand                                                                                                                                                                            0.6                0.9
Short-term deposits                                                                                                                                                                                   27.1              45.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  27.7              46.7
Total cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                                                          213.9            269.8
Cash and cash equivalents are held by the Group for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments rather than for investment or other
purposes. All short-term deposits are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are not subject to significant risk of changes in value.
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one
day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2009 is £213.9m (31 December 2008: £269.8m).
Restrictions on use of cash
The policyholders’ cash is not available for general use by the Group. These funds are held on behalf of policyholders’ of unit-linked insurance
contracts which are included in the Statement of Financial Position. At 31 December 2009 policyholders’ cash amounted to £27.7m
(31 December 2008: £46.7m) of the total cash and cash equivalents balance.
23.    Non-current assets held for sale
The Group injected seed capital into two new funds which it launched in 2008 and held in excess of 50 per cent. of the beneficial and voting rights
attached to the holdings. As the Group was committed to disposing its entire investment in the funds within a year of the original investment,
which it did in 2008, the investments in these funds were classified as being held for sale for the period during which they were held.
The movements in seed capital investments classified as non-current assets held for sale are:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
At 1 January                                                                                                                                                                                                    –                   –
Additions                                                                                                                                                                                                         –              14.8
Disposals                                                                                                                                                                                                         –             (14.8)
At 31 December                                                                                                                                                                                              –                   –
The Group realised a gain of £5.3m in 2008 on disposal of these investments. This was included within finance revenue (note 8). The seed capital
investments were included in the investment management segment.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
85 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 24.    Interest bearing loans and borrowings
The contractual terms of the Group’s interest bearing loans and borrowings are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Note                     £m                       £m
Preference Share capital                                                                                                                                                                           –                0.8
Dividends were payable at LIBOR +2% half-yearly in arrears.
Preference Shares’ rights are described in note 33(b).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026                                                                                                                       124.2            258.2
Interest rate of 6.75% per annum until 19 December 2016, payable annually in arrears.                                                                                                      
Issuer has the option to extend the notes beyond this date at a rate of 2.69% above 
3 month LIBOR until 19 December 2026, payable quarterly in arrears.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016                                                                                                                                         129.7                   –
Interest rate of 9.0% per annum until 19 December 2016, payable 
annually in arrears.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010                                                                                                                                      (i)             10.0              35.0
Interest payable at the following rates:                                                                                                                                                                                 
From 3 September 2008 to 15 December 2008 at LIBOR + 2%;                                                                                                                                         
From 16 December 2008 to 15 June 2009 at LIBOR +3%; and                                                                                                                                           
From 16 June 2009 until redemption at LIBOR +4%.                                                                                                                                                           
Interest is payable quarterly in arrears on 28 February, 31 May, 31 August and 30 November.                                                                                             
Notes must be repaid by 30 June 2010, or earlier at the discretion of the issuer. £25.0m of the original Notes
were repaid on 22 September 2009.                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                263.9            294.0
(i) The Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010 are listed on The Channel Islands Stock Exchange.
During 2009, the Group offered holders of the Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 the opportunity to exchange up to £135.0m of
the Notes for new Guaranteed 9% Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 at a pre-determined exchange ratio. £135.0m of the Subordinated Notes were
exchanged for £104.7m Guaranteed Loan Notes. In addition, £25.0m of new Guaranteed Loan Note debt was issued. The gain arising on this
debt exchange was £27.9m, as shown in note 7(d).
The £10.0m (31 December 2008: £35.0m) Floating Rate Secured Notes are held by Kendray Properties Limited, which holds a security over
FCAM’s entire holding in F&C REIT Asset Management LLP until such point as FCAM has settled all liabilities due under the terms of the loan note
agreement. The carrying amount of net assets (including intangible management contracts) pledged as security over the Secured Notes at
31 December 2009 was £45.7m (31 December 2008: £40.3m).
Borrowing facilities
The Group has borrowing facilities available to it. The undrawn committed facilities available at the year-end are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Expiring in one year or less:                                                                                                                                                                          
Bank overdraft facilities                                                                                                                                                                                 2.0                2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
Repayment periods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Amounts repayable:                                                                                                                                                                                       
In one year or less, or on demand                                                                                                                                                              10.0                   –
In more than one year but not more than two years                                                                                                                                         –              35.0
In more than two years but not more than five years                                                                                                                                        –                   –
In more than five years                                                                                                                                                                              253.9            259.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                263.9            294.0
At 31 December 2008, the Preference Share capital was considered to be perpetual in nature and had no contractual repayment date, although it
was repaid on 16 July 2009.
Additional information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate risk is provided in note 39.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
86 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
25.    Trade and other payables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Amounts due within one year:                                                                                                                                                                       
Trade creditors                                                                                                                                                                                             1.9                1.4
Amounts owed to Friends Provident Group                                                                                                                                                     –                1.2
Amounts owed to Eureko Group                                                                                                                                                                  2.0                2.9
Amounts owed to F&C REIT related party entities                                                                                                                                         2.3                2.4
Social Security and PAYE                                                                                                                                                                             2.2                2.4
VAT payable                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.1                   –
Accruals                                                                                                                                                                                                     27.1              20.6
Other creditors                                                                                                                                                                                           27.5              22.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  64.1              53.5
Amounts due outwith one year:                                                                                                                                                                    
Accruals                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.0                5.4
Other creditors                                                                                                                                                                                             1.7                1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.7                7.1
The balances with Friends Provident Group as at 31 December 2009 have been disclosed within the relevant category, following Friends
Provident’s divestment of its entire interest in FCAM on 3 July 2009.
Trade creditors are non-interest bearing and are settled in accordance with the individual contractual arrangements.
26.    Provisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Long-                                                      
                                                                                                                 Onerous               NIC on                 Long-                                              term                                                Put
                                                                                                                premises                 share                   term       Guaranteed              service        Investment                option
                                                                                                               contracts           schemes            sickness             product                award           Trust VAT                 claim                  Total
                                                                                                                           £m                     £m                     £m                     £m                     £m                     £m                     £m                     £m
At 1 January 2008                                                              8.6               5.5               2.0               0.2               0.1               3.9                  –             20.3
Provided during the year                                                     2.4                  –                  –               0.7                  –                  –                  –               3.1
Utilised during the year                                                       (1.8)             (0.5)             (0.1)             (0.1)                 –              (0.1)                 –              (2.6)
Released during the year                                                   (2.2)             (0.6)                 –                  –                  –                  –                  –              (2.8)
At 31 December 2008                                                        7.0               4.4               1.9               0.8               0.1               3.8                  –             18.0
Provided during the year                                                     3.1               5.2               0.3                  –                  –                  –               2.4             11.0
Utilised during the year                                                       (1.6)             (1.7)             (0.2)             (0.2)                 –              (1.2)                 –              (4.9)
Released during the year                                                   (0.1)             (2.3)                 –              (0.1)                 –              (2.6)                 –              (5.1)
At 31 December 2009                                                      8.4               5.6               2.0               0.5               0.1                  –               2.4             19.0
At 31 December 2009                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Non-current                                                                      6.5               1.3               1.8               0.4               0.1                  –                  –             10.1
Current                                                                              1.9               4.3               0.2               0.1                  –                  –               2.4               8.9
At 31 December 2008                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Non-current                                                                        5.8               0.8               1.7               0.6               0.1                  –                  –               9.0
Current                                                                               1.2               3.6               0.2               0.2                  –               3.8                  –               9.0
Onerous premises contracts
The Group holds all properties under operating leases. This includes a number of vacant or sub-let properties which were either previously
occupied or are partially occupied by the Group. Provision has been made for the residual lease commitments where significant, after taking into
account existing and expected sub-tenant contractual arrangements. The remaining terms are for up to 11 years, although a significant element of
this provision relates to lease incentive arrangements and is expected to be utilised within 4 years. 
Assumptions have been made as to whether each leasehold property may be sub-let or assigned in the future. All leases, and the majority of sub-
leases, are for minimum guaranteed rentals. One sub-lease involves the possible receipt of contingent rent. Any contingent rent received in excess
of the anticipated amount is recognised as income during the period. The provision is subject to uncertainties over time including market rent
reviews and break-options within the lease arrangements. In addition, exposure could exist if an existing tenant defaulted or went into liquidation
or administration.
NIC on share schemes
The provision for national insurance contributions (‘NIC’) on share schemes represents the potential NIC liabilities in respect of a number of share-
based payment schemes operated by the Group. The provision is subject to uncertainties in respect of the extent to which performance
conditions are met, movements in the Company’s share price, the extent to which awards lapse and, where eligible, the timing of when
employees choose to exercise options. The current element of the provision for NIC on share schemes relates to awards which are expected to
vest within one year. At 31 December 2009 £3.1m (31 December 2008: £3.2m) of financial investments were held by the Group to partially fund
the NIC liability on the Deferred Investment Plan and Deferred Investment Option Plan. This is disclosed in note 19.
Long-term sickness
The Group has long-term sickness insurance arrangements which cover the cost of absence from work of all current employees. However, the
cost of employees who went on long-term absence prior to these arrangements being established are self-insured by the Group. The provision
represents the present value of income protection payments due to these individuals.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
87 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 26.    Provisions continued
This provision has been quantified on the assumption that all employees currently on long-term sick leave do not return to the employment of the
Group. The discount rate and salary growth assumptions used in each year are identical to those used for the purposes of determining UK
defined benefit pension obligations.
Guaranteed product
The provision for the guaranteed product represents the actuarially assessed cost of meeting potential obligations under certain investment
products which have a guaranteed payout in the event of death of the investor. This provision is subject to uncertainties in respect of movements
in market levels and the mortality rates of investors. The underlying investment plan was closed to new investors during 2004.
Long-term service award
This provision represents the non-current obligation in respect of long-term service benefits to which some employees are entitled, including
incremental holiday entitlement and long-term service awards.
Investment Trust VAT
In November 2007, HM Revenue and Customs (‘HMRC’) agreed that asset management services to UK Investment Trust Companies (‘ITCs’)
should be exempt from VAT. A number of Group companies, in common with other asset managers in the UK, received claims from ITCs for the
repayment of VAT charged to them for historic periods dating back to 1990. While the Group charged VAT in accordance with applicable UK law
at the time, a provision was recognised in 2007 to the extent that the expected payments to be made to ITCs were greater than the expected
amount recoverable from HMRC. During 2008 and 2009, monies refunded from HMRC were paid, as required, to ITCs. However, due to the
complexity of the repayment process and its interaction with contractual arrangements, uncertainty existed at 31 December 2008 as to the final
cost to be incurred by the Group. During 2009 all amounts due to ITCs have been settled and the remainder of the provision of £2.6m was
released to the Income Statement. No provision is therefore required at 31 December 2009.
Put option claim
During 2009 the two individual founder members of F&C Partners LLP (‘LLP’), the Group’s fund of hedge funds business, sought to exercise put
options to sell their minority interest in the LLP to the F&C corporate member under the terms of the LLP Agreement (in total, for approximately
£7.8m). On 6 March 2009 the corporate member issued a claim in the High Court seeking a declaration on the validity of the exercise of the put
options. The individual members are seeking an unspecified sum by way of counterclaim. On 10 June 2009 the individual founder members
issued a petition against the LLP and the F&C corporate member under Section 459 of the Companies Act 1985 seeking an order that the F&C
corporate member buy out their minority interest in the LLP at a price to be determined. 
At the date of these Financial Statements, directions have been given by the High Court that the two actions be heard together going forward. 
In addition the two founder partners may exercise further put options in October 2010 and if they do so the price formula in the LLP Agreement
would produce an aggregate exercise price of a maximum of £2.4m. Upon exercise of these options the LLP Agreement provides that the LLP
may sell its business and if this is completed within 12 months the individuals concerned would then become entitled only to a proportion of the
sale proceeds. The Board has been advised by leading counsel that there is considerable uncertainty about whether these options could ever be
completed. Notwithstanding this uncertainty and having regard to the amount which would be payable under the October 2010 options, the
Board has decided to provide for an amount of £2.4m in respect of this matter.
The Group will continue to defend its position vigorously and is advised that it should be successful in respect of all claims.
27.    Employee benefits – Pension scheme obligations
The Group operates a defined benefit scheme in the United Kingdom, The Netherlands, the Republic of Ireland and participates in one in Portugal.
The UK scheme is closed to new entrants. All new UK employees are eligible to benefit from defined contribution arrangements, which provide
greater certainty over the future cost to the Group.
The former Chairman of the Group, Mr R W Jenkins, has a pension entitlement of £100,000 per annum, commencing on his 60th birthday. This
pension will be indexed in line with the Retail Price Index on 1 January each year with effect from 11 October 2004, the date of the pension award.
The Group has not earmarked any assets to date with respect to this liability.
The net pension deficit is recognised under non-current liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position and is stated gross of the related deferred
tax asset.
The results of the latest full actuarial valuations were updated at 31 December 2009 by qualified independent actuaries.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
88 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
27.    Employee benefits – Pension scheme obligations continued
The pension (deficits)/surpluses of the Group are summarised in aggregate and by scheme as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
Aggregate                                                                                                                                                                                                              £m                            £m
Fair value of plan assets                                                                                                                                                                           157.5            146.1
Benefit obligations                                                                                                                                                                                   (204.2)          (167.9)
Total pension deficit                                                                                                                                                                               (46.7)            (21.8)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
By scheme                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                            £m
F&C Asset Management Pension Plan (“FCAM Plan”)                                                                                                                                (38.0)            (13.9)
F&C Netherlands pension plan                                                                                                                                                                    (5.7)              (4.8)
F&C Ireland pension plan                                                                                                                                                                             (0.4)              (0.6)
F&C Portugal pension plan                                                                                                                                                                           0.1               (0.2)
R W Jenkins pension                                                                                                                                                                                   (2.7)              (2.3)
Total pension deficit                                                                                                                                                                               (46.7)            (21.8)
Disclosure relating to the Group’s defined benefit obligations
The information given in (a) to (d) below reflects the aggregate disclosures in respect of all Group defined benefit pension arrangements.
(a)     Plan assets and expected rate of return
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   31 December 2009                                     31 December 2008
Plan assets                                                                                                                                                                                                                              £m                              %                            £m                              %
Equities                                                                                                                                               96.0                     61                  74.8                     51
Government bonds                                                                                                                               2.8                       2                    2.7                       2
LDI Pools                                                                                                                                            44.3                     28                  55.2                     38
Cash                                                                                                                                                     3.3                       2                    1.9                       1
Other*                                                                                                                                                 11.1                       7                  11.5                       8
Total fair value of plan assets                                                                                                       157.5                   100                146.1                   100
* Other assets consist of assets held in insurance contracts in respect of The Netherlands scheme and some property assets.
Plan assets include £86.8m (31 December 2008: £70.2m) of underlying investments held by the Group pension schemes via transferable
investment contracts with F&C Managed Pension Funds Limited, the Group’s unit-linked pooled pension business. The plan assets do not include
Ordinary Shares issued by the Company.
Expected long-term rates of return applied to UK funded defined benefit assets are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     31 December            31 December
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets                                                                                                                                                                                                      2009                         2008
Equities                                                                                                                                                                                              7.00%               7.00%
Government bonds                                                                                                                                                                            5.00%               5.00%
LDI Pools                                                                                                                                                                                           4.20%               3.30%
Cash                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.50%               2.00%
Other                                                                                                                                                                                                  7.00%               7.00%
Basis used to determine the expected rate of return on plan assets
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, the Group considered the current level of expected returns on risk-free
investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is
invested, and the expectations for the future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted, based on
the actual asset allocation, to develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio.
(b)     Major assumptions used by schemes’ actuaries in respect of benefit obligations
(i)      Mortality assumptions
The mortality assumptions used for the main UK defined benefit scheme and the unfunded UK obligation are:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                31 December                                  31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2009                                               2008
Mortality table for males retiring in the future                                                                                                  PMA92MCYOB – 1           PMA92MCYOB – 1
Mortality table for females retiring in the future                                                                                                PFA92MCYOB – 1            PFA92MCYOB – 1
Mortality table for current male pensioners                                                                                                     PMA92MCYOB – 1           PMA92MCYOB – 1
Mortality table for current female pensioners                                                                                                   PFA92MCYOB – 1            PFA92MCYOB – 1
The mortality assumptions for the overseas schemes are:
                                                                                                                                                                                                      31 December                                                                            31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2009                                                                                         2008
Netherlands                                                                                                      Prognosetafel 2008 – 2053                               Prognosetafel 2008 – 2050
                                                                                                                                      generational table                                             generational table
Ireland*                                                                                           Compulsory Purchase Annuity Rates                Compulsory Purchase Annuity Rates
Portugal                                                                                             Males TV 73/77 (rated down 1 year)                 Males TV 73/77 (rated down 1 year)
                                                                                                    Females TV 88/90 (rated down 2 years)            Females TV 88/90 (rated down 2 years)
* In 2009 the mortality assumption of the F&C Ireland pension fund was updated. There was a change in the compulsory purchase annuity rates used to value liabilities for 2009,
with the new rates allowing for more conservative mortality rates.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
89 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 27.    Employee benefits – Pension scheme obligations continued
(ii)     Impact of mortality assumptions
To demonstrate what these mortality assumptions mean in respect of the FCAM Plan, the expected ages at death of members retiring at age 60
are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Years                   Years
Expected age at death for a male retiring in the future at age 60                                                                                                                    89                 89
Expected age at death for a female retiring in the future at age 60                                                                                                                 92                 92
Expected age at death for a current male pensioner aged 60                                                                                                                        88                 88
Expected age at death for a current female pensioner aged 60                                                                                                                     91                 91
(iii)    Cost of annuities
The table below summarises the cost of providing annuities of £1 per annum (with associated death benefits and pension increases) for UK
members aged 60 based on the assumptions used for the pension disclosures:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                £                          £
Male annuity                                                                                                                                                                                             24.30            21.30
Female annuity                                                                                                                                                                                         24.00            21.10
These rates assume a monthly payments model with a discount rate of 5.7% (2008: 6.10%) based, with appropriate adjustments, on the iBoxx
over 15 year AA corporate bond index of 5.66% (2008: 6.71%). The rates also assume two thirds of the members’ benefit will be paid to the
spouse; a 5-year guarantee is provided; and pensions in excess of Guaranteed Minimum Pension will increase by 3.6% (2008: 3.10%) per annum.
(iv)    Discount and growth assumptions
The range of assumptions used to determine benefit obligations are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              31 December                    31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2009                                 2008
Discount rate                                                                                                                                                                  5.50% – 5.70%       5.70% – 6.10%
Rate of salary increase                                                                                                                                                   2.50% – 4.85%       2.50% – 4.35%
Rate of inflation increase                                                                                                                                                 2.00% – 3.60%       2.00% – 3.10%
The range of assumptions used to determine net pension cost for the year are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2009                                 2008
Discount rate                                                                                                                                                                  5.70% – 6.10%       5.50% – 5.60%
Weighted average expected long-term return on plan assets                                                                                         4.80% – 5.70%       5.50% – 6.30%
Rate of inflation increase                                                                                                                                                 2.50% – 4.35%       2.00% – 3.30%
Rate of salary increase                                                                                                                                                   2.00% – 3.10%       2.50% – 4.55%
(v)     Sensitivities
An estimate of the sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the schemes’ liabilities are set out below:
Assumption                                                                                                                                                                                       Change in assumption                                                                       Estimated impact on scheme liabilities
Inflation                                                                                                                   Increase/decrease by 0.1%                          Increase/decrease by 1.7%
Salaries                                                                                                                   Increase/decrease by 0.1%                          Increase/decrease by 0.4%
Pensions                                                                                                                 Increase/decrease by 0.1%                          Increase/decrease by 1.2%
Discount rate                                                                                                          Increase/decrease by 0.1%                          Decrease/increase by 2.3%
Life expectancy                                                                                                       Increase/decrease by 1 year                        Increase/decrease by 2.2%
(c)     Profile of schemes’ membership
The profile of the current membership of defined benefit arrangements in the Group is as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 31 December 2009                                     31 December 2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                       % of total                   Average                   % of total                     Average
                                                                                                                                                                                                   membership                           age              membership                            age
Active members                                                                                                                                 17%                     42                  20%                     41
Deferred members                                                                                                                             71%                     42                  69%                     42
Pensioners                                                                                                                                         12%                     65                  11%                     65
                                                                                                                                                        100%                                         100%                         
The profile of the liabilities of defined benefit arrangements throughout the Group is as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Active members                                                                                                                                                                                         59.7              49.1
Deferred members                                                                                                                                                                                     94.4              73.3
Pensioners                                                                                                                                                                                                 50.1              45.5
Benefit obligations at 31 December                                                                                                                                                    204.2            167.9
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
90 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
27.    Employee benefits – Pension scheme obligations continued
(d)     Aggregate disclosure obligations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Change in benefit obligations:                                                                                                                                                                      
Benefit obligation at 1 January                                                                                                                                                                  167.9            177.4
Foreign exchange movements                                                                                                                                                                     (1.6)              4.6
Current service cost                                                                                                                                                                                     2.6                3.3
Past service costs*                                                                                                                                                                                          –                0.2
Interest cost on pension obligations                                                                                                                                                            10.0              10.0
Members’ contributions                                                                                                                                                                                0.2                0.3
Actuarial losses/(gains)                                                                                                                                                                               31.4             (23.6)
Settlements                                                                                                                                                                                                 (0.1)              (0.5)
Benefits paid                                                                                                                                                                                               (6.2)              (3.8)
Benefit obligations at 31 December                                                                                                                                                    204.2            167.9
* The past service costs in 2008 relate to the augmentation of pension entitlements for certain employees. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Analysis of defined benefit obligations:                                                                                                                                                       
Plans that are wholly or partly funded                                                                                                                                                       201.5            165.6
Plans that are wholly unfunded                                                                                                                                                                     2.7                2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                204.2            167.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Change in plan assets:                                                                                                                                                                                   
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January                                                                                                                                                       146.1            150.6
Foreign exchange movements                                                                                                                                                                     (1.2)              3.5
Expected return on pension plan assets                                                                                                                                                       7.9                9.7
Actuarial gains/(losses)                                                                                                                                                                                 4.2             (21.1)
Employer contributions                                                                                                                                                                                 6.6                7.4
Member contributions                                                                                                                                                                                  0.2                0.3
Settlements                                                                                                                                                                                                 (0.1)              (0.5)
Benefits paid                                                                                                                                                                                               (6.2)              (3.8)
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December                                                                                                                                           157.5            146.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Net pension deficit recognised                                                                                                                                                             (46.7)            (21.8)
               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2009                         2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       £m                            £m
Components of pension cost:                                                                                                                                                                       
Current service cost                                                                                                                                                                                     2.6                3.3
Past service cost                                                                                                                                                                                             –                0.2
Interest cost on pension obligations                                                                                                                                                            10.0              10.0
Expected return on pension plan assets                                                                                                                                                      (7.9)              (9.7)
Total pension cost recognised in the Income Statement                                                                                                                      4.7                3.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Notes                     £m                       £m
Pension costs are included in the Income Statement as follows:                                                                                                                                  
Operating expenses                                                                                                                                                                    6               2.6                3.5
Finance revenue                                                                                                                                                                          8              (7.9)              (9.7)
Finance costs                                                                                                                                                                              9             10.0              10.0
Total pension cost recognised in the Income Statement                                                                                                                      4.7                3.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Actuarial (losses)/gains immediately recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income                                                    (27.2)              2.5
The cumulative actuarial losses recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income since transition to IFRS                     (44.7)            (17.5)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2009                         2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       £m                            £m
Actual return on plan assets                                                                                                                                                                  12.1             (11.4)
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
91 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 27.    Employee benefits – Pension scheme obligations continued
Five year history
                                                                                                                                                                                                         2009                   2008                   2007                   2006                   2005
                                                                                                                                                                                                            £m                      £m                      £m                      £m                      £m
Benefit obligations at 31 December                                                                                            (204.2)         (167.9)         (177.4)         (179.8)         (164.1)
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December                                                                                     157.5           146.1           150.6           134.4           116.1
Total pension deficit                                                                                                                  (46.7)           (21.8)           (26.8)           (45.4)           (48.0)
Difference between expected and actual return on plan assets:                                                                                                                                   
Amount                                                                                                                                            4.2            (21.1)             (1.6)              2.1             11.5
Percentage of plan assets                                                                                                               3%            (14%)             (1%)              2%             10%
Experience gains and (losses) on benefit obligations:                                                                                                                                                    
Amount                                                                                                                                            1.1               1.3              (3.4)             (1.6)             (0.4)
Percentage of benefit obligations                                                                                                     1%               1%              (2%)             (1%)              –%
Total gains and (losses):                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Amount                                                                                                                                         (27.2)              2.5             11.1               2.5            (30.7)
Percentage of benefit obligations                                                                                                  (13%)              1%               6%               1%            (19%)
(e)     Pension schemes’ details
(i)      F&C Asset Management Pension Plan (‘FCAM Plan’) 
Date of last actuarial valuation                                                 31 March 2007
Scheme Actuary                                                                      Mercer Limited
Method of valuation                                                                 Projected Unit
Market value of assets at last valuation date*                           £131.6m
Level of funding*                                                                      98%
* The asset value and funding level allowed for a special employer contribution of £4.0m paid very shortly after the valuation date.
The FCAM Plan’s assets, which are managed by F&C, are held under the control of the Trustees and are used to secure benefits for the members
of the FCAM Plan and their dependants in accordance with the Trust Deed and Rules.
Trustee Board of the FCAM Plan
The appointment of Trustees is determined by the FCAM Plan’s trust documentation. The Trustee Board currently consists of three employer-
appointed Trustees, three member-selected Trustees and two independent Trustees, one of whom is currently the Chairman of the Trustee Board.
Of the current employer-appointed and member-selected Trustees, four are employees of F&C and active members of the FCAM Plan, one is a
deferred member and one is retired and receiving a pension from the FCAM Plan.
Relationship between F&C and the Trustees of the FCAM Plan
The FCAM Plan’s assets are held in a separate Trustee-administered fund to meet long-term pension liabilities to past and present employees.
The Trustees of the FCAM Plan are required to act in the best interests of the FCAM Plan’s beneficiaries.
(ii)     Other pension schemes
F&C Portugal
Certain employees in Portugal participate in the multi-employer scheme, Fundo de Pensoes do Grupo Banco Comercial Português. The assets
and liabilities of the scheme are separately identifiable. There are no Trustees, and the Company controls the assets relating to the F&C members
of the scheme.
F&C Netherlands
The Plan in The Netherlands is financed via an insurance contract. There are no Trustees, but the Works Council participates in negotiations in
respect of potential changes to the Plan.
F&C Ireland
The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme in Ireland. There are currently four Trustees of this plan, all of whom are employees of F&C.
(f)      Future funding requirements
UK schemes
A revised schedule of contributions was agreed in June 2008. The Group has paid contributions in line with, or in excess of, this schedule since its
adoption. The Group agreed to pay contributions of a minimum of 29.6% of Pensionable Salaries until 1 March 2009 and 28.1% of Pensionable
Salaries thereafter. The Group agreed to pay an additional £5.0m per annum between 1 July 2009 until the completion of the 31 March 2010
valuation. Employee contributions are payable via a salary sacrifice scheme in addition to the Group contributions. The rates of employee
contributions payable increased on a phased basis until March 2009. Contributions are subject to review at future actuarial valuations. The
minimum estimated contribution expected to be paid into the Plan during 2010 is £7.4m (2009: £3.8m). 
As the FCAM Plan is a closed scheme, under the projected unit method the current service cost will tend to increase as a percentage of
pensionable salaries as the average age of members increases.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
92 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
93 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
27.    Employee benefits – Pension scheme obligations continued
With effect from 1 March 2010 changes were made to the benefits granted under the FCAM Plan in respect of both past and future service for
current active members. A limit of 2% per annum was imposed on future increases in Pensionable Salary. To facilitate this an underpin was
introduced so that members’ benefits accrued prior to 1 March 2010 will not be less than that they would have received if they had left service on
28 February 2010. In addition, in respect of service after 28 February 2010 only, the level of guaranteed increases in pension after retirement was
reduced and some members were given a choice between increasing the level of their contributions or having their normal pension age increased
to 65. These changes are expected to reduce the pension cost recognised in the Income Statement in future years, particularly in 2010 when the
effect of the changes on past service will be recognised.
Overseas schemes
The figures in the table below assume that contributions will continue to be paid to the overseas schemes at the level paid in 2009, with
appropriate increases for future changes in salary assumptions.
Contributions to defined benefit schemes
Amounts paid into the Group’s defined benefit schemes in the past two years and expected future payments over the next five years are as
follows:
Contributions paid                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     £m
2008                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7.4
2009                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6.6
Expected future contributions*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m
2010                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8.5
2011                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8.4
2012                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8.4
2013                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8.5
2014                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8.6
* Assumes the £5.0m additional annual payment into the FCAM Plan continues after 2010.
(g)     Risk management
(i)      FCAM Plan
The Trustees set general investment policy but delegate the responsibility for the selection of specific investments (other than investments in respect
of members’ voluntary contributions) to the investment manager. The Trustees regularly monitor the FCAM Plan’s investments. The Trustees seek
advice from their investment adviser and believe they have sufficient skills and expertise to make investment decisions based on this advice.
The Trustees have set performance and risk targets for the investment manager. The performance objectives are long-term, however, the Trustees
monitor the investment manager on a regular basis in order to ensure that the scheme is on track to meet its long-term objectives.
The results of an asset-liability review undertaken alongside the 31 March 2007 actuarial valuation of the plan was used to assist the Trustees and
the Group in managing volatility in the underlying investment performance and the risk of a significant increase in the FCAM Plan’s deficit by
providing information used to determine the FCAM Plan’s investment strategy.
Asset allocation
The Trustees, with the agreement of F&C, decided to introduce more diversification into the FCAM Plan’s return-seeking asset investment strategy.
At the present time, one additional diversifying allocation, to a private equity fund, has been made. Previously the Trustees have implemented a
Liability Driven Investment (LDI) approach to the investment strategy. Other allocations to alternative asset classes may be made in the future.
Interest rate and inflation risk
The LDI pools are intended to help provide a degree of matching to the liabilities of the FCAM Plan. Each pool comprises zero coupon derivatives
with the same maturity as the expected cash flows of the scheme. Each pool has leveraged exposure of varying amounts to inflation and interest
rates. The pools are valued using the market values of the underlying securities.
Currency risk
In order to increase the diversification of the equity portfolio, the FCAM Plan invests in overseas assets. However, the FCAM Plan’s liabilities are
denominated entirely in Sterling and therefore there is a risk that the appreciation of Sterling against other currencies will reduce the return from
overseas equities.
Operational risk
The investment managers do not directly hold any of the FCAM Plan’s securities. These are held by an external custodian. The assets are ring
fenced from F&C’s creditors and therefore transferable. 27.    Employee benefits – Pension scheme obligations continued
(ii)     Overseas schemes
The plan in The Netherlands is financed via an insurance company. The value of the plan assets is the value of the reserve which the insurance
company holds to match guaranteed pension liabilities. These reserves are, in effect, fixed interest instruments, so provide a reasonable match to
pension liabilities.
The plan in Ireland invests in pooled unitised funds, with returns reflecting the performance of the underlying assets.
The plan in Portugal is part of an industry-wide banking sector plan. Each participant company holds a share of the assets, which are invested
using the same asset allocation as the overall plan assets. F&C Portugal is the asset manager for the overall scheme.
At 31 December 2009, the assets of both the F&C Portugal and F&C Ireland plans were invested in diversified portfolios that consisted primarily of
debt and equity securities.
(h)     Cost of defined contribution plans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Note                     £m                       £m
Group personal pension plans                                                                                                                                                                      3.3                3.4
Other defined contribution schemes                                                                                                                                                             0.9                1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                   6               4.2                4.5
The Group had £0.1m of pension contributions outstanding as at 31 December 2009 (31 December 2008: £0.7m).
28.    Employee benefits – Share-based payments
The Group operates several share-based payment plans as part of its total employee compensation arrangements.
Summary
The total share-based payment expense is analysed as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (as restated†)
By Scheme                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Note                     £m                       £m
The Long-Term Remuneration Plan (deferred awards)                                                                                                                                 11.9                8.6
The Long-Term Remuneration Plan (restricted awards)                                                                                                                                 0.1                   –
Executive Director Remuneration Plan (deferred awards)                                                                                                                              1.9                1.4
Executive Director Remuneration Plan (restricted awards)                                                                                                                                –               (0.7)
F&C REIT variable minority interest SBP                                                                                                                                                       3.7                1.4
Purchased Equity Plan (FCAM plc shares)                                                                                                                                                    0.7                1.0
Purchased Equity Plan (F&C investment funds)                                                                                                                                             1.9                0.3
Deferred Share Awards                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1                2.2
Share Save Scheme                                                                                                                                                                                        –                0.2
Total share-based payment expense recognised in the Income Statement                                                                      6             20.3              14.4
The total expense recognised during the year in respect of share-based payment schemes is split as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (as restated†)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            £m                       £m
Equity – settled                                                                                                                                                                                           14.3              12.4
Cash – settled                                                                                                                                                                                              6.0                2.0
Total share-based payment expense recognised in the Income Statement                                                                                     20.3              14.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (as restated†)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            £m                       £m
Total carrying amount of cash-settled liabilities                                                                                                                                    8.6                3.2
†
As restated for the amendment to IFRS 2: Share-based Payment as disclosed in note 1.
The details of each scheme are disclosed below.
Details of option pricing models and key assumptions used to obtain the fair value of services received, or the fair value of the equity instruments
granted, have been disclosed only for awards granted during the year ended 31 December 2009. Details of awards granted in previous
accounting periods are disclosed in the previous years’ Financial Statements.
The fair value of services received in return for awards granted is measured by reference to the fair value of share awards granted.
The cash-settled element of the awards is based on dividends payable on the shares during the vesting period, being notionally re-invested in
F&C Asset Management plc shares. Once the share awards vest, the value of the notional shares is paid to the employee in cash. The value of
dividend payments has been separated from the equity-settled awards as these are settled in cash.
The cumulative grant expense for each award is “trued up” , during the vesting period and at the end of the vesting period, after allowing for actual
forfeitures and, where applicable, the performance criteria being met.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
94 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
95 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
28.    Employee benefits – Share-based payments  continued
The following table summarises the inputs into the valuations used for awards granted and the fair values assigned, during the year ended
31 December 2009.
                                                                                                                                                                                    LTRP Deferred Share             EDRP Deferred Share
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Awards                                     Awards                    PEP FCAM Shares
Award date                                                                                                                              8 July 2009                   8 July 2009                    2 April 2009
Number of awards granted                                                                                                      15,139,943                     2,188,992                         213,761
Share price at grant date                                                                                                                   67.0p                            67.0p                             64.5p
Exercise price                                                                                                                                     0.0p                              0.0p                               0.0p
Vesting period                                                                                                                                 3 years                          3 years                           3 years
Full term of award                                                                                                                           3 years                          3 years                      51 months
Expected dividend yield (%)                                                                                                             5.72%                           5.72%                            4.68%
Expected volatility (%)                                                                                                                           n/a                                n/a                                 n/a
Risk-free interest rate (%)                                                                                                                      n/a                                n/a                                 n/a
Expected forfeiture rate (%)                                                                                                              5.00%                           0.00%                            5.00%
Fair value at measurement date (per award)                                                                                                                                                                            
– Equity                                                                                                                                             56.0p                            56.0p                             52.9p
– Cash                                                                                                                                              11.0p                            11.0p                             11.6p
Model used                                                                                                                  No valuation model       No valuation model         No valuation model
                                                                                                                                      – full market value         – full market value           – full market value
Details of the awards made under the Purchased Equity Plan – F&C Investment Funds, are shown in note 28(d)(ii).
The weighted average share price during 2009 was £0.73 (2008: £1.25).
The weighted average share price at exercise date during 2009 was £0.77 (2008: £1.08).
(a)     The Long-Term Remuneration Plan (‘LTRP’)
The LTRP is the primary long-term incentive arrangement of the Group. LTRP awards are made at the discretion of the Board.
(i)      Deferred Share Awards
The LTRP allows deferred awards to be granted to employees below Executive Director level, subject only to a time-vesting period of three years.
The number of deferred share awards is as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2009                          2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     No.                             No.
Outstanding at 1 January                                                                                                                                                           17,831,370          8,614,024
Granted during the year                                                                                                                                                              15,139,943        10,216,710
Exercised during the year                                                                                                                                                            (3,667,084)           (273,606)
Forfeited during the year                                                                                                                                                                 (535,129)           (725,758)
Outstanding at 31 December                                                                                                                                                 28,769,100        17,831,370
Exercisable at 31 December                                                                                                                                                       180,459               79,561
The awards exercised during 2009 relate to the 17 May 2006 award which vested on 17 May 2009.
The awards exercisable at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 relate to “good leavers”.
At 31 December 2009 the following awards granted under the LTRP (deferred) were outstanding:
                                                                                                                                                                                                No. of options                                      Earliest                                    Exercise
Grant date                                                                                                                                                                                                              outstanding                           exercise date                                          price
16 March 2007                                                                                                                          4,771,791              16 March 2010                               0.0p
25 March 2008                                                                                                                          8,999,435              25 March 2011                               0.0p
13 May 2008                                                                                                                                  73,746                 13 May 2011                               0.0p
8 July 2009                                                                                                                              14,924,128                    8 July 2012                               0.0p
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2009 have a weighted average outstanding term of 1.7 years (31 December 2008: 1.6 years). 28.    Employee benefits – Share-based payments continued
(ii)     Restricted Share Awards
Vesting of the Ordinary Shares that are currently the subject of a restricted award under the LTRP will be dependent upon specified performance
conditions and conditions of continued service being met. The performance conditions applied to the LTRP are determined by the Board and are
measured over a three year performance period; 50% of any award relates to the achievement of total shareholder return (TSR) targets and 50%
of the award relates to real underlying EPS growth, as set out below:
TSR target (applying to 50% of any award)                                          
The Group’s TSR relative to FTSE 250                                                  Percentage of award vesting
Below Median                                                                                            Nil
Median                                                                                                       35%
Upper Quartile                                                                                            100%
Underlying EPS target (applying to 50% of any award)                       
Growth in Group’s EPS over three year performance period             Percentage of award vesting
Below PI +9%                                                                                            Nil
PI +9%                                                                                                       50%
PI +24% or higher                                                                                      100%
(Where PI stands for an appropriate index of price inflation – the Retail Price Index).
The TSR target is dependent upon the TSR of the Group compared to the TSR of the other companies who formed the FTSE 250 Index at the
start of each performance period (the comparator companies) over a three year performance period commencing on the first day of the
accounting period in which the award was made. At the end of the performance period, the Group and each of the comparator companies (the
comparator list) are listed and ranked in accordance with their TSR over the performance period. The number of Ordinary Shares which vest
would depend upon the ranking of the Group in the comparator list, in accordance with the vesting table above, described as follows: For below
median TSR performance, no awards would vest; for TSR performance between the median and upper quartile (125th and 63rd position in the
comparator list index), awards would vest on a straight-line basis between 35% for median and 100% for upper quartile. The TSR measure
reflects the movement in the value of shares plus any dividends declared during the relevant period. It was chosen as the performance measure
for the LTRP as it is directly related to movements in shareholder value.
For levels of both TSR and underlying EPS performance between those shown in the tables above, any award that vests under the LTRP will vary
on a straight-line basis between the minimum and maximum levels shown.
The number of restricted share awards is as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2009                          2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     No.                             No.
Outstanding at 1 January                                                                                                                                                                843,829             852,656
Lapsed during the year                                                                                                                                                                   (516,281)                       –
Forfeited during the year                                                                                                                                                                             –                (8,827)
Outstanding at 31 December                                                                                                                                                      327,548             843,829
No awards were made in 2009 or 2008. The EPS and TSR elements of the awards granted on 17 May 2006 did not meet the respective criteria
and lapsed.
At 31 December 2009 the following LTRP restricted share awards were outstanding:
                                                                                                                                                                                                No. of options                                      Earliest                                    Exercise
Grant date                                                                                                                                                                                                              outstanding                           exercise date*                                        price
16 March 2007                                                                                                                             327,548              16 March 2010                               0.0p
* Assuming performance criteria satisfied.
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2009 have a weighted average outstanding term of 0.2 years (31 December 2008: 0.7 years).
The estimate of the fair value of awards granted is measured at full market value for the EPS criteria and no valuation model is used for this
element. Monte Carlo Simulation is used to value the TSR criteria. The contractual life of the award (3 years) is used as an input to the TSR model. 
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
96 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
28.    Employee benefits – Share-based payments continued
(b)     The Executive Director Remuneration Plan (‘EDRP’)
Any Executive Director of the Company is eligible to participate in the EDRP . The EDRP provides for the grant of two different forms of award,
Restricted Share Awards and Deferred Share Awards.
(i)      Deferred Share Awards
Awards vest at the end of a three year period from grant date, subject to the continued employment of the participant within the Group. There are
no performance criteria attached to the deferred shares and the vested shares transfer to the participant as soon as possible after vesting.
The number of Deferred Share Awards is as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2009                          2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     No.                             No.
Outstanding at 1 January                                                                                                                                                             2,526,214          1,500,574
Granted during the year                                                                                                                                                                2,188,992          1,025,640
Outstanding at 31 December                                                                                                                                                   4,715,206          2,526,214
No awards were exercised during 2009 or were exercisable at either 31 December 2009 or 31 December 2008.
At 31 December 2009 the following EDRP Deferred Share Awards were outstanding:
                                                                                                                                                                                                No. of awards                                      Earliest                                    Exercise
Grant date                                                                                                                                                                                                              outstanding                           exercise date                                          price
21 May 2007                                                                                                                             1,500,574                 10 May 2010                               0.0p
25 March 2008                                                                                                                          1,025,640              25 March 2011                               0.0p
8 July 2009                                                                                                                                2,188,992                    8 July 2012                               0.0p
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2009 have a weighted average outstanding term of 1.6 years (31 December 2008: 1.8 years).
During 2009 the rules of the Executive Director Remuneration Plan were amended to allow acceleration of prior year awards. These changes allow
participants to exchange existing awards under these plans for F&C Asset Management plc shares subject to restrictions, allowing more flexibility
for employees over the timing of their income tax charge. The restrictions mirror the original restrictions on the share awards including the
forfeiture provisions. Other than the basis of personal taxation, the terms of conditions of the awards remain the same.
(ii)     Restricted Share Awards
The vesting of the Restricted Share Awards is dependent on the satisfaction of pre-determined performance conditions relating to the underlying
Earnings Per Share (“underlying EPS”) performance of the Group. Under this condition, a Restricted Share Award will only vest if the Group’s
underlying EPS equals or exceeds the specified target for the year ending 31 December 2009. On achievement of the specified target, 100% of
the award will vest. The participant can earn a maximum enhanced level of vesting of 140% of the award by achieving an extremely stretching
level of underlying EPS. Where the actual underlying EPS exceeds the minimum vesting conditions but is less than the maximum enhanced level
of vesting, then the percentage of the award that vests will be calculated on a straight-line basis between 100% and 140%.
The 2007 Restricted Share Award is subject to the following EPS hurdle:
                                 Underlying EPS for the year ending 31 December 2009                                                                        Percentage of Restricted Share Awards Vesting
                                                       18.1p                                                                                                              100%
                                                       25.2p                                                                                                              140%
                                                18.1p – 25.2p                                                               Pro-rata between 100% and 140% on a straight-line basis
Following vesting, shares will be held by Trustees, in a nominee capacity, throughout a fixed holding period at the end of which the shares may be
transferred to the participant. The holding period applicable to 50% of such vested shares will end on announcement of the 2010 year end results;
the balance of vested shares will be subject to a further six month holding period. During the holding period the participant will be eligible to
receive dividends and exercise voting rights.
The number of Restricted Share Awards is as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3 years                                          3.5 years
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2009                   2008                   2009                   2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       No.                     No.                     No.                     No.
Outstanding at 1 January and 31 December #                                                                                     2,002,000    2,002,000    2,002,000    2,002,000
# This represents the maximum number of restricted shares which could be achieved by the participants (i.e. 140%).
No awards were made during 2009 or were exercisable at either 31 December 2009 or 31 December 2008.
At 31 December 2009 the following EDRP Restricted Share Awards were outstanding:
                                                                                                                                                                                                No. of awards                                      Earliest                                    Exercise
Grant date                                                                                                                                                                                                              outstanding                           exercise date                                          price
21 May 2007                                                                                                                             2,002,000                 10 May 2010                               0.0p
21 May 2007                                                                                                                             2,002,000        10 November 2010                               0.0p
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2009 have a weighted average outstanding term of 0.6 years (31 December 2008: 1.6 years).
The estimate of fair value of awards granted is measured at full market value for EPS criteria and no valuation model is used. 
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
97 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 28.    Employee benefits – Share-based payments continued
(c)     F&C REIT variable minority interest SBP
In accordance with the F&C REIT Partnership Agreement, the F&C REIT minority partners (Kendray Properties Limited, Leo Noé and Ivor Smith)
have the potential to increase their stake in F&C REIT Asset Management LLP (“F&C REIT”) collectively from 30% to 40%.
A variable minority interest was granted as an incentive to achieve increased levels of profit including realisation of future performance fees in
return for a potential increased stake in the business. This variable minority interest is therefore accounted for under IFRS 2: Share-based
Payment. The fair value of the “award” at date of acquisition reflects the value assessed as part of the acquisition valuation. The fair value of the
award is reassessed at each reporting date and this fair value will be spread over the relevant vesting period.
The minority partners have the potential to increase their stake in F&C REIT by 3.33% for every year in which the EBITDA performance target of
£45.0m is achieved, up to a maximum of 10%, for example, if the target was achieved in the first three years, no further increase would be
possible. The variable minority interest performance criteria could be achieved in any year of the six year period from 1 January 2009 to 31
December 2014. The vesting period is uncertain but the maximum timescale to achieve full vesting for each 3.33% is in years 4, 5 and 6
respectively. The Directors have continued to assume that 3.33% will vest in each of 2012, 2013 and 2014 in full. The expense for each tranche is
being spread from the date of grant (3 September 2008) over 4, 5 and 6 years respectively. However, the respective vesting period may be
accelerated if the targets are achieved earlier. 
If either Leo Noé or Ivor Smith should leave during this period, the variable minority interest could still convert to all the minority partners, so the
remaining charge would be accelerated, subject to meeting the performance criteria. The additional minority interest to which the minority partners
would be entitled will be in proportion to their original partnership interest at the date of vesting. If a partner left after one year he would sacrifice
two thirds of his interest. If a partner stays three years he is entitled to his proportionate share of the full 10%, subject to meeting the performance
criteria. Kendray’s minority interest always varies in accordance with the underlying interests of Leo Noé and Ivor Smith. Any variable minority
interest sacrificed by a minority partner will remain part of FCAM plc’s share of F&C REIT. 
As the performance criteria is non-market based, to the extent that part or all of the performance criteria is not met then that proportion of the
charge will be reversed, i.e. “trued up”. It is still considered likely that the full conversion will be achieved. Therefore the IFRS 2 charge to the
Income Statement assumes full vesting.
(d)     Purchased Equity Plan (‘PEP’)
(i)      F&C Asset Management plc shares
The PEP operates in conjunction with the discretionary bonus scheme and is intended to encourage shareholding by management and
employees of the Group by providing for:
•       The compulsory purchase of shares using annual bonus above a threshold level; and
•       Voluntary purchase of shares using annual bonus, with associated Matching Shares. No Voluntary Purchased Equity awards have been
granted.
At the Board’s discretion, eligible employees who are awarded in a financial year an aggregate bonus in excess of a threshold level of £100,000
(2008: £100,000) will be required to defer one third of the element exceeding £100,000 (2008: £100,000) into shares (comprising either a range of
investment products managed by the Group or the Company’s shares) (Compulsory PEP) for three years.
The Compulsory PEP will not benefit from any form of matching award and is subject to forfeiture in the event that the employee leaves the Group
for any reason (other than as a “good leaver”) in the three year retention period.
The number of Compulsory PEP share awards is as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2009                          2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     No.                             No.
Outstanding at 1 January                                                                                                                                                             1,975,594          2,471,588
Granted during the year                                                                                                                                                                   213,761               89,371
Exercised during the year                                                                                                                                                               (792,495)           (541,511)
Forfeited during the year                                                                                                                                                                             –              (43,854)
Outstanding at 31 December                                                                                                                                                   1,396,860          1,975,594
Exercisable at 31 December                                                                                                                                                         41,044               15,503
The 24 March 2006 award vested on 24 March 2009.
The awards exercisable at 31 December 2009 relate to “good leavers”.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
98 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
28.    Employee benefits – Share-based payments continued
At 31 December 2009 the following awards granted under the PEP to acquire Ordinary Shares were outstanding:
                                                                                                                                                                                                No. of options                                      Earliest                                    Exercise
Grant date                                                                                                                                                                                                              outstanding                           exercise date*                                        price
13 April 2007                                                                                                                             1,105,055                 13 April 2010                               0.0p
2 April 2008                                                                                                                                    78,044                   2 April 2011                               0.0p
2 April 2009                                                                                                                                  213,761                   2 April 2012                               0.0p
* Assuming performance criteria satisfied.
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2009 have a weighted average outstanding term of 0.6 years (31 December 2008: 0.9 years).
(ii)     F&C Investment Funds
A new element was introduced into the PEP in 2007 whereby, at the discretion of the Board, the cash bonus is deferred on a mandatory basis
into certain F&C Funds (‘Compulsory Purchased Equity’) subject to continued service over either three or four years. This option is now available in
addition to the Compulsory PEP into FCAM plc shares. The main benefit of this arrangement is to incentivise fund managers to invest in the funds
they manage, thereby further aligning employee interests with those of clients.
The settlement of awards from the Compulsory PEP (‘F&C Investment Funds’) is made by realisation of the holding in the fund at the vesting date
and purchase of FCAM plc shares at that date. The value of the investment in F&C Funds, the FCAM plc share price and hence the ultimate
number of FCAM plc shares to be settled is only known with certainty at the vesting date. Any dividends paid during the vesting period are used
to buy further underlying F&C Investment Funds shares.
Although the awards meet the criteria of IFRS 2: Share-based Payment as the awards are ultimately settled in FCAM plc shares, it is not
considered possible to reliably estimate the fair value of these awards at the grant date. This is due to the number of market based criteria which
ultimately combine to determine the number and value of FCAM plc shares settled. Settlement of these awards to employees is satisfied by the
purchase of FCAM plc shares in the market.
The fair value of these awards at the year end has been determined by measurement of the equity instruments at intrinsic value, being the quoted
price of the relevant F&C Funds, both at the grant date and at each subsequent reporting date. The intrinsic value is then spread over the vesting
period. The value of the services provided is measured using the ultimate value of awards which vest.
Awards totalling £1.0m were made on 2 April 2009 (2 April 2008: £2.5m). These awards were invested into a total of 14 (2 April 2008: 24) eligible
F&C Investment Funds, comprising OEICs and Investment Trusts.
The underlying investments are held within an Employee Benefit Trust. Further details of the investments are disclosed in note 19(a)(i)(2).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Note                     £m                       £m
Value of F&C Investments held within the Purchased Equity Plan                                                                          19(a)(i)(2)               4.7                2.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            No.                      No.
Number of FCAM plc shares which would be settled as at the reporting date (based on 
year end FCAM plc share price)                                                                                                                                                    6,167,870     4,498,068
(e)     Deferred Share Awards
The Group has made some deferred share awards which are not subject to ongoing performance conditions, but have a time-vesting period.
The number of share awards is as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2009                          2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     No.                             No.
Outstanding at 1 January                                                                                                                                                                194,838          1,251,377
Granted during the year                                                                                                                                                                              –               40,000
Exercised during the year                                                                                                                                                               (154,838)        (1,096,539)
Outstanding at 31 December                                                                                                                                                        40,000             194,838
The 9 August 2006 award vested on 9 August 2009.
No awards were exercisable at either 31 December 2009 or 31 December 2008.
At 31 December 2009 the following Deferred Share Awards were outstanding:
                                                                                                                                                                                                No. of awards                                      Earliest                                    Exercise
Grant date                                                                                                                                                                                                              outstanding                           exercise date                                          price
3 September 2008                                                                                                                          40,000                3 March 2011                               0.0p
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2009 have a weighted average outstanding term of 1.2 years (31 December 2008: 0.9 years).
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
99 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 28.    Employee benefits – Share-based payments continued
(f)      Share Save Scheme
The Share Save Scheme is an “all-employee share scheme” which was activated in March 2003. The options granted entitle the holders to
acquire Ordinary Shares, whether by subscription or purchase, at a price per Ordinary Share determined by the Directors prior to the issue of
invitations. The price at which options are offered cannot be less than 80% of the middle-market quotation of an Ordinary Share at the date of
grant. No cash alternative is available.
As part of the application process, participants are required to enter into a savings contract with a savings provider (presently Yorkshire Building
Society), and agree to make 36 (in the case of a 3-year savings contract) or 60 (in the case of a 5-year contract) monthly savings contributions of
a fixed amount. At the end of the savings contract, participants may choose to apply for repayment of their savings contributions, in addition to a
tax free bonus.
An option may only be exercised once and normally only during the period of six months after the date on which the participants first become
entitled to repayment of their savings contributions plus bonus. The option will generally lapse after a period of six months following the end of the
savings contract. Employees who are deemed “good leavers” are entitled to exercise their options, for which they have accrued savings to date,
for a period of up to six months after they leave.
The number and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of share options are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2009                                                           2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WAEP                                                          WAEP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  No.                               £                            No.                                £
Outstanding at 1 January                                                                                                              870,326                  1.60         1,657,967                  1.56
Exercised during the year                                                                                                                         –                       –           (227,827)                 1.14
Forfeited during the year                                                                                                              (336,038)                 1.67           (559,814)                 1.67
Outstanding at 31 December                                                                                                    534,288                  1.56            870,326                  1.60
Exercisable at 31 December                                                                                                         3,270                  1.74                7,090                  1.45
No awards were made in 2009 or 2008.
The 19 April 2004 (5 year) award and 18 April 2006 (3 year) award vested during 2009.
The options exercisable at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 relate to “good leavers”.
At 31 December 2009 the following options granted under the Share Save Scheme to acquire Ordinary Shares were outstanding:
                                                                                                                                             No. of options                                      Earliest                               Exercisable                                    Exercise
Grant date                                                                                                                                                 outstanding                           exercise date                                       before                                          price
19 April 2004 (5 year)                                                                                  1,083              1 January 2010                   1 May 2010                           181.0p
29 April 2005 (5 year)                                                                                88,548                 29 April 2010           29 October 2010                           186.6p
18 April 2006 (3 year)                                                                                  2,187              1 January 2010                  1 June 2010                           171.0p
18 April 2006 (5 year)                                                                                86,270                 18 April 2011           18 October 2011                           171.0p
25 April 2007 (3 year)                                                                              240,059                 25 April 2010           25 October 2010                           144.3p
25 April 2007 (5 year)                                                                              116,141                 25 April 2012           25 October 2012                           144.3p
The options outstanding at 31 December 2009 have a weighted average outstanding term of 0.9 years (31 December 2008: 1.5 years).
The estimate of the fair value of options granted is measured based on a Binomial model. The contractual life of the option (3.5 or 5.5 years) is
used as an input to this model. Expectations of early exercise are incorporated into the model.
(g)     2002 Executive Share Option Scheme
The 2002 Executive Share Option scheme (“2002 ESOS”) was activated in March 2003. The vesting period for each award was three years and
options are settled by an allotment of shares to individuals. No cash alternative is available. All options under the 2002 ESOS have now vested, as
the performance criteria has been met. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of award, the options expire.
The number and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of share options are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2009                                                           2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WAEP                                                          WAEP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  No.                               £                            No.                                £
Outstanding at 1 January                                                                                                           1,082,028                  1.96         1,228,227                  1.99
Exercised during the year                                                                                                                         –                       –             (19,784)                 1.39
Forfeited during the year                                                                                                                           –                       –           (126,415)                 2.41
Outstanding at 31 December                                                                                                 1,082,028                  1.96         1,082,028                  1.96
Exercisable at 31 December                                                                                                  1,082,028                  1.96         1,082,028                  1.96
The options exercised during 2008 relate to a combination of “good leavers” and employees exercising vested options.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
100 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
28.    Employee benefits – Share-based payments continued
At 31 December 2009 the following options granted under the 2002 ESOS to acquire Ordinary Shares were outstanding:
                                                                                                                                             No. of options                                      Earliest                               Exercisable                                    Exercise
Grant date                                                                                                                                                 outstanding                           exercise date                                       before                                          price
19 March 2003                                                                                       480,908              1 January 2010              19 March 2013                         139.00p
9 March 2004                                                                                         601,120              1 January 2010                9 March 2014                         240.83p
The options outstanding at 31 December 2009 have a weighted average outstanding term of 3.8 years (31 December 2008: 4.8 years).
(h)     1995 Executive Share Option Scheme
IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ is only applied to grants of shares, share options or other equity instruments that were granted after 7 November
2002 and had not vested before 1 January 2005 (i.e. the effective date of IFRS 2). The 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme (“1995 ESOS”) last
granted options before 7 November 2002 and is not therefore subject to the full effects of IFRS 2 in terms of recognising an expense in the
Income Statement. The standard does, however, require certain disclosures to be made in respect of this Scheme.
The 1995 ESOS is an unapproved share option scheme, where participation was entirely at the discretion of the Directors. The lifespan of the
Scheme was ten years from the date on which it was approved by shareholders and accordingly no further options can be granted under the
Scheme after 1 September 2005. The vesting period was three years and all options are exercisable. Options are settled by grant of shares to
individuals. No cash alternative is available.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves
the Group. 
The number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of share options are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2009                                                           2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WAEP                                                          WAEP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  No.                               £                            No.                                £
Outstanding at 1 January                                                                                                              884,182                  2.84         1,333,047                  2.77
Lapsed during the year                                                                                                                (352,060)                 2.26           (448,865)                 2.65
Outstanding at 31 December                                                                                                    532,122                  3.21            884,182                  2.84
Exercisable at 31 December                                                                                                     532,122                  3.21            884,182                  2.84
At 31 December 2009 the following options granted under the 1995 ESOS to acquire Ordinary Shares were outstanding:
                                                                                                                                             No. of options                                      Earliest                               Exercisable                                    Exercise
Grant date                                                                                                                                                 outstanding                           exercise date                                       before                                          price
28 April 2000                                                                                          295,622              1 January 2010                 28 April 2010                         214.00p
1 March 2001                                                                                         236,500              1 January 2010                1 March 2011                         455.83p
The options outstanding at 31 December 2009 have a weighted average outstanding term of 0.7 years (31 December 2008: 1.2 years).
29.    Deferred income
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
At 1 January                                                                                                                                                                                               15.6              16.4
Income deferred in the year                                                                                                                                                                          1.8                3.8
Amortisation in the year                                                                                                                                                                               (4.5)              (4.6)
At 31 December                                                                                                                                                                                       12.9              15.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Split as follows:                                                                                                                                                                                              
Non-current liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                    9.1              11.2
Current liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                           3.8                4.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12.9              15.6
Deferred income primarily comprises initial fees arising on investments made by OEIC investors. These fees are initially recognised as deferred
income and released to income over the estimated period (2009: 7 years; 2008: 7 years) for which the investment is expected to be held.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
101 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 30.    Other financial liabilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            £m                       £m
Amounts due within one year:                                                                                                                                                                                            
Forward currency contracts                                                                                                                                                                         1.3                9.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.3                9.9
Amounts due outwith one year:                                                                                                                                                                                         
Forward currency contracts                                                                                                                                                                            –                2.4
F&C REIT put options liabilities                                                                                                                                                                   60.4              66.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  60.4              68.4
Total other financial liabilities                                                                                                                                                                 61.7              78.3
The forward currency contracts are used to partially hedge future Euro-denominated cash flows. The above liabilities reflect the fair value of
unrealised losses on open contracts at the reporting date, based on observable foreign exchange rates.
The F&C REIT put options represent the fair value of the potential future liability to purchase the 30% interest in F&C REIT currently held by the
minority interest partners in this business. The reduction in the fair value of the F&C REIT put options of £5.6m between 31 December 2008 and
31 December 2009 has been released to the Income Statement. Details of these options are disclosed in note 16(a).
An external valuation of the F&C REIT business was performed at 31 December 2009 to enable a fair value to be placed on the F&C REIT put
option liabilities.
The average of three valuation methodologies (equally weighted) was used to place a fair value on the F&C REIT business, namely:
1.      Discounted cash flow method
2.      Market earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA’) multiple
3.      Fixed EBITDA multiple
The main assumptions used in the valuation methodologies are:
(a)     Projections of the profit and loss for F&C REIT:
         Revenue Growth:                       1.5% – 7.5% per annum
         Cost inflation:                             3.5% per annum
(b)     Discount Rates:                         12.5% on recurring cash flows
                                                           25.0% on non-recurring cash flows
(c)     Perpetuity growth rates:             3.0% for recurring cash flows
                                                           3.0% for non-recurring cash flows
(d)     Earnings multipliers:                   9.0 x recurring EBITDA 
                                                           3.0 x non-recurring EBITDA
31.    Investment contract liabilities
Investment contract liabilities in respect of policyholder investments at the start and end of the year and an analysis of movements during the year
are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Note                     £m                       £m
Liability as at 1 January                                                                                                                                                                            753.1         1,090.1
Contributions received                                                                                                                                                                                67.5            197.1
Investment return applied                                                                                                                                                            4           136.0           (208.7)
Charges levied                                                                                                                                                                                            (3.4)              (4.2)
Repayments                                                                                                                                                                                            (303.2)          (268.6)
Movement in contingency reserve                                                                                                                                                               (0.1)                  –
Movement in reinsurance ceded                                                                                                                                                                      –             (52.6)
Liability as at 31 December                                                                                                                                                                  649.9            753.1
All investment contract liabilities have been disclosed as due within one year as this is considered to be appropriate to the rights of policyholders
who have the right to withdraw their investments at short notice. The Directors expect that the majority of the investment contract liabilities will be
repayable outwith one year.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
102 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
32.    Insurance contract liabilities
Insurance contract liabilities include life assurance liabilities in respect of lifetime guarantees provided with certain investment products, and
annuity liabilities in respect of pension investment contracts where the investor has retired. These liabilities and related reinsurance balances at the
start and end of the year, together with an analysis of movements in the year, are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                  2009                                                                            2008
                                                                                                                                                                            Gross     Reinsurance                     Net                 Gross        Reinsurance                     Net
                                                                                                                                                                                 £m                     £m                     £m                      £m                      £m                      £m
At 1 January                                                                                                                2.1               2.1                  –               2.3               2.3                  –
Claims paid                                                                                                                (0.1)             (0.1)                 –              (0.1)             (0.1)                 –
Change in economic assumptions                                                                              (0.1)             (0.1)                 –                  –                  –                  –
Unwinding of discount rate                                                                                          0.1               0.1                  –               0.1               0.1                  –
Other changes in year                                                                                                (0.1)             (0.1)                 –              (0.2)             (0.2)                 –
At 31 December                                                                                                        1.9               1.9                  –               2.1               2.1                  –
The reinsurance liabilities relate to annuity business reinsured with Friends Provident Pensions Limited.
A liability adequacy test was carried out at policy level and resulted in no additional provision for either 2009 or 2008. No significant gain or loss
arose on reinsurance contracts incepted in 2009 or 2008.
Assumptions
The principal assumptions used in determining the insurance contract liabilities and the reinsurers’ share of these liabilities, and the process
adopted to arrive at these assumptions are as follows:
Mortality rates                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2009                                          2008
Annuities in payment                                                                                                                                            81-94% PCXA00           83-94% PCXA00
Due to the small number of annuity policies, the mortality assumptions reflect recent experience of the reinsurer together with an allowance for
future mortality improvement. Experience analysis for mortality is performed annually by the reinsurer.
Discount rate
The discount rate used at 31 December 2009 is 5.21% (31 December 2008: 4.52%) based on current fixed interest gross redemption yields, with
a prudent adjustment for risk.
33.    Share capital
(a)     Ordinary Share capital of 0.1p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      31 December 2009                                 31 December 2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                              No. of                                                         No. of                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                             shares                            £m                       shares                             £m
Authorised:                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Equity interests                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Ordinary Shares of 0.1p                                                                                                         800,000,000                    0.8     800,000,000                    0.8
Allotted, called up and fully paid:                                                                                                                                                                                       
Equity interests                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Ordinary Shares of 0.1p                                                                                                         499,273,120                    0.5     495,725,314                    0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           No. of Shares
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2009                         2008
Issued at 1 January                                                                                                                                                                   495,725,314     495,705,530
Issue of shares at par to settle share-based payment awards                                                                                                       3,547,806                       –
Share options exercised during the year                                                                                                                                                      –              19,784
Issued at 31 December                                                                                                                                                          499,273,120     495,725,314
The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings
of the Company.
During the year the following Ordinary Shares were allotted, at par value, to settle share-based payment awards. There was no exercise price
associated with these awards.
Issue date                                                                                                                                                                                                     Share-based payment scheme                           No. of Shares
2 February 2009                                                                                                               Long-Term Remuneration Plan (Deferred)                           66,834
16 March 2009                                                                                                                                              Purchased Equity Plan                         273,801
16 March 2009                                                                                                                 Long-Term Remuneration Plan (Deferred)                           40,754
20 March 2009                                                                                                                 Long-Term Remuneration Plan (Deferred)                           36,197
18 May 2009                                                                                                                     Long-Term Remuneration Plan (Deferred)                      2,691,141
3 August 2009                                                                                                                  Long-Term Remuneration Plan (Deferred)                         125,716
29 September 2009                                                                                                          Long-Term Remuneration Plan (Deferred)                         110,667
1 December 2009                                                                                                             Long-Term Remuneration Plan (Deferred)                           51,348
31 December 2009                                                                                                           Long-Term Remuneration Plan (Deferred)                         151,348
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3,547,806
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
103 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 33.    Share capital continued
The Group held the following Ordinary Shares in Employee Benefit Trusts (“EBTs”). These are categorised as own shares and are deducted from
shareholders’ funds:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            No.                      No.
F&C Management Limited Employee Benefit Trust                                                                                                                           11,732,847     1,564,451
The Ivory & Sime Employee Benefit Trust                                                                                                                                                64,176          64,176
ISIS Employee Benefit Trust                                                                                                                                                                             –        141,755
                                                                                                                                                                                                       11,797,023     1,770,382
The aggregate nominal value of own shares held by EBTs at 31 December 2009 was £12,000 (31 December 2008: £2,000). The market value of
these shares at 31 December 2009 was £9.0m (31 December 2008: £1.0m).
During the year, the Group purchased 11,043,017 of its own 0.1p Ordinary Shares (2008: 345,845) to satisfy the settlements of awards granted
under share schemes and to hold as own shares within an EBT. The consideration paid for the shares was £7.4m (2008: £0.6m). The cost of this
to the Group, after exercise price monies paid by the employees, was £7.4m (2008: £0.4m).
(b)     Preference share capital of £1 each
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      31 December 2009                                 31 December 2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                              No. of                                                         No. of                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                             shares                            £m                       shares                             £m
Authorised, allotted, called up and fully paid                                                                                     –                       –            800,000                    0.8
The issued Cumulative Preference shares were classified as financial liabilities. The Preference Share capital was repaid to Friends Provident plc in
full on 16 July 2009, following the divestment by Friends Provident plc of its holding in FCAM plc on 3 July 2009. As the Preference share capital
was not cancelled with Court Approval, a Capital Redemption reserve was created to maintain the capital of the Company.
The key terms and conditions relating to these Preference shares were as follows:
–       Dividends on the Cumulative Preference shares were paid in priority to any payment of dividend on any other class of shares.
–       On a return of assets on liquidation, the assets of the Company available for distribution would have been applied first in repaying the holders
of the Cumulative Preference shares the amounts paid up or credited as paid up on such shares, together with any arrears of the dividend.
–       Holders of Cumulative Preference shares were entitled to one vote in instances where the dividend was six months in arrears or if a
resolution put to the meeting varied or impacted the rights and privileges attached to these shares.
The terms of the Cumulative Preference shares conferred the right to receive a variable rate dividend on the amount paid up or credited as paid up
on the Cumulative Preference shares at the rate of 2% per annum above the LIBOR rate expressed as a rate per annum at the commencement of
each half-yearly dividend payment period.
34.    Reserves
The analysis of movements in reserves is disclosed within the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 51.
Nature and purpose of reserves:
Share premium account
The share premium account is used to record the issue of share capital in excess of par value.
Capital Redemption reserve
The Capital Redemption reserve is used to maintain the capital of the Company when Shares are bought back and subsequently cancelled
without Court Approval.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve is used to record share premium on shares issued by way of consideration in respect of acquisitions. The element of the
merger reserve which relates to amortisation and impairment of intangible assets charged to the Income Statement is considered to be realised. 
A transfer is made from the merger reserve to retained earnings to recognise the extent to which the merger reserve has been realised, thereby
offsetting the corresponding element of the intangible amortisation and impairment charge.
Foreign currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the Financial Statements of foreign
operations and non-Sterling denominated intangible assets.
Fair value reserve
This reserve records fair value changes on available for sale investments until the investments are derecognised.
Acquisition reserve
The acquisition reserve was created on the initial recognition of the F&C REIT minority interest put options liability.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
104 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
34.    Reserves continued
Minority interests
This reserve represents the share of the Group’s net assets which are not attributable to equity holders of the parent, including the minority
interests’ share of intangible assets, arising from business combinations and subsequent amortisation thereof.
Retained earnings
Retained earnings comprises:
–       net profits and losses recognised through the Income Statement;
–       actuarial gains and losses recognised on pension obligations;
–       deferred tax on actuarial gains and losses;
–       transactions relating to equity-settled share-based payments, and deferred tax movements on share-based payments reflected through
equity;
–       the purchase and sale of own shares; and
–       transfer from merger reserve.
35.    Notes to the cash flow statement
(a)     Analysis of cash flow statement movements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (as restated†)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Notes                     £m                       £m
Adjustments for non-cash items:                                                                                                                                                                                      
Non-cash movements on forward currency contracts                                                                                                                                 (7.1)            12.3 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment                                                                                                                          13               2.8                3.0 
Amortisation of intangible assets                                                                                                                                                                50.5              49.9 
Impairment of intangible assets                                                                                                                                                                        –              48.3 
Release of acquisition creditor                                                                                                                                                                     (2.2)                  – 
Loss/(gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment                                                                                                                             0.2               (0.1) 
Equity-settled share-based payment expenses                                                                                                                         28             14.3              12.4 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  58.5            125.8 
Changes in working capital and provisions:                                                                                                                                                                     
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables                                                                                                                                     (12.9)            16.4 
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables                                                                                                                                           7.8               (6.4) 
Decrease in stock of units and shares                                                                                                                                                              –                0.5 
(Decrease)/increase in other liabilities                                                                                                                                                           (4.0)              0.3 
Decrease in investment contract liabilities                                                                                                                                  31          (103.2)          (337.0) 
Decrease in insurance contract liabilities                                                                                                                                                      (0.2)                  – 
Increase/(decrease) in employee benefit liabilities                                                                                                                                          3.5               (8.2) 
Decrease in deferred acquisition costs                                                                                                                                      17               2.1                0.8 
Decrease in deferred income                                                                                                                                                     29              (2.7)              (0.8) 
Pension charge to operating profit less defined benefit pension contributions paid                                                                                      (4.0)              (3.9) 
Increase/(decrease) in provisions for liabilities and charges                                                                                                                           0.8               (1.8) 
Decrease in financial investments                                                                                                                                                               84.9            327.0 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (27.9)            (13.1) 
†
As restated for the amendments to IFRS 2: Share-based Payment as disclosed in note 1.
(b)     Property, plant and equipment
During the period the Group acquired property, plant and equipment with an aggregate cost of £1.0m (2008: £1.2m). Cash payments of £0.9m
(2008: £1.6m) were made to purchase property, plant and equipment during the year.
(c)     Cash and cash equivalents
Note 22 provides details of cash and cash equivalent balances, a description of cash and cash equivalents, restrictions on use of cash, and note
24 gives details of borrowing facilities.
36.    Contingent liabilities
Ongoing business operations
In the normal course of its business, the Group is subject to matters of litigation or dispute. While there can be no assurances, at this time the
Directors believe, based on the information currently available to them, that it is not probable that the ultimate outcome of any of these matters will
have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Group.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
105 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 37.    Commitments
Operating leases
The Group had the following future minimum rentals payable in respect of non-cancellable operating leases and other contracts at the year-end:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Premises                           Other Contracts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      31 December      31 December    31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2009                   2008                   2009                   2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       £m                      £m                     £m                      £m
Not later than one year                                                                                                                                       11.6             11.6               1.4               3.1
Later than one year and not later than five years                                                                                                 43.8             45.0               1.6               1.7
Later than five years                                                                                                                                           46.7             56.3                  –                  –
                                                                                                                                                                        102.1           112.9               3.0               4.8
Obligations in respect of other contracts are stated gross and exclude amounts potentially recoverable from brokers under commission sharing
arrangements.
Commitments in respect of premises leases exclude service charges and other costs, which are variable in nature, and cannot be reliably
estimated.
Sub-lease receivables
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases at the year end are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Premises
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2009                   2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              £m                      £m
Not later than one year                                                                                                                                                                                  3.8               4.1
Later than one year and not later than five years                                                                                                                                         13.0             11.0
Later than five years                                                                                                                                                                                    11.3               6.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   28.1             21.9
A contingent lease payment, based on a percentage of revenue, is receivable in addition to the minimum lease payments in respect of one
property. The maximum amount receivable under this arrangement is £0.6m (31 December 2008: £0.6m) per annum.
Capital commitments
The amount contracted for in terms of capital expenditure, but not provided for in the Financial Statements at 31 December 2009 was £nil
(31 December 2008: £nil).
38.    Financial risk management
Overview
The Group has exposure to a number of business risks. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Group’s risk management
arrangements, but has delegated the implementation and operation of the Board policies to management. The Group’s risk management policies
and the risk management framework for identifying, monitoring and managing risks across the Group, including strategic and operational risks,
are detailed in the Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance on page 37.
The Directors consider it appropriate to differentiate between those financial risks which directly impact the Group and those which indirectly
impact the Group due to the risks borne by our clients and the consequential impact on the Group’s assets under management and revenues.
The Group’s direct or indirect exposure to financial instruments arises from the following financial risks:
•       Market risk
•       Credit risk
•       Liquidity risk
This note presents information on the Group’s direct or indirect exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and
processes for measuring and managing risk and the management of the Group’s capital. Note 39 provides numerical analysis of the Group’s
financial instrument exposure to such risks, including relevant sensitivity analysis, at the reporting date.
Indirect earnings risk through client assets
As an active fund manager, the Group is responsible for managing assets in accordance with the mandates specified by our clients. The assets
managed by the Group are subject to varying financial risks (market, credit and liquidity). While these risks could result in financial loss or gain
through a change in asset value, these risks and rewards are fully borne by, or fall to the benefit of, our clients.
However, as the majority of the Group’s revenues are quantified as a percentage of assets under management (generally on a quarterly or monthly
basis), the Group’s income is impacted by movements in client assets which are caused by the exposure to financial risks. As a result of the direct
link of revenues to the value of client assets, the Group’s interests are aligned to those of our clients.
A key risk to our business is that of poor investment performance, which could lead to the subsequent loss of client mandates. A key role of the
Heads of Equities and Fixed Income is to monitor the fund performance achieved by our investment professionals. Where it is considered
necessary, actions are taken to change process or personnel with a view to attaining top quartile performance. The Group has the ability to earn
performance fees from a number of our clients, where out-performance of the benchmark or set objective is achieved. These arrangements
reinforce the alignment of the Group’s interests with those of our clients.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
106 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
107 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
38.    Financial risk management continued
The key components of financial risk to which our clients are exposed are:
Market risk – the risk of financial loss arising from changes in the market prices of assets. Market risks include exposure to all asset classes,
including equities, fixed income products and property as well as currency risk and interest rate risk.
Credit risk – the risk of financial loss if a counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations in respect of assets held
within client portfolios. Credit risk can vary by asset class and individual instrument.
Liquidity risk – the risk of financial loss to client portfolios because a counterparty does not have sufficient financial resources available and is
unable to realise assets in order to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can only realise assets by suffering financial loss.
Direct earnings and capital exposure
The Group has direct exposure to the following risks in respect of financial instruments on the Statement of Financial Position:
•       Market risk – the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises three types of risk: currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk.
•       Credit risk – the risk of financial loss if a counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations in respect of financial
instruments held by the Group. Credit risk includes investment credit risk, counterparty risks, deposit and loan risks and country risks.
•       Liquidity risk – the risk of the Group failing to maintain adequate levels of financial resources to enable it to meet its financial obligations as
they fall due. Liquidity risk arises because of the possibility that the Group could be required to pay its liabilities earlier than expected or
because of any inability to realise assets in order to meet obligations as they fall due or is only able to realise assets by suffering financial
loss.
A fuller analysis of the financial risks associated with the Group’s financial instruments, together with the objectives, policies and processes to
manage the Group’s exposure to those risks follows.
Unit-linked assets and liabilities
A significant element of the value of the Group’s financial assets relates to the Group’s unit-linked pooled pension entity, F&C Managed Pension
Funds Limited (‘F&C MPF’). As outlined in note 19, Financial Instruments, the risks and rewards associated with these assets, which are held by
F&C MPF, fall to be borne by, or to the benefit of, the underlying policyholders. As a result, the investment contract liabilities included in the
Statement of Financial Position are equal and opposite in value to the assets which are held on behalf of unit-linked policyholders. The Group has
no direct exposure to fluctuations in the value of the assets arising from changes in market prices or credit default, although the revenue stream
earned from managing these assets varies in line with the movement in assets held on behalf of clients.
The financial risk management disclosures specifically exclude policyholders’ unit-linked assets and liabilities relating to F&C MPF as there is no
direct exposure to the Group from the associated financial instruments.
Financial investments
Recognising that the Group’s revenue stream has significant financial exposure to fluctuations in assets managed on behalf of clients, a key
principle of the Group Treasury Policy set by the Board is to restrict investment of the Group’s assets to low risk deposits or money market
instruments where the risk of capital loss is low, thereby seeking to protect the Group’s capital. Advanced Board approval is required for any
investment or financial instrument which does not follow this general principle.
Group Treasury Policy allows up to £20m of the Group’s cash resources to be utilised as seed capital to support the launch of new investment
funds. The policy permits seed capital to be invested in a maximum of two funds at any point in time, restricts the maximum initial investment to
£10m in any one fund and targets divestment of seed capital no later than 12 months from the date of investment. While no such investments
were held at either 31 December 2009 or 31 December 2008, investments totalling £14.8m were made during 2008 to facilitate the launch of new
single strategy hedge funds, subsequently realising a gain of £5.3m on disposal of these investments in 2008. Prior to 2008, the Group did not
hedge any of its cash flow exposure to movements in the value of client assets arising from any of these risks. During 2008, following significant
strengthening of the Euro against Sterling, the Group’s reporting currency, the Group entered into a series of forward currency contracts to provide
greater certainty over the Sterling value of some of the expected future Euro-denominated revenue streams, with the final contract maturing in
June 2010. Since these contracts were established, there has been a further strengthening of the Euro. The Board continues to recognise that the
Group has significant exposure to Euro-denominated cash flows, but at this point in time have not chosen to enter into any further medium-term
forward exchange contracts.
During 2009 the Group recognised £5.8m of realised gains and £1.2m of unrealised gains in respect of these forward currency contracts. These
gains represented the partial reversal of the £12.3m of unrealised losses recognised as at 31 December 2008. As at 31 December 2009, the
Group has one remaining forward currency contract for c15m which matures on 30 June 2010, for which a liability of £1.3m is recognised at
31 December 2009 to reflect the unrealised loss on this contract.
Financial investments classified as available for sale, as detailed in note 15, reflect the value of the Group’s private equity investments. These
primarily reflect carried interest entitlement which arises from the Group’s historical ownership of private equity businesses. The Board does not
seek to manage any of the financial risks associated with these investments and recognises that uncertainty exists as to the quantum and timing
of future distributions which may arise from these investments. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
108 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
38.    Financial risk management continued
Other financial investments, classified as fair value through profit or loss, as detailed in note 19(a)(i), primarily comprise assets held in connection
with current or historic employee remuneration arrangements. The Group has no net financial exposure to Purchased Equity Plan and Bonus
investments as the risks and rewards of all movements in the value of these financial assets fall to the beneficiary and are offset by equal and
opposite movements in the Group’s associated employee benefit liabilities, which accrue over the vesting period. The ‘NIC hedge’ economically
hedges the Group’s exposure to movements in future national insurance contributions obligations in respect of certain assets held by the Group’s
Employee Benefit Trusts.
Stock of units and shares
The Group operates and manages a number of OEICs whose funds, into which retail and institutional investors can invest, have a wide range of
investment objectives. The Group holds a stock of units and shares in these OEIC funds in order to facilitate the creation and redemption of units
by investors. The Group’s risk management policy limits the aggregate value of the units held by the Group to £1.5m, thereby capping the
maximum financial risk exposure associated with these assets.
Trade debtors and accrued income
Trade debtors and accrued income represent amounts recognised within net revenue in the Income Statement, but which have not been settled in
cash. The nature of F&C’s business is such that asset management fees accrue based on daily, month-end or quarter-end asset values, which
once known, are billed to clients and are due to be settled in line with individual contractual terms. As a result, the aggregate value of debtors and
accrued income can typically represent up to four months of revenue at any point in time. In addition, as most of the performance fees earned by
the Group accrue in respect of the calendar year and can only be billed subsequently, the quantum of accrued income recognised in the
Statement of Financial Position at the reporting date is generally higher than at other periods and is sensitive to the magnitude of performance
fees earned.
Before the Group takes on new clients, it undertakes the required "Know Your Client" procedures. As the Group manages assets on behalf of
clients and management fees are typically charged to and paid from the underlying funds managed by the Group, there is a relatively low risk of
default on management fees. The Group does not hold any credit insurance. Due to the scale of some of F&C’s larger clients, the Group is
exposed to a concentration of credit risk from large clients or groups of connected clients, arising from timing difference between the recognition
of income and the receipt of management fees outlined above. Very few clients have an external credit rating.
Where management fees are denominated in a currency other than Sterling, the Group is exposed to currency risk. As previously noted, prior to
2008 the Group did not hedge any of its exposure to monetary assets denominated in foreign currency. At 31 December 2009, only c15m of
future cash flows are covered by open forward currency contracts. 
Other debtors
Other debtors include ‘Trustee debtors’ and ‘Debtors due from investors in respect of the purchase of units’. In operating and managing OEICs,
the Group seeks to match the purchase and sale of investments to align to the receipt or payment of funds from or to investors. However, if these
obligations are not matched then there is a requirement for the Group to fund any shortfall from its corporate cash resources. The risk relating to
unsettled transactions is considered small due to the short settlement period involved. In the event that investors default on sums due, then the
Group is entitled to reimbursement of costs from the investor.
Cash and cash equivalents
F&C adopts a low risk approach to treasury management and seeks to ensure that its capital is preserved and financial risks are managed
appropriately.
The Group treasury operations are managed by the Finance function within parameters defined by the Board. The regulatory capital and treasury
position of the Group are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
The Group’s cash and cash equivalent assets are exposed to a number of financial risks in the normal course of its business. The policy adopted
is designed to manage risk and recognises that treasury management operations are specifically not treated as a profit centre. The key aspects of
this policy and its implementation are detailed below:
•       Funds on deposit will only be placed on a short term basis (maximum term 90 days) to help maximise regulatory capital.
•       Deposits may only be placed with counterparties approved by the F&C Credit Committee, and the Board has set a £25.0m limit for the
maximum exposure to any single counterparty. The F&C Credit Committee’s primary focus is to assess the credit position of counterparties
prior to placing any client assets with them and to monitor credit risk thereafter.
•       Exposure to cash and cash equivalent balances held in foreign currency is managed to reduce the risk of movements in exchange rates,
where possible, by the repatriation of surplus foreign currency into Sterling. This is achieved in practice via the regular settlement of the
Group’s transfer pricing arrangements and through the payment of dividends from foreign subsidiaries, having regard to their respective,
legal, regulatory and working capital requirements. The timing of the conversion of Euro-denominated cash balances to Sterling is by
necessity impacted by the settlement profile of the forward currency contracts. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
109 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
38.    Financial risk management continued
•       Cash and deposit balances can be exposed to interest rate movements. The Group utilises the experience and skills of its professional
dealing team to obtain the best interest rates, ensuring the expected maturity dates of deposits are aligned to the Group’s working capital
requirements.
Recognising the scale and significance of the global financial crisis which arose during 2008, and which had consequential economic impacts
through 2009, management sought to operate a maximum corporate exposure to any one financial institution of £15.0m, with prior approval
required for a limited number of exceptions, as the objective of capital preservation was considered of greater importance than maximising the
income generated from short-term deposits.
Reinsurance assets
The Group’s unit-linked pooled pension subsidiary is an insurance company and has some exposure to insurance contract liabilities, as outlined in
note 32. These liabilities are fully reinsured as the Group seeks to have no net insurance exposure. The reinsurance assets represent the expected
amounts recoverable to meet insurance liabilities as they fall due. The Group has exposure to both credit and liquidity risk on these assets.
Defined benefit pension deficit
The Group’s defined benefit pension deficit represents the discounted value of future pension obligations in excess of plan assets, details of which
are given in note 27.
The Group has exposure to the movements in the market value of the plan assets, which include equities and LDI fixed interest pools.
Approximately 30 per cent. of the assets held in respect of the UK scheme are held in LDI pools, with maturity profiles which match the expected
maturity profile of pension obligations. The market values of the LDI pools are impacted by movements in interest rates.
The value of defined benefit pension obligations is quantified and discounted using corporate bond rates. Movements in these rates can have a
significant impact on the pension liabilities and hence the quantum of the Group’s pension deficit.
Management of capital
While F&C considers its capital to be its total equity, this is effectively managed via the net assets to which it relates. The Company’s Ordinary
Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. The Board monitors significant movements in the composition of its shareholder base. Details of
substantial interests in share capital are shown in the Report of the Directors on page 29. In the ordinary course of business the only movements
in the absolute number of shares in issue would be through the issue of new or own shares to satisfy obligations under share-based payment
arrangements or through the purchase of own shares to satisfy future share scheme obligations. 
The Directors give careful consideration to the appropriate funding structure for financing all acquisitions, which historically have included both
equity and debt funded transactions.
Dividends are only declared by the Board after due consideration of a number of key items, including the financial results and the future outlook of
the financial position of the Company and of the Group. The dividend policy seeks to achieve a targeted dividend cover of 1.5 times underlying
profit. The Board declared an unchanged total dividend of 6.0p per share for 2009. As a result of the impact of extreme market conditions and
continued corporate uncertainty, this resulted in a 2009 dividend cover of less than the 150% target.
The overall objective of shareholder liquidity risk management is to ensure that there is sufficient liquidity over short and medium time horizons to
meet the needs of the business. This includes liquidity to cover, among other things, capital expenditure, servicing debt and equity capital as well
as working capital to fund the Group’s day-to-day operational requirements. The only security held over some of the Group’s assets is in respect
of the £10.0m Floating Rate Secured Notes which were issued during 2008 to partially finance the acquisition of REIT. Details of this security are
given in note 24.
Working capital
Working capital is monitored on a daily basis to ensure that settlement terms of all forthcoming liabilities can be met. This activity includes timely
collection of debtors and monitoring of cash on deposit, having regard to regulatory capital requirements, as outlined below. The Group’s Finance
function includes a Treasury team which manages the cash-flow requirements of the Group while seeking to maximise the amount of cash on
deposit.
The Group also has bank overdraft facilities available to it which provide some protection against any short-term cash-flow deficiencies. The
undrawn committed facilities available at the reporting date are shown in note 24 as are details of the Group’s interest bearing loans and
borrowings. During 2009 the Group executed a debt exchange programme, which sought to capitalise on the prevailing market conditions, and
acquired £135m of its existing subordinated loan notes and £25m of new cash in exchange for the issue of £129.7m of new guaranteed 9% debt,
which matures in 2016, generating a net gain of some £27.9m. The earliest repayment date for the remaining £125m subordinated loan notes is
2016, but this can be extended at the option of the Group until 2026. The Group has the option to defer interest payments on this debt, but if it
elects to do so then no dividend can be paid to Ordinary Shareholders until the cumulative amount of any unpaid interest due on the subordinated
debt is settled in full. No such interest payments have been deferred. 38.    Financial risk management continued
The Group issued £35.0m of debt during 2008 to partially finance the REIT acquisition. The £25m of cash raised as part of the debt exchange
was used to repay a portion of this debt. The remaining £10m of this debt requires to be repaid in full by 30 June 2010. The Directors currently
anticipate that this debt will be repaid from existing cash resources, but they will continue to monitor other options available to repay this debt,
recognising that prevailing market conditions will impact any refinancing alternatives.
Details of the Group’s interest bearing loans and borrowings are given in note 24.
The Board Reserved List prohibits the use of derivatives including futures, options and forward contracts, in respect of the Group’s net assets,
without prior Board approval, recognising the general principle of seeking to minimise capital loss. 
Regulatory capital requirements
The Group is required to maintain a minimum level of capital in accordance with the Capital Requirements Directive (CRD), prescribed in the UK by
the Financial Services Authority (FSA). 
In 2006, the Group obtained from the FSA a waiver from meeting any minimum capital requirements under the consolidated supervision rules of
the CRD. This waiver took effect from 1 January 2007 and requires renewal during 2011.
At 31 December 2009, there were 14 regulated companies in the Group, of which 10 are registered in the United Kingdom and are subject to
regulation by the FSA. This includes F&C MPF which, being a regulated insurance firm, as opposed to an investment firm, is not part of the
consolidation Group for regulatory capital reporting purposes. Overseas regulated companies, registered in the Republic of Ireland, The
Netherlands, Portugal and Hong Kong are subject to regulatory capital requirements set out by their local regulatory authority, as embedded within
the legislation of those jurisdictions.
Regulations set out the measurement of Capital Resources and Capital Resources Requirements (CRR) to determine the regulatory capital surplus
or deficit. This CRR is referred to as the Pillar 1 capital requirements under CRD.
For the UK regulated investment firms, the CRR is the higher of:
•       The sum of the ‘credit risk capital requirement’ and the ‘market risk capital requirement; and
•       the ‘fixed overhead requirement’.
Credit risk represents the risk of a party being unable to meet its obligations to a firm, calculated using risk weighted percentages applied to the
various exposure amounts. The market risk for F&C represents the risk of loss from fluctuations in exchange rates, calculated as a percentage of
the total of the long or short positions, denominated in foreign currencies, whichever is the greater. The fixed overhead requirement is calculated
as a quarter of a firm’s relevant fixed annual expenditure in the previous year’s audited Financial Statements.
The regulated companies are required to submit financial returns to the FSA, or the local regulatory authority for overseas companies, setting out
the calculation of the regulatory capital surplus (or deficit). The Group’s regulated companies are required to submit financial returns monthly,
quarterly or semi-annually and the Group must submit a consolidated return semi-annually.
The CRD requires the Group to conduct an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP), referred to as Pillar 2 capital requirements.
The objective of this process is to ensure that companies have adequate capital to enable them to manage risks not deemed to be adequately
covered under the Pillar 1 minimum requirements. This is a forward looking exercise which includes stress testing on major risks, considering how
the Group would cope with a significant market down turn, for example, and an assessment of the Group’s ability to mitigate the risks.
All of the Group’s regulated entities maintained surpluses of regulatory capital throughout 2009.
39.    The extent of risks arising from financial instruments
Note 38 presents details of the Group’s direct or indirect exposure to financial risks arising from financial instruments and the Group’s objectives,
policies and processes for measuring and managing risk and the management of the Group’s capital. This note provides numerical analyses of the
Group’s direct exposure to such financial risk, including relevant sensitivity analysis, at each reporting date.
The disclosures in this note exclude any policyholder unit-linked assets and liabilities in respect of F&C MPF, as the risks and rewards rest primarily
with the policyholders.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
110 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
39.    The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
(a)     Credit risk
(i)      Maximum exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk. The maximum exposure of each class of
financial asset is:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:                                                                                                                                   
Financial investments                                                                                                                                                                            10.0                8.2
Stock of units and shares                                                                                                                                                                        0.3                0.3
Available for sale financial assets:                                                                                                                                                                
Financial investments                                                                                                                                                                              2.2                2.1
Loans and receivables:                                                                                                                                                                                  
Trade debtors                                                                                                                                                                                        14.9                9.5
Accrued income                                                                                                                                                                                    41.3              35.0
Other debtors                                                                                                                                                                                        30.3              28.3
Amounts owed by Friends Provident Group                                                                                                                                                –                0.4
Amounts owned by F&C REIT related party entities                                                                                                                                 0.1                0.3
Amounts owed by Eureko Group                                                                                                                                                             1.4                4.8
Current tax receivable                                                                                                                                                                               5.8                   –
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholders                                                                                                                                        186.2            223.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                292.5            312.0
The accrued income balance is higher than the average monthly balance during the year. This is primarily due to the level of performance fees
recognised at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008.
The credit risk of the financial assets analysed by the credit ratings of the counterparties, based on external credit ratings, is set out below:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Other                     Not
                                                                                                                                                                               AAA                      AA                        A                  rated                  rated                  Total
As at 31 December 2009                                                                                                                                                  £m                     £m                     £m                     £m                     £m                     £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:                                                                                                                                                       
Financial investments                                                                                                 –               2.3                  –               0.3               7.4             10.0
Stock of units and shares                                                                                          –                  –                  –                  –               0.3               0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Available for sale financial assets:                                                                                                                                                                                    
Financial investments                                                                                                 –                  –                  –                  –               2.2               2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Loans and receivables:                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Trade debtors                                                                                                            –                  –               0.1               0.5             14.3             14.9
Accrued income                                                                                                        –                  –               1.6               0.1             39.6             41.3
Other debtors                                                                                                            –                  –               4.2                  –             26.1             30.3
Amounts owed by Eureko Group                                                                               –                  –               1.4                  –                  –               1.4
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities                                                     –                  –                  –                  –               0.1               0.1
Current tax receivable                                                                                           –                 –                 –                 –              5.8              5.8
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholders                                                           8.5             93.5             70.0             13.3               0.9           186.2
                                                                                                                                   8.5             95.8             77.3             14.2             96.7           292.5
As at 31 December 2008                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:                                                                                                                                               
Financial investments                                                                                      0.3              2.9                 –                 –              5.0              8.2
Stock of units and shares                                                                                   –                 –                 –                 –              0.3              0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Available for sale financial assets:                                                                                                                                                                          
Financial investments                                                                                         –                 –                 –                 –              2.1              2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Loans and receivables:                                                                                                                                                                                           
Trade debtors                                                                                                    –                 –              1.7              1.8              6.0              9.5
Accrued income                                                                                                 –                 –              2.7              0.8            31.5            35.0
Other debtors                                                                                                    –                 –                 –                 –            28.3            28.3
Amounts owed by Friends Provident Group                                                       –                 –                 –                 –              0.4              0.4
Amounts owed by Eureko Group                                                                       –                 –              4.8                 –                 –              4.8
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities                                             –                 –                 –                 –              0.3              0.3
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholders                                                         23.6             84.9           114.4               0.2                  –           223.1
                                                                                                                                 23.9             87.8           123.6               2.8             73.9           312.0
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
111 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 39.    The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
(ii)     Analysis of financial assets past due but not impaired
The analysis of financial assets which are receivable but have not been impaired is as follows:
                
                                                                                                                                                                          Neither                                                                  Between
                                                                                                                                                                       past due                   Less            Between              90 days              Beyond
                                                                                                                                                                                nor              than 30          30 and 90          and 1year                1 year
                                                                                                                                                                       impaired    days overdue   days overdue             overdue            overdue                  Total
As at 31 December 2009                                                                                                                                                  £m                     £m                     £m                     £m                     £m                     £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:                                                                                                                                   
Financial investments                                                                                           10.0                  –                  –                  –                  –             10.0
Stock of units and shares                                                                                       0.3                  –                  –                  –                  –               0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Available for sale financial assets:                                                                                                                                                                
Financial investments                                                                                             2.2                  –                  –                  –                  –               2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Loans and receivables:                                                                                                                                                                                  
Trade debtors                                                                                                         5.1               3.4               0.8               5.5               0.1             14.9
Accrued income                                                                                                   41.3                  –                  –                  –                  –             41.3
Other debtors                                                                                                       30.3                  –                  –                  –                  –             30.3
Amounts owed by Eureko Group                                                                            1.4                  –                  –                  –                  –               1.4
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities                                                  0.1                  –                  –                  –                  –               0.1
Current tax receivable                                                                                              5.8                  –                  –                  –                  –               5.8
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholders                                                       186.2                  –                  –                  –                  –           186.2
                                                                                                                               282.7               3.4               0.8               5.5               0.1           292.5
                                                                           
As at 31 December 2008                                                                                                                                                                                   
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:                                                                                                                                   
Financial investments                                                                                             8.2                  –                  –                  –                  –               8.2
Stock of units and shares                                                                                       0.3                  –                  –                  –                  –               0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Available for sale financial assets:                                                                                                                                                                
Financial investments                                                                                             2.1                  –                  –                  –                  –               2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Loans and receivables:                                                                                                                                                                                   
Trade debtors                                                                                                         4.2               2.1               1.6               1.1               0.5               9.5
Accrued income                                                                                                   35.0                  –                  –                  –                  –             35.0
Other debtors                                                                                                       28.2               0.1                  –                  –                  –             28.3
Amounts owed by Friends Provident Group                                                            0.4                  –                  –                  –                  –               0.4
Amounts owed by Eureko Group                                                                            4.8                  –                  –                  –                  –               4.8
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities                                                  0.3                  –                  –                  –                  –               0.3
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholders                                                       223.1                  –                  –                  –                  –           223.1
                                                                                                                               306.6               2.2               1.6               1.1               0.5           312.0
Based on past experience and the nature of the Group’s business, the Directors believe that no additional impairment provision is necessary at
either 31 December 2009 or 31 December 2008 in respect of trade debtors. The trade debtor balances, which have been impaired at the
reporting dates, are shown below.
(iii)    Impairment losses
Details of impairment of financial assets at 31 December are as follows.
Trade debtors provision:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
At 1 January                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1                0.1
Bad debt charge in the year                                                                                                                                                                         0.5                0.1
Utilised in the year                                                                                                                                                                                           –               (0.1)
At 31 December                                                                                                                                                                                         0.6                0.1
Gross impaired trade debtors                                                                                                                                                                  0.6                0.1
(iv)    Concentration risk
Specific concentration of risk in respect of amounts receivable from any one client or group of connected clients at the reporting date is given
below:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2009                   2008
Concentrations of £1.0m or more                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            £m                      £m
Amounts due from Eureko Group                                                                                                                                                                 3.6                9.7
Amounts due from OEIC Trustee (JP Morgan)                                                                                                                                              6.9                8.9
Amounts due from other significant clients – 2009: 10 clients (2008: 12)                                                                                                    37.8              25.9
Amounts due from significant other debtors – 2009: 2 (2008: nil)                                                                                                                  4.2                   –
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  52.5              44.5
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
112 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
39.    The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
Concentration risk comprises of individual entities or clients with a receivable balance of £1.0m or more at the reporting date. This disclosure
shows the potential impact of some of these entities or clients failing to satisfy payment of the receivable amounts. The table does not consider
the likelihood of any of these entities or clients defaulting.
(b)     Liquidity risk
The following are the maturity dates of the Group’s financial liabilities:
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Within
                                                                                                                                                                                                  1 year, or                Within                Within                  More
                                                                                                                                                                                                 repayable                     1-2                     2-5                   than
                                                                                                                                                                                              on demand                 years                 years              5 years                  Total
As at 31 December 2009                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                     £m                     £m                     £m                     £m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings:                                                                                                                                   
£125.0m Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026                                                       –                  –                  –           125.0           125.0
Interest on Subordinated Notes*                                                                                                 8.4               8.4             25.3             16.6             58.7
£129.7m Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016                                                                       –                  –                  –           129.7           129.7
Interest on Guaranteed Loan Notes 2016                                                                                 11.7             11.7             35.0             22.9             81.3
£10.0m Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010                                                                              10.0                  –                  –                  –             10.0
Interest on Secured Notes                                                                                                          0.2                  –                  –                  –               0.2
Trade and other payables:                                                                                                                                                         
Trade creditors                                                                                                                            1.9                  –                  –                  –               1.9
Other creditors – short-term                                                                                                      27.5                  –                  –                  –             27.5
Other creditors – long-term                                                                                                            –               0.2               0.6               0.9               1.7
Accruals – short-term                                                                                                               27.1                  –                  –                  –             27.1
Accruals – long-term                                                                                                                      –               0.4               2.5               2.1               5.0
Current tax payable                                                                                                                      1.5                  –                  –                  –               1.5
Other financial liabilities – short-term                                                                                      12.1                  –                  –                  –             12.1
Other financial liabilities – long-term                                                                                             –             15.1             45.3                  –             60.4
                                                                                                                                                   100.4             35.8           108.7           297.2           542.1
                                                            
As at 31 December 2008
Interest bearing loans and borrowings:                                                                                                                                   
£260.0m Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026                                                       –                  –                  –           260.0           260.0
Interest on Subordinated Notes*                                                                                               17.6             17.6             52.6             52.7           140.5
£35.0m Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010                                                                                    –             35.0                  –                  –             35.0
Interest on Secured Notes                                                                                                          1.5               0.8                  –                  –               2.3
Preference Share capital
‡
                                                                                                              –                  –                  –               0.8               0.8
Trade and other payables:                                                                                                                                                         
Trade creditors                                                                                                                            1.4                  –                  –                  –               1.4
Other creditors – short-term                                                                                                      22.6                  –                  –                  –             22.6
Other creditors – long-term                                                                                                            –               0.2               0.6               0.9               1.7
Accruals – short-term                                                                                                               20.6                  –                  –                  –             20.6
Accruals – long-term                                                                                                                      –               0.4               1.7               3.3               5.4
Current tax payable                                                                                                                    12.5                  –                  –                  –             12.5
Other financial liabilities – short-term                                                                                      62.6                  –                  –                  –             62.6
Other financial liabilities – long-term                                                                                             –             12.1             16.5             49.5             78.1
                                                                                                                                                   138.8             66.1             71.4           367.2           643.5
* To the date of the Group’s option to extend the Notes beyond 19 December 2016.
‡
Interest on the Preference Share capital was considered potentially perpetual in nature and is excluded from this table.
The maturity dates of the Group’s financial liabilities have been determined by reference to the earliest contractual date which the counterparty
could demand payment and the stated amounts represent undiscounted cash flows.
Included within other financial liabilities are:
•       the gross cash flows associated with the Group’s forward currency contracts. The net unrealised losses on open contracts at the reporting
date are disclosed in note 30; and
•       the F&C REIT put options, included at the earliest date at which the options could be exercised.
The Group has borrowing facilities available to it. The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 are
shown in note 24.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
113 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 39.    The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
(c)     Market risk
(i)      Market price risk
The analysis of financial assets which are exposed to market price risk is as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2009                   2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              £m                      £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:                                                                                                                                   
Financial investments                                                                                                                                                                                   7.6                5.6
Stock of units and shares                                                                                                                                                                             0.3                0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7.9                5.9
Details of the assets held by the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes, which are also exposed to market price risk, are given in note 27.
(ii)     Other price risk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2009                   2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              £m                      £m
Available for sale financial assets:                                                                                                                                                                
Financial investments                                                                                                                                                                                    2.2                2.1
(iii)    Currency risk
The Group is exposed to currency risk at the reporting date in respect of:
(i)       financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies; and
(ii)      the foreign currency risk of net assets of foreign operations.
The net monetary assets and net investment in foreign operations, in Sterling, which are denominated in foreign currencies or for which the fair
value of the asset or liability varies with movements in foreign currencies are:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Euro           US Dollar                 Other                  Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       £m                     £m                     £m                     £m
As at 31 December 2009                                                                                                                                 94.3               2.6               1.4             98.3
As at 31 December 2008                                                                                                                                 129.6               1.8               1.4           132.8
                                             
The above table excludes intangible assets.
(iv)    Interest rate risk
The following tables set out the carrying amount and maturity profile of the Group’s financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Within                Within                Within         More than
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1 year           1-2 years           2-5 years              5 years
As at 31 December 2009                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                     £m                     £m                     £m
Fixed rate                                                                                                                                                                
£125.0m Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026                                                                                –                  –                  –          (125.0)
£129.7m Guaranteed Loan Notes 2016                                                                                                                  –                  –                  –          (129.7)
Financial investments – corporate bonds                                                                                                                 –                  –               0.3                  –
Financial investments – NIC hedge                                                                                                                          –                  –               0.1                  –
                                                                                                                                                                                 
Floating rates                                                                                                                                                          
£10.0m Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010                                                                                                       (10.0)                 –                  –                  –
Financial investments – fair value through profit or loss                                                                                         2.3                  –                  –                  –
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholder                                                                                                         186.2                  –                  –                  –
                                                                                                                                                                        178.5                  –               0.4          (254.7)
As at 31 December 2008                                                                                                                                          
Fixed rate                                                                                                                                                                
£260.0 fixed/floating Subordinated Notes 2016/2026                                                                                              –                  –                  –          (258.2)
Financial investments – corporate bonds                                                                                                                 –                  –                  –               0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                 
Floating rates                                                                                                                                                          
£35.0m Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010                                                                                                             –            (35.0)                 –                  –
Financial investments – fair value through profit or loss                                                                                         2.4               0.2                  –                  –
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholder                                                                                                         223.1                  –                  –                  –
£0.8m Preference Share capital                                                                                                                               –                  –                  –              (0.8)
                                                                                                                                                                        225.5            (34.8)                 –          (258.3)
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
114 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
39.    The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
(v)     Sensitivity analysis
The Group has quantified the impact of specific changes in its significant market risk variables. This analysis measures the change in fair value and
cash flows of the Group’s financial instruments.
The sensitivity analysis, which is for illustrative purposes only, is prepared based on financial instruments at the reporting dates. The sensitivity
assumes changes in certain market conditions. These assumptions may differ materially from the actual outturn due to the inherent uncertainties
in global financial markets. In practice, market risks rarely change in isolation and are likely to be interdependent. The methods and assumptions
used are the same for both reporting periods.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared based on the impact a set percentage increase or decrease in the market conditions would have on the
profit or loss and on total equity.
Changes in exchange rates assume an instantaneous increase or decrease of 10.0% for foreign currency to Sterling rates at the reporting date,
with all other variables remaining constant.
The estimated changes in fair values of investments assume a 10.0% increase or decrease in the fair values of investments at the reporting date,
with all other variables remaining constant.
Changes in market interest rates assume an increase or decrease of 1.0% in the rate applied to average cash balances in the year.
The financial impact of market risk sensitivities, after taxation, are summarised below:
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Profit or loss        Profit or loss                   Equity                   Equity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 sensitivity             sensitivity             sensitivity             sensitivity
As at 31 December 2009                                                                                                                                                                                                  £m                         £m                         £m                         £m
Exchange rate movement*                                                                                                                   +10%             -10%             +10%             -10%
Currency                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Sterling/Euro exchange rates                                                                                                                       2.2                (2.7)                8.8              (10.8)
Sterling/USD exchange rates                                                                                                                       0.2                (0.2)                0.2                (0.2)
Fair value movement – Investments                                                                                                   +10%             -10%             +10%             -10%
Sterling equity prices                                                                                                                                    0.6                (0.6)                0.7                (0.7)
Interest rate movement                                                                                                                          +1%               -1%               +1%               -1%
Sterling market interest rates                                                                                                                       1.4                (1.4)                1.4                (1.4)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
As at 31 December 2008                                                                                                                                                                                
Exchange rate movement*                                                                                                                   +10%             –10%             +10%             –10%
Currency                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Sterling/Euro exchange rates                                                                                                                        8.0                 (9.8)               18.4               (18.3)
Sterling/USD exchange rates                                                                                                                        0.1                 (0.1)                 0.1                 (0.1)
Fair value movement – Investments                                                                                                   +10%             –10%             +10%             –10%
Sterling equity prices                                                                                                                                    0.4                 (0.4)                 0.6                 (0.6)
Interest rate movement                                                                                                                          +1%               –1%               +1%               –1%
Sterling market interest rates                                                                                                                        1.8                 (1.8)                 1.8                 (1.8)
* Represents a 10% movement in favour of the Group and 10% movement against the Group.
The decrease in the sensitivity to changes in the Sterling/Euro exchange rate from 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2009 is primarily
attributable to the lower value of open forward currency contracts held as at 31 December 2009.
In addition, the F&C REIT put options are disclosed at fair value. A 10% movement in the fair value of the options at 31 December 2009 would
result in a £6.0m (31 December 2008: £6.6m) charge or credit to the Income Statement and to equity.
Impairment of financial assets can also be affected by changes in the relevant underlying risk.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
115 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
116 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
39.    The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
(d)     Capital
A summary of the Group’s capital and the net assets which it represents is shown below:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Share capital                                                                                                                                                                                                0.5                0.5
Share premium account                                                                                                                                                                             33.8              33.8
Merger reserve                                                                                                                                                                                         416.6            456.8
Other reserves                                                                                                                                                                                           (14.5)              0.6
Retained earnings                                                                                                                                                                                    133.3            119.4
Minority interests                                                                                                                                                                                        19.2              18.7
Total equity                                                                                                                                                                                             588.9            629.8
Net assets                                                                                                                                                                                              588.9            629.8
Note 38 describes the Group’s management of capital, working capital and regulatory capital requirements in detail.
40.    Insurance risk management
The Group’s insurance contracts are all annuity contracts which guarantee payment during the lifetime of the annuitant at a specified level or with
a specified escalation factor. They are all 100% reinsured with Friends Provident Pensions Limited.
The only risk that the Group is subject to in respect of these contracts is the credit risk of the reinsurer. Given the small amount at risk (£1.9m at
31 December 2009; £2.1m at 31 December 2008), this is not considered significant. Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
41.    Subsidiary undertakings
The principal entities controlled by the parent undertaking are as follows:
                                                                                                                               Percentage                               Country of                                         
                                                                                                                               interest and                              registration or                                  
                                                                                                                               voting rights*                            incorporation                                    Nature of business
(i) United Kingdom                                                                                                                                                  
FP Asset Management Holdings Limited
(1)
                              100                                England                               Holding company
F&C Asset Management Services Limited
(1)
                            100                                Scotland                              Employee service company
ISIS Investment Manager plc
(1)
                                                100                                England                               Investment management
F&C Managed Pension Funds Limited
(1)
                                  100                                England                               Unit-linked pooled pensions business
F&C Treasury Limited
(1)
                                                            100                                England                               Treasury management company
F&C Group (Holdings) Limited
(1)
                                              100                                England                               Holding company
F&C Group ESOP Trustee Limited
(1)
                                        100                                Scotland                              ESOP Trustee
F&C Investment Business Limited
(1)
                                         100                                Scotland                              Investment Trust management
F&C Finance plc
(1)
                                                                   100                                England                               Debt financing company
F&C Aurora (GP) Limited
(1)
                                                       100                                Scotland                              General Partner
The Aurora Fund (Founder Partner) LP
(1)
                                 50
#
                                Scotland                              Founder Partner
F&C European Capital Partners (GP) Limited
(1)
                        100                                Scotland                              General Partner
F&C European Capital Partners (Founder Partner) LP
(1)
           50
#
                                Scotland                              Founder Partner
F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
(1)
                                       70
#
                                England                               Property asset management
FP Fund Managers Limited
(2)
                                                   100                                England                               Investment management
F&C Asset Managers Limited
(2)
                                               100                                England                               Investment management
F&C Property Limited
(2)
                                                           100                                England                               Property asset management
F&C Property Investments Limited
(3)
                                        100                                England                               Property asset management
F&C Fund Management Limited
(3)
                                           100                                England                               OEIC investment management
F&C Managers Limited
(3)
                                                         100                                England                               Investment management
WAM Holdings Limited
(4)
                                                         100                                England                               Holding company
FCEM Holdings (UK) Limited
(5)
                                                100                                England                               Holding company
F&C (CI) Limited
(6)
                                                                   100                                England                               Investment company
F&C Investment Services Limited
(6)
                                          100                                England                               Investment and support services
F&C Management Limited
(6)
                                                    100                                England                               Investment management
F&C Alternative Investments (Holdings) Limited
(7)
                    100                                England                               Investment holding company
F&C Group Management Limited
(7)
                                         100                                England                               Holding company
F&C Emerging Markets Limited
(8)
                                            100                                England                               Investment management
F&C Holdings Limited
(9)
                                                           100                                England                               Holding company
F&C Partners LLP
(10)
                                                               60
#
                                England                               Hedge fund investment management
F&C Private Equity Nominees Limited
(11)
                                 100                                England                               Investment company
F&C REIT Property Asset Management plc
(12)
                         70                                  England                               Property asset management
F&C REIT Asset Management Limited 
(formerly REIT Asset Management Limited)
(12)
                         70                                  England                               Property asset management
Tier Services Limited
(14)
                                                           70                                  England                               Property asset management
F&C REIT Corporate Finance Limited
(formerly REIT Corporate Finance Limited)
(13)
                           70                                  England                               Property asset management
(ii) Overseas                                                                                                                                                             
F&C Channel Islands Limited
(5)
                                                100                                Jersey                                  Employee service company
F&C Netherlands B.V.
(7)
                                                           100                                The Netherlands                  Investment management
F&C Ireland Limited
(7)
                                                              100                                Republic of Ireland               Investment management
F&C Portugal Gestao de Patrimonios S.A.
(7)
                            100                                Portugal                               Investment management
F&C Asset Management Asia Limited.
(7)
                                  100                                Hong Kong                          Investment management
F&C Luxembourg S.A.
(7)
                                                          100                                Luxembourg                        Investment management
F&C Management Luxembourg S.A.
(7)
                                    100                                Luxembourg                        Investment management
F&C REIT Asset Management S.à.r.l.
(12)
                                  70                                  Luxembourg                        Property asset management
Adebai Limited
(14)
                                                                    70                                  Cyprus                                 Holding company
F&C REIT Asset Management Sweden AB
(14)
                          70                                  Sweden                               Property asset management
F&C REIT Asset Worldwide Limited
(14)
                                     70                                  Gibraltar                               Property asset management
F&C REIT Asset Management GmbH & Co KG
(14)
                   70
#
                                Germany                              Property asset management
F&C REIT Property Management India Pvt Ltd
(15)$
                   70                                  India                                     Property asset management
* Voting rights are ordinary share capital except where indicated.
# Partnership interest in voting rights.
$
This company has a non-coterminous 31 March reporting date, to comply with local reporting requirements.
(1)         
Owned by F&C Asset Management plc
(2)         
Owned by FP Asset Management Holdings Limited
(3)         
Owned by WAM Holdings Limited
(4)         
Owned by F&C Treasury Limited
(5)         
Owned by F&C Management Limited
(6)         
Owned by F&C Holdings Limited
(7)         
Owned by F&C Group (Holdings) Limited
(8)         
Owned by FCEM Holdings (UK) Limited
(9)         
Owned by F&C Group Management Limited
(10)       
Owned by F&C Alternative Investments (Holdings) Limited
(11)       
Owned by F&C (CI) Limited
(12) 
     Owned by F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
(13) 
     Owned by F&C REIT Asset Management Limited
(14) 
     Owned by F&C REIT Asset Management S.à.r.l.
(15) 
     Owned by Adebai Limited
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
117 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
118 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
42.    Related party transactions
In the ordinary course of business, the Company and its subsidiary undertakings carry out transactions with related parties, as defined by IAS 24:
Related Party Disclosures. Material transactions for the year are set out below.
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company are shown in note 41. During the year, the Group entered into the following transactions
with related parties:
(a)     Compensation of key management personnel of the Group
In aggregate these are set out below:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total        Outstanding at                          Total           Outstanding at
                                                                                                                                                                                                compensation           31 December            compensation            31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2009                         2009                         2008                          2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                            £m                            £m                             £m
Short-term employee benefits                                                                                                             10.0                    4.0                    9.5                    4.2
Post-employment benefits                                                                                                                    0.8                       –                    1.4                       –
Termination benefits                                                                                                                              0.2                       –                    0.4                    0.2
Share-based payments                                                                                                                         1.0                       –                    1.1                       –
Total                                                                                                                                                   12.0                    4.0                  12.4                    4.4
‘Key management personnel’ comprise:
•       Directors of all principal companies in the Group.
•       Members of the Group’s Executive Committee.
Compensation of key management personnel excludes the profit entitlement attributable to minority interests, which are separately disclosed
within note 42(c)(iii).
Where key management personnel participate in defined benefit pension schemes which have been accounted for as such under IAS 19, the
amount included as compensation reflects the current service and/or past service cost for the relevant year. Where key management personnel
are members of multi-employer defined benefit arrangements or defined contribution schemes, the benefits shown reflect the contributions
payable for each year.
The share-based payments disclosed in the table above reflect the value of any share-based payments vesting during the year. This is quantified
as the aggregate of cash payments plus the fair value of shares on the date of vesting (excluding any consideration payable on exercise) of such
share-based payment awards.
(b)     Transactions with key management personnel of the Group
Appropriations of profits paid to key management are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Minority                                                      Minority
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         interest at                                                   interest at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   31 December                                             31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2009                         2009                         2008                          2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                            £m                            £m                             £m
Ordinary dividends paid                                                                                                                         0.1                       –                    0.1                       –
Distributions paid to minority interests*                                                                                                  2.3                  19.2                    1.6                  18.7
* An analysis of profit entitlements for 2009 and 2008 and net assets attributable to minority interests at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 are disclosed on pages 120
and 122.
(c)     Transactions and balances with related parties
Transactions with related parties during 2009 and 2008 and outstanding balances with these parties as at 31 December 2009 and 31 December
2008 are given below, by each group of related parties.
(i)      Related party transactions with the Friends Provident Group (“FP Group”)
Friends Provident plc was the parent undertaking and ultimate controlling party of the F&C Group until 3 July 2009. As such, all the disclosures
below relates to the point of demerger, when the FP Group ceased to be a related party.
Companies within the F&C Group provide investment management services to companies in the FP Group and are entitled to receive
management fees in line with the contractual terms of relevant investment management agreements. Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
42.    Related party transactions continued
Companies within the FP Group provide, under the Shared Services Agreement, services in respect of accounting and other professional services.
Fees are paid monthly in arrears. The Shared Services Agreement is terminable on six months’ written notice by either party. Following Friends
Provident’s shareholding in the Company falling below 50% in July 2009 the investment management agreements with the FP Group reverted to
long-term contracts of between 5 and 10 years (from their inception in July 2004). After such time, the agreements are terminable with 12 months’
notice.
                                                                                                                                                                                                Total invoiced        Outstanding at             Total invoiced           Outstanding at
                                                                                                                                                                                                   and accrued           31 December              and accrued            31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                    during 2009                         2009               during 2008                          2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                            £m                            £m                             £m
Management fees                                                                                                                            14.6                   n/a                  31.6                   (0.4)
Amounts outstanding at 31 December are included within trade debtors and 
accrued income or other creditors as appropriate.                                                                                                                                                                
Shared services and administration services:                                                                                                                                                                
Shared service fees                                                                                                                               0.2                   n/a                    0.4                   (0.1)
Administration service fees                                                                                                                    0.3                   n/a                    0.6                       –
Amounts outstanding at 31 December are included within accruals.                                                                                                                                     
Other recharges:                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Other recharges to the FP Group                                                                                                          0.5                   n/a                    0.6                       –
Other recharges from the FP Group                                                                                                         –                   n/a                    0.2                   (0.8)
Other recharges includes charges made to or from the FP Group for premises, 
staff costs and other related expenditure.                                                                                                                                                                              
Amounts outstanding at 31 December are included within amounts owed by/(to) the
Friends Provident Group.                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Dividends and interest payable:                                                                                                                                                                                       
Ordinary dividends                                                                                                                              10.3                   n/a                  15.5                       –
Dividends on Preference Shares                                                                                                               –                   n/a                    0.1                       –
Other transactions:                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Net investment in property funds                                                                                                          (0.1)                  n/a                 (45.2)                      –
Annuity reinsurance                                                                                                                               0.1                   n/a                    0.2                       –
                                             
Net investment in property funds represents amounts invested through the Property Funds of Friends Provident Life Assurance Limited, a
subsidiary undertaking of Friends Provident plc.
OEICs and private equity special purpose vehicles (‘SPVs’)
Where the FP Group controlled an F&C managed OEIC or private equity SPVs, it was required to consolidate them and hence the investment
management fees received by F&C were related party transactions. The total invoiced and accrued during 2009 is until the point of demerger,
when FP plc ceased to be a related party.
                                                                                                                                                                                                Total invoiced        Outstanding at             Total invoiced           Outstanding at
                                                                                                                                                                                                   and accrued           31 December              and accrued            31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                    during 2009                         2009               during 2008                          2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                            £m                            £m                             £m
Investment management fees                                                                                                               4.0                   n/a                  10.3                    0.7
Carried interest receipts                                                                                                                           –                   n/a                    1.1                       –
(ii)     Related party transactions with Eureko B.V. and subsidiary companies (Eureko Group)
Since the acquisition of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited in 2004, the Eureko Group has held in excess of 10% of the Ordinary Shares of the
Company and is entitled to Board representation. Consequently, transactions between the F&C Group and the Eureko Group are considered to
be related party transactions.
Companies within the F&C Group provide investment management services to the Eureko Group. The F&C Group is entitled to receive
management fees in line with the contracted terms of relevant investment management agreements. The Achmea Group (subsidiary of Eureko)
investment management agreements referred to below are deemed significant. These agreements are subject to long term contracts terminable,
other than when asset class underperformance triggers have been breached, on 12 months’ notice falling on or after the ninth anniversary of their
commencement date (typically October 2004). In the event of a change of control whereby a third party acquires a controlling interest in F&C,
immediate termination is possible with compensation payable to F&C by the Achmea Group based on lost revenue streams.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
119 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
120 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
42.    Related party transactions continued
Companies within the Eureko Group, under the Transitional Services Agreement, provides services in respect of investment accounting and other
administration services.
                                                                                                                                                                                                Total invoiced        Outstanding at             Total invoiced           Outstanding at
                                                                                                                                                                                                   and accrued           31 December              and accrued            31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                    during 2009                         2009               during 2008                          2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                            £m                            £m                             £m
Shared services and administrative services:                                                                                                                                                                 
Achmea Group                                                                                                                                     0.6                    0.1                    0.4                       –
Friends First                                                                                                                                          0.1                       –                    0.1                       –
Amounts outstanding at 31 December are included within acruals.
Management fees:                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Achmea Group                                                                                                                                   30.4                    1.7                  33.3                    4.9
Friends First                                                                                                                                          4.3                    0.4                    3.4                   (0.1)
Imperio                                                                                                                                                 0.4                    0.1                    0.5                    0.1
Amounts outstanding at 31 December are included within trade debtors and accrued income.                                                                                            
Dividends payable to Eureko B.V.:                                                                                                                                                                                    
Ordinary dividends                                                                                                                                3.1                       –                    3.1                       –
Amounts owed from/to Eureko
In addition to the above, the Group was owed £1.4m at 31 December 2009 (31 December 2008: £4.8m) by Eureko B.V. and its subsidiaries. The
Group owed Eureko B.V. £0.7m at 31 December 2009 (31 December 2008: £2.9m) as disclosed in note 16(d).
The Group also owed Eureko B.V. £1.3m at 31 December 2009 (31 December 2008: £5.2m) in respect of taxation balances.
(iii)    Transactions with Minority Partners
(1)     F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
F&C Asset Management plc owns 70% of the “A” and “B” partnership units in F&C REIT Asset Management LLP . The other partners in the
Partnership, all of whom have significant influence over the management of the Partnership or a significant economic interest in the Partnership
are:
Kendray Properties Limited                             30.0%  ownership interest in “A” units
Leo Noé                                                          22.5%  ownership interest in “B” units
Ivor Smith                                                        7.5%   ownership interest in “B” units
These parties are considered to be related parties. The 2008 period represents the period from acquisition of F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
on 3 September 2008 to 31 December 2008.
The partners are entitled to receive a share of the profits of F&C REIT Group.
                                                                                                                                    2009                                                              Minority                 2008                                                                Minority
                                                                                                                      amortisation                 2009                 2009        interest at      amortisation                 2008                 2008          interest at
                                                                                                                      of intangible                profit    distributions  31 December      of intangible                 profit      distributions    31 December
                                                                                                                                assets               share                  paid                 2009               assets                 share                  paid                 2008
                                                                                                                                      £m                    £m                    £m                    £m                    £m                    £m                    £m                    £m
Kendray Properties Limited                                                         (1.2)             2.3                 –            10.2             (0.4)             0.9                 –              9.1
Leo Noé                                                                                     (0.9)             1.9             (0.7)             6.9             (0.3)             0.7             (0.2)             6.6
Ivor Smith                                                                                   (0.3)             0.7             (0.4)             2.1             (0.1)             0.2             (0.2)             2.1
                                                                                                   (2.4)             4.9             (1.1)           19.2             (0.8)             1.8             (0.4)           17.8
The following clients of F&C REIT Asset Management LLP are considered to be related parties as one or more of the minority partners serves as a
Director of these companies.
                                                                                                                                                                                                Total invoiced        Outstanding at             Total invoiced           Outstanding at
                                                                                                                                                                                                   and accrued           31 December              and accrued            31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                    during 2009                         2009               during 2008                          2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                            £m                            £m                             £m
Pinton Estates PLC Group                                                                                                                    n/a                   n/a                    0.4                    0.3
Ashpol PLC Group                                                                                                                               n/a                   n/a                    0.1                    0.1
Brightsea EPG Limited Group                                                                                                               0.9                    0.3                    0.4                    0.4
Estates & General Limited Group                                                                                                          n/a                   n/a                    0.1                    0.1
St Katherine’s Investments LP                                                                                                               0.5                    0.1                    0.1                    0.1
Star City Unit Trust                                                                                                                                0.2                       –                       –                    0.1
Lionsgate Properties LP                                                                                                                        0.3                       –                       –                       –
                                                                                                                                                             1.9                    0.4                    1.1                    1.1
The balances are trading balances in the ordinary course of business. Amounts outstanding at the reporting date are unsecured and non-interest
bearing. Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
42.    Related party transactions continued
F&C has a shared services agreement and a staff secondment agreement with F&C REIT Asset Management LLP whereby the F&C Group
provides certain administrative and professional services to the F&C REIT Group. Amounts charged under these agreements are set out below:
                                                                                                                                                                                                Total invoiced        Outstanding at             Total invoiced           Outstanding at
                                                                                                                                                                                                   and accrued           31 December              and accrued            31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                    during 2009             during 2009               during 2008               during 2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                            £m                            £m                             £m
Shared services and administrative services:                                                                                                                                                                 
Employee benefits                                                                                                                                 7.4                    3.6                    2.5                    1.1
Administration service fees                                                                                                                    1.3                    0.2                    0.6                    0.3
The above amounts are eliminated on consolidation.                                                                                                                                                            
The F&C REIT Asset Management LLP Group has balances with several entities connected with the minority partners of the Partnership. These
balances primarily remain from creation of the F&C REIT Group.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Balances                            Balances
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           outstanding at                    outstanding at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             31 December                     31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2009                                  2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              £m                                     £m
Kendray Properties Limited                                                                                                                                                               (0.3)                        (0.2)
REIT Europe Limited                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                          0.3
REIT Asset Management LP                                                                                                                                                             (2.0)                        (2.1)
REIT Asset Management GmbH & Co KG                                                                                                                                            –                          (0.1)
In addition, F&C REIT Asset Management LLP paid Leo Noé and Ivor Smith £0.4m during 2009 (£0.1m during 2008) in respect of rent for the F&C
REIT Group’s head office at Wigmore Street, London.
The minority partners owe F&C REIT Asset Management LLP £0.7m at 31 December 2009 (£0.2m at 31 December 2008) as part of the
equalisation of net assets upon completion, as included in note 16(a) and (b).
Certain management fees receivable by F&C companies outwith the F&C REIT Group are passed to the F&C REIT Group under revenue
delegation agreements, as the asset management activity has been delegated to F&C REIT. Amounts payable during the year and outstanding at
the year-end are set out below:
                                                                                                                                                                                                Total invoiced        Outstanding at             Total invoiced           Outstanding at
                                                                                                                                                                                                   and accrued           31 December              and accrued            31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                    during 2009                         2009               during 2008                          2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                            £m                            £m                             £m
Management fees                                                                                                                            12.7                    4.8                    4.4                    0.6
These amounts are eliminated on consolidation.                                                                                                                                                                   
Full details of the 2008 acquisition are given in note 16(a) and (b). As part of the transaction in 2008, F&C paid £25.0m in cash and issued £35.0m
of Secured Loan Notes to Kendray Properties Limited, of which £25.0m was repaid to Kendray Properties Limited during 2009. Details of the loan
notes are given in note 24.
Interest on Secured Loan Notes
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Charged and        Outstanding at             Charged and           Outstanding at
                                                                                                                                                                                              accrued during           31 December          accrued during            31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2009                         2009                         2008                          2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                            £m                            £m                             £m
Interest payable to Kendray Properties Limited                                                                                      1.5                       –                    0.8                    0.2
The F&C Group incur a share-based payment expense in respect of the variable minority interest enhancement which could be achieved by
Kendray Properties Limited, Leo Noé and Ivor Smith. Full details are disclosed in note 28(c).
The F&C REIT minority partners each have a put option to sell their minority stake in F&C REIT after a minimum number of years. Details of the
carrying amount of these option liabilities are disclosed in note 30. The option liability is split in the ownership proportions of Kendray Properties
Limited, Leo Noé and Ivor Smith.
(2)     F&C Partners LLP
F&C Alternative Investments (Holdings) Limited owns 60% of F&C Partners LLP . The other partners in the Partnership, both of whom have
significant influence over the management of the Partnership and a significant economic interest in the Partnership are:
F. Barthelemy         20% ownership interest
A. Culligan             20% ownership interest
These parties are considered to be related parties.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
121 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
122 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
42.    Related party transactions continued
The partners are entitled to receive a share of the profits in F&C Partners LLP .
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Minority                                                                                        Minority
                                                                                                                                                                              2009                interest at                                                           2008                  interest at
                                                                                                                                  2009 profit            distributions           31 December                 2008 profit               distributions            31 December
                                                                                                                                 entitlement                          paid                         2009                 entitlement                           paid                          2008
                                                                                                                                               £m                            £m                            £m                            £m                             £m                             £m
F. Barthelemy                                                                                   0.15                   (0.6)                      –                    0.5                   (0.6)                 0.45
A. Culligan                                                                                       0.15                   (0.6)                      –                    0.5                   (0.6)                 0.45
                                                                                                          0.3                   (1.2)                      –                    1.0                   (1.2)                   0.9
Under the terms of the Partnership agreement, a portion of certain management fees receivable by F&C Partners LLP are passed to F&C
Alternative Investments (Holdings) Limited.
                                                                                                                                                                                                Total invoiced        Outstanding at             Total invoiced           Outstanding at
                                                                                                                                                                                                   and accrued           31 December              and accrued            31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                    during 2009                         2009               during 2008                          2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                            £m                            £m                             £m
Management fees                                                                                                                              0.7                    0.4                    1.6                    0.5
These amounts are eliminated on consolidation.                                                                                                                                                                   
The Group has a shared services agreement with F&C Partners LLP whereby the F&C Group provides certain administrative and professional
services to F&C Partners LLP .
                                                                                                                                                                                                Total invoiced        Outstanding at             Total invoiced           Outstanding at
                                                                                                                                                                                                   and accrued           31 December              and accrued            31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                    during 2009                         2009               during 2008                          2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                            £m                            £m                             £m
Employee services                                                                                                                                0.7                    0.3                    0.7                    0.2
Administration service fees                                                                                                                    0.1                       –                    0.1                       –
The above amounts are eliminated on consolidation.
(iv)    Post-employment benefit plans
Pension Schemes
The Group operates and participates in several post-employment benefit plans as detailed in note 27.
The Group contributed amounts to the defined benefit plans and had amounts outstanding at 31 December each year as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2009                                                         2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Employer        Outstanding at                   Employer           Outstanding at
                                                                                                                                                                                                 contributions           31 December             contributions            31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                            £m                            £m                             £m
F&C Asset Management Pension Plan                                                                                                  5.7                       –                    5.6                       –
F&C Portugal 
(1)
                                                                                                                                        –                       –                    0.6                    0.6
F&C Netherlands                                                                                                                                   0.7                       –                    1.0                    0.1
F&C Ireland                                                                                                                                           0.2                       –                    0.2                       –
                                                                                                                                                             6.6                       –                    7.4                    0.7
(1)
incorporated within the Fundo de Pensoes do Grupo Banco Comercial Português scheme.
In addition to the above, the Group has an unfunded obligation to provide the former Chairman, Mr R W Jenkins, with a pension as detailed in
note 27.
The Group manages the assets of the F&C Asset Management plc Pension Plan. The assets of the Plan totalled £144.2m at 31 December 2009
(31 December 2008: £131.4m). In addition, the Group managed £800.3m at 31 December 2008 of investments in respect of Friends Provident’s
main defined benefit pension scheme. Friends Provident plc was the parent undertaking and ultimate controlling party of the F&C Group until 3
July 2009. As such, the disclosure below relates to the point of demerger, when FP plc ceased to be a related party. 
The Group received the following investment management fees from these schemes:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2009                                                         2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Fees        Outstanding at                          Fees           Outstanding at
                                                                                                                                                                                                       receivable           31 December                  receivable            31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                            £m                            £m                             £m
F&C Asset Management Pension Plan                                                                                                     –                    0.1                    0.4                    0.3
Friends Provident Pension Scheme                                                                                                       0.4                   n/a                    0.9                    0.2 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
43.    Capital Requirements Directive
Under Pillar 3 of the Capital Requirements Directive, prescribed in the UK by the Financial Services Authority, the Group is required to disclose
information relating to its risks and its regulatory capital and risk management objectives and policies. The Group’s Pillar 3 disclosures are given on
the Company’s website.
44.    Guarantees
As disclosed in note 24, Kendray Properties Limited holds a security over FCAM’s entire holding in F&C REIT Asset Management LLP until their
Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010 are settled in full.
The Company’s subsidiary, F&C Netherlands B.V., has provided a lease guarantee for £0.2m to the landlord of their premises at Jachthavenweg
109k, 1081 KM Amsterdam. The guarantee is in respect of 3 months rent (inclusive of services, additional charges and VAT).
45. Parent undertaking and controlling party
In the opinion of the Directors, the Group’s ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party until 3 July 2009 was Friends Provident plc. The
results of the F&C Group were consolidated in the Group Accounts of Friends Provident Group plc (formerly Friends Provident plc), until 3 July
2009, the date when Friends Provident divested its entire interest in the Group.
Friends Provident Group plc is incorporated in England and Wales. Copies of the Friends Provident Group plc Annual Report and Accounts can
be obtained from the Company Secretary, Pixham End, Dorking, Surrey RH4 1QA.
From 3 July 2009, in the opinion of the Directors, the Group has no ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
123 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
124 Financial Statements Five Year Record
Five Year Record
Historical summaries
The Five Year Record is shown based on International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) which have been adopted by the Group. 
This Five Year Record is not part of the audited Financial Statements.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IFRS
                                                                                                                                                                                            IFRS                       IFRS                       IFRS                      2008                     IFRS
                                                                                                                                                                                            2005                      2006                      2007          (as restated#)                    2009
Consolidated Income Statements                                                                                                                                         £m                         £m                         £m                         £m                        £m
Revenue                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Investment management fees                                                                                            277.3             257.6             267.2             244.2             237.8
Other income                                                                                                                         0.7                 3.7               10.6                 1.1                 4.1
Total revenue                                                                                                                   278.0             261.3             277.8             245.3             241.9
Fee and commission expenses                                                                                           (10.9)              (10.5)              (13.3)              (15.4)             (16.8)
Net revenue                                                                                                                     267.1             250.8             264.5             229.9             225.1
Net gains/(losses) and investment income on unit-linked assets                             162.6             106.7               45.0             (208.7)            136.0
Movements in fair value of unit-linked liabilities                                                        (161.3)            (105.0)              (43.9)             210.5            (134.6)
Operating expenses                                                                                                                                                                                    
Operating expenses                                                                                                          (150.7)            (159.4)            (183.8)            (171.0)           (164.8)
Amortisation of intangible assets – management contracts                                                 (55.8)              (43.0)              (42.4)              (48.9)             (49.8)
Impairment of intangible assets – management contracts                                                 (111.5)              (58.5)                    –               (48.3)                   –
Unrealised gains/(losses) on forward exchange contracts                                                          –                     –                     –               (12.3)                1.2
Other exceptional operating costs                                                                                       (22.2)              (11.6)              (10.6)              (10.6)             (19.0)
Total operating expenses before restructuring costs                                                (340.2)            (272.5)            (236.8)            (291.1)           (232.4)
Operating (loss)/profit before restructuring costs                                                        (71.8)              (20.0)               28.8               (59.4)               (5.9)
Restructuring costs:                                                                                                                                                                                        
– Reorganisation costs post acquisition of F&CGH Group                                                   (22.4)                (9.7)                    –                     –                    –
– Operations outsourcing                                                                                                      (2.2)                    –                     –                     –                    –
Operating (loss)/profit after restructuring costs                                                           (96.4)              (29.7)               28.8               (59.4)               (5.9)
Finance revenue                                                                                                                  15.6               20.6               23.8               25.7               11.5
Finance costs                                                                                                                     (19.5)              (22.0)              (27.3)              (29.4)             (30.3)
F&C REIT put option fair value gain                                                                                           –                     –                     –                     –                 5.6
Gain on debt exchange                                                                                                             –                     –                     –                     –               27.9
Loss on disposal of subsidiaries and associates                                                                   (0.7)                (0.1)                    –                 (4.1)                   –
Impairment in associates and other financial investments                                                      (5.0)                (0.8)                    –                 (0.1)               (0.1)
Share of (loss)/profit of associates                                                                                         (0.3)                 1.5                 0.6                     –                    –
Profit/(loss) before tax                                                                                                   (106.3)              (30.5)               25.9               (67.3)                8.7
Tax – Policyholders                                                                                                               (0.1)                (0.9)                (0.6)                (0.9)               (0.4)
Tax – Shareholders                                                                                                              29.1                 8.9                 (6.6)               17.6               10.4
Tax income/(expense)                                                                                                      29.0                 8.0                 (7.2)               16.7               10.0
Profit/(loss) for the year                                                                                                  (77.3)              (22.5)               18.7               (50.6)              18.7
Attributable to:                                                                                                                                                                                             
Equity holders of the parent                                                                                                (77.3)              (23.5)               17.1               (52.5)              15.9
Minority interests                                                                                                                       –                 1.0                 1.6                 1.9                 2.8
Profit/(loss) for the year                                                                                                  (77.3)              (22.5)               18.7               (50.6)              18.7
Underlying earnings per Ordinary Share                                                                      15.90p           12.80p         10.37p               7.76p           4.58p
Basic earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share                                                                    (16.36)p            (4.91)p          3.54p             (10.66)p          3.24p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share                                                                 (16.36)p            (4.91)p          3.43p             (10.66)p          3.19p
Dividends                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Memo                                                                                                                                                                                      
Final dividend for 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008                                                           32.9               33.5               33.8               19.7               19.8
Interim dividend for 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009                                                       18.9               19.2                 9.7                 9.9                 9.7
                                                                                                                                            51.8               52.7               43.5               29.6               29.5
Final dividend per Ordinary Share for 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008                             7.0p               7.0p               7.0p               4.0p               4.0p
Interim dividend per Ordinary Share for 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009                         4.0p               4.0p               2.0p               2.0p               2.0p
Dividend cover
†
                                                                                                                (1.58)              (0.45)               0.39               (1.78)              0.54
Dividend cover before exceptional items
†
                                                                             1.45               1.17               1.15               1.29               0.76
†
based on the dividends paid during 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009.
#
As restated for the amendment to IFRS 2: Share-based Payment as disclosed in note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
125 Financial Statements Key Performance Indicators
The following tables reconcile the reported earnings to underlying earnings and demonstrate the impact of foreign exchange gains
and losses.  In addition, the calculation of key performance indicators is also given below.
Year ended 31 December 2009
In £ millions unless otherwise stated                                                                                                   Underlying EPS                                       Underlying EPS ex FX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Adjusted      Adjustments for                  Adjusted
                                                                                                                                                                      Reported                                                       Income                             FX                     Income
                                                                                                                                                                       earnings            Adjustments                Statement          (gains)/losses                Statement
A   Net Revenue                                                                                                   225.1                       –                225.1                       –                225.1
        Net policyholder income                                                                                     1.4                       –                    1.4                       –                    1.4
        Underlying operating expenses                                                                (166.6)                      –               (166.6)                      –               (166.6)
        Exchange losses                                                                                                (4.1)                      –                   (4.1)                   4.1                       –
        Realised gains attributable to closed FX contracts                                              5.9                       –                    5.9                   (5.9)                      –
        FX contract losses recognised in prior periods                                                       –                   (9.9)                  (9.9)                   9.9                       –
        Operating expenses                                                                                       (164.8)                  (9.9)              (174.7)                   8.1               (166.6)
        Amortisation/impairment of intangible assets                                                   (49.8)                 49.8                       –                       –                       –
        Unrealised gains attributable to open FX contracts                                             1.2                   (1.2)                      –                       –                       –
        Exceptional operating costs                                                                             (19.0)                 19.0                       –                       –                       –
      Total operating expenses                                                                             (232.4)                 57.7               (174.7)                   8.1               (166.6)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
B   Operating (loss)/profit                                                                                      (5.9)                 57.7                  51.8                    8.1                  59.9
        Gain on debt exchange                                                                                    27.9                 (27.9)                      –                       –                       –
        F&C REIT put option fair value gain                                                                     5.6                   (5.6)                      –                       –                       –
        Interest paid                                                                                                     (20.3)                      –                 (20.3)                      –                 (20.3)
        Interest and investment income received                                                            3.6                       –                    3.6                       –                    3.6
        Other non-operating items                                                                                 (2.2)                      –                   (2.2)                      –                   (2.2)
        Minority interest                                                                                                     –                   (6.2)                  (6.2)                      –                   (6.2)
      Profit before tax                                                                                                 8.7                  18.0                  26.7                    8.1                  34.8
        Tax income/(expense)                                                                                       10.0                 (14.2)                  (4.2)                  (2.3)                  (6.5)
C   Profit for year                                                                                                    18.7                    3.8                  22.5                    5.8                  28.3
      Underlying EPS (C÷D)                                                                                                                                         4.6p                                           5.8p
      Group operating margin (B÷A)                                                                                                                        23.0%                                        26.6%
D   Weighted average number of shares (000)                                                                                                 491,145                                     491,145
Year ended 31 December 2008
In £ millions unless otherwise stated                                                                                                   Underlying EPS                                       Underlying EPS ex FX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Adjusted      Adjustments for                  Adjusted
                                                                                                                                                                      Reported                                                       Income                             FX                     Income
                                                                                                                                                                       earnings            Adjustments                Statement          (gains)/losses                Statement
A   Net Revenue                                                                                                   229.9                       –                229.9                       –                229.9
        Net policyholder income                                                                                     1.8                       –                    1.8                       –                    1.8 
        Underlying operating expenses                                                                (172.3)                      –               (172.3)                      –               (172.3)
        Exchange gains                                                                                                  6.3                       –                    6.3                   (6.3)                      –
        Realised losses attributable to closed FX contracts                                            (5.0)                      –                   (5.0)                   5.0                       –
        Operating expenses                                                                                       (171.0)                      –               (171.0)                  (1.3)              (172.3)
        Amortisation/impairment of intangible assets                                                   (97.2)                 97.2                       –                       –                       –
        Unrealised losses attributable to open FX contracts                                         (12.3)                 12.3                       –                       –                       –
        Exceptional operating costs                                                                             (10.6)                 10.6                       –                       –                       –
      Total operating expenses                                                                             (291.1)               120.1               (171.0)                  (1.3)              (172.3)
B   Operating (loss)/profit                                                                                    (59.4)               120.1                  60.7                   (1.3)                 59.4
        Interest paid                                                                                                     (19.4)                      –                 (19.4)                      –                 (19.4)
        Interest and investment income received                                                          16.0                       –                  16.0                       –                  16.0
        Other non-operating items                                                                                 (4.5)                   4.1                   (0.4)                      –                   (0.4)
        Minority interest                                                                                                     –                   (2.7)                  (2.7)                      –                   (2.7)
      (Loss)/profit before tax                                                                                   (67.3)               121.5                  54.2                   (1.3)                 52.9
        Tax income/(expense)                                                                                       16.7                 (32.7)                (16.0)                   0.4                 (15.6)
C   (Loss)/profit for year                                                                                       (50.6)                 88.8                  38.2                   (0.9)                 37.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
      Underlying EPS  (C÷D)                                                                                                                                        7.8p                                           7.6p
      Group operating margin  (B÷A)                                                                                                                       26.4%                                        25.8%
D   Weighted average number of shares (000)                                                                                                 492,686                                     492,686
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Key Performance Indicators                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2009                   2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Notes                            £m                      £m
Fixed assets                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Tangible fixed assets                                                                                                                                                             5                    1.8               2.4
Investments in subsidiaries                                                                                                                                                   6             1,199.1        1,195.3
Other investments                                                                                                                                                                7                    9.8               7.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,210.7        1,205.3
Current assets                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Debtors – amounts falling due:                                                                                                                                                                                             
Within one year                                                                                                                                                                   8                105.5           120.8
Outwith one year                                                                                                                                                                8                  61.6             61.1
Cash and short-term deposits                                                                                                                                                                     0.2               0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                               167.3           182.0
Creditors (amounts falling due within one year)                                                                                                             9                 (25.3)            (13.0)
Net current assets                                                                                                                                                                               142.0           169.0
Total assets less current liabilities                                                                                                                                                  1,352.7        1,374.3
Creditors (amounts falling due outwith one year)                                                                                                          9               (343.8)          (360.0)
Provisions for liabilities                                                                                                                                                   10                 (10.2)              (7.3)
Net assets                                                                                                                                                                                             998.7        1,007.0
Capital and reserves                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Called up Ordinary Share capital                                                                                                                                   16, 17                    0.5               0.5
Share premium account                                                                                                                                                      17                  33.8             33.8
Capital Redemption reserve                                                                                                                                                17                    0.8                   –
Merger reserve                                                                                                                                                                   17                912.7           912.7
Acquisition reserve                                                                                                                                                              17                 (66.0)            (66.0)
Other reserves                                                                                                                                                                    17                  68.3             70.9
Profit and loss account                                                                                                                                                       17                  48.6             55.1
Total shareholders’ funds                                                                                                                                               17                998.7        1,007.0
The Company Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 31 March 2010. They were signed on its
behalf by:
                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Nick MacAndrew                                                                           Alain Grisay 
Chairman                                                                                       Chief Executive
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
126 Company Financial Statements Company Balance Sheet
Company Balance Sheet
as at 31 December 2009
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
127 Company Financial Statements Company Accounting Policies Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Basis of preparation
The separate Financial Statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act and are prepared under the historical cost
convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
In accordance with Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 a separate Profit and Loss Account for the Company is not presented.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29: Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and has not disclosed the
information required by that standard because the Company is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements which are publicly available and
include disclosures given under IFRS 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Turnover
Turnover comprises fees for secretarial services provided to Investment Trusts and shared services and administration services provided to
subsidiary undertakings. Fees are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account over the period for which these services are provided.
Dividend recognition
Dividends receivable and dividends payable are recognised only when they have been declared and approved or at the date of payment for
interim dividends.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. The cost includes the uplift arising from the equity-settled
share-based payments calculated in accordance with FRS 20 (IFRS 2): Share-based Payment, where no cash contributions are made by the
subsidiaries. The uplift is credited to a capital contribution reserve in equity. The Company recharges certain subsidiaries when it satisfies these
equity-settled awards.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Expenditure on tangible fixed assets is capitalised on initial recognition. Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised when it is probable that there
will be future economic benefits associated with the expenditure which can be measured reliably. All other expenditure is recognised in the Profit
and Loss Account as an expense as incurred.
Tangible fixed assets are depreciated, using the straight-line method, to write off the cost of assets over their estimated useful lives, as follows:
Leasehold improvements      – 10 years
Office furniture & equipment  – 3-5 years
Computer equipment            – 3 years
The carrying value of assets and their useful lives are reviewed at each reporting date. If an indication of impairment exists, the assets are written
down to their recoverable amount and the impairment is charged to the Profit and Loss Account in the year in which it arises.
Financial instruments
When financial instruments are recognised initially they are measured at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
The fair value of instruments that are actively traded in organised financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid prices (mid
price for Open Ended Investment Companies) at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments are classified into the categories described below:
(i)       Available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value in the Balance Sheet. In respect of unquoted instruments, or where the market for
a financial instrument is not active, fair value is established by using recognised valuation methodologies, in accordance with International
Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
         For unquoted investments in early stage enterprises and enterprises with revenues but without significant profits or significant positive cash
flows, fair value is determined using the “Price of a Recent Investment” method. Repayments are treated as reductions to carrying value.
After an appropriate period, an assessment is made as to whether the circumstances of the investment have changed such that another
valuation methodology is appropriate or there is any evidence of deterioration or strong defensible evidence of an increase in value. In the
absence of these indicators, fair value is determined to be that reported at the previous balance sheet date.
         Unquoted investments with revenues, maintainable profits and/or maintainable cash flows are valued by deriving an Enterprise Value of the
underlying business.
Company Accounting Policies F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
128 Company Financial Statements Company Accounting Policies Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
         Movements in fair value, other than impairment losses and foreign exchange movements on monetary assets, are taken to the fair value
reserve in equity until derecognition of the asset, at which time the cumulative amount in this reserve is recognised in the Profit and Loss
Account. The following assets are classified as available for sale:
         •       Fixed assets
                   –       Other investments
(ii)      Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss include investments which have been specifically designated as ‘at fair value through
profit or loss’. These are carried in the Balance Sheet at fair value and movements in fair value are taken to the Profit and Loss Account in
the period in which they arise. The following assets are classified as financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss:
         •       Fixed assets
                   –       Other investments
         •       Non-current assets
                    –       Other financial liabilities
(iii)     Loans and receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair value plus any incremental costs incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition,
loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Gains and losses are recognised in the Profit
and Loss Account when loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process. The following
assets and liabilities are classified as loans and receivables:
         •       Current assets:
                   –       Debtors
                   –       Cash and short-term deposits
(iv)     Financial liabilities are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method after initial recognition, other than the minority
interest put options which are classified as fair value through profit or loss. The following liabilities are classified as financial liabilities:
         •       Creditors (amounts falling due within one year)
         •       Creditors (amounts falling due outwith one year)
The Company has adopted “trade date” accounting for purchases or sales of financial assets under a contract whose terms require delivery of the
assets within the timeframe established in the marketplace concerned. Accordingly, such financial instruments are recognised on the date the
Company commits to the purchase of the investments, and are derecognised on the date it commits to their sale.
Minority interest put options
The minority interest put options are included at fair value at the balance sheet date. Upon initial recognition the fair value of the put options is
debited to equity. Subsequent movements in the fair value are reflected in the Profit and Loss Account. Fair value is the amount at which a
derivative could be exchanged in a transaction at the balance sheet date between willing parties.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets
A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset, is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have
expired.
Financial liabilities
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is either discharged, cancelled or expires.
Impairment of financial assets
The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost
If there is objective evidence that an impairment in loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has occurred, the amount of the impairment
loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the expected recoverable amount. The carrying amount of the asset
would be reduced and the amount of the loss recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after
the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal
date.
Company Accounting Policies F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
129 Company Financial Statements Company Accounting Policies Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Available for sale financial assets
If an available for sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost (net of any principal payment and amortisation) and
its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the Profit and Loss Account, is transferred from reserves to the Profit and
Loss Account. Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available for sale are not recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are taken through the Profit and Loss Account, if the increase in fair value of the instrument
can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or
events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay less or receive more tax, with the following exceptions:
•       Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation (and similar fair value adjustments) of fixed assets, or gains on disposal of
fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a commitment to
dispose of the assets concerned. However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is
more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only when the replacement assets
are sold.
•       Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at
the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable.
•       Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable
taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse,
based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Operating leases
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives are recognised by the Company as a reduction of the rental expense, allocated on a straight-line basis, over the shorter of the
lease term and a period ending on a date from which it is expected the prevailing market rental will be payable.
Accounting for Employee Benefit Trusts (‘EBTs’)
UITF 38 requires that own shares acquired through an EBT be deducted in arriving at shareholders’ funds until they vest unconditionally to the
employees. Consideration paid and received for the purchase or sale of these shares is included in shareholders’ funds and no gain or loss is
recognised. Other assets and liabilities of the EBTs are recognised as assets and liabilities of the Company.
Ordinary shares of the Company are held by EBTs in order to satisfy a number of F&C Group share-based payment plans and future exercises of
options and awards to employees of subsidiary companies. The cost relating to the share-based payment plans is recognised in the subsidiary
companies which employ the staff in receipt of awards and the Company recognises any fresh issue of shares or re-issue of own shares when
such a transaction occurs. These shares are included in the Financial Statements of the Company as a deduction from shareholders’ funds.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Company has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is
probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by
discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. No provision is established where a reliable estimate of the obligation cannot be made.
Where the Company expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the
reimbursement is virtually certain.
Where the Company has obligations under property leases and where the space has ceased to be used for the purposes of the business, full
provision is made for future net outstanding liabilities under such leases after taking into account the effect of any expected sub-letting
arrangements.
Related party disclosures
FRS 8: Related Party Disclosures requires disclosure of the details of material transactions between the reporting entity and related parties. The
Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8 not to disclose transactions between F&C Group companies which eliminate on
consolidation. Foreign currencies
The Company’s Financial Statements are presented in millions of pounds Sterling (rounded to one decimal place), the Company’s functional and
presentational currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet
date, and any exchange differences arising are taken to the Profit and Loss Account.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of
transaction and are not subsequently restated. Non-monetary assets and liabilities stated at fair value in a foreign currency are translated at the
exchange rate at the date the fair value was determined. When fair value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected in the Profit and Loss
Account, the corresponding exchange movements are also recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. Conversely, when fair value movements in
assets and liabilities are reflected directly in equity, the corresponding exchange movements are also recognised directly in equity, with the
exception of available for sale debt instruments, which are reflected in the Profit and Loss Account.
Share-based payments
The Company operates a share scheme arrangement which requires to be accounted for as a share-based payment.
All grants of shares, share options or other share-based instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 have been recognised as an
expense. The fair values of share-based payment awards are measured using a valuation model applicable to the terms of the awards. The fair
value is measured by an independent external valuer at the date the award is granted and the expense is spread over the period during which the
parties become unconditionally entitled to exercise the awards, known as the vesting period. The cumulative expense recognised in the Profit and
Loss Account is equal to the estimated fair value of the award multiplied by the number of awards expected to vest. 
Vesting of equity-settled employee share awards depends upon meeting “non-market related” performance conditions. The type of vesting criteria
affects the calculation of the expense charged to the Profit and Loss Account and subsequent adjustments as non-market related conditions are
performance criteria, such as earnings targets and/or service requirements. The probability of meeting non-market conditions is incorporated into
the expense charge via the estimate of the number of awards expected to vest. The total cumulative expense is ultimately adjusted to reflect the
actual number of awards which vest. Therefore, if no awards vest, no cumulative expense is ultimately recognised.
FRS 20: Share-based Payment makes a distinction between awards settled in equity and those settled in cash. Equity-settled awards are charged
to the Profit and Loss Account with a corresponding credit to equity. Cash-settled awards are charged to the Profit and Loss Account with a
corresponding credit to liabilities. The estimated fair value of cash-settled awards is re-measured at each reporting date until the payments are
ultimately settled.
Share capital
When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial liability of the Company is presented as a liability in the Balance Sheet, measured
initially at fair value, net of transaction costs and thereafter at amortised cost until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The remainder of the proceeds on issue is allocated to the equity component and included in shareholders’ funds, net of transaction costs.
Preference Share capital
The Company’s issued Preference Share capital was classified as a liability. It was carried at amortised cost in the Balance Sheet. Preference
dividends were recognised in the Profit and Loss Account as an interest expense as they accrued.
Ordinary Share capital
When Ordinary Shares are repurchased, the amounts of consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, are recognised in the own share
reserve included within retained earnings and are classified as deductions in equity. Dealings in own shares are reflected through equity. Dividends
on Ordinary Shares are recognised on the date of payment, or if subject to approval, the date approved by the shareholders.
Cash flow statement
The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions in FRS 1 (revised): Cash Flow Statements and has elected not to prepare its own Cash
Flow Statement as it is included within the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement in the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C Asset
Management plc.
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
130 Company Financial Statements Company Accounting Policies
Company Accounting Policies F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
131 Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements
1.      Auditor’s remuneration
Amounts received by the Company’s auditors in respect of services to the Company have not been disclosed as the information is instead
required to be disclosed on a consolidated basis in the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group.
2.      Directors’ remuneration
Details of Directors’ remuneration are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Aggregate emoluments                                                                                                                                                                                2.1                2.0
Company contributions paid to defined contribution pension schemes                                                                                                         0.1                0.9
Aggregate value of gains made by Directors on exercise of share awards                                                                                                     0.1                   –
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             No                       No
Members of defined contribution pension schemes                                                                                                                                         2                   2
Full disclosure of Directors’ remuneration is shown on pages 43 to 45.
The Company has no employees (including Directors) under contract of employment, all F&C Group employees being employed by several
subsidiary companies.
3.      Dividends
Details of dividends are disclosed in note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 73.
4.      Acquisition of REIT Property Asset Management Group
Full details of the acquisition of the REIT Property Asset Management Group are disclosed in note 16(a) and (b) to the Consolidated Financial
Statements on pages 77 to 79.
5.      Tangible fixed assets
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Leasehold        Office furniture                Computer
                                                                                                                                                                                                improvements        and equipment               equipment                         Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                            £m                            £m                            £m
Cost:                                                                                                                                                                                                            
At 1 January 2009                                                                                                                                4.0                    0.5                    5.7                  10.2
Additions                                                                                                                                               0.1                       –                    0.1                    0.2
Disposals                                                                                                                                                 –                   (0.1)                  (0.1)                  (0.2)
At 31 December 2009                                                                                                                        4.1                    0.4                    5.7                  10.2
Depreciation:                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
At 1 January 2009                                                                                                                                2.0                    0.4                    5.4                    7.8
Depreciation charge for the year                                                                                                           0.4                       –                    0.3                    0.7
Disposals                                                                                                                                                 –                       –                   (0.1)                  (0.1)
At 31 December 2009                                                                                                                        2.4                    0.4                    5.6                    8.4
Net book values:                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
At 31 December 2009                                                                                                                        1.7                       –                    0.1                    1.8
At 31 December 2008                                                                                                                           2.0                    0.1                    0.3                    2.4
6.      Investments in subsidiaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         £m
Cost: 
At 1 January 2009                                                                                                                                                                                                      1,198.3
Amendment to consideration due to Eureko in respect of the acquisition of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited on 11 October 2004                                      (3.8)
Additions in respect of share-based payment awards                                                                                                                                                      14.7
Recharge in respect of share-based payment awards                                                                                                                                                      (7.1)
At 31 December 2009                                                                                                                                                                                              1,202.1
Cumulative impairment:                                                                                                                                                                                                      
At 1 January 2009 and 31 December 2009                                                                                                                                                                       3.0
Net book values:                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
At 31 December 2009                                                                                                                                                                                              1,199.1
At 31 December 2008                                                                                                                                                                                                1,195.3
Included within the above net book value is £66.9m (31 December 2008: £59.4m) in respect of equity-settled share-based payment awards made
by subsidiary undertakings.
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Company Financial Statements F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
132 Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
7.      Other investments
The classification of investments at 31 December is as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     31 December            31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2009                         2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Notes                            £m                            £m
Available for sale                                                                                                                                                               (a)                   2.0                    1.8
Fair value through profit or loss                                                                                                                                         (b)                   7.8                    5.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.8                    7.6
(a)     Available for sale
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Unquoted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         £m
At 1 January 2009                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.8
Fair value movement in year                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2
At 31 December 2009                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.0
These investments represent carried interest entitlement in private equity funds.
The unquoted investments have been valued in accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines issued by
the British Venture Capital Association and in accordance with the limited partnership agreements where possible.
(b)     Fair value through profit or loss
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Purchased                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Equity Plan        NIC Hedge                   Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  £m                     £m                      £m
At 1 January 2009                                                                                                                                                                   2.6               3.2                5.8
Additions in the year                                                                                                                                                                 1.0                  –                1.0
Disposals in the year                                                                                                                                                              (0.2)              (0.2)              (0.4)
Fair value movement in year                                                                                                                                                     1.3               0.1                1.4
At 31 December 2009                                                                                                                                                            4.7               3.1                7.8
Further details of these investments are disclosed in note 19(a)(i)(2) to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The cost of quoted investments as at 31 December 2009 was £5.2m (31 December 2008: £4.6m).
The valuation of quoted investments as at 31 December 2009 was £5.5m (31 December 2008: £3.2m). The fair value of quoted investments is
based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date without any deduction for transaction costs.
8.      Debtors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Note                     £m                       £m
Amounts due within one year:                                                                                                                                                                                            
Trade debtors                                                                                                                                                                                               1.1                   –
Accrued income                                                                                                                                                                                              –                0.3
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings                                                                                                                                                   5.9              12.9
Loan to subsidiary undertaking                                                                                                                                                                   87.0            102.6
Prepayments                                                                                                                                                                                                1.6                1.2
VAT recoverable                                                                                                                                                                                            0.3                1.1
Group relief receivable                                                                                                                                                                                  2.6                2.0
Other debtors                                                                                                                                                                                               7.0                0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                105.5            120.8
Amounts due outwith one year:                                                                                                                                                                                         
Loan to subsidiary undertaking                                                                                                                                                                   60.0              60.0
Deferred tax                                                                                                                                                                              13               1.6                1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  61.6              61.1
The loan to the subsidiary undertaking bears interest at 3 month LIBOR minus 0.25% and is to F&C Treasury Limited. The Company will give
written notice of a minimum of one year to seek repayment of £60.0m. The £87.0m is repayable on demand. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
133 Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements
9.      Creditors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Notes                     £m                       £m
Amounts due within one year:                                                                                                                                                                                            
Trade creditors                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1                0.1
Accruals                                                                                                                                                                                                       8.8                4.9
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings                                                                                                                                                   3.9                0.1
Other creditors                                                                                                                                                                                             2.5                7.9
Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010                                                                                                                                            11             10.0                   –
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  25.3              13.0
Amounts due outwith one year:                                                                                                                                                                                         
Other financial liabilities                                                                                                                                                             12             60.4              66.0
Preference Share capital                                                                                                                                                                                  –                0.8
Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010                                                                                                                                            11                  –              35.0
Loan from subsidiary undertaking                                                                                                                                              11             25.0                   –
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026
#
                                                                                                                11           258.4            258.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                343.8            360.0
#
At 31 December 2009 £135.0m (31 December 2008: £nil) of the Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 are held by F&C Finance plc, a subsidiary undertaking.
Other creditors at 31 December 2009 includes £0.7m (31 December 2008: £2.9m) of estimated further consideration payable in respect of the
acquisition of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited on 11 October 2004.
10.    Provisions for liabilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                       Onerous                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                      premises    Pension Plan        Investment                                    Put option
                                                                                                                                                                     contracts         guarantee           Trust VAT     Deferred tax         guarantee                  Total
                                                                                                                                                                                £m                     £m                         £                     £m                     £m                     £m
At 1 January 2008                                                                                                       3.2                  –               1.4               0.9                  –               5.5
Provided during the year                                                                                             3.3               0.1                  –                  –                  –               3.4
Provision released during the year                                                                              (0.2)                 –                  –                  –                  –              (0.2)
Utilised during the year                                                                                               (1.0)                 –                  –              (0.4)                 –              (1.4)
At 31 December 2008                                                                                                 5.3               0.1               1.4               0.5                  –               7.3
Provided during the year                                                                                             3.0                  –                  –               0.1               2.4               5.5
Provision released during the year                                                                                  –              (0.1)             (0.7)                 –                  –              (0.8)
Utilised during the year                                                                                               (1.1)                 –              (0.7)                 –                  –              (1.8)
At 31 December 2009                                                                                               7.2                  –                  –               0.6               2.4             10.2
Onerous premises contracts
The Company holds all properties under operating leases. This includes a number of vacant or sub-let properties which were either previously
occupied or are partially occupied by the Company. Provision has been made for the residual lease commitments where significant, after taking
into account existing and expected sub-tenant contractual arrangements. The remaining terms are for up to 11 years. 
Assumptions have been made as to whether each leasehold property may be sub-let or assigned in the future. All leases and sub-leases are for
minimum guaranteed rentals. The provision is subject to uncertainties over time including market rent reviews and break-options within the lease
arrangements. In addition, exposure could exist if an existing tenant defaulted or went into liquidation or administration.
The amount included within Profit and Loss in respect of unwinding of the discount on onerous premises provisions in 2009 is £0.1m (2008:
£0.3m).
Pension Plan Guarantee
The Company has agreed to provide the F&C Asset Management Pension Plan (‘FCAM Plan’) Trustees with a guarantee that should F&C Asset
Management Services Limited become insolvent, the Company will guarantee an amount up to the lower of the cost of securing members’
benefits with an insurance company over the assets of the FCAM Plan (the “solvency deficit”) and £120.0m. The provision represents the actuarial
estimate of the fair value of the guarantee at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008.
Investment Trust VAT
In November 2007, HM Revenue and Customs (“HMRC”) agreed that management services to UK Investment Trust Companies (“ITCs”) should
be exempt from VAT. As a result, the Company, in common with other asset managers in the UK, received claims from ITCs for the repayment of
VAT charged to them for historic periods dating back to 1990. While the Company charged VAT in accordance with applicable UK law at the time,
a provision was recognised in 2007 to the extent that the expected payments to be made to ITCs were greater than the expected amount
recoverable from HMRC. During 2008 and 2009, monies refunded from HMRC were paid, as required, to ITCs. However, due to the complexity of
the repayment process and its interaction with contractual arrangements, uncertainty existed at 31 December 2008 as to the final cost to be
incurred by the Company. During 2009 all amounts due to ITCs have been settled and the remainder of the provision of £0.7m was released to
the Profit and Loss Account. No provision is therefore required at 31 December 2009. 
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
134 Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
10.    Provisions for liabilities continued
Deferred tax
The deferred tax provision relates to short-term timing differences which have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date. The provision
is subject to uncertainties in respect of the timing of the reversal of the timing differences. The provision relates to the revaluation of available for
sale assets and is recognised as a separate component of reserves.
A further analysis of deferred taxation is disclosed in note 13.
Put option guarantee
Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements outlines the circumstances surrounding the put option notice received from the two founder
members of F&C Partners LLP (“Partners”), the Group’s majority owned fund of hedge funds business, together with the quantum of the provision
recognised.  
While a provision of £2.4m has been recognised in F&C Alternative Investment (Holdings) Limited, a subsidiary company, the Company, through
the Partnership Agreement, has guaranteed any amounts validly due to the founder members to the extent that F&C Alternative Investment
(Holdings) Limited is unable to meet such obligations. A corresponding provision of £2.4m has therefore been recognised in the Company’s
Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2009.
11.    Loans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Amounts repayable:                                                                                                                                                                                       
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 (i)                                                                                                                             258.4            258.2
Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010 (ii)                                                                                                                                                         10.0              35.0
Fixed Rate inter-company loan 2016 (iii)                                                                                                                                                      25.0                   –
                                                                                                                                                                                                                293.4            293.2
(i)       The £260.0m Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 bear interest at 6.75% per annum for the period 20 December 2006 – 19
December 2016, payable annually in arrears. The Company has the option to extend the Notes beyond 19 December 2016 at a rate of
2.69% above 3 month LIBOR for the period 20 December 2016 – 19 December 2026, payable quarterly in arrears.
(ii)      The £10.0m Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010 bear interest at the following rates:
         From 3 September 2008 to 15 December 2008 at LIBOR +2%;
         From 16 December 2008 to 15 June 2009 at LIBOR +3%;
         From 16 June 2009 until redemption at LIBOR +4%.
         Interest is payable quarterly in arrears. These notes must be repaid by 30 June 2010, or earlier at the discretion of the issuer.
The Floating Rate Secured Notes are held by Kendray Properties Limited, who hold a security over FCAM’s entire holding in F&C REIT Asset
Management LLP until such point as FCAM has settled all liabilities due under the terms of the loan note agreement. On 22 September
2009, £25.0m was borrowed from F&C Finance plc, a subsidiary undertaking, to repay £25.0m of the Floating Rate Secured Notes.
(iii)     The £25.0m loan bears interest at a fixed rate of 13.26%, payable half-yearly in arrears. This loan is due to F&C Finance plc, a subsidiary
undertaking, and repayable on 19 December 2016.
               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Note                     £m                       £m
Amounts repayable:                                                                                                                                                                                                            
In one year or less, or on demand                                                                                                                                               9             10.0                   –
In more than one year but not more than two years                                                                                                                    9                  –              35.0
In more than two years but not more than five years                                                                                                                                        –                   –
In more than five years                                                                                                                                                                9           283.4            258.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                293.4            293.2 F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
135 Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements
11.    Loans continued
Borrowing facilities
The Company has borrowing facilities available to it. The undrawn committed facilities available at the year-end are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Bank overdraft facilities                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5                0.5
12.    Other financial liabilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
At 1 January                                                                                                                                                                                               66.0                   –
Additions in the year                                                                                                                                                                                        –              66.0
Movement in fair value during the year                                                                                                                                                         (5.6)                  –
At 31 December                                                                                                                                                                                       60.4              66.0
The fair value of the F&C REIT put options represents the potential future liability to purchase 30% of F&C REIT from the minority partners. More
details are provided in notes 16(a) and 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
13.    Deferred taxation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
At 1 January                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.6                0.5
Provided during the year                                                                                                                                                                               0.4                0.1
At 31 December                                                                                                                                                                                         1.0                0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Notes                     £m                       £m
Deferred taxation is provided as follows:                                                                                                                                                                         
Distributions from partnerships                                                                                                                                                                     0.6                   –
Revaluation of available for sale assets                                                                                                                                                         0.3               (0.5)
Depreciation in advance of capital allowances                                                                                                                                             (0.6)              0.7
Other timing differences                                                                                                                                                                                0.7                0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.0                0.6
Disclosed in the Financial Statements as follows:                                                                                                                                                           
Debtors                                                                                                                                                                                       8               1.6                1.1
Provisions for liabilities                                                                                                                                                               10              (0.6)              (0.5)
Net deferred tax asset                                                                                                                                                                              1.0                0.6
The Directors believe it is appropriate to recognise a deferred tax asset because it is considered that it is more likely than not that there will be
suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
14.    Share-based payment
F&C REIT variable minority interest share-based payment (‘SBP’)
Details of this share-based payment award are disclosed in note 28(c) to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company recognised an expense in respect of this award as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
F&C REIT variable minority interest SBP                                                                                                                                                3.7                1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
Total carrying amount of cash-settled liabilities                                                                                                                                    5.1                1.4
15.    Pension commitments
Until 31 March 2007, the Company operated a defined benefit pension plan (‘The F&C Asset Management Pension Plan’) in the UK, which
provides benefits based on final pensionable salary.
The sponsoring company and principal employer for the scheme changed on 31 March 2007. Consequently the pension obligation was
transferred to F&C Asset Management Services Limited on that date and F&C Asset Management plc ceased to incur a direct charge in respect
of the scheme. 
The Company has subsequently provided a guarantee in respect of this plan. Further details are described in note 10.
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
136 Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
16.    Ordinary Share capital
(a)     Ordinary Share capital of 0.1p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   31 December 2009                                     31 December 2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                              No. of                                                          No. of                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Shares                            £m                       Shares                             £m
Authorised:                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Equity interests                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Ordinary Shares of 0.1p                                                                                                         800,000,000                    0.8     800,000,000                    0.8
Allotted, called up and fully paid:                                                                                                                                                                                     
Equity interests                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Ordinary Shares of 0.1p                                                                                                         499,273,120                    0.5     495,725,314                    0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             No. of Shares
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2009                         2008
Issued at 1 January                                                                                                                                                                   495,725,314     495,705,530
Issue of Shares at par to settle share-based payment awards                                                                                                       3,547,806                       –
Share options exercised during the year                                                                                                                                                      –              19,784
Issued at 31 December                                                                                                                                                          499,273,120     495,725,314
The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings
of the Company.
Details of shares allotted during the year are disclosed in note 33 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 103.
No consideration was received in respect of the Ordinary Share capital issued during the year ended 31 December 2009 (year ended 31
December 2008: £nil).
Contingent Rights to the allotment of shares
The Group operates several share-based payment schemes which have a contingent right to the allotment of shares in the Company, or by the
market purchase of shares.
At 31 December 2009 the contingent right to the allotment of shares was as follows:
                                                                                                                     No. of awards                                       Exercise                                          
Scheme                                                                                                          outstanding                                        price (p)                                          Exercisable/vesting dates
Long-Term Remuneration Plan (deferred)                         28,769,100                                 0.00                               1 January 2010 – 8 July 2012
Long-Term Remuneration Plan (restricted)                            327,548                                 0.00                               16 March 2010 
Executive Director Remuneration Plan (deferred)               4,715,206                                 0.00                               10 May 2010 – 8 July 2012
Executive Director Remuneration Plan (restricted)              4,004,000                                 0.00                               10 May 2010 – 10 November 2010
Purchased Equity Plan (F&C Shares)                                 1,396,860                                 0.00                               1 January 2010 – 2 April 2012
Purchased Equity Plan (F&C Funds)*                                 6,167,870                                 0.00                               13 April 2010 – 2 April 2012
Deferred Share Award                                                            40,000                                 0.00                               3 March 2011
Share Save Scheme                                                                 1,083                             181.0p                               1 January 2010 – 1 May 2010
Share Save Scheme                                                               88,548                             186.6p                               29 April 2010 – 29 October 2010
Share Save Scheme                                                               88,457                             171.0p                               1 January 2010 – 18 October 2011
Share Save Scheme                                                             356,200                             144.3p                               25 April 2010 – 25 October 2012
2002 Executive Share Option Scheme                                 480,908                           139.00p                               1 January 2010 – 19 March 2013
2002 Executive Share Option Scheme                                 601,120                           240.83p                               1 January 2010 – 9 March 2014
1995 Executive Share Option Scheme                                 295,622                           214.00p                               1 January 2010 – 28 April 2010
1995 Executive Share Option Scheme                                 236,500                           455.83p                               1 January 2010 – 1 March 2011
                                                                                       47,569,022                                                                        
*The number of shares is dependent on the share price and the value of F&C Funds as explained in note 28(d)(ii) to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Employee Benefit Trusts (‘EBTs’)
The following shares are held in EBTs. These are categorised as own shares, and deducted from shareholders’ funds: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December      31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2009                    2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                       £m
F&C Management Limited Employee Benefit Trust                                                                                                                          11,732,847     1,564,451
The Ivory & Sime Employee Benefit Trust                                                                                                                                                64,176          64,176
ISIS Employee Benefit Trust                                                                                                                                                                             –        141,755
                                                                                                                                                                                                       11,797,023     1,770,382
The aggregate nominal value of own shares held by EBTs at 31 December 2009 was £12,000 (31 December 2008: £2,000). The market value of
these shares at 31 December 2009 was £9.0m (31 December 2008: £1.0m).
The Trustees of the EBTs have waived their right to the dividend entitlement on some of these shares.
During the year, the Company purchased 11,043,017 of its own Ordinary Shares (2008: 345,845) of 0.1p to satisfy the settlement of awards
granted under share schemes and to hold as own shares. The consideration paid for the shares was £7.4m (2008: £0.6m). The cost of this to the
Company, after exercise price monies paid by the employees, was £7.4m (2008: £0.4m).
(b)     The Preference Share capital of £1 each
Details of the Cumulative Preference Shares are disclosed in note 33(b) to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 104. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
137 Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements
17.    Reserves
Reconciliation of movement in reserves:
                                                                                      Ordinary                 Share               Capital                                                                          Fair               Capital                 Profit                  Total
                                                                                           Share           premium      Redemption              Merger        Acquisition                  value      contribution            and loss   shareholders’
                                                                                         capital             account              reserve
              
reserve              reserve              reserve
(1)
          reserve
(1)
         account                 funds
                                                                                                £m                     £m                     £m                     £m                     £m                     £m                     £m                     £m                     £m
Balance at 1 January 2008                             0.5             33.8                  –           912.7                  –               2.5             57.3             47.7        1,054.5
Purchase of own shares                                    –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –              (0.6)             (0.6)
Settlement proceeds received on exercise 
of share options                                                 –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –               0.2               0.2
Issue of F&C REIT put options on acquisition     –                  –                  –                  –            (66.0)                 –                  –                  –            (66.0)
Profit for the year                                               –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –             37.4             37.4
Final 2007 dividend paid                                    –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –            (19.7)           (19.7)
Interim 2008 dividend paid                                 –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –              (9.9)             (9.9)
Fair value loss                                                    –                  –                  –                  –                  –              (1.6)                 –                  –              (1.6)
Tax on fair value loss                                          –                  –                  –                  –                  –               0.4                  –                  –               0.4
Equity settled share-based payment charge      –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –             12.3                  –             12.3
Balance at 31 December 2008                       0.5             33.8                  –           912.7            (66.0)              1.3             69.6             55.1        1,007.0
Purchase of own shares                                    –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –              (7.4)             (7.4)
Profit for the year                                               –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –             13.8             13.8
Final 2008 dividend paid                                    –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –            (19.8)           (19.8)
Interim 2009 dividend paid                                 –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –              (9.7)             (9.7)
Transfer to Capital Redemption reserve
on settlement of Preference Share capital          –                  –               0.8                  –                  –                  –                  –              (0.8)                 –
Fair value gain                                                    –                  –                  –                  –                  –               0.2                  –                  –               0.2
Tax on fair value gain                                         –                  –                  –                  –                  –              (0.1)                 –                  –              (0.1)
Equity settled share-based payment charge      –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –             14.7                  –             14.7
Transfer to Profit and Loss account on 
settlement of share-based payment awards 
by subsidiaries                                                   –                  –                  –                  –                  –                  –            (17.4)            17.4                  –
Balance at 31 December 2009                    0.5             33.8               0.8           912.7            (66.0)              1.4             66.9             48.6           998.7
(1)
The Fair value reserve and Capital contribution reserve constitute ‘Other reserves’ as disclosed on the face of the Balance Sheet and amount to £68.3m at 31 December 2009
(31 December 2008: £70.9m).
The profit after tax of the Company for the year, before dividends paid, was £13.8m (2008: £37.4m).
18.    Financial commitments
The Company had the following annual commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases and other contracts:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Premises                                                  Other contracts
                                                                                                                                                                                                 31 December            31 December           31 December            31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2009                         2008                          2009                         2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                            £m                            £m                            £m
Commitments expiring within one year                                                                                                     –                       –                       –                       –
Commitments expiring within two to five years                                                                                      0.1                    0.1                    0.1                    0.1
Commitments expiring outwith five years                                                                                              4.7                    4.7                       –                       –
                                                                                                                                                             4.8                    4.8                    0.1                    0.1
The premises financial commitments disclosed above do not include any sub-leasing arrangements which the Company may have in place. The
amounts shown reflect gross commitments at the balance sheet dates.
19.    Capital commitments
There are no capital commitments, not provided for, at 31 December 2009 (31 December 2008: £nil).
20.    Subsidiary undertakings
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings are disclosed in note 41 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 117.
21.    Related party transactions
The Company has taken exemption from the requirement to disclose related party transactions with wholly-owned members of the F&C Asset
Management plc Group on the basis that these companies are included within the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C Asset Management
plc.
Transactions with entities owned less than 90%
F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
F&C Asset Management plc owns 70% of F&C REIT Asset Management LLP . The other partners in the Partnership, all of whom have significant
influence over the management of the Partnership or a significant economic interest in the Partnership are:
Kendray Properties Limited                        30.00% ownership interest in “A” units
Leo Noé                                                     22.50% ownership interest in “B” units
Ivor Smith                                                  7.50% ownership interest in “B” units
These parties are considered to be related parties.
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information 21.    Related party transactions continued
Full details of the 3 September 2008 acquisition of the REIT Group are given in note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. £25.0m of the
£35.0m 2010 Secured Loan Notes were repaid to Kendray Properties Limited on 22 September 2009.
Interest on Secured Loan Notes
                                                                                                                                                                                        Charged and            Outstanding at                Charged and             Outstanding at
                                                                                                                                                                                    accrued during              31 December             accrued during               31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                      2009                             2009                             2008                             2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                         £m                                £m                                £m                                £m
Interest payable to Kendray properties Limited                                                                              1.5                          –                       0.8                       0.2
Shared services and administrative services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
The Company has a shared services agreement with F&C REIT Asset Management LLP whereby it provides certain administrative and
professional services to F&C REIT Asset Management LLP . Amounts charged under this agreement are set out below:
                                                                                                                                                                                      Total invoiced            Outstanding at               Total invoiced             Outstanding at
                                                                                                                                                                                         and accrued              31 December                 and accrued               31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                          during 2009                             2009                  during 2008                             2008
                                                                                                                                                                                                         £m                                £m                                £m                                £m
Administration service fees                                                                                                            1.0                       0.1                       0.6                       0.3
No profit distributions were paid to the Company in 2009 (period 3 September 2008 to 31 December 2008: £0.2m). £2.3m was received in March
2010.
F&C Asset Management plc incurs a share-based payment expense in respect of the variable minority interest enhancement which could be
achieved by Kendray Properties Limited, Leo Noé and Ivor Smith. Full details are disclosed in note 28(c) to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The F&C REIT minority partners each have a put option to sell their minority stake in F&C REIT after a minimum number of years. Details of the
carrying amount of these option liabilities are disclosed in note 12. The option liabilities are split in the ownership proportions of Kendray Properties
Limited, Leo Noé and Ivor Smith.
22.    Guarantees
The Company has provided a guarantee in respect of the F&C Asset Management Pension Plan. Details, and the amount provided, are disclosed
in note 10.
As disclosed in note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Kendray Properties Limited holds a security over FCAM’s entire holding in F&C
REIT Asset Management LLP until their Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010 are settled in full.
The Company has guaranteed the £129.7m 9% Guaranteed Loan Notes 2016 which were issued by F&C Finance plc as part of the debt
exchange (details of which are disclosed in note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The Guaranteed Loan Notes are unconditionally
and irrevocably guaranteed by the Company.
The Company has provided a guarantee in respect of the F&C Alternative Investments (Holdings) Limited’s obligation to pay the Put Option Price
in accordance with the Option Agreement. A provision for the put option guarantee is disclosed in note 10.
23.    Contingent liabilities
Ongoing business operations
In the normal course of its business, the Company is subject to matters of litigation or dispute. While there can be no assurances, at this time the
Directors believe, based on the information currently available to them, that it is not probable that the ultimate outcome of any of these matters will
have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company.
24.    Parent undertaking and controlling party
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company’s ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party until 3 July 2009 was Friends Provident plc. The
results of the Company were consolidated in the Group Accounts of Friends Provident Group plc (formerly Friends Provident plc), until 3 July
2009, the date when Friends Provident divested its entire interest in the Group.
Friends Provident Group plc is incorporated in England and Wales. Copies of Friends Provident Group plc Annual Report and Accounts can be
obtained from the Company Secretary, Pixham End, Dorking, Surrey, RH4 1QA.
From 3 July 2009, in the opinion of the Directors, the Company has no ultimate parent undertaking indirectly and controlling party and the smallest
group of which the Company is a member and for which Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared is F&C Asset Management plc.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
138 Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
139 Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Notice is hereby given that the thirtieth Annual General
Meeting of F&C Asset Management plc will be held at The
Gibson Hall, 13 Bishopsgate, London EC2N 3BA on Tuesday
4 May 2010 at 11 a.m. (UK time) for the following purposes:
Ordinary Business
To be proposed as ordinary resolutions:
1. To receive the Financial Statements and the Reports of
the Directors and the Independent Auditors for the year
ended 31 December 2009.
2. To declare a final dividend of 4.0 pence per share on the
ordinary shares of the Company to be paid on 7 May 2010
to members whose name appears on the register of
members at the close of business on 26 March 2010.
3. To elect Kieran Poynter, who retires at the first Annual
General Meeting following his appointment, as a Director.
4. To re-elect Keith Bedell-Pearce, who retires by rotation,
as a Director.
5. To re-elect Nick MacAndrew, who retires by rotation, as
a Director.
6. To re-elect David Logan, who retires by rotation, as a
Director.
7. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the
year ended 31 December 2009.
8. To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the
Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next
General Meeting at which Financial Statements are laid
before the Company and to authorise the Directors to
determine their remuneration.
Special Business
To be proposed as an ordinary resolution:
9.  THAT:
     (A) pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act
2006 (“the Act”), the Directors be generally and
unconditionally authorised to allot:
           (1)  shares in the Company, or to grant rights to
subscribe for or to convert any security into
shares in the Company, up to a maximum
nominal amount of £160,715.81, subject to
paragraph A(2); and
           (2)  shares in the Company, or to grant rights to
subscribe for or to convert any security into
shares in the Company, comprising equity
securities (within the meaning of section 560(1)
of the Act) up to a maximum nominal amount
(when aggregated with any allotment made
pursuant to paragraph A(1)) of £300,726.88 in
connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer
undertaken by means of a rights issue;
     (B) the authorities given in this Resolution:
           (1)  shall be in substitution for all pre-existing
authorities to allot shares under section 551 of
the Act or its predecessor section 80 of the
Companies Act 1985; and
           (2)  unless renewed, revoked or varied in accordance
with the Act, shall expire at the completion of the
Annual General Meeting of the Company to be
held in 2011, save that the Company may before
such expiry make an offer or agreement which
would or might require the allotment of shares in
the Company, or the right to subscribe for or to
convert any security into shares in the Company,
after such expiry; and
     (C) for the purpose of this Resolution, “Pre-Emptive
Offer” means an offer of equity securities to:
           (1)  holders of ordinary shares (other than the
Company) on a fixed record date in proportion
to their respective holdings of such shares; and
           (2)  other persons entitled to participate in such
offer by virtue of the rights attaching to any
other equity securities held by them;
           in each case, subject to such exclusions or other
arrangements as the Directors may deem
necessary or appropriate in relation to fractional
entitlements, legal, regulatory or practical problems
under the laws or the requirements of any
regulatory body or stock exchange of any territory
or otherwise.
To be proposed as special resolutions:
10. THAT:
     (A) subject to the passing of resolution 9 set out in this
Notice (“the Allotment Authority”), the Directors be
given power pursuant to section 570 of the
Companies Act 2006 (“the Act”) to allot equity
securities (within the meaning of section 560(1) of
the Act) for cash, pursuant to the authorities given by
the Allotment Authority, and to sell treasury shares
wholly for cash, as if section 561(1) of the Act did
not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided
that such power shall be limited to the allotment of
equity securities or the sale of treasury shares:
           (1)  in the case of paragraph A(1) of the Allotment
Authority, (a) in connection with a Pre-Emptive
Offer (as defined in the Allotment Authority); or
(b) in order to satisfy options or awards under
any share scheme for employees or share
incentive plan approved by the Company in
general meeting; or (c) otherwise, up to a
maximum nominal amount of £24,963.65;
           (2)  in the case of paragraph A(2) of the Allotment
Authority, in connection with a Pre-Emptive
Offer undertaken by means of a rights issue;
     (B) the power given in this Resolution:
           (1)  shall be in substitution for all pre-existing
authorities under section 570 of the Act or its
predecessor section 95 of the Companies Act
1985; and
           (2)  unless renewed in accordance with the Act,
shall expire at the same time as the Allotment
Authority, save that the Company may before
such expiry make an offer or agreement which
would or might require equity securities to be
allotted or treasury shares to be sold after such
expiry.
11. THAT, in substitution for any existing power under
section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 (“the Act”) or its
predecessor section 166 of the Companies Act 1985, but
without prejudice to the exercise of any such power prior to
the date hereof, the Company be and is hereby generally
and unconditionally authorised, pursuant to and in
accordance with section 701 of the Act, to make market
purchases (within the meaning of section 693 of the Act) of
fully paid ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each in the capital of
the Company (“ordinary shares”) in such terms and in such
manner as the Directors of the Company may decide,
provided that:
Notice of Annual General Meeting  F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
140 Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
(i)   the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares
hereby authorised to be purchased is 48,219,564
(being approximately 10 per cent. of the issued
ordinary share capital of the Company excluding
treasury shares as at 31 March 2010);
(ii)  the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary
share is 0.1 pence (exclusive of expenses); and
(iii)  the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may
be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to
105 per cent. of the average of the middle market
quotations (as derived from the Daily Official List of the
London Stock Exchange) for the ordinary shares for the
five business days immediately preceding the date of
purchase;
such authority to expire on the earlier of the date falling
15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution
and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the
Company to be held in 2011, unless previously revoked,
varied or renewed by the Company in general meeting,
save that the Company may at any time prior to the expiry
of such authority enter into a contract or contracts to
purchase ordinary shares under such authority which will
or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after
the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase
of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract or
contracts as if this authority had not expired.
12. THAT:
     (A) the articles of association of the Company be
amended by deleting all the provisions of the
Company's memorandum of association which, by
virtue of section 28 of the Companies Act 2006, are
to be treated as provisions of the Company's
articles of association; and
     (B) the articles of association of the Company be
amended by making the alterations marked on the
print of the articles of association produced to the
meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the
meeting for the purpose of identification.
13. THAT the period of notice for calling a general meeting
(other than an Annual General Meeting) shall be not less
than 14 clear days provided that this authority shall expire
at the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the
Company to be held in 2011. 
By order of the Board
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA 
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
31 March 2010 
Notes
(i)     A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to
appoint one or more proxies to attend and speak and vote on his/her
behalf. A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each
proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares. A
member may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached
to any one share. A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
(ii)     A Form of Proxy for use by Ordinary Shareholders in connection with the
meeting is enclosed with these Accounts. To be valid, the Form of Proxy
should be completed and signed and sent or delivered, together with any
power of attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is signed or an
extract from the Books of Council and Session or a notarially certified copy
or a copy certified in accordance with the Powers of Attorney Act 1971 of
such power or authority, in accordance with the instructions contained
therein, so as to reach the Company’s registrars, at the address stated
thereon, not later than 11 a.m. (UK time) on 2 May 2010.
(iii)    The Company has made provision for shareholders who would like to lodge
their proxy electronically or through CREST.
(iv)    Completing and returning a Form of Proxy will not prevent an Ordinary
Shareholder from attending in person at the meeting referred to above and
voting should he or she wish to do so.
(v)    To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting (and for the purposes of
the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast),
shareholders must be registered in the register of members of the
Company at 6.00 p.m. on Thursday, 29 April 2010 (or, in the event of any
adjournment, on the date which is two days (excluding any part of a day
that is not a working day) before the time of the adjourned meeting).
Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be
disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at
the meeting.
(vi)    If you are not a member of the Company but you have been nominated by
a member of the Company to enjoy information rights, you do not have a
right to appoint a proxy. See note (vii) below.
(vii)   If you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 of the
Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights:
        •     You may have a right under an agreement between you and the
member of the Company who has nominated you to have information
rights (Relevant Member) to be appointed or to have someone else
appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
        •     If you either do not have such a right or if you have such a right but do
not wish to exercise it, you may have a right under an agreement
between you and the Relevant Member to give instructions to the
Relevant Member as to the exercise of voting rights.
(viii)  Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more corporate
representative(s) who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a
shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
(ix)    Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders meeting the
threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the
Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter
relating to: (i) the audit of the Company’s accounts (including the auditor’s
report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the meeting;
or (ii) any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing
to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and
reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act
2006.  The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such
website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or
528 of the Companies Act 2006.  Where the Company is required to place
a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it
must forward the statement to the Company’s auditor not later than the
time when it makes the statement available on the website.  The business
which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the
Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006
to publish on a website.
(x)    Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.  The
Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the
business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given
if (a) to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or
involve the disclosure of confidential information, (b) the answer has already
been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or (c) it is
undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the
meeting that the question be answered.
(xi)    In accordance with section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the contents
of this notice, details of the total number of shares in respect of which
members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting and, if
applicable, any members' statements, members' resolutions or members'
matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice
of meeting will be available on the Company's website at www.fandc.com. 
(xii)   As at 31 March 2010 (being the latest practicable date prior to publication
of this notice) the Company’s issued share capital consisted of
482,195,635 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each carrying one vote each.
Therefore, total voting rights in the Company as at 31 March 2010 are
482,195,635.
(xiii)  Copies of the following documents will be made available for inspection at
the registered office of the Company and at the Company’s head office
during normal business hours on any week day (Saturdays, Sundays and
public holidays excepted) from the date of this notice until the close of the
meeting, and at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to and
during the continuance of the meeting:
       •    the Executive Directors’ service contracts and Non-executive
Directors’ letters of appointment; and
     •    the articles of association of the Company marked up to show the
proposed amendments.
(xiv)  A member may not use any electronic address provided either in this
Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents to
communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those
expressly stated.  F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
141 Shareholder Information Notice to U.S. Shareholders Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Shareholders should consult their own tax advisors as to
the tax considerations applicable to them relating to the
purchase, ownership and disposition of our ordinary shares
(the “Shares”), including the applicability of U.S. Federal
state and local tax laws and non-U.S. tax laws.  This
discussion does not address tax considerations applicable
to U.S. shareholders other than the passive foreign
investment company rules. 
F&C Asset Management plc (the “Company”) and certain of
its subsidiaries may be treated as passive foreign
investment companies (each, a “PFIC”) within the meaning
of section 1297 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended (the “Code”) for U.S. Federal income tax
purposes.  
Treatment of the Company or any of its subsidiaries as a
PFIC could result in adverse tax consequences for U.S.
Shareholders. 
A foreign corporation generally will be treated as a PFIC in
any year in which either 75 percent or more of its gross
income constitutes passive income or at least 50 percent
of the value of its assets is attributable to assets which
produce or are held for the production of passive income.
In applying these tests, a non-U.S. corporation that directly
or indirectly owns at least 25 percent, by value, of the stock
of another corporation is treated as if it held directly its
proportionate share of the other corporation’s assets and
received directly its proportionate share of the other
corporation’s income. 
Whether a non-U.S. company is a PFIC is determined
annually, and the status of the Company, or any of its
subsidiaries, could change depending among other things
upon the changes in the composition of its gross receipts
and assets, and the nature of its business. 
U.S. Shareholders are particularly urged to consult their
own Tax Advisors regarding the U.S. tax considerations
relating to an investment in a company that may be or may
become a PFIC, including the availability and
consequences of elections that may be available to
mitigate the adverse Federal income tax consequences of
owning or disposing of PFIC shares. In that regard, U.S.
Shareholders should be aware that the Company does not
intend to satisfy the record keeping and other requirements
that would permit a U.S. Shareholder to make a qualified
electing fund (“QEF”) election with respect to the Company
or any of its subsidiaries.
Each taxpayer is hereby notified that: (a) any discussion of
U.S. Federal tax issues herein is not intended or written to
be used, and cannot be used by the taxpayer, for the
purpose of avoiding penalties that may be imposed on the
taxpayer under U.S. Federal tax law; (b) any such
discussion is written to support the promotion or marketing
of the transactions or matters addressed herein; and (c) the
taxpayer should seek advice based on its particular
circumstances from an independent tax advisor. 
Notice To U.S. Shareholders – Certain PFIC Considerations   Directors
Nick MacAndrew, Chairman‡
Alain Grisay, Chief Executive
Keith Bedell-Pearce, Senior Independent Non-executive*†‡
Brian Larcombe, Non-executive*†‡
David Logan, Chief Financial Officer
Jeff Medlock, Non-executive
Kieran Poynter, Non-executive†
Gerhard Roggemann, Non-executive*†‡
*Member of Remuneration Committee
†Member of Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee
‡Member of Nomination Committee
Head Office
Exchange House
Primrose Street
London
EC2A 2NY
Telephone 020 7628 8000
Facsimile 020 7628 8188
Email: enquiries@fandc.com
Secretary and Registered Office
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
80 George Street
Edinburgh
EH2 3BU
Telephone 0131 718 1000
Facsimile 0131 225 2375
Solicitors
Norton Rose LLP
3 More London Riverside
London
SE1 2AQ
Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP
1 Exchange Crescent
Conference Square
Edinburgh
EH3 8UL
Principal Bankers
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
142-144 Princes Street
Edinburgh
EH2 4EQ
Stockbrokers
JPMorgan Cazenove
20 Moorgate
London
EC2R 6DA
Citigroup Global Markets Limited
Citigroup Centre
Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London
E14 5LB
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
Saltire Court
20 Castle Terrace
Edinburgh
EH1 2EG
Registrar and Transfer Office
Equiniti Limited
34 South Gyle Crescent
South Gyle Business Park
Edinburgh
EH12 9EB
Corporate information
F&C Asset Management plc
Registered in Scotland
Company Registration Number 73508
Website
Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website
www.fandc.com
 
Corporate Information 
Shareholder services available from Equiniti Limited
Shareview
The Company’s registrar, Equiniti, offers a Shareview service enabling shareholders to have more control over their shares
and other investments:
Direct access to data held on the share register including recent share movements and dividend details.
The ability to change address details or dividend payment instructions online.
To sign up for Shareview, shareholders need the “shareholder reference” printed on the proxy form or dividend
stationery, and there is no charge to register.
On registration, shareholders can select their preferred format (post or e-mail) for shareholder communications.
Shareholders selecting “e-mail” as their mailing preference will be sent shareholder communications, such as proxy forms
and notice of Company results by e-mail instead of post, as long as this option is available. Shareholders selecting “post”
as their preference will be sent paper documents as usual.
Details of software and equipment requirements are given on the website, www.shareview.co.uk
Voting Online
In accordance with good governance practice the Company is offering shareholders use of an online voting service,
“sharevote”, offered by Equiniti, at www.sharevote.co.uk. Shareholders can use this service to vote or appoint a proxy
online. The same voting deadline (11a.m. (UK time) on 2 May 2010) applies as for the Personalised Voting Form to vote
or appoint a proxy by post to vote. Shareholders need to use the unique personal identification details (Reference
Number, Card ID and Account Number) that are printed on the Personalised Voting Form to use this service. F&C Asset Management plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
F&C Asset Management plc 
Head Office
Exchange House
Primrose Street
London
EC2A 2NY
Telephone 020 7628 8000
Email enquiries@fandc.com
Website www.fandc.com
Expect excellence
