 F&C Asset Management plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page FC1 Business Review
Our year in brief 02
Welcome from the Chairman 03
Chief Executive’s Report 04
This is F&C 07
Our strategy 10
Managing risk 13
Our view of the market 14
Our trading performance and outlook 15
Our financial performance 16
Our strategic approach and commitment
to corporate responsibility 20
Governance
Company Directors 22
Report of the Directors 23
Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance 27
Directors’ Remuneration Report 34
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 40
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report 41
Consolidated Income Statement 42
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 43
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 44
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 45
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 46
Accounting Policies 47
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 55
Five Year Record 123
Reconciliations of reported to underlying earnings 124
Company Balance Sheet 126
Company Accounting Policies 127
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 131
Shareholder Information
Notice of Annual General Meeting 141
Notice to US Shareholders 144
Corporate Information 145
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 01
F&C Asset Management plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
This Annual Report and Financial Statements may
contain certain “forward-looking statements” with
respect to certain of the Group’s plans and its
current goals and expectations relating to its future
financial condition, performance, results, strategy
and objectives. Statements containing the words
“believes”, “intends”, “expects”, “plans”, “seeks”
and “anticipates”, and words of similar meaning,
are forward-looking.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to
future events and circumstances which are beyond
the Group’s control including among other things,
UK domestic and global economic and business
conditions, market related risks such as
fluctuations in market indices, interest rates and
exchange rates, and the performance of financial
markets generally; the policies and actions of
regulatory authorities, the impact of competition,
inflation and deflation; the timing, impact and other
uncertainties of future acquisitions or combinations
within relevant industries; and the impact of
changes in capital, solvency or accounting
standards, and tax and other legislation and
regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Group
operates.
As a result, the Group’s actual future financial
condition, performance and results may differ
materially from the plans, goals, and expectations
set forth in the Group’s forward-looking
statements. F&C undertakes no obligation to
update the forward-looking statements contained
in this Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Nothing in this publication should be considered as
a profit forecast.
“F&C, FCAM, Group or Company” F&C Asset
Management plc and its subsidiaries
“FL”, “FL Group” Friends Life and its subsidiaries
“F&CGH” F&C Group (Holdings) Limited and its
subsidiaries
“F&C REIT” F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
and its subsidiaries
“REIT” REIT Property Asset Management LLP
and its subsidiaries
“Sherborne or the Sherborne Group” Sherborne
Investors (Guernsey) GP , LLC (Sherborne GP),
SIGA, LP (SIGA), Sherborne Investors (Guernsey) A
Limited, Sherborne Investors Management
(Guernsey) LLC and Sherborne Investors LP
“Thames River” or “TRC” Thames River Capital
Group Limited and its subsidiary companies or
limited liability partnerships (LLPs) which are
consolidated within the Group
“NCI” Non-controlling interests
Forward-looking statements Definitions
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 1 (£13.4m)
(0.1)p
02 | BUSINESS REVIEW |
Our year in brief
Net revenue
£267.0m
Group underlying pro;t before tax
£47.0m
Underlying earnings per share
5.5p
Total dividend per share
3.0p
2011 Financial and Business Highlights
• First phase of the strategic review completed, second
phase expected in May 2012
• £33.2 million cost reduction programme is ahead of plan
and remains on track to be substantially achieved by the
end of 2012
• Assets under management of £100.1 billion
(2010: £105.8 billion)*
• £7.8 billion of gross new third-party business
(2010: £5.7 billion)
• Three-year investment performance track record remains
competitive, particularly in the Group’s largest asset class of
fixed income
• Consultant buy ratings at record levels
• Net debt reduced to £77.8 million (2010: £95.9 million)*
• Underlying earnings per share of 5.5 pence
(2010: 5.7 pence)
• Unchanged total dividends of 3.0 pence per share
(2010: 3.0 pence)
Assets under management*
£100.1bn
2011
£105.8bn
2010
Underlying operating margin
24.4%
2011
27.6%
2010
Group underlying pro;t before taxation
£47.0m
2011
£44.7m
2010
Underlying earnings per Ordinary Share
5.5p
2011
5.7p
2010
Total dividend per Ordinary Share
3.0p
2011
3.0p
2010
Basic loss per Ordinary Share
2011
(3.3)p
2010
Net revenue
£267.0m
2011
£243.2m
2010
Reported pro;t/(loss) after tax
£2.6m
2011 2010
Reconciliations of reported to underlying earnings and calculations of key performance
indicators are given on page 124.
Reconciliations between reported earnings/(loss) and underlying earnings and between basic
loss per share and underlying earnings per share are given in note 10 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
* As at the end of the reporting period.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 2 2011 was a significant year for F&C with
changes in the composition of the Board and
important progress made in developing its
strategy. A review of business flows,
investment performance and operational
developments, is provided in the Chief
Executive’s Report.
Five new Directors joined the Board, three as
a result of the changes which arose from the
Extraordinary General Meeting in February
2011, which was covered in last year’s
Annual Report, and the subsequent
appointment of two additional Directors. In
the second half of 2011, Keith Jones and
Keith Percy were appointed as Independent
Non-Executive Directors. Both Mr Jones and
Mr Percy bring considerable industry
expertise to the Board as former chief
executive officers of major asset
management firms. Additional information on
the recently appointed and incumbent
Directors is included on page 22.
The Board has been conducting a
comprehensive review of strategy during the
year. As I wrote in last year’s report, F&C has
a great many strengths, including a strong
brand, competitive investment performance
across a range of products and high quality
professionals, but these have not been
reflected in its financial performance in recent
years. The goal of the review is therefore to
enhance shareholder value.
In setting the parameters for the revised
strategy the Board agreed three key
objectives:
• Generate above-average shareholder
returns with below-average volatility
• Achieve competitive scale in areas of
strategic focus
• Create a stable environment for
long-term growth
The first phase of this work completed in
October and focused on addressing certain
corporate issues, as well as the growth
strategy for our institutional business. In
particular, we announced steps to improve
profitability through an additional £21.2 million
expense reduction programme over and
above the £12.0 million target set-out at the
start of the year from the operational
outsourcing project and related restructuring.
These combined £33.2 million cost
reductions, which will substantially be
achieved by the end of this year and fully
achieved during 2013, will enhance
underlying earnings and the level of dividend
cover and provide the Group with the ability
to accelerate the retirement of its long-term
debt. Improving the Group’s financial position
will better enable F&C to implement its
revenue growth plans, with consistent
investment in the resources required to
support growth.
Our revised institutional strategy is to focus
on those areas where F&C has existing scale
and marketable track records in products
that meet the needs of insurance companies
and pension schemes. Both of these large
client groups are increasingly focused on
immunising liabilities, with fixed income as
the core asset class in their portfolios. F&C
has significant scale in fixed income, good
performance track records and has gathered
strong consultant support for its expertise in
Liability Driven Investment.
The second phase of the strategic review,
which will cover the growth strategies for our
retail, wholesale, investment trust and
real-estate businesses, is ongoing. We
expect to conclude this work in May.
Results and Dividend
The underlying profit after tax was £28.4
million compared to £28.8 million in 2010.
This represents underlying earnings per share
of 5.5 pence for 2011 (2010: 5.7 pence).
On a statutory reporting basis, which
includes exceptional and non-cash items, the
Group made a profit after tax of £2.6 million,
compared to a loss after tax of £13.4 million
in 2010. This represents a basic loss per
share of 0.1 pence compared to a loss of
3.3 pence in 2010.
The Board is recommending an unchanged
final dividend of 2.0 pence per share,
payable on 25 May 2012 to shareholders on
the register at 30 March 2012. This brings
full-year dividends to 3.0 pence per share
(2010: 3.0 pence per share).
Retirement of Alain Grisay
In October 2011 the Group announced that
Alain Grisay would be retiring in the latter part
of 2012 and would therefore step down as
Chief Executive and from the Board at the
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in
May. As part of a gradual and orderly
handover of responsibilities, I have
temporarily taken on the position of Executive
Chairman. This is an interim measure while
the Group completes its strategic review and
implements the related actions. The Board
expects that the roles of Chairman and Chief
Executive will be separated again by the time
of the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
As a result of the handover, and to ensure
accountability for delivery of goals for each
business line, we have clarified senior
management responsibilities. Richard Wilson
is now head of our Investment and
Institutional Business and Charlie Porter is
head of our Retail and Wholesale Business
(which incorporates investment trusts).
Responsibility for F&C REIT, our real-estate
business, and F&C Portugal remains
unchanged.
On behalf of the Board and management
team, I would like to thank Alain Grisay for
the huge contribution he has made to F&C
over many years, the last six of which he has
served as Chief Executive. His notable
achievements include successfully leading
F&C through a period of ownership
uncertainty to an independent stock market
listing and the acquisitions of Thames River
and REIT Asset Management. Alain leaves
F&C with our very best wishes for the future.
Edward Bramson
Executive Chairman
15 March 2012
2011 was a significant year
for F&C with changes in the
composition of the Board and
important progress made in
developing its strategy.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 03
Welcome from the Chairman
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 3 Chief Executive’s Report
04 | BUSINESS REVIEW |
Market Overview
The ongoing European sovereign debt crisis
continued to cast a cloud of uncertainty
over the global economy during 2011 as
solvency fears spread beyond Greece,
Ireland and Portugal to the much larger
economies of Spain and Italy. Alongside this
the year also saw a number of significant
geopolitical developments and natural
disasters which contributed to extreme
volatility in global markets and poor investor
sentiment. These included the earthquake,
tsunami and nuclear reactor crisis in Japan,
violent upheaval in the Middle East and
North Africa and growing concerns over
Iran’s nuclear programme.
While across the year the equity market
ended only modestly down, with the FTSE
100 Index posting a total return of -2.2 per
cent., volatility as measured by the VIX
Index hit levels last seen at the height of the
credit crisis in 2008 when the global
financial system was on the brink of
collapse. At its lowest point the FTSE 100
Index had declined by -13.8 per cent. from
the start of the year and the S&P 500 Index
of leading US companies traded in a 24 per
cent. range with an average daily move of
around 1 per cent.
Volatile markets, combined with poor
liquidity, adversely affect the asset
management industry by impacting both new
business generation, particularly from retail
investors, and the ability of fund managers to
position client portfolios in order to deliver
out-performance. During 2011 only 17 per
cent. of funds in the IMA UK All Companies
sector managed to outperform the FTSE All
Share Index on a total return basis
(source: Lipper).
Underlying asset performance was a £2.9
billion positive contributor to assets under
management (AUM) over the year. However,
the Group saw its AUM decline 5.4 per cent.
to £100.1 billion (31 December 2010: £105.8
billion) principally as a result of net outflows
and adverse foreign exchange movements
associated with strategic partner assets.
Some 52 per cent. of the assets we manage
are in Euro-denominated portfolios, with
strategic partners making up 67 per cent. of
this exposure.
Business Flows
While the business saw overall net outflows
of £7.2 billion during the year, this was
primarily attributable to strategic partner
outflows. The outflows reflected the
underlying maturity profile of some of our
strategic partners’ insurance books, the
market conditions in Portugal and Ireland
and specific developments including the
partial nationalisation of the BCP Pension
Scheme in Portugal and the sale of Imperio
France by Achmea. We estimate annualised
revenues lost from these net outflows in
2011 to be approximately £11.9 million.
Net flows from third-party clients were flat
reflecting the difficult market environment,
particularly for retail and wholesale business.
Institutional gross sales were strong, with
£4.6 billion new mandates funded and an
additional £1.2 billion won but unfunded at
year end. Institutional flows were indicative
of our much improved position with
investment consultants where our
credentials in areas such as fixed income
and Liability Driven Investments (LDI) have
gained strong recognition.
Financial Results
While net revenues increased to £267.0
million (2010: £243.2 million), this reflected
the first full-year of Thames River’s inclusion
in the Group which also had a corresponding
impact on the expense base. Net revenues
included performance-related management
fees of £11.8 million (2010: £12.9 million).
The reduction in performance fees over the
previous year partially reflected weaker
investment performance in the second half of
the year at Thames River, where the majority
of products have performance fee potential,
and also the reduced performance fee
potential from certain F&C mandates.
Underlying operating costs, excluding
amortisation of intangible assets and
exceptional items, were £202.1 million
(2010: £177.0 million). These included a
full-year impact from the Thames River
acquisition, including £18.3 million in respect
of distributions payable to Thames River
members. Core operating expenses in the
legacy F&C business were slightly lower year-
on-year, with cost reductions more than
offsetting inflationary increases.
The Group also incurred a number of
exceptional and non-recurring costs which
are excluded from our underlying results.
These included costs associated with the
F&C Partners litigation, costs of
implementing our back and middle office
outsourcing and one-off expenses related to
our cost reduction programme. Offset
against these, and also excluded from
underlying results, are exceptional gains
arising from the reassessment of conditional
consideration payable for Thames River, and
in respect of the reduction in F&C REIT put
option liabilities. The Group anticipates that,
based on current and forecast financial
performance, no conditional consideration
will be payable for the Thames River Group.
The Group achieved an underlying operating
profit for 2011 of £65.2 million (2010: £67.2
million), resulting in an underlying operating
margin of 24.4 per cent. (2010: 27.6 per
cent.). In addition, the Group recognised
investment gains, which are included in
investment income, of £3.7 million during
the year.
Underlying earnings per share for the year
were 5.5 pence (2010: 5.7 pence).
On a statutory basis, which includes
amortisation and exceptional items, the
Group made a profit after tax of £2.6 million
(2010: a loss of £13.4 million).
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 4 Statement of Financial
Position
The Group closed the year with £196.9
million of shareholders’ cash reserves
and net debt reduced to £77.8 million
(2010: £95.9 million). A significant proportion
of the shareholders’ cash reserves are held
in our regulated subsidiaries against their
capital requirements.
Gross debt of some £275 million (2010:
£275 million) comprises £125 million of
subordinated loan notes and £150 million of
senior loan notes, neither of which include
any financial covenants.
Business Review
While the Board conducted its review of
strategy, the operational focus of the
business during 2011 remained the delivery
of good investment performance and client
servicing during a period of market
turbulence, and the project to outsource our
back and middle office functions.
On an asset-weighted basis relative
investment performance during the year was
encouraging, particularly in fixed income,
which is the core asset class for both defined
benefit pension schemes and insurance
portfolios. Importantly, three-year track
records continue to be competitive: on an
asset-weighted basis some 87 per cent. of
fixed income, 64 per cent. of equities and 98
per cent. of property assets are above
benchmarks over three years.
Our position with investment consultants
continues to improve and we have a highly
active programme of consultant
engagement. We now have 70 individual
product buy ratings compared to 43 at the
end of 2010. This significant increase in
consultant ratings primarily reflects new
ratings for a number of investment solutions
products launched over the last two years,
including our equity-linked bond fund range
and a suite of Dynamic LDI funds that we
launched in December 2011. Our credentials
in providing solutions to help insurers to
address their solvency requirements and
pension schemes to immunise liabilities,
gained important recognition with our
appointment to the UK’s Pension Protection
Fund’s panel of LDI providers. F&C also
won the LDI Provider of the Year award
at the prestigious 2011 European
Pensions Awards.
As disclosed in our Interim Report, a further
notable achievement during the year was
our appointment by the National
Employment Savings Trust (NEST) to
manage their ethical fund option. NEST is a
new workplace defined contribution pension
scheme, into which UK employees who do
not currently have access to an occupational
pension scheme will gradually be auto-
enrolled by 2017. This mandate provides
long-term potential for business flows and
further recognition of F&C’s scale and
leadership in sustainable investing. We see
further opportunities for developing our
presence in socially responsible investment
arising from recent decisions by some other
asset managers to scale back their
resources and activities in this area.
The tough market environment for the
retail/wholesale mutual fund business
resulted in 2011 being a relatively subdued
year for new product innovation across the
industry. We closed a small number of funds
and share classes which were sub-scale and
where we saw little demand. In the UK, we
continued to focus heavily on multi-manager
products, including our Lifestyle risk-rated
funds, where we are seeing support from
Independent Financial Advisers (IFAs)
seeking an outsourced core investment
proposition for their clients. We have also
been planning for the implementation of the
recommendations of the Retail Distribution
Review, which will replace the traditional
commission-based IFA model with the
explicit charging of fees for advice. The new
regime will be fully implemented by the end
of 2012 and therefore we are in the process
of finalising our new fund pricing strategy.
F&C manages significant assets for a number
of strategic partners: Achmea (The
Netherlands), Millennium BCP (Portugal),
Friends First (Ireland) and Friends Life (UK).
These assets principally comprise insurance
funds but also include sub-advised mutual
funds and certain pension scheme assets.
These are long standing relationships which
have generally provided us with exclusivity to
manage the assets of these partners for a
minimum period of time. An exception to this
is the Millennium BCP relationship in
Portugal, which is principally represented by
a BCP-Ageas insurance joint venture, where
that exclusivity period has already come to
an end. We are in discussions with BCP-
Ageas regarding the longer-term nature of
our business relationship.
At 31 December 2011 AUM for strategic
partners were £60.2 billion (2010: £67.0
billion) representing 60 per cent. of our total
AUM. Due to the lower fees that we receive
for managing these assets, our revenue from
strategic partners is considerably less at
some 30 per cent. of 2011 revenues.
Friends Life has set out its intention to
establish an in-house asset management
function and, as previously disclosed, has
served notice to withdraw £2.3 billion of
assets at the end of this year. Our
expectation is that all or most of the assets
that we manage for Friends Life may be
withdrawn at the expiration of the contractual
exclusivity periods, which occur at various
times up to October 2014. Our strategy, as
set out in October 2011, anticipated this
potential withdrawal and we intend to offset it
through reductions of related costs and a
focus on generating new business.
As disclosed in our Interim Report, the
agreement to outsource certain back and
middle office functions to State Street came
into effect on 1 July with all impacted staff
now transferred to State Street. The project
has been managed successfully, with
minimal disruption to client servicing. As we
complete our move to State Street’s strategic
platform over the course of 2012, we expect
to deliver the cost savings associated with
this project.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 05
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 5 Summary
While the macroeconomic outlook remains
challenging and geopolitical instabilities
persist, markets have begun to make
headway in 2012 with the FTSE 100 Index
rising 5.4 per cent. to the end of February.
Encouragingly, our relative investment
performance has also been strong in the first
two months of 2012.
After six years as Chief Executive of F&C, this
will be my last report as I will be retiring from
the Board at the conclusion of the Annual
General Meeting in May. It has been a
privilege to serve as Chief Executive and in
particular to guide F&C through a period
which saw the two most significant market
downturns in eighty years. I wish my
colleagues on the Board and all of the staff at
F&C every success for the future.
Alain Grisay
Chief Executive
15 March 2012
The ongoing European
sovereign debt crisis continued
to cast a cloud of uncertainty
over the global economy during
2011 as solvency fears spread
beyond Greece, Ireland and
Portugal to the much larger
economies of Spain and Italy.
06 | BUSINESS REVIEW | Chief Executive’s Report
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 6 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 07
F&C is a leading asset management company providing solutions that deliver superior performance
and service.
With offices in 8 countries we are a global business with a strong presence in Europe. Our clients are
insurance companies, institutional, retail and wholesale investors, representing over three million
individuals – for whom we manage approximately £100 billion.
This is F&C
The Board has prepared this review on pages 2 to 21 in accordance
with the requirements of Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006
and it forms part of the Directors’ Report. The law requires the
Company’s auditor to report on whether the information given in the
Directors’ Report and Business Review is consistent with the
Financial Statements. The auditor’s opinion is included in the report
on page 41.
The purpose of this review is to provide shareholders with a
snapshot summary setting out the business objectives of the
Company, the Board’s strategy to achieve those objectives, the risks
faced, the regulatory environment and the key performance
indicators (KPIs) used to measure performance.
What we do
F&C’s sole activity is asset management. We are an active
international investor with a client focus on the UK and
Continental Europe.
We operate across multiple locations, with a physical presence in
eight countries. Our organisational philosophy has two key
parameters – to seek to avoid duplication by, for example, managing
each asset class from only one location, and to place client service
functions where appropriate in order to meet client requirements.
Our values
• Client focus
• Accountable performance
• Commercial innovation
• Mutual respect
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 7 08 | BUSINESS REVIEW | This is F&C
Our objective is simple: to create value by delivering first quartile
performance in everything our clients expect from us.
Our clients
Our clients comprise a wide range of
insurance companies, institutional, wholesale
and retail investors, across multiple
geographies and jurisdictions, for whom we
manage a diverse spread of investments
including fixed income, equities, property and
alternative asset classes.
How we manage money
With over 250 investment professionals, F&C
has one of the largest investment teams in
Europe. Our scale gives us a competitive
edge in research resources and access to the
most senior management at companies. We
believe individuals work best as part of small,
focused teams. Our investment professionals
are therefore organised into dedicated teams,
focused on specific products or market
segments. We provide them with a high
degree of autonomy over their investment
process. We do this in order to foster a
strong culture of enterprise and accountability
for delivering performance. This approach –
of being both large in terms of resource, but
entrepreneurial in structure – is what we
describe as a ‘multi-specialist’ fund
management model.
Responsible investments
We seek to deliver strong investment
performance through active management.
However, as a shareholder representative,
we seek to engage with the companies in
which we invest, aiming to enhance and
protect long-term shareholder value. Our
approach is to have constructive dialogue
with companies. We cast votes on
shareholder resolutions globally, and disclose
this to our clients on our website.
Key risks (see page 13)
In addition to the “normal risks” facing the
business relating to the market, interest
rates and foreign currency, the Board has
identified the following as the key risks
facing the business:
• Investment management
• Effective strategy formulation and
execution
• Loss of strategic partners
• Outsourced activities
• Euro currency
• Loss of key employees
• Regulatory compliance
Assets Under Management by Client Category
as at 31 December
Assets Under Management by Asset Class
as at 31 December
2010 2011
£bn £bn
1 Insurance Funds 59.5 54.4
2 Institutional Funds 29.3 30.1
3 Sub-Advisory 3.0 2.7
4 Investment Trusts 5.9 5.6
Open Ended Funds (UK Onshore) 3.5 3.5
Open Ended Funds (Offshore) 4.6 3.8
2010 2011
£bn £bn
1 Fixed Interest 62.0 59.2
2 Equities 28.7 25.5
3 Property 8.2 7.9
4 Other Alternative Investments 2.4 1.7
5 Money Market 4.5 5.8
1 1
2 2
3 3
4 4
2011 Key Awards
LIPPER
FUND AWARDS 2011
AUSTRIA
F&C Global
Convertible
Bond
F&C Global
Convertible
Bond
5
6
5
2011
£100.1bn
2010
£105.8bn
2011
£100.1bn
2010
£105.8bn
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 8 Executive Directors and
Group Management
Messrs Bramson, Grisay and Logan are the
Executive Directors of the Company.
Alain Grisay and David Logan, together with
Jeremy Charles, Charlie Porter and Richard
Wilson formed the Group Management team
(Group Management) in 2011. Group
Management is accountable and responsible
for implementing Board strategy, proposing
development of new elements of strategy
and for the day-to-day running of the
business. In addition to overseeing the
implementation of the strategy, Group
Management regularly reviews business
issues and matters not reserved for the
Board as a whole. Group Management has
reserved lists to assist it in carrying out
its functions.
Examples of matters reserved for Group
Management as delegated authorities from
the Board:
• The approval of day-to-day business
issues linked to the strategy or the
annual budget and including the launch
of new products.
• The approval of contractual
commitments.
• The approval of expenditure and the
management of any issue that could
have a potential legal or reputational
impact on the Group.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 09
Executive management
F&C US
Smaller
Companies
F&C Global
Climate
Opportunities
F&C Global
Convertible
Bond Hedged
Edward Bramson
Executive Chairman
Alain Grisay
Chief Executive
David Logan
Chief Financial Officer
Charlie Porter
Head of Retail, Wholesale
& Investment Trusts
Jeremy Charles
Group Operations
Director
Richard Wilson
Head of Investment &
Institutional Business
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 9 Our strategy
During the year the Board launched a comprehensive review of strategy. In October 2011, the results
of the first phase of this review, covering the Group’s corporate functions and institutional business,
were announced. The review of strategy for the retail, wholesale, investment trust and property
businesses is expected to be announced in May 2012. Strategic objectives announced in the first
phase of the review include:
• Generating above-average shareholder returns with below-average volatility;
• Achieving competitive scale in areas of strategic focus; and
• Creating a stable environment for long-term growth.
10 | BUSINESS REVIEW |
In supporting these strategic objectives, the Group has identified
the following priorities:
Resolving corporate uncertainty
The Board determined that concerns regarding the potential impact
of a significant loss of strategic partner assets, together with F&C’s
level of expenses and borrowings, were creating uncertainty over
the future outlook for the Group. Accordingly, the Board has:
• Provided a profile of strategic partner contract terms and
profitability;
• Set out a cost reduction programme to preserve Group
profitability in the event that strategic partner assets are
withdrawn at the end of their exclusivity periods; and
• Clarified that its objective is both to maximise the retention of
strategic partners’ mandates beyond current exclusivity periods
and to seek to add new insurance mandates.
Our 2012 priorities are to:
• Execute our cost reduction programme;
• Grow third-party institutional business;
• Develop new product areas for a re-risking scenario;
• Maximise the retention of strategic partner assets; and
• Utilise free cash flow, after dividends, to reduce gross and
net debt.
Improving financial results
The Board believes that the Group’s ability to execute its growth
plans will be enhanced with improved profitability and a stronger
balance sheet. Specific objectives include:
• Improving dividend cover, to provide shareholders with greater
certainty of future payments;
• Providing for consistent investment in new products and
distribution over time; and
• Creating the opportunity for improved employee compensation.
Our 2012 priorities are to:
• Deliver improved underlying earnings per share;
• Invest in core institutional products, which meet the Board’s
financial criteria. These criteria include scalability, high operating
leverage and low revenue volatility;
• Focus institutional product development on areas with growing
potential demand and which meet long-term client needs; and
• Integrate our investment and sales teams, through an enhanced
marketing function, to improve product development.
Enhance employee motivation
The Board believe that employee motivation can be improved by
providing a clear linkage of compensation to individual performance
and Group objectives.
Our 2012 priorities are to:
• Revise the Group’s objective-setting and performance appraisal
process to set and monitor measurable individual objectives for
key employees; and
• Deliver a remuneration structure that rewards employees for
meeting individual objectives, whilst linking that reward to
corporate earnings.
Improving marketing and product development
The strategic review identified a number of changes which could be
made to the Group’s marketing and product development functions
to deliver improved institutional flows. These include:
• Investment in the sales and marketing functions;
• Aligning product development with evolving customer needs;
• Integrating the Group’s investment process with its distribution
approach; and
• Clarifying the Group’s approach to each distribution channel.
Our 2012 priorities are to:
• Create a formal marketing strategy for the insurance sector and
expand our dedicated sales resource;
• Better communicate the Group’s overall positioning in the
institutional market; and
• Selectively incubate new products in the wholesale channel for
potential transfer to the institutional channel when sufficient track
records and scale are achieved.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 10 Whilst the change in priorities arising from the strategic review result
in our 2012 goals differing significantly from our 2011 priorities, we
have set out below our performance against our original 2011 goals
and objectives.
Client service
2011 key points
• Completed the outsourcing of key operational functions without
disrupting client service
• Transferred responsibility for investment trust client service and
business development to our funds business
• Held a series of successful educational seminars for pension
schemes trustees and a major investment conference for
discretionary wealth managers
Key performance indicators
Corporate Health – The Board considers a report on the Group’s
Operations and IT systems, Human Resources, Audit and Risk and
Compliance functions at each Board Meeting.
Investment performance
2011 key points
• 87 per cent. of fixed income assets were ahead of agreed index
benchmarks or targets over three years as at year end
• 64 per cent. of equity assets were ahead of agreed index
benchmarks or targets over three years as at the year end
• 98 per cent. of IPD monitored portfolios ahead of benchmark
over three years as at the year end
Key performance indicators
Average percentage of Fixed Income assets above index benchmark
or peer group on an asset weighted basis
% (3 years)
87 2011
72 2010
72 2009
Average percentage of Equity assets above index benchmark
or peer group on an asset weighted basis
% (3 years)
64 2011
63 2010
72 2009
Average percentage of Property assets above index benchmark
or peer group on an asset weighted basis
% (3 years)
98 2011
100 2010
100 2009
Grow new revenues and further diversify the
client base
2011 key points
• Good progress with institutional investment consultants, with
70 product buy ratings achieved by the end of the year
• Generated £7.8 billion of new third-party business (ex. strategic
partner flows), with a further pipeline of £1.2 billion in institutional
mandates awaiting funding
• 20 new institutional clients added during the year
Key performance indicators
Gross institutional new business
£bn
5.1 2011
3.9 2010
2.5 2009
Net (outflows)/inflows in third-party mutual funds
£m
(170) 2011
425 2010
64 2009
Focus on higher margin and specialist areas
for new business
2011 key points
• Average basis points (excluding performance fees) increased
from 22.6 in 2010 to 24.4 in 2011
• Key institutional products include emerging market debt, equity-
linked bond funds, liability driven investments and real-estate
• In the UK retail market key focus remains multi-manager and the
‘Lifestyle’ funds
• In the wholesale segments key products included global bonds
and global convertibles
Key performance indicators
Average basis points earned on assets under management*
24.4 2011
22.6 2010
21.8 2009
22.9 2008
22.5 2007
*excluding performance fees
Performance fees earned
£m
11.8 2011
12.9 2010
18.7 2009
7.9 2008
20.8 2007
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 11
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 11 Create greater flexibility in our cost base
2011 key points
• Underlying operating costs reduced by £1.7 million
• Signed an agreement to outsource certain back and middle
office functions to State Street to create an operational cost base
that will adjust with assets under management and transaction
levels. Annualised cost savings of this and related actions
expected to be £12 million once fully implemented
• Launched a further cost reduction programme to deliver an
additional £21m of annualised cost savings with full run-rate
expected in 2013
Key performance indicators
Operating margin
%
24.4 2011
27.6 2010
23.0 2009
Improve capital strength
2011 key points
• Net debt reduced by £18.1 million
• Set out plans to reduce debt through the period to the expiry of
the exclusivity periods on strategic partner contracts
• Debt reduction plans will enable the Group to substantially
reduce its net interest expense
Key performance indicators
Net debt
£m
77.8 2011
95.9 2010
78.5 2009
12 | BUSINESS REVIEW | Our strategy
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 12 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 13
Managing risk
The Directors are committed to a strong control environment throughout the Group. F&C has a culture
that emphasises the importance of rigorous disciplines and procedures to safeguard the interests of our
clients and other key stakeholders.
Investment management
Key Risk The success of the Group depends upon the effective
management of client portfolios against targets, benchmarks and/or
peer groups. Failure to do so could lead to client outflows and the
loss of key mandates, may prevent the Group from winning new
business and could potentially expose the Group to greater risk of
mandate or regulatory breach.
Mitigation Fund Managers are responsible for interpreting and
effectively managing the risks associated with investment
ideas/strategies. Independent of Fund Managers, the Group
operates an Investment Risk Oversight team with responsibility for
monitoring and challenging risks within client portfolios.
Effective strategy formulation and execution
Key Risk The success of the Group depends upon the effective
formulation, articulation and execution of its strategy. During the year
there were changes in key elements of strategy formulation
and execution.
Mitigation Following the appointment of a new Chairman in
February 2011 the strategic review of the Group’s corporate position
and its Institutional Business was announced in October 2011,
highlighting the objective of achieving competitive scale in areas of
strategic focus through consistent investment in products, channels
and human resources. This will increase institutional focus on the
Group’s fixed income offerings. The strategic review of the Retail
and Wholesale Business is expected to be announced in May 2012.
Loss of strategic partners
Key Risk The success of the Group depends on the relationships it
has with its clients. The retention of clients and the winning of new
mandates may be driven by historical performance and the quality of
client service. A number of contracts with our key strategic partners
are approaching expiry of exclusivity.
Mitigation Dedicated relationship management teams ensure
continued quality of service. Investment performance is closely
monitored by Investment Function management. Furthermore, the
strategic review explicitly addressed uncertainties relating to
strategic partners. Combined with an increasing reliance on
outsourced providers, additional cost cutting measures were
announced that will deliver cost flexibility and ensure that the Group
should remain financially viable under a scenario where strategic
partners assets are withdrawn.
Outsourced activities
Key Risk In pursuing a strategy with a focus on competitive scale,
the use of outsourced service providers benefits the Group by
providing cost effective access to an industry competitive operating
platform. In support of this strategic objective, the Group has
increased its concentration and reliance on third parties through the
execution of a service agreement with State Street Corporation.
Mitigation The selection of a key supplier to the Group was
undertaken following a robust due diligence and selection process.
As part of the implementation of these outsourcing arrangements
the Group has established a dedicated team to oversee all aspects
of service delivery. The implementation project is being managed by
a Steering Group comprised of senior business managers.
Euro currency
Key Risk In addition to the potential operational implications arising
from the collapse of the Euro or withdrawal of individual countries,
the Group has exposure to a large number of clients whose assets
under management have the potential to be impacted. In Q4 2011
strategic partner assets were withdrawn as a result of the decision
by the Portuguese government to nationalise past pension
obligations of the country’s largest banks.
Mitigation The Group’s operating platform is positioned to cope
with potential changes to Eurozone membership arising from the
Euro crisis and the Group proactively considers a range of potential
scenarios with key service providers. The Group also provides
tailored assistance to its clients in considering scenario implications
for their own planning.
Loss of key employees
Key Risk The success of the Group depends on the support of its
employees. The departure of key employees could lead to client
outflows and the loss of key mandates, may prevent the Group from
winning new business and could potentially expose the Group to
greater risk of regulatory, financial or operational failure.
Mitigation The Group benchmarks total compensation to market
data. All employees receive an annual appraisal which reviews their
performance against clearly defined objectives with the aim of
encouraging strong performance. Reliance on key individuals is
mitigated by the Group’s team-based approach to investment
management. Moreover, we seek to reduce our dependence on key
staff through ongoing learning and development initiatives, and the
recruitment of suitably skilled individuals.
Regulatory compliance
Key Risk Significant changes in regulatory frameworks and the
increased trend in regulatory scrutiny across the financial services
industry present both opportunities and challenges for the Group.
Mitigation The Group Compliance team ensures that key
regulatory changes are identified at the earliest opportunity. Their
impact is then assessed to allow practical guidance on the proper
application and interpretation of any changes to be provided to all
relevant business areas.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 13 14 | BUSINESS REVIEW |
Our view of the market
The spectre of the ongoing European sovereign debt crisis continues
to cast a long shadow of uncertainty over the global economy. De-
leveraging remains the dominant global theme as governments persist
with implementing austerity programmes against a backdrop of
anaemic economic growth. With interest rates in the US, UK and
Eurozone already at historically low levels and debt reduction targets
curtailing the scope for tax cuts, the policy options for stimulating
growth are limited, so we expect any recovery to take place over a
protracted period. This backdrop, combined with upheaval in the
Middle East and mounting concern over Iran’s nuclear ambitions,
presents the asset management industry with near-term headwinds in
the form of volatile markets and fragile investor sentiment.
However, despite these current challenges, in our view the long-term
prospects for the asset management industry remain attractive. We
see considerable opportunities both from structural reform in
developed market pension systems and from the growth of the
emerging economies where the rapid spread of wealth is creating new
pools of assets for the industry to manage.
In the developed world, governments are under pressure to pull back
from increasingly unaffordable universal welfare provision as mortality
rates have improved. In the UK the number of retired people will rise by
more than a third by 2050, while the working population is expected to
decline. Governments are therefore encouraging individuals, and
companies on behalf of their employees, to take increased
responsibility for their long-term financial well-being. For example,
commencing this year it has become a legal duty for UK employers to
provide workers with access to a qualifying pension scheme with
gradual phasing in of auto-enrolment which will extend to all employers
by September 2016. Alongside this the UK government has
established the National Employment Savings Trust (NEST). NEST will
provide an occupational defined contribution pension scheme for
those employees who do not currently have access to one, typically
those working at smaller firms.
The asset management industry is itself going through a period of
structural upheaval driven by new regulation, changing client needs
and developments in the distribution landscape.
In the institutional market, the long-standing trend of Defined Benefit
(DB) pension scheme closures has continued with Royal Dutch Shell,
believed to be one of the last companies in the FTSE 100 currently
operating a final salary scheme open to new members, recently
announcing that it too will close its final salary scheme to new members
next year. We therefore expect to see rapid growth in the Defined
Contribution (DC) pensions market, as companies shift risk away from
their balance sheets and on to the shoulders of individual employees. As
the DC pensions market grows, this will increasingly blur the boundaries
of institutional and retail asset management, as scheme members are
presented with pooled fund choices in much the same way as they
would select from a range of mutual funds for an investment portfolio
outside of a pension wrapper.
Notwithstanding the closure of DB pension schemes to new
members, these will remain very significant pools of capital for many
years to come. Within these schemes, the emphasis has moved
increasingly towards de-risking and the immunisation of future
liabilities. Fixed income has become the core asset class for these
schemes, with a steady decline over many years in their exposure to
equities. In this respect we see a growing convergence between the
needs of DB pension schemes and insurance companies where
changing solvency requirements are resulting in greater use of asset
and liability matching strategies. We expect to see continued, and
growing, demand for both corporate credit and emerging market debt
from pension schemes and insurers, as logical steps along the
risk/return spectrum from developed market sovereign bonds and as
these governments seek to reduce their debts. Within institutional
equity allocations, mandates are increasingly global in nature, focused
either on developed or emerging markets. There is reduced
institutional demand for long-only actively managed regional equity
strategies although these do remain core products for retail investors
and discretionary wealth managers.
As the needs of pension schemes have changed, new models have
emerged from both asset managers and investment consultants to
support them in the form of fiduciary management (an asset-manager
led proposition) and implemented consulting (a consultant-led
proposition). These services broadly seek to integrate advice on asset
allocation, risk budgeting and manager selection. Unlike traditional
balanced pension management, these new providers of multi-asset
services are prepared to make greater use of both passive strategies
and alternative asset classes. We anticipate that these services, which
are well established in the Netherlands and of growing importance in
the UK, will expand into further pension markets.
The retail and wholesale market is also undergoing significant change,
due to the growth of platforms and regulatory reform impacting the
distribution landscape. In the UK a key driver of change is the Retail
Distribution Review (RDR) which will be implemented by the end of
2012. These reforms seek to improve the advice received by
consumers in the UK Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) market
through the replacement of commission-based business models with
the explicit pricing of advice through fees charged to the end-investor
and new professional qualification standards. RDR is prompting many
IFA firms to fundamentally change how they do business, with one
outcome being an increased propensity to outsource the management
of client investment portfolios through either the use of multi-manager
funds or by partnering with discretionary wealth managers. The growth
of these ‘gate keepers’ is leading to a greater institutionalisation of fund
buying processes and accelerating the blurring of institutional and retail
asset management referred to above. For management groups
offering core multi-asset and multi-manager products to the
intermediary market, the shift towards greater use of “outsourced”
investment management solutions by IFAs should provide more stable
fund flows and longer term holding patterns. However, in other single
strategy product areas where the principal clients are increasingly
multi-managers and discretionary wealth managers rather than IFAs,
we expect to see a reduction in the average holding periods as these
investors are more inclined to shift in and out of products depending
on changing views on asset allocation or underlying managers. Asset
managers are currently reviewing their fund pricing strategies and
product ranges in preparation for this new distribution landscape.
Finally, the financial crisis that began in earnest in 2008 has raised
important questions about the extent to which institutional investors
have adequately held companies, and banks in particular, to account
in areas such as remuneration, risk management and effective Board
oversight. Across the asset management industry there is a much
greater focus on corporate governance issues, as exemplified by the
Stewardship Code, a set of principles released in 2010 by the UK’s
Financial Reporting Council. We see a similar trend towards higher
expectations of shareholder engagement and improved transparency
over voting activities across a number of developed markets and
therefore we believe that the strength of expertise asset managers can
demonstrate in this field will become an increasingly important factor in
overall competitive positioning.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 14 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 15
Our trading performance and outlook
Institutional: Third-Party and Strategic Partner
business
F&C is a leading provider of services to institutional investors, which
we broadly categorise as either third-party institutional business or
“strategic partners” for whom we principally manage insurance
assets. We provide these clients with both portfolio management in
multi-asset and single asset class mandates and, increasingly,
investment solutions such as liability hedging strategies and
shareholder engagement programmes.
Our largest markets for third-party institutional business are The
Netherlands, the UK and Germany. Institutional assets under
management, excluding strategic partner assets, were £27.1 billion
at 31 December 2011 (2010: £24.7 billion) representing 27 per cent.
of our total assets under management and some 27 per cent. of
2011 net revenues.
Mandates in the institutional asset management industry are
predominantly intermediated through firms of investment
consultants who advise pension schemes on manager selection and
asset allocation. In recent years F&C has achieved a much improved
position with investment consultants, with a total of 70 individual
product buy ratings at the end of 2011, compared to 28 four years
ago. Consultant support and competitive performance resulted in a
28 per cent. increase in gross sales to £4.6 billion during 2011
(2010: £3.6 billion). After allowing for outflows, this resulted in net
inflows of some £0.3 billion. Additionally, at 31 December 2011 the
business had won a further £1.2 billion, pipeline of institutional new
business that had yet to be funded. In line with the strategy
announced in October 2011, we believe this business is well
positioned for growth as we have strong track records, significant
scale and consultant support in a number of core capabilities which
are seeing strong demand from pension schemes and insurers.
These include fixed income and solutions to help immunise liabilities.
F&C manages significant assets for a number of strategic partners:
Achmea (The Netherlands), Millennium BCP (Portugal), Friends First
(Ireland) and Friends Life (UK). These assets principally comprise
insurance funds but also include sub-advised mutual funds and
certain pensions scheme assets. These are long standing
relationships which have generally provided us with exclusivity to
manage the assets of these partners for a minimum period of time.
An exception to this is the Millennium BCP relationship in Portugal,
which is principally represented by a BCP-Ageas insurance joint
venture, where that exclusivity period has already come to an end.
We are in discussions with BCP-Ageas regarding the longer-term
nature of our business relationship. At 31 December 2011 assets
under management for strategic partners were £60.2 billion (2010:
£67.0 billion) representing 60 per cent. of our total assets under
management. Due to the lower fees that we receive for managing
these assets, our revenue from strategic partners is considerably
less at some 30 per cent. of 2011 net revenues.
Partially due to the maturity profile of some of the underlying
insurance products of our strategic partners, there has been a
longstanding trend of annual net outflows. In 2011 net outflows from
strategic partners were £7.2 billion (2010 : £1.5 billion). 2011
strategic partner outflows were exacerbated by the partial
nationalisation of the BCP Pension scheme by the Portuguese
government and the sale of a French subsidiary by Achmea.
We have been notified of additional outflows totalling £3.3 billion
which will occur during 2012, from the BCP Pension Scheme and
Friends Life.
Friends Life has set out its intention to establish an in-house asset
management function and, as previously disclosed, has served
notice to withdraw £2.3 billion of assets at the end of this year. Our
expectation is that all or most of the assets that we manage for
Friends Life may be withdrawn at the expiration of the contractual
exclusivity periods, which occur at various times up to October
2014. Our strategy, as set out in October 2011, anticipated this
potential withdrawal and we intend to offset it through reductions of
related costs and a focus on generating new business.
Retail and Wholesale: Funds and Investment Trusts
The F&C Group offers a wide range of investment vehicles which
are distributed into the retail and wholesale markets, principally
through Independent Financial Advisers, discretionary wealth
managers and other wholesale channels such as banks and
platforms. These products comprise closed-end listed investment
companies/investment trusts and both UK and offshore domiciled
open ended mutual funds. Some of these vehicles are managed by
F&C staff and others by teams operating through the Thames River
LLPs. It is important to distinguish between these as the allocation
of revenues and profits differ significantly. Where a fund is managed
by a Thames River team, the revenues earned from that fund, net of
the direct costs of managing the fund, and certain allocated costs,
are shared between the senior investment professionals in the
investment team and the Group under a predetermined profit share
formula. This typically results in the senior investment professionals
receiving around 50 per cent. of the relevant profits. Where a fund is
managed by F&C staff, the relevant investment managers are
generally remunerated by a combination of salary plus a
discretionary bonus.
During 2011, the total assets managed in fund products
and investment trusts declined by £1.3 billion to £12.8 billion at
31 December 2011. £1.0 billion of that reduction arose from
market movements, exchange rates and investment performance.
Whilst gross inflows for funds and investment trusts were some
£3.2 billion, and demonstrate our ability to successfully raise new
assets, gross outflows were some £3.5 billion, resulting in a net
outflow of £0.3 billion. Within these flows, products managed by
Thames River saw £0.4 billion net outflows partially due to generally
weaker performance in their funds during the second half of the year
and also due to asset allocation changes from their more wholesale
focused client base.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 15 Our financial performance
Total return
We view share price total return (including dividends) as a key
performance measure. Our total shareholder return for the year
ended 31 December 2011 was -18.6 per cent. In the same period,
the total shareholder return on the FTSE 250 Index was -10.1 per
cent. and the FTSE 100 Index was -2.2 per cent.
Strategic background
2011 comprised two very distinct periods for equity markets – in the
first half of the year markets were relatively benign, with the FTSE
100 Index opening the year at 5,900 points and standing at 5,946
points at 30 June. However, the second half of 2011 saw extreme
levels of volatility as concerns regarding the stability and
continuation of the Eurozone, together with other macroeconomic
and geopolitical factors, led to a deterioration in market sentiment.
As a consequence, the FTSE 100 fell some 20 per cent. to 4,791
points before recovering to close the year at 5,572 points. One of
the consequences of this volatility was a significant de-risking by
wholesale asset allocators; a trend from which we were not immune.
Presentation of financial results
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) require our
Financial Statements to consolidate the results of our Managed
Pension Funds (MPF) business on a line-by-line basis, impacting the
presentation of both our Income Statement and Statement of
Financial Position. Our MPF business provides certain clients with
asset management services inside an insurance product wrapper.
The requirement to consolidate this business has a significant effect
on the financial investments and investment contract liabilities
captions included in our Statement of Financial Position, the risks
and rewards of which are substantially borne by the clients of this
business. In addition, our Statement of Financial Position includes
some £28m of cash also attributable to policyholders of this
business and which is not available for corporate purposes.
Thames River acquisition
While the purchase of Thames River completed on 1 September
2010, its acquisition had a significant impact on our reported
financial results for 2011. Under the terms of the acquisition
agreement, we paid an initial cash consideration of £33.6m for the
business and, at 31 December 2010, had provided for a further
estimated amount of cash consideration payable of £7.5m as a
result of the net assets of the acquired entities exceeding specified
targets. The majority of that additional consideration, some £7.4m,
was paid in cash during 2011, with the remainder released to the
Income Statement.
In addition to the consideration amounts set out above, the Group
agreed further potential payments to the vendors, members and
employees of Thames River. These amounts are generally
dependent on the post-acquisition financial performance of Thames
River and, given they are acquisition related, have been excluded
from underlying earnings.
Firstly, the Group established a Management Retention Plan (MRP)
to retain and incentivise certain key individuals within Thames River.
Under this plan some 21.7 million F&C shares were awarded, which
will be issued and vest to employees in September 2013. At the
date of announcing the acquisition, these share awards had a value
of some £15.0m. The value of the share awards at the date of grant
is treated as an expense over the vesting period and a cost of
£4.7m under this plan has been recognised in the 2011 results.
Secondly, the Group also established a Management Incentive Plan
(MIP), under which a maximum of some 29 million shares, with a
value of £20m at the date of announcing the acquisition, may be
issued to certain key individuals within Thames River. To date,
awards over 14.2 million shares have been issued. The vesting of
these awards is dependent on the achievement of three
performance conditions; a profit target measured at 31 December
2011, a further profit target measured at 30 June 2012 and the
cumulative profitability of Thames River over the 48 months ending
31 March 2014.
The 31 December 2011 profit target was not met, and the Group
does not expect that the 30 June 2012 or 31 March 2014 profit
targets will be met. As a consequence, we do not believe any
shares will be issued under the MIP and previously recognised
accounting charges of £0.1m in respect of the MIP have
reversed during 2011 and are recognised as a credit in the
Income Statement.
Thirdly, the acquisition agreement provided that the Group would
pay additional consideration to the vendors of Thames River based
on achievement of the same 31 December 2011 and 30 June 2012
profits targets as for the MIP . At 31 December 2010, the Group had
estimated that £7.5m may be payable and had provided for this
amount in the year end Statement of Financial Position. As the
31 December 2011 profit target has not been met and the Group
does not expect the 30 June 2012 profit target will be met, the
Board does not expect that any shares will be issued to the
vendors. This liability has therefore been released, in accordance
with IFRS, to the 2011 Income Statement.
At the time of the acquisition, the Group entered into agreements
(the Commutation Arrangements) with the Individual Members of the
Thames River Limited Partnerships. Under the Commutation
Arrangements, the Group agreed, under certain circumstances, to
purchase part of the Individual Members’ profit share in the
partnerships by issuing F&C shares in consideration. As the
Commutation Arrangements can only be exercised by members
who are still actively involved in the Thames River business and
those members must continue in the business for a further two
years to receive the full amount of their consideration, IFRS requires
the estimated value of the shares which may be issued under the
Commutation Arrangements to be treated as an expense,
recognised between the date of award and the expiry of the period
in which the member must remain in the business. The
Commutation Arrangements can be split into two parts.
Under the first commutation, an investment team which has positive
fund flows in the 12 months prior to the commutation date can
require the Group to purchase a proportion of their profit share. This
16 | BUSINESS REVIEW |
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 16 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 17
commutation may be exercisable in 1H 2012. At 31 December 2011,
the Group has assessed which investment teams would be able to
exercise this right if it had crystallised at that date and a charge of
£3.6m has been recognised in the 2011 Income Statement in
respect of these arrangements. If the first commutation had occurred
at 31 December 2011, the Group would have issued approximately
10.9 million new shares in satisfaction of its obligations.
Under the second commutation, the Group can, if it wishes, acquire
profit share from each or any investment team. The maximum
amount of profit share which can be acquired through the first and
second commutation is typically 20% of the profit share of each
investment team. An accounting cost of £2.5m has been
recognised in the 2011 Financial Statements in respect of those
teams where it appears economically attractive at December 2011
to exercise the commutations. If the second commutation had
occurred at 31 December 2011, the Group would have issued
approximately 12.6 million new shares in satisfaction of its
obligations. No commitment to exercise those commutation rights
has been made.
The aggregate commutation expense of £5.7m therefore reflects the
charge of £6.1m for the first and second commutation options, less
a £0.4m credit, which primarily relates to options which are no
longer assumed to be exercisable.
Net revenue
Net revenue for the year was £267.0m (2010: £243.2m). This
included £11.8m (2010: £12.9m) of performance fee income.
Performance fee income was earned from a variety of fund and client
types, with the most significant contributors being the Thames River
funds and F&C REIT, our property business. Performance fees from
Thames River were biased towards 1H 2011. Thames River
contributed £40.5m of non-performance fee income to the Group
during the year.
While our strategic partners remain an important part of our client
base, we believe our strongest growth opportunities are with third-
party clients – for institutional business and in the retail and
wholesale channels. While £7.8 billion of gross new third-party
business was funded during 2011, net new business was flat,
reflecting the difficult market environment faced by retail and
wholesale clients.
Net funds flows and related annualised revenues represent a key
performance indicator and are indicative of the growth potential of
the business. In this regard, it is pleasing to report that despite
difficult market conditions in the second half of the year, which had a
detrimental impact on flows in our mutual funds business, we
remained in positive flows for our third-party business for the year as
a whole.
Revenue margin
Our revenue margin excluding performance fees, measured as our
net management fee income divided by average assets under
management, increased from 22.6 basis points in 2010 to 24.4
basis points in 2011. While we have historically used revenue margin
as a key performance indicator, our emphasis on this measure will
decline, in light of the revised strategy for the Group’s institutional
business announced in October 2011. The Group indicated that its
institutional strategy will increasingly focus on highly scalable
products, with relatively low revenue volatility and a high incremental
profit margin. Accordingly, success in implementing this strategy
could see the Group add large volumes of low fee margin business,
but whose profitability would be reflected through an improving
operating margin and operating profits.
Operating expenses
The Group’s underlying operating expenses, excluding amortisation
of intangible assets and exceptional items, were £202.1m in 2011,
compared to £177.0m in 2010. During 2010, Thames River was
included in the Group’s results for the four months from completion
of the acquisition and its costs for the period were some £12.6m,
comprising £6.6m of operating expenses and £6.0m of profit share
payable to LLP members. Thames River’s results have been
included in the Group Income Statement for the full year in 2011
and its costs for that period were some £21.1m of underlying
operating expenses and £18.3m of distributions to LLP members.
This difference represents the majority of the year-on-year
movement in our cost base.
One of the key costs for an asset management business is
remuneration costs, which are correlated to staffing levels. At
31 December 2011, our headcount, on a full-time equivalent basis,
was 847 compared to 962 at 31 December 2010. The majority of
the reduction in headcount arose from the transfer of back and
middle office staff as a result of the outsourcing agreement signed
with State Street during the year. As we implement the headcount
reductions arising from the strategic review we announced in
October 2011 and the “rightsizing” initiatives associated with the
outsourcing arrangements, we anticipate that this headcount
number will reduce further.
During 2011, we incurred a number of exceptional operating costs,
which are excluded from our underlying results. These include
employment expenses, outsourcing expenses and
litigation expenses.
During 2011 we announced two cost reduction programmes. The
first – which we have termed “rightsizing” – will allow us to recognise
cost savings in a range of functions as a result of our back and
middle office outsourcing. These include our retained operations
support and IT functions. The second cost reduction programme is
an integral outcome of the strategy review, which targeted cost
reductions in a number of our corporate functions and in business
overheads. The majority of these cost savings will be realised
through headcount reductions and during 2011 exceptional
employment related costs of £8.7m have been recognised in
respect of termination and benefits payments which represent the
one-off cost to be incurred to generate the annualised savings.
Whilst some of those amounts have been paid during 2011, part of
this cost represents a liability for redundancies which will occur in
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 17 2012. We anticipate that further costs will be incurred during 2012
as remaining actions are implemented.
The outsourcing expense of £2.7m represents project management,
implementation and consultancy costs incurred in connection with
outsourcing of our back and middle office to State Street. Whilst this
arrangement became effective part way through 2011, we continue
to incur expenses associated with the transition to State Street’s
long-term, strategic operating platform. We anticipate this project
will complete during 2012.
As disclosed in the 2010 Financial Statements, the Group had
received put option notices under a Limited Liability Partnership
Agreement from the two Individual Members of F&C Partners LLP ,
the Group’s former fund of hedge funds business. The Group had
sought a Court declaration as to the validity of the exercise of these
notices. During 2011, the High Court held that the put options were
validly exercised and required the Group to meet the option exercise
price, of £7.8m plus costs and interest. As a consequence, the
2011 Income Statement includes a £1.9m net cost, representing the
Group’s professional fees and interest on the option proceeds. The
put option payments, plus the estimate of the Individual Members
costs to be borne by the Group, totalling some £10.7m, represent
a goodwill payment to acquire the remaining 40 per cent. of F&C
Partners LLP . However, as the group already controlled 60 per cent.
of this business, IFRS requires that these amounts are recognised
directly in reserves as a transaction between shareholders of
the Group.
Operating margin
The Group’s underlying operating margin for 2011 was 24.4 per
cent. compared to 27.6 per cent. in 2010. Key reasons for the
reduction in Group operating margin include the weaker performance
fee yield compared to prior years and the full year impact of the
acquisition of Thames River, which has a lower operating margin than
the rest of the Group. Operating margin represents one of
management’s key performance indicators, and is measured as
underlying operating profits as a percentage of net revenues.
For this purpose, adjusted operating profits represent operating
profits before the impact of exceptional items but after deducting
variable compensation payable to members of Thames River
partnerships. As the results of the cost savings programmes are
delivered, operating margin should improve from its 2011 level.
Financing revenue and expenses
The Group’s Finance Revenue increased to £17.2m (2010: £11.1m).
The principal reasons for this increase were £3.7m of performance-
related income from carried interest investments, and an increase of
£2.0m in expected returns on pension plan assets.
Our finance costs rose by £1.8m to £35.4m, with the majority of this
increase representing the full-year interest cost of the additional
senior loan notes issued part way through 2010 as part of the
financing for the Thames River acquistion.
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets
Under IFRS, when an acquisition is made, there is a requirement to
recognise separately the fair value attributed to intangible assets, in
our case, management contracts. The excess of consideration over
the fair value of net assets acquired represents the business value
and infrastructure and is recognised as goodwill.
Management contracts are separated by client category and are
amortised over their estimated useful lives. Where an indicator of
impairment occurs, such as greater than anticipated fund losses, we
are required to review the carrying value of these contracts.
No such indicators of impairment arose during 2011 and
accordingly no impairment charges were recognised.
We are also required to conduct an annual impairment review of the
carrying value of goodwill. This review demonstrated that there was
no impairment and hence no requirement to write-down goodwill.
Foreign exchange
A large proportion of the Group’s business is conducted outside the
UK and, consequently, the Group has significant exposure to foreign
exchange rate movements. The main areas which are potentially
exposed to exchange rate fluctuations are our revenues and our
assets and liabilities. Approximately 52 per cent. of the Group’s
assets under management are denominated in Euros and,
accordingly, a significant proportion of the Group’s revenues are
earned in Euros. During 2011, negligible exchange differences were
recognised in the Income Statement and some £2.0m of losses
were recognised in reserves in respect of revaluation of foreign
operations.
F&C REIT
Our minority interest partners in F&C REIT, the Group’s property
asset manager, currently own 30 per cent. of the business. In certain
circumstances, they can require F&C to purchase their interests at
future dates and, under IFRS, a liability for this potential obligation is
included in our financial statements. As this option is required to be
carried at its fair value, representing 30 per cent. of the value of F&C
REIT, it is revalued each year, with any revaluation gain or loss
reflected in the Income Statement. During 2011, a downward
revaluation resulted in a gain of £8.7m being included in the 2011
Income Statement. This gain is excluded from underlying earnings.
In addition to the arrangements described above, the F&C REIT
minority interest partners have the opportunity to increase their
ownership interest from 30 per cent. to 40 per cent. should F&C
REIT achieve certain stretching financial targets over agreed periods.
For accounting purposes, the valuation of the option provided by
the earn-out mechanism is treated as a share-based payment
expense and included in the Income Statement. As a result of a
re-assessment of the likelihood of these financial targets being
achieved, a credit of £4.8m was recognised in the Income
Statement during 2011 and, consistent with prior years, this amount
has been excluded from underlying earnings.
18 | BUSINESS REVIEW | Our ?nancial performance
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 18 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 19
Underlying earnings
The Board utilises underlying earnings per share as one of its key
metrics in assessing financial performance. The reconciliation
between underlying earnings and statutory earnings is provided in
note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Underlying
earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2011 were 5.5p
(2010: 5.7p).
Dividends
As set out above, our underlying earnings for the year were 5.5p per
share. An interim dividend of 1.0 pence per share was paid during
the year. After a review of the results for the year, the market
conditions that prevailed during the year and the business outlook
for 2012, the Board has declared a final dividend of 2.0 pence per
share. If approved by Shareholders, this dividend, together with the
interim dividend, will result in a total dividend for the year of 3.0
pence per share. The Board is conscious of the need to balance
returns to shareholders through dividends with the profit enhancing
objective of repaying the Group’s senior and subordinated loans
over the medium term.
Cash resources
The Group has gross debt of some £275m (2010: £275m),
comprising £125m of subordinated loan notes and some £150m of
senior loan notes. Neither the subordinated loan notes nor the
senior loan notes include any financial covenants.
At 31 December 2011, the Group held cash resources of £225m
(2010: £202m), of which some £28m (2010: £23m) relates to
policyholders and is not available for corporate purposes. A
significant portion of cash is held in our regulated subsidiaries
against their capital requirements. As asset management is a cash
generative business, we should not require significant cash
for working capital purposes beyond our regulatory
capital requirements.
Our borrowings carry fixed rates of interest. The subordinated loan
notes currently bear interest at 6.75 per cent. and the senior loan
notes carry a fixed 9 per cent. interest rate. Our cash resources earn
interest based on bank deposit rates. We use multiple
counterparties for our cash deposits which are approved by the
Group’s credit committee. The maximum amount that can be held
with a single counterparty is £25 million.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 19 Our strategic approach and commitment
to corporate responsibility (CR)
CR commitment
The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of
governance and corporate citizenship. We recognise that in addition
to our responsibilities to clients and shareholders we also have
responsibilities to employees, suppliers, the environment, the
companies in which we invest and the wider community in which
we operate.
CR strategy
The Group has two overarching strategic CR ambitions:
• To enable our clients to respond effectively to changing
dynamics in the world economy through our products and
through influencing companies to improve business
performance.
• To ensure that we meet the highest practicable standards of
corporate responsibility in our own operations.
We have defined four key categories supporting our strategic
ambitions: Marketplace, Environment, Workplace and Community.
We are committed to monitoring and reporting on progress against
the targets set within each category, both internally (on a quarterly
basis) and externally (at least annually). F&C’s CR policies are guided
by a number of broadly accepted international standards and
benchmarks. Wherever practicable, we seek external validation of
our progress and publish these results.
F&C considers the following key external measures to validate our
relative CR performance.
External validation
2010 Existing 2012
position position target
BITC Corporate Gold Platinum Platinum
Responsibility Index status status status
EIRIS/FTSE4Good Inclusion Inclusion Inclusion
UN Global Inclusion Inclusion Inclusion
Compact CCP
Carbon Disclosure Member Member Member
Project
Principles for Founding Founding Founding
Responsible signatory signatory signatory
Investment
F&C identifies its key stakeholders as shareholders, clients,
employees, suppliers, government and non-government
organisations, the wider community, other asset management
companies and companies in which we invest. We engage widely
with stakeholder groups through regular dialogue tailored to meet
the requirements of each stakeholder group.
CR categories supporting the strategic ambitions
F&C has established key performance indicators (KPIs) for each of
the CR categories detailed below, details of which can be found in
the Corporate Responsibility section of the Group’s website. A
summary of our objectives in each area is set out below.
Marketplace
F&C will use the influence of its clients’ assets to engage with
companies on all relevant CR matters where this will improve
business performance. F&C intends to achieve 435 milestones
(being an instance in which a company improves its policies,
procedures or practices following engagement and where F&C’s
participation has been a major factor) in 2012.
F&C will issue voting instructions in line with its Corporate
Governance Operational Guidelines on 100 per cent. of global
resolutions that it is mandated to on behalf of clients and will publish
its voting history. F&C will contact 100 per cent. of companies
following an abstention or vote against management.
Environment
F&C is targeting carbon neutrality internally and is committed to
helping our clients and suppliers cut carbon emissions. Over the
next three years F&C will obtain 100 per cent. of its energy usage
from renewable sources, where such markets exist.
F&C will source 100 per cent. of its paper from chlorine free recycled
supplies, reduce waste to landfill by 20 per cent. and increase its
own recycling by 20 per cent.
F&C will actively embark on an internal education programme on the
effect that water and waste management has on the environment.
F&C, through its marketplace engagement activity, will widen its
influence to the companies in which it invests.
Examples of some of our 2011 community or charity
events
75 members of staff participated in the JPMorgan Chase Corporate
Challenge, held in Battersea Park, London, raising funds for
Barnardos.
Throughout 2011, 38 members of staff based in Edinburgh
participated in a variety of volunteering events which included
painting and gardening at three local primary schools.
6 members of staff in the London office participated in the London
Marathon, raising funds for a variety of charities, including British
Heart Foundation, Parkinsons UK and Arthritis Care.
More than 20 members of staff based in the UK volunteered for a
variety of events held by the Charity of the Year, Back Up Trust.
5 members of the Dublin office participated in a volunteering project,
painting a residence for a previously homeless single parent.
20 | BUSINESS REVIEW |
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 20 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 21
Corporate responsibility key performance indicators
Category KPI/statistic 2011 performance 2012 targets
Marketplace Number of resolutions voted on during the year 100% 100%
Proportion of companies contacted following an abstention
or vote against management 100% 100%
reo® engagement successes in year 480 435
Community Staff participation in Give as You Earn 12% 15%
Employees participating in charitable events and charitable fundraising 235 475
Staff volunteering for community projects 90 staff days 365 staff days
Environment Carbon neutrality Full Full
Reduction in paper consumption 5% 5%
Workplace Diversity training (staff coverage) 100% 100%
Workplace
F&C is committed to ensuring good practices in managing its own
workplace issues.
F&C will undertake an employee survey and will, in 2012, target top
decile employee participation levels.
F&C always seeks to employ the best person for each job and does
not discriminate on grounds of gender, race, ethnicity, religion,
sexual orientation, age or physical disability. F&C will educate 100
per cent. of employees on the importance of recognising and
embracing diversity in the workplace and the community as a whole.
F&C encourages share ownership and will continue to operate
all-employee share schemes.
Community
F&C offers financial support and, wherever practicable, offers
employees time off work to support charitable activities.
In 2012 F&C is targeting 365 staff days of community work.
F&C targets 15 per cent. of employees participating in the Give As
You Earn scheme and will match employee contributions up to a set
monthly level.
How is Corporate Responsibility implemented
by F&C
The Board is ultimately responsible for CR within the Group.
Development of F&C’s policies on CR and their implementation
throughout the Group are co-ordinated by the CR Committee,
chaired by David Logan.
Alain Grisay David Logan
23 March 2012 23 March 2012
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 21 Company Directors
22 | GOVERNANCE |
Non-executive Directors
2 Keith Bedell-Pearce CBE
Senior Independent Director
Mr Bedell-Pearce, a solicitor, joined the Board in
December 2002. Until December 2001,
Mr Bedell-Pearce was an executive director of
Prudential plc with over 30 years experience in
the financial services industry. He is currently
chairman of 4D Data Centres Ltd and a member
of the Council of the University of Warwick.
3 Ian Brindle
Mr Brindle joined the Board in February 2011.
Mr Brindle was UK chairman of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and deputy
chairman of the Financial Reporting Review
Panel. He is currently the chairman of Sherborne
Investors (Guernsey) A Limited and a non-
executive director of Spirent Communications
plc, Elementis plc and 4imprint Group plc.
4 Keith Jones*
O
Independent Director
Mr Jones joined the Board in November 2011.
Mr Jones is a former chief executive officer of
Morley Fund Management and former CEO of
NPI Investments and a past chairman of the
Investment Committee of the Association of
British Insurers. He currently holds non-
executive positions at Just Retirement Holdings
Ltd, Espirito Santo Investment Bank and Aon
Hewitt, and advisory positions at Lloyds Bank
and Permira LLP .
5 Jeff Medlock*
†
O
Independent Director
Mr Medlock joined the Board in October 2004.
Mr Medlock was chief executive officer of
Eureko from its formation in 1992 until 1999
when he became chief financial officer at
Achmea. He returned to the board of Eureko
in 2002 shortly after its merger with Achmea
and Seguros e Pensoes as chief financial officer
until his retirement in 2004. He is also a trustee
of the children’s charity Coram Life Education.
6 Derham O’Neill*
†
O
Independent Director
Mr O’Neill joined the Board in February 2011.
Prior to his appointment, Mr O’Neill was a
senior partner of Clifford Chance LLP . He is
currently the chairman of Schroder Asian
Property Managers Limited (Bermuda) and was
formerly the chairman of Scotty Group plc and
a non-executive director of Cedar plc, Georgica
plc, and Schroder Venture Managers Limited
(Bermuda).
7 Keith Percy
O
Independent Director
Mr Percy joined the Board in November 2011.
Mr Percy was most recently executive chairman
and chief executive officer of Société Générale
Asset Management UK and was previously
chief executive of Morgan Grenfell Asset
Management. He is a director of Brunner
Investment Trust plc, Standard Life Equity
Income Trust plc, Henderson Smaller
Companies Trust plc, JP Morgan Japanese
Investment Trust plc and The Childrens Mutual.
8 Kieran Poynter*
†‡
O
Independent Director
Mr Poynter joined the Board in June 2009. Prior
to his appointment, Mr Poynter was chairman
and senior partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP having spent 37 years with the firm. He is a
director of Nomura International plc,
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA
and British American Tobacco plc.
Executive Directors
1 Edward Bramson
‡
Executive Chairman
Mr Bramson joined the Board and was
appointed Chairman in February 2011 and
Executive Chairman in October 2011. He is
currently a partner of Sherborne Investors and
was formerly chairman of Spirent
Communications plc, Elementis plc, 4imprint
Group plc, Nautilus, Inc and Ampex Corporation.
9 Alain Grisay
Chief Executive
Mr Grisay joined the Board in October 2004
having previously been Deputy Chief Executive
of F&CGH and head of the institutional business.
Prior to joining F&C in April 2001, Mr Grisay was
at JP Morgan for 20 years, serving as managing
director responsible for the investment bank’s
market client business in Europe.
10 David Logan
Chief Financial Officer
Mr Logan joined the Board on 31 July 2006.
Prior to his appointment, Mr Logan spent
seventeen years in the accounting profession,
including four years as a partner at Deloitte &
Touche LLP and three years as a partner at
Andersen.
‡
Member of the Nomination Committee
* Member of the Remuneration Committee
†
Member of the Audit & Compliance Committee
O
Member of the Risk Committee (created in
March 2012)
12 3 4 5
67
8
9 10
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:12 Page 22 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 23
Report of the Directors
Results, business review and dividend
The Group’s results for the year ended 31 December 2011 are
shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 42. A
business review of the year ended 31 December 2011 and future
developments are covered on pages 2 to 21. This review, together
with the Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance on pages 27 to
33, forms part of the Report of the Directors.
The Group profit for the year, after tax, amounted to £2.6 million.
The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 2.0 pence per
share, amounting to £10.4 million, resulting in a total of 3.0 pence
and £15.6 million for the year.
The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 25 May 2012
to ordinary shareholders whose names are on the register on
30 March 2012. No liability for the proposed dividends has been
recognised as at 31 December 2011, in accordance with IFRS.
Principal activity and status
The Group’s business is asset management. Details of the progress
of the business during the year and of future prospects are
contained in the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Report
and the Business Review on pages 2 to 21.
The Company is registered as a Public Limited Company in terms of
the Companies Act 2006 and is currently a constituent of the FTSE
250 Index. The Company is registered in Scotland, registered
number SC73508, and is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Details of the principal entities within the Group are contained in
note 39 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. There are also
two branch offices in the Group outside the UK, in Germany
and Ireland.
Significant agreements
F&C is party to the following significant contracts that take effect,
alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company:
Friends Life Group (FL Group)
There are four material Investment Management Agreements (the
Agreements) that have been in place with companies within the FL
Group since October 2004 and under which assets are managed
by F&C. Management of the majority of these assets can only be
terminated by the relevant contracting party within the FL Group
upon 12 months’ notice expiring no earlier than 11th October 2014
subject to certain exceptions listed within the Agreements. These
exceptions include withdrawals of assets as a result of
underperformance thresholds being triggered, withdrawals for
reasonable business and financial needs (such as discharging
liabilities under insurance contracts and meeting internal financing
requirements), and withdrawals of assets of up to £150 million per
annum in respect of the overall portfolio of assets covered by each
of the Agreements. Withdrawals of assets not permitted under the
Agreements require the payment of compensation by the FL Group
to F&C. Management of the remainder of the assets of the FL
Group by F&C (known as the Demutualisation Assets) can be
terminated at any time by the relevant contracting entity within the
FL Group either, in the case of the “With Profits” fund assets, upon
6 months’ notice or, in the case of the other Demutualisation
Assets, upon 12 months’ notice. As previously notified in the
Company’s Interim Management Statement in January of this year,
F&C is on notice from the FL Group for the withdrawal of £2.3
billion of the Demutualisation Assets, such withdrawal to take effect
in December 2012.
Achmea Group
There are four material Investment Management Agreements (the
Agreements) that have been in place with companies within the
Achmea Group since October 2004. These Agreements sit
alongside an overarching Umbrella Agreement which sets out the
high level terms governing the relationship between the F&C Group
and the Achmea Group including the operation of F&C’s rights to
exclusivity over the management of assets of the Achmea Group.
Management of the majority of these assets can only be terminated
by the relevant contracting party within the Achmea Group upon 12
months’ notice expiring no earlier than 11th October 2013 subject
to certain exceptions listed within the Agreements. These
exceptions include withdrawal of assets for reasonable business
needs, including strategic acquisitions and assets withdrawn
following termination for underperformance by a particular asset
class by a specified margin below the applicable investment
benchmark and assets withdrawn pursuant to an allocation to an
asset class not covered by exclusivity rights (for example venture
capital investments). Withdrawals of assets not permitted under the
Agreements require the payment of compensation by the Achmea
Group to F&C. Management of the remaining assets of the Achmea
Group by F&C can be terminated at any time upon provision of
notice.
Millennium BCP Group (BCP)
The consequences of termination of the various agreements with
BCP-related funds are regulated by an Umbrella Agreement with
BCP (the UA). The UA provided that compensation would be
payable if any of these agreements are terminated before 29 June
2013. If a person acquires an interest in the shares of F&C which is
larger than the aggregate interest of Friends Life and Achmea, then
the period by reference to which compensation is payable by BCP
to F&C on termination of such an agreement is reduced. On
17 December 2010, Sherborne acquired an interest in the shares of
F&C which is greater than the aggregate interest of Friends Life and
Achmea thereby reducing the period by reference to which
compensation would have been payable had an agreement been
terminated at that time from 42 months to 12 months. Further
communications from BCP have put F&C on notice that payments
by BCP in respect of F&C’s continued provision of services to BCP ,
constitutes payment in lieu of compensation and that the
agreements could be terminated by BCP at any time without
compensation or notice. As at the latest practicable date prior to the
publication of this Annual Report and Financial Statements, none of
the relevant agreements has been terminated and no notice
terminating such agreements has been received.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:12 Page 23 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust Plc
The Investment Management Agreement in place with Foreign &
Colonial Investment Trust Plc can be terminated by the trust on a
minimum of six months’ notice expiring at the end of any calendar
month. In the event that there is a change of control in F&C (as
defined in Section 1124 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010), then the
investment trust is entitled to terminate the agreement on not less
than three months’ notice to expire at the end of any
calendar month.
F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
The Investment Management Agreement in place with F&C
Commercial Property Trust Limited can be terminated by the
investment trust on not less than six months’ notice. Early
termination can be undertaken by the investment trust, but only
subject to the payment of compensation to F&C based on revenue
stream. Immediate termination is possible by the investment trust in
the event that there is a change of control in F&C (as defined in
Section 1124 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010) which has not been
consented to by its Board.
F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
The F&C REIT Asset Management LLP (the LLP) Limited Liability
Partnership Agreement, dated 21 July 2008, is between F&C, the
two individual members and a separate company controlled by
discretionary trusts.
Where there is a change of control of F&C, F&C can elect to change
the arrangements for voting at LLP members’ meetings such that
F&C’s interests are represented by one vote and the REIT Parties’
aggregate interests are represented by one vote. If F&C does not so
elect, then F&C may be required to offer to sell its interests in the
LLP to the other members of the LLP at a price determined by an
independent valuer.
Property, plant and equipment
Details of changes in property, plant and equipment are disclosed in
note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. At 31 December
2011, there were no significant differences between the net book
and market values of property, plant and equipment.
Financial instruments
Details of financial instruments are disclosed in notes 14 and 18 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements. The financial risk
management objectives and policies of the Group are contained in
note 36.
Share capital and Directors’ interests
The Company did not issue any ordinary shares in respect of vested
awards or options under the Company’s long term incentive
schemes in 2011.
Details of shares under option at 31 December 2011 are shown
on page 137. The Directors who held office at the year end and their
interests (together with those of their connected persons) in the
share capital of the Company are shown below:
Ordinary Shares 31 Dec 2011** 31 Dec 2010**
Edward Bramson Beneficial Nil Nil
Non-Beneficial
‡
106,397,130 96,329,200
Keith Bedell-Pearce Beneficial 51,285 51,285
Ian Brindle Beneficial Nil Nil
Alain Grisay Beneficial
†
562,657 2,062,657
Non-Beneficial* 64,176 64,176
Keith Jones Beneficial Nil Nil
David Logan Beneficial 344,627 198,428
Non-Beneficial* 64,176 64,176
Jeff Medlock Beneficial 20,000 20,000
Derham O’Neill Beneficial Nil Nil
Keith Percy Beneficial Nil Nil
Kieran Poynter Beneficial 30,000 30,000
‡
Edward Bramson is an associate of SIGA, LP , a member of the Sherborne
Group.
†
These shares include Mr Grisay’s participation in the Purchased Equity
Plan. Further details of this plan are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration
Report on page 35.
* Alain Grisay and David Logan are Directors of F&C Group ESOP Trustee
Limited, a company incorporated in 1995 as a discretionary employee
benefit trust to encourage and facilitate the acquisition and holding of
shares in the Company by employees.
** Or date of appointment if later.
Since the year end, the following Directors’ dealings (and those of their
connected persons) in the Company’s shares have taken place:
• Mr Logan subscribes for £125 worth of shares each month under the
Company’s Share Incentive Plan, details of which are set out on page 35;
and
• On 15th March 2012, Alain Grisay sold 65,000 shares at a price of 70.12
pence per share.
Directors’ and officers’ liability
The Group maintains insurance cover in respect of Directors’ and
officers’ liability.
The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity in accordance with
the Company’s Articles of Association at article 166 which is a
qualifying third-party indemnity provision as defined in the
Companies Act 2006.
Charitable and political contributions
During the year, the Group made contributions to charity of
£274,000 (2010: £211,000). No political donations or contributions
were made during the year (2010: £nil). Further details on the criteria
for charitable giving are contained on the Company’s website.
Payment policy and practice
It is the Group’s policy to ensure settlement of suppliers’ accounts in
accordance with the stated terms. In certain circumstances,
settlement terms are agreed prior to any business taking place. It is
our policy to abide by those terms.
At 31 December 2011, trade creditors represented the equivalent of
3 days (2010: 9 days) of the annual purchases invoiced by the
suppliers to the Group.
24 | GOVERNANCE | Report of the Directors
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:12 Page 24 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 25
Substantial interests in share capital
The Company has been informed of the following substantial
interests, above 3 per cent. as at 23 March 2012:
Ordinary
Shares Percentage
Sherborne 106,397,130 19.99
Fidelity Worldwide 53,158,667 9.99
Aviva 48,621,733 9.14
Sarasin & Partners 25,381,134 4.77
M&G Investments 18,606,636 3.50
Legal and General 16,365,403 3.07
Employees
At 1 March 2012, there were 776 full-time employees and 84
part-time employees within the Group (1 March 2011: 898 full-time
employees and 84 part-time employees).
Disabled employees
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment
from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be
adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Group’s policy
wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under
normal terms and conditions and to provide training, career
development and promotion to disabled employees wherever
possible.
Employee involvement
During the year, the policy of providing employees with information
about the Group has been continued through internal presentations
by the Executive Directors and Group Management and the internal
publication of relevant information. Wherever appropriate, employees
are consulted to ensure that their views are taken into account before
decisions are taken which are likely to affect their interests.
Equal opportunities
The Group aims to provide equal opportunities for all, without
discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, marital status, age,
sex, sexual orientation or disability. We recruit and promote those
best suited for the job. The Group respects the dignity of individuals
and their beliefs. The Group does not tolerate any sexual, racial,
physical or mental harassment of staff in the work place.
Share incentive schemes
During the year, employees participated directly in the business
through a number of Employee Share Schemes, details of which are
included within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 34 to
39 or the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages
90 to 98.
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The Company will hold its AGM on Wednesday, 9 May 2012 at
Ironmongers Hall, Shaftesbury Place, Barbican, London EC2Y 8AA.
The Meeting will start at 10 a.m. (UK time). Details of all resolutions
being put to shareholders are set out in the Notice of Annual
General Meeting commencing on page 141.
Board changes
On 3 February 2011, at a General Meeting of the Company,
shareholders approved the appointment of Messrs Bramson,
Brindle and O’Neill to the Board and resolved that Messrs
MacAndrew and Larcombe be removed from the Board.
On 6 October 2011, Alain Grisay, the Company’s Chief Executive,
announced his intention to retire on conclusion of this year’s Annual
General Meeting. The Board are in the process of reviewing the
Company’s succession plans for the Chief Executive position and
will make an announcement in due course.
On 25 November 2011, Messrs Jones and Percy joined the Board
as independent Non-executive Directors.
Information relating to the re-election of Directors at the Annual
General Meeting is set out in the Directors’ Report on Corporate
Governance on page 31.
Authority to allot ordinary shares and disapplication
of pre-emption rights
Ordinary resolution 14 will be put to the AGM of the Company to
renew the Directors’ power to allot shares. The Directors currently
have a general authority to allot relevant securities up to a maximum
amount of £177,355.19 together with specific authorities to allot
shares to satisfy the consideration payable in connection with the
acquisition of Thames River and the related commutation
arrangements and for the settlement of awards made under the
management share plans (the Specific Authorities). The resolution
proposes that a similar general authority be granted in substitution
of the existing general authority to allot securities up to a maximum
amount of £177,355.19, representing approximately 33.33 per cent.
of the Company’s total issued ordinary share capital (excluding
treasury shares) as at the date of this report. The Specific Authorities
will remain unaffected by the passing of this resolution.
In addition, in accordance with guidance issued by the Association
of British Insurers in December 2008, the Company is seeking
additional authority to allot securities in connection with a pre-
emptive rights issue up to a maximum amount of £177,355.19,
representing approximately 33.33 per cent. of the Company’s total
issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) as at the
date of this report. The benefit to the Company of obtaining such
authority on an annual basis is that it would allow the Company to
implement a rights issue of an amount equal to approximately
66.67 per cent. of the issued ordinary share capital without the
need to call an additional general meeting. This would shorten the
implementation timetable for such a rights issue. The Directors
have no present intention of exercising this authority. The authority
will expire at the end of the AGM to be held in 2013, unless
previously cancelled or varied by the Company in general meeting.
It is the intention of the Directors to renew this authority annually at
each AGM.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:12 Page 25 Special resolution 15 will renew the present power to allot unissued
ordinary share capital and to sell ordinary shares held in treasury for
cash without first being required to offer such shares to existing
shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Such power will apply to the allotment of unissued ordinary shares
and treasury shares sold up to a maximum nominal amount of
£26,605.94 representing approximately 5 per cent. of the
Company’s issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this
report, except that:
(1) the maximum nominal amount of shares that can be allotted in
connection with a pre-emptive rights issue is £354,710.38
representing approximately 66.67 per cent. of the Company’s
total issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) as
at the date of this report; and
(2) the maximum nominal amount of unissued ordinary shares that
can be allotted or treasury shares sold:
(a) pursuant to any other pre-emptive offering (where legal or
regulatory requirements prevent the issue of shares wholly
on a pre-emptive basis); or
(b) in order to satisfy options or awards under any share
scheme for employees or share incentive plan approved by
the Company in general meeting,
is £177,355.19, representing approximately 33.33 per cent.
of the Company’s total issued ordinary share capital
(excluding treasury shares) as at the date of this report.
The Directors consider that the authority proposed to be granted by
resolution 14 and the power proposed to be granted by resolution
15 are necessary in order to take advantage of opportunities as they
arise and to retain flexibility. The Directors do not have any intention
of exercising such authority or power at the present time other than
for the purposes referred to in (2)(b) above.
Purchase of own shares
Special resolution 16 will be put to the AGM to renew the present
power to make market purchases of the Company’s own ordinary
shares. Pursuant to the renewed power, the maximum aggregate
number of ordinary shares which may be purchased pursuant to the
authority shall be 53,211,879 (being approximately 10 per cent. of
the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of
this report. The minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary
share shall be 0.1 pence (exclusive of expenses). The maximum
price for an ordinary share (again exclusive of expenses) shall be an
amount equal to 105 per cent. of the average of the middle market
quotations for the Company’s ordinary shares for the five business
days immediately preceding the date of purchase. The power
conferred by this resolution will expire on the earlier of the date
falling 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution and
the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be
held in 2013.
As at the date of this report, the Company had 105,957,664 options
to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding (representing 19.91 per
cent. of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at the
same date, excluding treasury shares). If the buy-back authority is
renewed at the 2012 AGM and is then utilised in full, the options
outstanding at the date of this report would represent 22.12 per
cent. of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company (excluding
treasury shares).
Any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority would
either be held as treasury shares or cancelled. While any shares are
held in treasury, voting rights are suspended and currently no
dividends (or any other distribution) are paid (or made) on such
shares. The Directors consider it appropriate to have in place the
facility to acquire shares in circumstances where they believe that
future shareholder returns can be enhanced by taking such action.
This authority, if renewed, will only be exercised if to do so would
result in an increase in earnings per ordinary share and if it is
considered to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Notice of General Meetings
We are currently able to call general meetings (other than AGMs) on
14 days’ notice. We are proposing Special resolution 17 at the
Meeting so that we can continue to be able to do so. The flexibility
offered by this resolution will only be used where it is, in the opinion
of the Directors, appropriate in relation to the business to be
considered at the meeting and merited in the interests of the
shareholders as a whole.
The authority being sought pursuant to Special resolution 17 will
expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2013. It is the
current intention of the Directors to renew this authority annually.
Auditor
KPMG has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor
and a resolution proposing its re-appointment and for the Directors
to determine its fees will be submitted at the AGM.
Details of the auditor’s remuneration is provided in note 4(c) to the
Consolidated Financial Statements and further detail on how the
Board ensures the independence of the auditor is detailed on pages
32 and 33 within the Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance.
Adequacy of the information provided to the auditor
The Directors who held office at the date of approving this Directors’
Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no
relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is
unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he is obliged
to take as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is
aware of that information.
By order of the Board,
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
23 March 2012
26 | GOVERNANCE | Report of the Directors
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:12 Page 26 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 27
Directors’ Report on Corporate
Governance
The Group is committed to, and strives for, best practice in
corporate governance. The Board is accountable to the Group’s
shareholders for good corporate governance. This statement
describes how the principles of corporate governance set out in
section one of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued in 2010
(the Code) have been applied.
Statement of compliance
The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the year
ended 31 December 2011 and up to the date hereof, applied the
principles and met the requirements of the Code with the following
exceptions:
• The Company did not comply with Code provision A.3.1 in that
Mr Bramson, the Company’s Chairman was, by virtue of his
participation in Sherborne (the Company’s largest shareholder),
not independent on appointment.
• On 6 October 2011 Mr Grisay announced his intention to retire
from the Board with effect from the conclusion of this year’s
Annual General Meeting. On the same date, the Company
announced that Ed Bramson, the Company’s Chairman, would
take on the role of Executive Chairman to oversee the
implementation of the strategic review that was underway at that
time. Mr Bramson’s appointment as Executive Chairman is for an
interim period only. While the Board acknowledges that the
temporary appointment of Ed Bramson as Executive Chairman
does not meet the best practice guidance set out in the Code
(Provision A.2.1), they believe it to be appropriate given the
strategic review work being performed by Mr Bramson.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Risk & Compliance, Remuneration and
Nomination committees will be available to answer questions at this
year’s Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday, 9 May 2012.
Going concern
The Code requires Directors to report, under the terms set out in the
relevant guidelines to the Code, on the appropriateness of adopting
the going concern basis in preparing Financial Statements.
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to
affect its future development, performance and position are set out
in the Business Review on pages 2 to 21. The financial position of
the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the
Business Review on pages 2 to 21. In addition, note 36 to the
Financial Statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and
processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management
objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging activities;
and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-
term contracts with a number of clients across different geographic
areas and industries. After making enquiries, the Directors have a
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial
Statements.
The Board
The Board of Directors currently comprises the Executive Chairman,
two further Executive Directors and seven Non-executive Directors,
six of whom the Board has identified as Independent Directors. Ian
Brindle, a representative of Sherborne, the Company’s largest
shareholder, does not meet the criteria of independence as set out
in the accepted guidance.
The biographies of the Directors appear on page 22. These
demonstrate a range of experience, skills and personal standing
sufficient to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy,
performance, resources and standards of conduct which are vital to
the success of the Group. All Directors have access to the advice
and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the
Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that
applicable rules and regulations are complied with. The Board
meets formally on a regular basis and is responsible for approving
the Group’s objectives and policies. The Board focuses mainly on
strategy, investment and financial performance, the Group’s control
environment and executive management and Board succession. To
enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive
appropriate and timely information ensuring that they are properly
briefed on issues for consideration in advance of meetings. In
addition, all Directors have access to senior management and can
request, either during meetings or at other appropriate times,
further explanation or written papers on matters as they see fit.
The Board has a detailed list of matters specifically reserved to it –
the ‘Board Reserved List’. This is contained in ‘The Directors’
Guide’, a training and reference document issued to all Directors on
appointment and updated as appropriate. The Board Reserved List
is reviewed annually and clearly sets out what authority is delegated
from the Board to Board Committees and to management. This
ensures that matters of significance are overseen and reviewed by
the Board prior to implementation. Examples of matters reserved
for the Board as set out in the Board Reserved List are the approval
of: the Group strategy; the annual budget; the composition and
terms of reference of any of the Board Committees; the high level
organisational structure; and the review of the effectiveness of the
Group’s system of internal control.
The composition of the Board is reviewed annually.
The Board committees
The Board has established a number of standing committees to
facilitate the smooth transaction of business within the Group.
The terms of reference of each Board Committee, outlining its
authority and duties, are reviewed and approved annually by the
Board, published on the Company’s website and are available on
written request from the Company Secretary. The terms of
reference of each of the Board Committees provide the authority
to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the
Company’s expense.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:12 Page 27 28 | GOVERNANCE | Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance
Statement of diversity policy
The Group recognises the value of a diverse workforce and aims to
attract and retain the best people from the widest pool of talent,
experience and perspectives drawn from all sections of society. We
believe that differences in gender, background, perspective,
expertise and culture are an asset to the Company.
The diversity of the Board is intended to be improved when new
appointments are made as a result of Director rotation. As a result,
the Company’s succession planning process has been revised to
include the Company’s commitment to improved diversity (including
gender diversity).
Consistent with the Board’s intention to improve diversity through
Director rotation, we anticipate that there will be at least one female
Director appointed to the Board by 2013.
(A) Statement of the Nomination Committee
Purpose and Terms of Reference
The Committee leads the process, and makes recommendations to
the Board, for all new Board appointments and the appointment of
Non-executive Directors to any Board Committee. It is responsible
for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on
the Board and ensuring that a formal, rigorous and transparent
appointment process exists.
Membership
The Committee is chaired by Edward Bramson. The Committee
comprises the Executive Chairman and two independent
Non-executive Directors.
Members of the Nomination Committee:
Edward Bramson (appointed Chairman on 3 February 2011),
Keith Bedell-Pearce and Kieran Poynter (appointed 1 March 2011).
Nick MacAndrew and Brian Larcombe served as members of the
Committee until their removal from the Board on 3 February 2011.
Activities and work of the Committee
Throughout 2011 external search consultants were engaged by the
Committee to conduct a search for two additional independent
Non-executive Directors. Having identified suitable candidates, the
Committee recommended the appointment of Keith Jones and
Keith Percy to the Board in October 2011. Messrs Jones and Percy
joined the Board in November 2011 following receipt of their
necessary FSA approvals.
As an integral part of its succession planning, the Committee
reviews the balance and composition of the Board including the
number of Directors serving thereon.
On an annual basis the Committee reviews the terms and conditions
of appointment of Non-executive Directors set out in the standard
letter of appointment to ensure that they continue to meet the
requirements of the Code. This standard letter of appointment can
be inspected during normal working hours at the Company’s
registered office by contacting the Company Secretary. The
Committee considers, on an annual basis, the time required of Non-
executive Directors for the fulfilment of their duties and assesses the
contribution of the Directors, their independence and their suitability
for re-election prior to an appropriate resolution being put to
shareholders. Under the Company’s Articles of Association, all
Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first
opportunity after their appointment and to re-election at least every
three years. However, in line with the Code, all of the Directors are
subject to annual re-election by Shareholders.
For the Board
Edward Bramson
Chairman, Nomination Committee
23 March 2012
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:12 Page 28 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 29
(B) Statement of the Audit, Risk and
Compliance Committee
Purpose and Terms of Reference
The Committee vouchsafes the processes and controls surrounding
the production of the Group’s Financial Statements and provides the
Board with assurance that the processes and controls exist to
facilitate reporting on the Group’s risk management activities,
including those related to Social, Environmental and Ethical matters,
internal control and adherence to policies and procedures.
Membership
The Committee is chaired by Kieran Poynter. The Committee
comprises solely independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Committee
has recent and relevant financial experience, a position that should
continue throughout 2012.
Members of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee:
Kieran Poynter (appointed Chairman on 3 February 2011), Keith
Bedell-Pearce (Chairman of the Committee until 3 February 2011),
Jeff Medlock (appointed on 1 March 2011) and Derham O’Neill
(appointed on 1 March 2011).
Brian Larcombe served as a member of the Committee until his
departure from the Board on 3 February 2011 and Gerhard
Roggemann served as a member of the Committee until he retired
from the Board in May 2011.
Activities and work of the Committee
The Committee normally discharges its responsibilities, as allocated
by its terms of reference, within a schedule of four meetings. Two
meetings are held early in the year, one to deal with matters of
governance (for example, compliance with the Code, the Financial
Services and Markets Act, the effectiveness of internal controls and
risk management systems, monitoring and reviewing the internal
Audit Risk & Compliance department and monitoring and reviewing
the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external audit
process) and the other to consider the integrity of the year-end
Financial Statements and any formal announcements relating to the
Company’s and the Group’s financial performance, including any
significant financial reporting judgements contained therein. A similar
process is adopted at the interim reporting stage, with a final
meeting taking place late in the year to consider relevant year-end
matters. The Committee also considers and reviews other risk
management or control documentation including the Group’s policy
on whistleblowing, the results of internal and external audit and
compliance reports or management letters, and oversees the award
of any non-audit related consultancy work. On an annual basis the
Committee considers and makes a recommendation to the Board
as to the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external
auditors and approves their remuneration and terms of engagement.
Other meetings of the Committee are called at the request of the
Chairman to consider ad hoc control issues that may emerge during
the year as well as other matters that the Board has asked the
Committee to consider or investigate.
Changes effective March 2012
In March 2012 the Board resolved to split the existing Audit, Risk
and Compliance Committee’s activities into two distinct committees,
each of which has separate Terms of Reference. The new
committees are the Risk Committee and the Audit and
Compliance Committee.
The newly created Risk Committee is chaired by Keith Percy.
The other members of the Risk Committee are Jeff Medlock,
Keith Jones, Derham O’Neill and Kieran Poynter.
The Audit and Compliance Committee’s membership is unchanged
from the former Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.
For the Board
Kieran Poynter
Chairman, Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee
23 March 2012
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:12 Page 29 30 | GOVERNANCE | Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance
(C) Statement of the Remuneration Committee
Purpose and Terms of Reference
Full details of the purpose, terms of reference, activities and work of
the Committee are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Membership
The Chairman of the Committee is Keith Bedell-Pearce. The
Committee comprises solely independent Non-executive Directors.
Members of the Remuneration Committee:
Keith Bedell-Pearce (appointed Chairman on 3 February 2011),
Jeff Medlock (appointed on 1 March 2011), Derham O’Neill
(appointed on 1 March 2011), Kieran Poynter (appointed on
3 February 2011) and Keith Jones (appointed 12 March 2012).
Brian Larcombe served as the Chairman of the Committee until his
departure from the Board on 3 February 2011 and Gerhard
Roggemann served as a member of the Committee until he retired
from the Board in May 2011.
Attendees at the Remuneration Committee
Alain Grisay and the Group Head of Human Resources attended all
meetings of the Committee in 2011. Ian Brindle also attended all
Committee meetings in 2011.
Activities and work of the Committee
The Board is ultimately accountable for the Group’s remuneration
policy but delegates responsibility to the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee has resolved the following key issues
during the year:
• Revised the remuneration policy and ensured that it meets the
requirements of the FSA Remuneration Code (to the extent
applicable to the Company);
• Recommended the remuneration of the Executive Directors to
the Board;
• Reviewed and approved the remuneration of the Executive
Committee and FSA Code staff;
• Approved that the performance targets in relation to long-term
awards require no amendment at this stage;
• Overseen the Company’s remuneration policy as it applies to
executives, senior management and employees, including the
discretionary cash bonus scheme and awards under the long-
term incentive schemes;
• Verified that the remuneration policy does not encourage
excessive risk beyond that of the appetite of the Company;
• Completed the annual review of the Committee Terms of
Reference.
For the Board
Keith Bedell-Pearce
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
23 March 2012
Attendance at meetings
The following table identifies the number of Board and formal
committee meetings held in 2011 and the attendance record of the
individual Directors as members of committees of the Board. In
addition to the scheduled meetings detailed below a number of
ad hoc Directors’ meetings, sub committees of the Board and
Board Committees were held.
Non-executive
Director
meetings Audit,
without Risk &
management Compliance Remuneration Nomination
Board present Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings
held 2011/(2010) 7(7) 2(2) 5(5) 5(6) 2(2)
Edward Bramson
1
52 – –2
Nick MacAndrew
2
1– –––
Alain Grisay 7– –––
Keith Bedell-Pearce72 552
Ian Brindle
1
5 2 –––
Derham O’Neill
1
62 32 –
Keith Jones
4
–– –––
Brian Larcombe
2
1– – 2–
David Logan 7– –––
Jeff Medlock 72 32 –
Keith Percy
4
–– –––
Kieran Poynter 72 531
Gerhard Roggemann
3
2 – 121
1
Appointed to the Board in February 2011
2
Removed from the Board in February 2011
3
Retired from the Board in May 2011
4
Appointed to the Board in November 2011
Board Roles
Chairman
The Executive Chairman of the Company is Edward Bramson. As
Chairman, Mr Bramson is responsible for leadership of the Board
and ensuring the effective running and management of the Board.
The role profile of the Chairman includes the following specific
responsibilities:
• Ensuring that the Board agenda for each meeting takes account
of the issues and concerns of each Board member and that
members of the Board receive accurate, timely and clear
information on the Company and related matters to enable them
to monitor the Group’s performance and take sound decisions;
• Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and
ensuring that the Board develops an understanding of the views
of major investors;
• Ensuring that, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, a
formal induction and development process, including any
relevant internal and external training, exists for all Directors and
the Board as a whole with a view to enhancing the Board’s
effectiveness; and
• Ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-
executive Directors and an effective contribution from all
Directors.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:12 Page 30 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 31
The performance of the Chairman is reviewed annually by the Non-
executive Directors in a meeting chaired by the Senior Independent
Director.
Chief Executive
The Chief Executive of the Company is Alain Grisay. As Chief
Executive, Alain is responsible for overseeing the implementation of
the strategy as set by the Board, providing strategic vision and
executive leadership to all the Group’s business activities and
ensuring the effective running of the business and the Group
Management.
Non-executive Directors
Messrs Bedell-Pearce, Brindle, Jones, Medlock, O’Neill, Percy and
Poynter are the Company’s Non-executive Directors. As Non-
executive Directors they are responsible for: promoting
entrepreneurial leadership and the highest standards of governance
within a framework of prudent and effective controls; constructively
challenging and helping develop strategic proposals; ensuring that
the Group has in place the necessary resources to meet its strategic
objectives; reviewing management performance; determining
appropriate levels of Executive Director Remuneration
(Remuneration Committee members), taking a prime role in
appointing, and where necessary removing, Executive Directors;
setting the Company’s values and standards to ensure its
obligations to its stakeholders are understood and met; and
reviewing communication with shareholders.
Board evaluation and professional development
A comprehensive and rigorous external evaluation of the
performance of the Board, its principal Committees and all Directors
was conducted in the first quarter of 2012. Each Director was
interviewed by an external evaluator to extract their views on the
perceived operation and effectiveness of the Board, the Board
Committees and individual Directors. The results of this process
were presented to the Board in March 2012. All recommendations
made by the external evaluator were accepted by the Board and the
Board have committed to addressing all matters raised during 2012.
The Board also set themselves objectives early in 2011 and
assessed their performance against these objectives at a meeting
held in January 2012. At the same meeting Board objectives for
2012 were discussed and an agreed set of Board objectives for
2012 was approved at the end of January 2012.
The Company has a full and formal induction process for all new
appointments to the Board. The Chairman, in consultation with the
Company Secretary and individual Directors, is responsible for
assessing the professional development needs of each Director. The
induction process and ongoing professional development is
facilitated by the Company Secretary who, in consultation with the
individual Director, identifies the most appropriate method of
ensuring professional development. The Company Secretary also
assists in organising attendance at internal or external courses to
develop familiarity with the Company’s business operations.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
From 1 October 2008, Directors have a statutory duty to avoid a
situation in which they have or can have an interest that conflicts or
possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company. A Director
will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has been
authorised in accordance with the Articles of Association by the
other Directors.
Directors and Directors’ re-election
The Directors who served at any time during the year ended
31 December 2011 are as shown in the Directors’ Remuneration
Report on page 38. Details of the Executive Directors’ service
contracts and Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment can
be found on page 38.
Keith Jones and Keith Percy joined the Board during the year as
independent Directors and as such will retire at the Annual General
Meeting and being eligible will offer themselves for election. With the
exception of Alain Grisay, who has expressed his intention to retire
on conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, all other Directors will,
in accordance with the Code, offer themselves for re-election at the
Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, during 2011, the
Nomination Committee gave more detailed consideration to the
proposed re-election of Messrs Bedell-Pearce and Medlock, given
that they have both served more than six years as Directors.
The Nomination Committee has reviewed the structure, size and
composition of the Board, and has confirmed that all Directors
submitting themselves for election and re-election demonstrate the
commitment and devote sufficient time to perform their duties as
members of the Board and should be elected or re-elected.
Details of the Directors offering themselves for election or re-election
can be found on page 22.
Board succession planning
The Nomination Committee has a succession plan for the Board’s
Non-executive Directors. The plan was shaped by a skills profile,
projected and expected normal retirements, and the Company’s
commitment to corporate governance best practice. The plan is
approved annually by the Board.
Relations with shareholders
The Board as a whole acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring
satisfactory dialogue with shareholders and that communications
are given high priority. The Company welcomes the views of
shareholders and, where practicable, enters into dialogue with
institutional shareholders based on the need for mutual
understanding of objectives. The Company’s Chief Executive and
Chief Financial Officer regularly meet the largest institutional
shareholders and Company analysts following the announcement of
the year-end and interim results; the Senior Independent Director
and all other Non-executive Directors have the opportunity to attend
these meetings. The Annual General Meeting of the Company
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:12 Page 31 32 | GOVERNANCE | Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance
provides a forum, both formal and informal, for investors to meet
and discuss issues with Directors and senior management of the
Company.
At its Annual General Meeting, the Company complies with the
provision of the Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the
separation of resolutions and the attendance of the Committee
Chairmen. The results of the votes cast at the Annual General
Meeting are posted on the Company’s website.
Following the announcement of the first phase of the Company’s
Strategic Review, the Company’s Executive Chairman and Chief
Financial Officer met with a number of the Company’s largest
shareholders. The feedback from these meetings was circulated to
the Board. Unattributable feedback from a number of the
Company’s shareholders, facilitated by the Company’s brokers, is
also presented to the Board following management’s year-end
results presentations.
Electronic communications
Copies of the 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements, the
Notice of Annual General Meeting, other corporate publications,
press releases and announcements are available on the Company’s
website. Shareholders are encouraged to take advantage of the
provisions allowing the Company to communicate electronically.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a regular basis.
Management’s role is to implement and operate the Board policies
on risk and risk management. The system of internal control is
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and
not absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
The Company, as required by the FSA Listing Rules, complied
with the Code provisions on internal control for the year ended
31 December 2011.
The procedures that the Directors have established are designed to
provide effective control within the Group and accord with the
Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Code issued by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales “Internal
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code” (the
Turnbull Guidance). Such procedures have been in place throughout
the year and up to 23 March 2012, the date of approval of the
Annual Report and Financial Statements. A high-level overview of
the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing
significant risks including social, environmental and ethical issues is
detailed below. This process is regularly reviewed by the Board to
ensure it complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
Control environment
The Group is committed to the highest standards of business
conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all areas of
the business. The Group has in place appropriate procedures for the
reporting and resolution of activities that do not meet the required
standards of business conduct.
The Group has an appropriate organisational structure for planning,
executing, controlling and monitoring business operations in order
to achieve its objectives. The structure is designed to provide clear
responsibilities and a control framework for key areas of the Group’s
business.
Operational responsibility rests with the Chief Executive and is
devolved through a documented executive structure with clearly
delegated and appropriate levels of authority. Members of Group
Management are, therefore, accountable for the operation of the
systems of internal controls within the Group’s business.
Business risks
The identification of major business risks is carried out by the Board
in conjunction with management and procedures to control these
risks, where possible, are reviewed and agreed.
Quarterly reports are prepared by each area of the business,
covering all key locations. These quarterly reports include issues of
material business risk which are discussed in detail by the Group
Management which includes both Executive Directors. All significant
items identified are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
The key risks facing the Group at the year end and the mitigating
actions assigned to these risks are detailed in the Business Review
on page 13.
Monitoring and corrective action
The Company has a formal compliance function which, in addition
to providing regulatory advice to the business, has undertaken
compliance monitoring and performed a number of regulatory
inspections in 2011. A separate Internal Audit department
conducted regular monitoring of various business areas in line with a
plan agreed annually with the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee.
Any issues of significance are brought to the attention of the Board
by the Internal Audit, Risk & Compliance departments and through
the regular reporting process. Planned corrective actions are
independently monitored for timely completion and reviewed by the
Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee.
The Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee reviews the effectiveness
of the operation of the Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit
departments at least twice each year.
Independence of the auditor
The Board has in place rigorous systems for ensuring the
independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Group’s auditor
and has satisfied itself that during the year no aspect of its work was
impaired on these grounds. In maintaining a clear perception of
independence and balancing that with the best interests of the
Group, the Board has a clear policy that it follows when considering
the award of non-audit work to the Group’s auditor. The policy
applied during 2011 is detailed below.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:12 Page 32 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 33
The Company does not impose an automatic ban on the Group’s
auditor undertaking non-audit work. The Group’s aim is always to
have any non-audit work involving accountancy firms carried out in a
manner that affords value for money while taking into account
relevant ethical guidance. The firm must not be in a position of
conflict in respect of the work in question and must have the skill,
competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best interests
of the Group.
The auditor of the Company is permitted to perform non-audit work
in areas where, in the opinion of the Audit, Risk & Compliance
Committee, it is appropriate for it to do so and there are no actual or
perceived independence issues.
The Chairman of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee is
authorised to approve the use of the auditor for non-audit work
provided that the cost does not exceed £50,000 and the aggregate
value does not exceed the audit fee for the financial year in question.
In other circumstances, the approval of the Audit, Risk &
Compliance Committee is required.
The performance, independence, competence and cost of the
auditor are reviewed annually by the Audit, Risk & Compliance
Committee. When the Committee considers it appropriate, the
provision of audit services will be formally market-tested through a
tender process involving those audit firms judged competent to
meet the needs of the Group. The frequency of this market-testing
will depend on the views of the Audit, Risk & Compliance
Committee, on the needs of the Group and prevailing leading
practice.
During the year a number of accountancy firms, all of whom are
independent of KPMG, the external auditor, provided non-audit
related services to the Group. Details of fees paid to these firms
during 2011 are disclosed in note 4(c) on page 58 of the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Future developments
The Board believes that the controls in place during 2011 have been
appropriate to the needs of the Group. Nevertheless, it is committed
to the highest standards of governance and business conduct and
will ensure that those controls continue to develop in line with the
requirements of the FSA and leading practice.
By order of the Board,
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
23 March 2012
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:12 Page 33 34 | GOVERNANCE |
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Governance
In designing the total compensation arrangements for the Group
and in preparing this report, the Board and the Remuneration
Committee have complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate
Governance Code (the Code), Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006,
the Large and Medium sized Companies and Group (Accounts and
Reports) Regulations 2008 and the FSA Listing Rules. An ordinary
resolution for the approval of this report will be put to shareholders
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Legislation requires the Group’s auditor to audit certain disclosures
within this report. Where disclosures have been audited they are
indicated as such.
The following policies represent the policies now adopted by the
Group for the forthcoming year and subsequent financial years.
The Committee has been established by the Board to:
(a) recommend to the Board the Group’s policy on Directors’
remuneration;
(b) ensure that the Executive Directors and senior employees are
fairly rewarded and that a significant proportion of Executive
Directors’ remuneration is linked to the Group’s corporate, and
their individual, performance;
(c) demonstrate to shareholders that the remuneration of Executive
Directors and senior employees of the Group is determined by a
committee of Board members which has no personal interest in
the level of remuneration of the Group’s Executive Directors or
senior employees and who will pay due regard to the interests of
shareholders and to the financial and commercial health of the
Group; and
(d) ensure that full consideration has been given to Section D and
Schedule A of the Code’s best practice provisions as annexed
to the Listing Rules.
A Statement of the Remuneration Committee detailing membership
of the Committee and the activities and work of the Committee is
set out on page 30.
Research and advice
During the year the Group Chief Executive provided regular briefings
to the Committee. The Committee also received advice from the
Group Head of Human Resources.
The Remuneration Committee received advice from Kepler
Associates during the year on general remuneration strategy, senior
executive pay benchmarking and on the Company’s LTRP . Kepler
Associates was appointed by the Committee in 2007 as its
independent adviser and provided no other services to the
Company during the year.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee also received
independent remuneration research undertaken by McLagan &
Partners, Deloitte and PricewaterhouseCoopers, leading firms of
executive remuneration consultants, to assess comparability of the
Group’s remuneration policies to the marketplace.
Statement of the policy on Directors’ remuneration
The Company’s compensation policy detailed below is based upon
the following key principles:
a) Remuneration policies, procedures and practices should be
consistent with and promote sound and effective risk
management. The Policy should not incentivise risk-taking that
exceeds the approved risk appetite of F&C.
b) The Remuneration Policy should be aligned with the business
strategy, objectives, values and long-term interests of F&C.
c) The quantum of total variable remuneration should not limit the
ability of F&C to strengthen its capital base.
d) Total variable remuneration should in general reflect the financial
performance of the Group without jeopardising the ability to
attract, retain and motivate the key talent required to achieve its
goals.
In applying its policy the Group takes a total compensation
approach with a strong emphasis on variable pay. The Board
believes that shareholders’ interests are best served by containing
fixed costs and increasing the proportion of total compensation that
is directly performance-related and thus aligned with shareholders’
interests. Total remuneration will comprise basic salary, pension
provision, annual bonus and any awards under the long term share
incentive schemes.
The total cash component of compensation is benchmarked to
market median for solid performers and to upper quartile for
exceptional performers. A range of benchmark data is used, based
on comparable asset management businesses, with appropriate
data being used for each geographic location.
Policies on the individual elements of remuneration
and employment
(a) Salaries
The salaries of all employees, including Executive Directors, are
reviewed annually to ensure they remain appropriate and
competitive. Increases to salaries may be made periodically
although not annually. Salaries are determined by reference to
relevant comparator Financial Services companies as reported by
external market data providers. The Remuneration Committee also
takes into account salary movements for staff across the Group
when setting Executive Director salaries.
(b) Discretionary Cash Bonus
The size and allocation of the annual discretionary cash bonus pool
is recommended by the Remuneration Committee to the Board for
approval.
The recommendations of the Committee are determined by the:
• performance of the Group relative to pre-agreed targets;
• motivation and retention of key employees;
• practice of market competitors; and
• appropriate balance between fixed and variable pay.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:12 Page 34 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 35
Performance targets have been agreed by the Board and include
Investment Performance, Fund Flows, Profitability and a range of
other financial and corporate objectives.
All staff including Executive Directors are eligible for discretionary
cash bonus awards which recognise individual achievement and
contribution relative to agreed annual objectives.
A Purchased Equity Plan operates in conjunction with the
discretionary bonus scheme and is intended to encourage
shareholding by management and employees of the Group by
providing for:
• the compulsory purchase of shares using annual bonus above a
threshold level; and
• the voluntary purchase of shares using annual bonus, with
associated matching shares.
Under the terms of the Purchased Equity Plan, participation can
arise in two ways:
• on an annual basis, eligible employees who are awarded in a
financial year an aggregate bonus in excess of a threshold level
of £100,000 will be required to defer one third of the element
exceeding £100,000 into shares (comprising a range of
investment products managed by the Company or the
Company’s shares) (Compulsory Purchased Equity) for three
years; and
• as and when determined by the Board, eligible employees may
be invited to elect to defer into shares in the Company any
remaining proportion of their gross cash bonus not subject to
deferral on a compulsory basis for three years (subject to a
minimum deferral of £1,500) (Voluntary Purchased Equity). To
date, no voluntary purchased equity awards have been made.
The Compulsory Purchased Equity will not benefit from any form of
matching award and is subject to forfeiture in the event that the
employee leaves the Group for any reason (other than as a “good
leaver”) in the three-year retention period.
In 2011, the Board suspended the compulsory element of the
Purchased Equity Plan in relation to bonuses paid for all staff.
During 2011 Compulsory Purchased Equity awards made to Alain
Grisay and David Logan in 2008 vested. Their gains on vesting,
representing the gross value of the shares and the cash equivalent
of re-invested dividends thereon, were £688,000 and £183,000
respectively.
At 31 December 2011, 493,810 shares in the Company are held
within the Purchased Equity Plan for Mr Grisay as a result of a
Compulsory Purchased Equity award made in 2010.
(c) Savings-related share schemes
To foster a culture of share ownership throughout the Group, the
Board operates a Share Save Scheme (Share Save) and a Share
Incentive Plan (SIP) for all eligible employees. Both schemes are “all-
employee share schemes” and all employees including Executive
Directors who meet certain criteria are eligible to participate.
The SIP is a share scheme that enables employees to purchase
F&C shares in a tax efficient manner on a monthly basis at the
prevailing market price. The Share Save Scheme is a personal
savings scheme that enables employees to either purchase
discounted F&C shares, the price of which is determined at the
time of offering, at the end of a three-year or five-year saving
period, or to receive the accumulated cash value, including
accrued interest, on a tax-free basis.
At 31 December 2011, 274 employees (31 December 2010:
321 employees) participated in the SIP and 18 employees
(31 December 2010: 42 employees) participated in the Share Save.
Shares under option within the Share Save at 31 December 2011
are detailed below:
Number Term Exercise
of options (years) price
April 2007 Participation 102,663 5 144.3 pence
At 31 December 2011, 783,944 shares (31 December 2010:
739,947 shares) were held in trust for employees within the SIP .
Both “all-employee share schemes” seek to buy shares in the
market to remove any possible impact of dilution.
(d) Share incentive schemes
The Board believes that the share incentive schemes increase the
potential for greater importance to be placed upon the performance
related element of total remuneration.
In any ten-year period, the aggregate number of Ordinary Shares
which will be placed under award under any share incentive
scheme, shall not, when aggregated with the number of Ordinary
Shares placed under option or issued in that period under any other
employees’ share scheme operated by the Company, exceed 10
per cent. of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital at that
time. For the purposes of measurement against this limit the
following will be disregarded: any Ordinary Shares that have been,
or will be purchased, rather than allotted; any Ordinary Shares
issued pursuant to the Thames River MRP and/or the MIP; and any
awards or grants that have lapsed or become incapable of vesting.
In order to ensure that the assessment of performance conditions in
relation to the share incentive schemes detailed below is
independent, PricewaterhouseCoopers will report to the
Remuneration Committee as to whether the performance criteria
under all schemes have been met.
Policy on grants and awards under the share
incentive schemes
The Company’s policy for the granting of awards under the LTRP is
that awards and grants are based on an assessment of individual
contribution to the business and independent advice obtained on
current remuneration practices. Award levels will be determined by
the Remuneration Committee with reference to Group performance,
market competitiveness (assessed on a total compensation basis
using independent market total compensation data), and individual
performance. Because of the active policy of reducing the emphasis
on base salary, the Remuneration Committee will not link or limit any
awards under the LTRP explicitly to a multiple of base salary,
believing that making such a linkage provides an incentive to
increase base salaries, and therefore fixed costs, which is contrary
to shareholders’ interests.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:12 Page 35 36 | GOVERNANCE | Directors’ Remuneration Report
Any share incentive awards made to Executive Directors will be
LTRP restricted awards.
The F&C Asset Management plc Long Term
Remuneration Plan (LTRP)
The LTRP is the primary long term incentive arrangement of the
Company.
The LTRP is a discretionary contingent share award scheme
unapproved by HM Revenue and Customs. The LTRP is designed
to support the business objectives of the Group.
Under the LTRP , contingent awards of shares are made under two
categories:
Deferred awards
The Committee believes that it is to the benefit of shareholders that
key employees have a long-term interest in the future performance
of the Group. Equally the stability and retention of key employees is
crucial to the continued success of the Group. To achieve this,
Deferred awards may be made in Ordinary Shares the vesting of
which is contingent on the continued employment of the relevant
participant over the three-year deferral period.
This arrangement provides competitive Total Compensation and
secures a high retention value combined with strong alignment to
the interests of shareholders.
During the year, 15,437,379 deferred awards were made under the
LTRP (2010: 17,355,585). Deferred awards were made to 217 staff
during 2011 (2010: 201 staff).
The Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in deferred
share awards under the rules of the LTRP .
Restricted awards
Vesting of the Ordinary Shares that are currently the subject of a
restricted award under the LTRP will be contingent upon both the
specified performance conditions and conditions of continued
service.
The performance conditions applied to restricted awards under the
LTRP are determined by the Board and are measured over a three-
year period.
For the awards granted in 2010 and 2011 the following four
performance measures were applied with equal weighting:
– Real Growth in Earnings per Share over 3 years: full vesting at
RPI+11% p.a., 25% vesting at RPI+3% p.a.
– Total Shareholder Return relative to a peer group of FTSE250
Financial Companies: full vesting at upper quartile, 25% vesting
at median
– Achievement of annual net new business targets as approved
by the Board: full vesting for achievement of 125% of target,
reducing on a straight line to nil vesting for achievement of 25%
of target
– Relative investment performance compared to benchmarks: full
vesting at 75% of revenue-weighted funds outperforming
benchmark, reducing on a straight line to nil vesting for 42% of
revenue-weighted funds outperforming benchmark
These measures were selected as at the time they were considered
by the Committee to be the most relevant in capturing the critical
elements of performance which reinforce value creation for
shareholders.
In 2012 it is intended to make a one-off award of restricted shares
to certain key staff, the performance conditions of which will be
solely linked to the Company’s underlying Earnings per share for the
year ended 31st December 2015.
During the year a total of 2,815,730 restricted share awards were
made under the LTRP to the Company’s Executive Directors (2010:
3,786,486) and a further 933,954 restricted share awards were
made to members of the senior management team (2010: Nil).
Achievement of performance conditions
During 2011, the growth in the Group’s underlying EPS
underperformed the growth in the RPI by 8.3 percentage points.
The Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) ranked 8th out of a
FTSE 250 Financial Companies Index comparator group of
15 companies in the period from 4 May 2010 to 31 December 2011
and 7th out of a FTSE 250 Financial Companies Index comparator
group of 16 companies in the period from 4th May 2011 to
31 December 2011.
Information on the net new business and investment performance
results of the Company is set out in the Business Review on pages
2 to 21.
Share price performance
The share price at 31 December 2011 was 65.5 pence. During the
year the highest price was 92.90 pence per share and the lowest
price was 56.05 pence.
Performance graph for the share incentive schemes
The graph below compares the performance of the Company with a
notional investment made up of shares of the group of companies
from which the FTSE 250 Financial Companies Index of companies
is calculated for the period from creation of the index in July 2006 to
31 December 2011. The graph is based on the TSR for each period
(assuming all dividends are reinvested). The FTSE 250 Financial
Companies Index has been chosen as the comparator index as it is
the index that includes the Company and is considered the most
appropriate benchmark as there are very few comparable listed
asset management businesses.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:12 Page 36 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 37
TSR performance compared to FTSE 250 Financial
Companies Index
For the five financial periods ending 31 December
(e) Policy on Pension and other benefits
F&C seeks to ensure that its pension policy is in line with its
business strategy, objectives, values and long-term interests.
F&C has a number of pension plans which are designed to enable
employees to make provision for a suitable income in retirement. In
the majority of cases these are defined contribution plans. In the UK
the defined benefit plan is closed to new members. Appropriate
plans are also in place in non-UK locations.
Pension payments are based on basic salary and no other cash
payments or benefits are pensionable.
In addition a range of competitive employee benefits are provided
including vacation and insured benefits including death in service,
private medical and income protection.
(f) Policy on contracts of employment
The Company’s policy regarding contracts of employment is that all
senior employees, including Executive Directors, should be offered
rolling contracts of no longer than twelve months. Where it is
commercially appropriate to protect the Company, a longer-term
initial contract with any employee, including an Executive Director,
may be agreed. On completion of the initial contract, the Company’s
standard terms will be applied. The Remuneration Committee, in
considering contracts, has regard to compensation commitments in
respect of termination and believes that these are best addressed
by restricting the term of the contract.
(g) Policy on Non-executive Directors’ remuneration
Non-executive Directors’ fees for the year to 31 December 2011 are
set out below. None of the Non-executive Directors has a service
contract. Non-executive Directors must submit to re-election on an
annual basis and are not eligible for bonuses or participation in
savings related share schemes or share incentive schemes.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to join any of the Company’s
pension schemes. No pension contributions are made on their behalf
and no Non-executive Director receives a salary from the Company.
The remuneration of Non-executive Directors is determined by the
Board as a whole within the limits stipulated in the Company’s
Articles of Association. All fees are reviewed annually.
Apart from the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director,
Non-executive Directors are paid a basic fee. In the year ended
31 December 2011 the Non-executive base fee was £40,000
per annum. In 2011 Non-executive Directors were separately
remunerated for their services on Board Committees.
The Chairman of the Board, who chairs the Nomination Committee,
receives an annual all-inclusive fee of £150,000 and the Senior
Independent Director receives a £15,000 supplemental fee to the
Non-executive base fee.
The Remuneration Committee sets the Chairman’s annual
remuneration. The Board as a whole determines the fees for Non-
executive Directors, the Senior Independent director supplement
and the additional fees payable for membership and chairing Board
Committees. The supplemental member and Chairman’s fees paid
for Board Committees in 2011 are set out below.
Chairman’s fee
(payable in
Committee addition to
Member’s fee (£) the member’s) (£)
Audit, Risk & Compliance 10,000 10,000
Remuneration 7,500 10,000
Nomination 5,000 10,000*
Thames River Advisory Councils 20,000 Nil
* Currently included within the all-inclusive fees payable to Edward Bramson.
With effect from the 1st January 2012, the Board increased the
Non-executive base fee to £60,000 per annum, resolved to remove
the additional remuneration paid for serving as a member on the
Audit, Risk and Compliance, Remuneration and Nomination
Committees and increased the fee payable for chairing the Audit,
Risk and Compliance, Remuneration and Nomination Committees
to £12,500 per annum.
200
150
100
50
0
FCAM FTSE Financials Source: Datastream
17 Jul
2006
29 Dec
2006
31 Dec
2007
31 Dec
2008
31 Dec
2009
31 Dec
2010
30 Dec
2011
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:12 Page 37 38 | GOVERNANCE | Directors’ Remuneration Report
Statement on Executive Directors’ service contracts and Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment
Messrs Grisay and Logan have current service contracts with the Company that are for a rolling period of one year, details of which are
summarised below. No employee of the Group has a service contract that cannot be brought to an end within one year.
Provisions for compensation
payable by the Company
on early termination
Executive Directors Date of contract Notice period Unexpired term £000
Alain Grisay 11 Oct 2004 Twelve months six months 361
David Logan 31 July 2006 Twelve months rolling twelve months 277
Provisions for compensation
payable by the Company
Chairman and on early termination
Non-executive Directors Date of contract Notice period £000
Edward Bramson* 3 February 2011 One month Nil
Keith Bedell-Pearce 7 May 2009 One month Nil
Ian Brindle* 3 February 2011 One month Nil
Keith Jones* 24 November 2011 One month Nil
Jeff Medlock 13 May 2008 One month Nil
Derham O’Neill* 3 February 2011 One month Nil
Keith Percy* 23 November 2011 One month Nil
Kieran Poynter 4 May 2010 One month Nil
* Appointed during 2011.
Statement on Directors’ Remuneration (audited)
The remuneration of the Executive Chairman and the other Directors who held office during the year ended 31 December 2011 is set out in the
table below:
Total Total
Benefits 2011 2010
Salary and (excluding (excluding Pension
and fees Bonus allowances pension pension Contributions Total Total
2011 2011 2011 contribution) contribution) 2011 2011 2010
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive Directors
Alain Grisay 350 800 11 1,161 1,147 22 1,183 1,168
David Logan 275 3002 577 585 40 617 623
Executive Chairman and Non-executive Directors
Edward Bramson (Executive Chairman)
(1)
136 –– 136 – – 136 –
Nick MacAndrew
(2)
14 –– 14 150 – 14 150
Keith Bedell-Pearce* 114 –– 114 95 – 114 95
Ian Brindle
(1)
36 –– 36 – – 36 –
Keith Jones
(3)
4 –– 4 – –4 –
Brian Larcombe
(2)
7 –– 7 73 –7 73
Jeff Medlock 55 –– 55 40 – 55 40
Derham O’Neill
(1)
51 –– 51 – – 51 –
Keith Percy
(3)
4 –– 4 – –4 –
Gerrhard Roggemann
(4)
21 –– 21 62 – 21 62
Kieran Poynter* 97 –– 97 57 – 97 57
Total 1,164 1,100 13 2,277 2,209 62 2,339 2 2, ,2 26 68 8
* Appointed as a member of the TRC Advisory Councils on 1 September 2010.
1 
Appointed to the Board in February 2011
2
Removed from the Board in February 2011
3
Appointed to the Board in November 2011
4
Retired from the Board in May 2011
Edward Bramson’s fees are paid to Sherborne. No other sums were paid to third parties in respect of any Director’s services.
The Company received £nil (2010: £nil) in fees payable to Executive Directors in respect of any external directorships held. No Executive
Director receives any fees in respect of external appointments.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:12 Page 38 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 39
Statement on Directors’ pensions (audited)
The number of Directors who held office during the year and to whom retirement benefits are accruing is set out below:
2011 2010
Number Number
Members of money purchase pension scheme 2 2
2011 2010
£000 £000
Company contributions paid to money purchase pension schemes:
Alain Grisay 22 21
David Logan 40 38
During the year, the Company paid a widow’s pension of £102,000 (2010: £100,000) in respect of the pension benefits which had accrued to
a former Chairman and £116,000 (2010: £nil) to Mr Jenkins, a former Chairman of the Company. 
No Directors were members of a defined benefit scheme during the year.
Statement on Directors’ Share Incentive Schemes (audited)
The Executive Directors who held office during the year and their awards under any of the Group’s share incentive schemes at 31 December
2011 are shown below.
Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the Group’s long term incentive plans.
Executive Director Remuneration Plan (audited)
Details of the Executive Director Remuneration Plan are set out on pages 93 to 94.
Gain on Gain on
Share price Share price vesting* vesting*
Nature at date at date of £000 £000
Date of Grant of Award Alain Grisay David Logan of award vesting Alain Grisay David Logan
25 Mar 2008 Deferred 740,740 284,900 192.5p –
8 Jul 2009 Deferred 1,649,452 539,540 64.9p –
Opening position at 1 January 2011 2,390,192 824,440 ––
Deferred awards that vested during the year (740,740) (284,900) 192.5p 78.8p 722 278
Deferred awards that lapsed during the year –– ––
Deferred awards remaining 
at 31 December 2011 1,649,452 539,540 ––
*  The gain on vesting represents the gross value of shares and the cash equivalent of re-invested dividends thereon transferred on vesting.
Long Term Remuneration Plan awards (audited)
Details of the Long Term Remuneration Plan are set out on page 36.
Share price
Nature of Alain David at date 
Date of Grant Award Grisay Logan of award
4 May 2010 Restricted 2,795,929 990,557 64.8p
4 May 2011 Restricted 1,978,729 837,001 77.8p
No restricted awards made to Mr Grisay or Mr Logan vested or lapsed during the year.
Share options (audited)
Details of the share option schemes are set out on page 98. As at 31 December 2011, there are no share options outstanding for any Director.
By order of the Board,
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
23 March 2012
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:12 Page 39 40 | GOVERNANCE | 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and
the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements in accordance
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Consolidated and
Company Financial Statements for each financial year. Under that
law they are required to prepare the Consolidated Financial
Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have
elected to prepare the Company Financial Statements in
accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial
Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their
profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Consolidated
and Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
• for the Consolidated Financial Statements, state whether they
have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by 
the EU;
• for the Company Financial Statements, state whether applicable
UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any
material departures disclosed and explained in the Company
Financial Statements; and
• prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its
Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They
have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably
open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent
and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also
responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that
comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and
dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in
other jurisdictions.
Responsibility Statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation
taken as a whole; and
• the Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Report and
Business Review include a fair review of the development and
performance of the business and the position of the issuer and
the undertakings in the consolidation taken as a whole, together
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that
they face.
Edward Bramson
Chairman
23 March 2012
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:12 Page 40 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 41
Independent Auditor’s Report
to the members of F&C Asset Management plc
We have audited the financial statements of F&C Asset
Management plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 set 
out on pages 42 to 122 and 126 to 140.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the
preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by
the EU. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in
the preparation of the parent company financial statements is
applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
company's members those matters we are required to state to them
in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to
anyone other than the company and the company's members, as a
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have
formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors' Responsibilities Statement
set out on page 40, the directors are responsible for the preparation
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a
true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an
opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board's
(APB's) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is
provided on the APB's website at
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm. 
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of the group's and of the parent company's affairs as at 
31 December 2011 and of the group's profit for the year then
ended;
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
• the parent company financial statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice;
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards
the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited has
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
2006; and
• the information given in the Directors' Report for the financial
year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent
with the financial statements; and
• the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement
set out on pages 27 to 33 with respect to internal control and
risk management systems in relation to financial reporting
processes and about share capital structures is consistent with
the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by
exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,
in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the
Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are not in
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors' remuneration specified by law
are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the directors' statement, set out on page 27, in relation to going
concern;
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page27
relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of
the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review;
and
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on
directors’ remuneration.
JM Mills (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
Edinburgh
23 March 2012
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:12 Page 41 Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2011
2011 2010
Notes £m £m
Revenue
Investment management fees 2 279.0 258.2
Other income 2 4.2 1.6
Total revenue 2 283.2 259.8
Fee and commission expenses 2 (16.2) (16.6)
Net revenue 2 267.0 243.2
Net gains and investment income on unit-linked assets 3 13.7 74.3
Movement in fair value of unit-linked liabilities (13.4) (73.3)
Operating expenses
Operating expenses 4(b) (183.8) (169.7)
Distributions to members of LLPs 5 (18.3) (6.0)
Amortisation of intangible assets – management contracts 13 (45.8) (50.7)
Other exceptional net operating expenses 6(a) (19.0) (20.9)
Total operating expenses 4(a) (266.9) (247.3)
Operating profit/(loss) 0.4 (3.1)
Finance revenue 7 17.2 11.1
Finance costs 8 (35.4) (33.6)
F&C REIT put option fair value gain 6(b) 8.7 6.4
TRC acquisition consideration adjustments 6(c) 7.6 —
Loss before tax (1.5) (19.2)
Tax – Shareholders 4.1 6.2
Tax – Policyholders – (0.4)
Tax income 9 4.1 5.8
Profit/(loss) for the year 2.6 (13.4)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (0.5) (16.6)
Non-controlling interests 3.1 3.2
Profit/(loss) for the year 2.6 (13.4)
Basic loss per Ordinary Share 10 (0.10)p (3.31)p
Diluted loss per Ordinary Share 10 (0.10)p (3.31)p
£m £m
Memo – dividends paid 11 15.6 24.5
Memo – dividends proposed 11 10.4 10.3
42 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS |
The accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements form an integral part of these financial statements.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 42 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 December 2011
2011 2010
Notes £m £m
Profit/(loss) for the year 2.6 (13.4)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income:
Foreign exchange movements on translation of foreign operations (2.0) (4.7)
Net actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 25(d) 3.3 10.4
Gains on available for sale financial investments 14 1.5 1.3
Realised gains on available for sale financial investments transferred to the Income Statement 14 (3.3) –
Tax expense on items taken directly to equity 9 (0.5) (3.5)
Foreign exchange transfer to Income Statement on liquidation of subsidiary – (1.3)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (1.0) 2.2
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 1.6 (11.2)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (1.5) (14.4)
Non-controlling interests 3.1 3.2
1.6 (11.2)
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 43
The accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements form an integral part of these financial statements.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 43 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
as at 31 December 2011
44 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS |
The accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements form an integral part of these financial statements.
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
Notes £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 12 7.4 8.3
Intangible assets:
– Goodwill 13 611.9 611.9
– Management contracts 13 128.6 175.5
– Software and licences 13 2.5 1.0
13 743.0 788.4
Financial investments 14 1.7 3.5
Other receivables 20 1.1 2.0
Deferred acquisition costs 16 4.7 6.0
Deferred tax assets 17(a) 28.3 30.9
Total non-current assets 786.2 839.1
Current assets
Financial investments 18(a)(i) 454.4 548.7
Reinsurance assets 19 2.0 2.0
Stock of units and shares 18(a)(ii) 0.9 0.1
Deferred acquisition costs 16 2.4 2.8
Trade and other receivables 20 83.9 162.6
Current tax receivable 0.7 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents:
– Shareholders 21 196.9 178.8
– Policyholders 21 28.1 23.4
21 225.0 202.2
Total current assets 769.3 918.5
Total assets 1,555.5 1,757.6
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 22 273.8 273.7
Other payables 23 6.9 12.1
Provisions 24 7.3 8.1
Pension deficit 25(d) 20.5 27.6
Employee benefits 5.9 11.6
Deferred income 27 7.0 8.1
Other financial liabilities 28 41.5 49.5
Deferred tax liabilities 17(a) 32.4 48.1
Total non-current liabilities 395.3 438.8
Current liabilities
Investment contract liabilities 29 472.8 559.2
Insurance contract liabilities 30 2.0 2.0
Trade and other payables 23 71.7 138.5
Provisions 24 8.5 9.0
Employee benefits 28.8 24.3
Liabilities to members of LLPs 4.7 4.4
Deferred income 27 3.3 3.7
Other financial liabilities 28 3.8 4.5
Current tax payable 7.8 1.6
Total current liabilities 603.4 747.2
Total liabilities 998.7 1,186.0
Equity
Ordinary Share capital 31 0.5 0.5
Share premium account 32 51.8 51.8
Capital redemption reserve 32 0.8 0.8
Merger reserve 32 359.7 383.3
Other reserves 32 (22.8) (19.5)
Retained earnings 32 154.3 138.2
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 544.3 555.1
Non-controlling interests 32 12.5 16.5
Total equity 556.8 571.6
Total liabilities and equity 1,555.5 1,757.6
The Consolidated Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 23 March 2012. They were
signed on its behalf by:
Edward Bramson Alain Grisay
Executive Chairman Chief Executive
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 44 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2011
Foreign
Ordinary Share Capital currency Non-
Share premium redemption Merger translation Fair value Acquisition Retained controlling Total
capital account reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2010 0.5 33.8 0.8 416.6 50.1 1.4 (66.0) 132.5 19.2 588.9
(Loss)/profit for the year –– –––– – (16.6) 3.2 (13.4)
Other comprehensive
(expense)/income –– –– (6.0) 1.0 – 7.2 – 2.2
Total comprehensive
(expense)/income –– –– (6.0) 1.0 – (9.4) 3.2 (11.2)
Transactions with owners:
Realised element of merger
reserve to offset amortisation
of intangible assets –– – (33.3) –– – 33.3 ––
Transfer of investment in own shares
into equity on acquisition of TRC –– –––– – (0.8) – (0.8)
Purchase of own shares –– –––– – (9.7) – (9.7)
Settlement proceeds received on
disposal of own shares –– –––– – 1.1 – 1.1
Share-based payment
charges credited to equity –– –––– – 19.5 – 19.5
Share capital allotted on placement
of shares – 14.2 –– –––– – 14.2
Share capital allotted in respect of
TRC Commutation arrangements – 3.8 –– ––– (3.8) ––
Final 2009 dividend paid –– –––– – (19.4) – (19.4)
Interim 2010 dividend paid –– –––– – (5.1) – (5.1)
Distributions to
non-controlling interests –– –––– –– (5.9) (5.9)
Balance at 31 December 2010 0.5 51.8 0.8 383.3 44.1 2.4 (66.0) 138.2 16.5 571.6
(Loss)/profit for the year –– –––– – (0.5) 3.1 2.6
Other comprehensive
(expense)/income –– –– (2.0) (1.3) – 2.3 – (1.0)
Total comprehensive
(expense)/income –– –– (2.0) (1.3) – 1.8 3.1 1.6
Transactions with owners:
Realised element of
merger reserve to offset
amortisation of intangible assets –– – (23.6) –– – 23.6 ––
Purchase of own shares –– –––– – (3.2) – (3.2)
Share-based payment charges
credited to equity –– –––– – 17.3 – 17.3
Consideration for non-controlling
interests in F&C Partners LLP –– –––– – (10.7) – (10.7)
Tax credit associated with purchase
of non-controlling interests in F&C
Partners LLP –– –––– – 2.9 – 2.9
Final 2010 dividend paid –– –––– – (10.4) – (10.4)
Interim 2011 dividend paid –– –––– – (5.2) – (5.2)
Distributions to non-controlling
interests –– –––– –– (7.1) (7.1)
Balance at 31 December 2011 0.5 51.8 0.8 359.7 42.1 1.1 (66.0) 154.3 12.5 556.8
The total of foreign currency translation reserve, fair value reserve and acquisition reserve constitutes ‘Other reserves’ as disclosed in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and amounts to a debit of £22.8m at 31 December 2011 (31 December 2010: £19.5m debit).
Cumulative defined benefit pension scheme actuarial losses (as disclosed in note 25(d)) recognised as at 31 December 2011 are £31.0m
which are included in retained earnings (31 December 2010: £34.3m).
The share premium recognised during 2010 is stated net of £0.4m of transaction expenses associated with the related share placing.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 45
The accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements form an integral part of these financial statements.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 45 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31 December 2011
2011 2010
Notes £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Operating profit/(loss) 0.4 (3.1)
Cash outflow relating to restructuring costs* – (3.9)
Adjustments for non-cash items 33(a) 67.2 72.8
Changes in working capital and provisions 33(a) 18.3 (26.3)
Cash inflows from operating activities
†
85.9 39.5
Income tax paid (0.7) (4.8)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 85.2 34.7
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (3.0) (1.1)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1
Purchase of software and licences (2.2) (0.7)
Payments to acquire investments (0.6) (1.2)
Proceeds from disposal of investments 3.7 3.0
Investment income – interest and dividends 5.9 1.1
Consideration payment for the acquisition of TRC (7.4) (33.6)
Fair value of cash acquired with the acquisition of TRC – 27.2
Expenses of acquisitions
#
– (0.1)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (3.5) (5.3)
Cash flows from financing activities
Payment for change in ownership interest in F&C Partners LLP (8.8) –
Interest paid on Loan Notes (21.9) (20.8)
Other interest paid (0.4) (0.2)
Equity dividends paid 11 (15.6) (24.5)
Distributions to non-controlling interests (7.1) (5.9)
Proceeds from issue of share capital – 14.2
Purchases of own shares (3.2) (9.7)
Proceeds of disposal of own shares – 1.1
Drawdown of acquisition loan facility – 15.0
Repayment of acquisition loan facility – (15.0)
Proceeds from issue of Guaranteed Loan Notes 2016 – 20.0
Repayment of Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010 – (10.0)
Expenses in respect of debt arrangements – (1.6)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (57.0) (37.4)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 24.7 (8.0)
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held (1.9) (3.7)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 202.2 213.9
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 21 225.0 202.2
Cash and cash equivalents
Shareholders 21 196.9 178.8
Policyholders 21 28.1 23.4
21 225.0 202.2
* Cash payment in respect of restructuring costs recognised on previous acquisitions.
†
Cash inflows from operating activities includes investments and disinvestments relating to unit-linked assets attributable to policyholders in the Group’s insurance
company. These activities can result in significant fluctuations in “cash flows from operating activities”.
#
Cash flows relating to acquisitions before 1 January 2010.
Non-cash transactions
During 2010, a total of 6,085,996 Ordinary Shares were issued during the year in respect of TRC Initial and Deferred Commutation
consideration. The fair value of these shares was £3.8m.
46 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS |
The accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements form an integral part of these financial statements.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 46 Basis of preparation and statement of compliance
These are the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C Asset
Management plc and its subsidiaries (the Group) which have been
prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the
European Union (adopted IFRS), and those parts of the Companies
Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under adopted IFRS.
These Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in millions
of pounds Sterling, rounded to one decimal point, except where
otherwise indicated.
Certain figures reported in the 2010 Financial Statements have been
reclassified within these Financial Statements for consistency with
the presentation applied within these Financial Statements. These
changes are presentational in nature and do not change the
previously reported financial results for the year ended 31 December
2010 nor the aggregate assets and liabilities at that date.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to
affect its future development, performance and position are set out
in the Business Review on pages 2 to 21. The financial position of
the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are also described in
the Business Review. In addition, note 36 to the Financial
Statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes
for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives;
details of its financial instruments and its exposure to credit risk and
liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-
term contracts with a number of clients across different geographic
areas and industries. After making enquiries, the Directors have a
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing these Financial Statements.
New or revised standards
The Group has adopted the following new or revised standards and
interpretations as of 1 January 2011:
The amendments to the standards and interpretations
below did not have any impact on the accounting policies,
financial position or performance of the Group:
Amendments to IFRS:
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation: Amendments
relating to classification of Rights Issues
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments
IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: Revised definition of related
parties
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 – The limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum
Funding Requirements and their interaction:
Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement
2010 Improvements to IFRS (issued May 2010):
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting
Standards
IFRS 3 Business Combinations
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements
IAS 23 Interim Financial Reporting
Parent Company Financial Statements
The parent Company has continued to present individual Financial
Statements prepared on a UK GAAP basis as permitted by section
395(1) of the Companies Act 2006, adopting the exemption of
omitting the Profit and Loss Account and related notes conferred by
section 408 of that Act. The Company Financial Statements,
together with their respective accounting policies and notes, are
presented on pages 126 to 140.
Accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements
The preparation of the Financial Statements necessitates the use of
estimates, assumptions and judgements. These estimates,
assumptions and judgements affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, contingent assets and contingent liabilities at the reporting
date as well as the reported income and expenses for the year.
While estimates are based on management’s best knowledge and
judgement using information and financial data available to them,
the actual outcome may differ from these estimates.
The key sources of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements in
applying accounting policies are disclosed, where appropriate, in the
following notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements:
(a) Impairment testing of intangible assets
The projected revenue growth, projected operating cost growth
and discount rates applied to cash flow projections, as
disclosed in note 13.
(b) Pension assumptions
The mortality assumptions, expected rates of return, discount
rates, rates of salary increases and inflation increases, as
disclosed in note 25.
(c) Non-controlling interest (NCI) put options
The fair value of the F&C REIT NCI put options is subject to
uncertainties in respect of future performance and other factors
impacting the valuation of the F&C REIT Group. Details of these
put options are disclosed in note 28.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 47
Accounting Policies
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 47 (d) Provisions
Onerous contract provisions for premises are subject to
uncertainties over time, including market rent reviews and break
options within the lease arrangements. The final settlement in
respect of the F&C Partners litigation is subject to determination
by an appeal process. While there are a number of possible
financial outcomes, the Directors have recognised a provision in
respect of the amount which could be payable. Details of
provisions are disclosed within note 24.
(e) Share-based payments
The share-based payment expense in respect of the TRC
Commutation arrangements, as detailed in notes 15(a) and
26(g), is dependent upon whether the underlying put and call
options are exercised and, if exercised, the expense will vary
according to a number of factors, including the level of earnings
of the respective Investment Teams and the latest audited
financial results of the F&C Group.
The final F&C REIT variable NCI share-based payment expense
will depend on the extent of the F&C REIT financial results over
the remainder of the performance periods and, if the
performance criteria are achieved, the value of F&C REIT
business at the vesting date. Details are given in note 26(c).
(f) Deferred tax assets
The quantum of deferred tax assets recognised, as detailed in
note 17, is based upon assumptions as to the future profitability
of the underlying companies to which they relate.
(g) TRC contingent consideration
The conditional consideration payable in respect of the
acquisition of TRC has been estimated as nil, but is dependent
upon the level of future earnings of the TRC Group at 30 June
2012, as detailed in note 15(a).
Summary of significant accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have been applied
consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of the
Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended
31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, aside from any new or
revised standards applicable for the first time in the current year.
(a) Consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has the
power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating
policies so as to obtain benefits from their activities. Subsidiaries
follow accounting policies consistent with those of the Group,
unless there is a requirement for the subsidiary to follow a
different accounting treatment, in which case, consolidation
adjustments are made to align the treatment of such
subsidiaries within the Consolidated Financial Statements. The
subsidiaries all have coterminous reporting periods, with three
exceptions.
The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the assets,
liabilities, results and cash flows of the Company and its
subsidiaries. The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during
the period are included in the consolidated results from the date
of acquisition or up to the date of disposal. Intra-group balances
and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses
arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
NCI represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in
subsidiaries not held by the Group and are presented separately
in the Consolidated Income Statement (Income Statement) and
within equity in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
(Statement of Financial Position), separately from parent
shareholders’ equity.
(ii) Business combinations
IFRS 3 (Revised) (relating to Business Combinations from
1 January 2010)
A business combination is the bringing together of separate
entities or businesses into one reporting entity. The result is that
one entity, the acquirer, obtains control of one or more entities or
businesses. The acquisition date is the date on which the
acquirer obtains control of the acquiree.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the
assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or
assumed at the date of exchange. Identifiable assets and
liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in a
business combination are measured initially at their fair values at
the acquisition date. The excess of the consideration transferred
for the acquisition, plus any NCI, over the fair value of the
Group’s share of identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as
goodwill. Acquisition-related expenses are expensed in the
Income Statement.
(b) Foreign currencies
The Group’s presentational currency is Sterling. Each entity in
the Group determines its own functional currency and amounts
included in the financial statements of each entity are measured
in that functional currency.
(i) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the
functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated at the
exchange rate ruling at the reporting date, and any exchange
differences arising are taken to the Income Statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities, other than intangible assets
arising on the acquisition of foreign operations (measured at
historical cost in a foreign currency), are translated using the
exchange rate at the date of transaction and are not subsequently
restated. Non-monetary assets and liabilities stated at fair value in
a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate at the date
the fair value was determined. When fair value movements in
assets and liabilities are reflected in the Income Statement, the
corresponding exchange movements are also recognised in the
Income Statement. Similarly, when fair value movements in assets
and liabilities are reflected directly in equity, the corresponding
exchange movements (except any relating to available for sale
monetary assets) are also recognised directly in equity.
48 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 48 (ii) Foreign operations
The functional currency of foreign operations is predominantly
the Euro.
The assets and liabilities of, or relating to, foreign operations are
translated into Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the
reporting date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations
are translated to Sterling at foreign exchange rates approximating
to the rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Foreign
exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations
into Sterling, including related intangible assets, are recognised
directly in the Group’s Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
(FCTR), which is a separate component of equity, and reported in
the Statement of Comprehensive Income. These exchange
differences are recognised as income or expenses in the period in
which the foreign operations are disposed of.
(c) Revenue recognition
Management fees, investment advisory fees and other revenue
generated from the Group’s asset management activities are
recognised in the Income Statement over the period which
these investment management services are provided.
Initial fees received in advance, arising on open-ended funds,
are taken to the Statement of Financial Position and amortised
over the period of the asset management service. The Group
enters into standard contractual terms for all investors.
Therefore, the period of provision of asset management services
is estimated based upon the Group’s experience of the average
holding periods of investors. The average holding period is
reassessed on an annual basis.
The Group is entitled to earn performance fees from a number
of clients if the actual investment performance of clients’ assets
exceeds defined benchmarks by an agreed level of
outperformance, generally in a set time period. Performance
fees are recognised when the quantum of the fee can be
estimated reliably, which is when the performance period ends,
when this occurs on or before the reporting date, or where there
is a period of less than six months remaining to the end of the
performance period and there is evidence at the reporting date
which suggests that the current performance will be sustainable.
(d) Leases
All leases entered into by the Group are operating leases, being
leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and
rewards of ownership of the leased asset. Rentals paid under
operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a
straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease incentives are
recognised by the Group as a reduction in the rental expense,
allocated on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Accounting policy “(s) Provisions” discusses the recognition of
provisions on onerous property leases when the leased space
has ceased to be occupied by the Group.
(e) Fee and commission expenses
Fee and commission expenses comprise two main elements –
costs associated with gaining new asset management contracts
and subsequent commission paid to agents. The costs
associated with gaining contracts are deferred and amortised
over the estimated term of the contracts (in line with the
treatment of the associated initial fees received), while the
subsequent renewal commission paid to agents is expensed as
the services are provided.
(f) Exceptional income and costs
Where the Group incurs significant non-recurring expenditure or
earns significant non-recurring income in respect of items that
arise outwith the Group’s normal business activities and which
are sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure, then
such items are disclosed in the Income Statement as
exceptional items, either separately or collectively, depending on
their nature.
(g) Finance revenue
Finance revenue comprises interest, dividends, investment
income, expected return on pension assets and net fair value
gains through the Income Statement in respect of shareholder
investments. Dividend income is recognised when the right to
receive payment is established. Interest income is recognised in
the Income Statement on an effective interest rate basis as it
accrues.
(h) Finance costs
Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings, interest
on pension liabilities, amortisation of loan issue costs, unwinding
of discount on provisions and net fair value losses through the
Income Statement in respect of shareholder investments.
Borrowing costs are recognised in the Income Statement on an
effective interest rate basis.
(i) Income taxes
The income tax expense or income disclosed on the face of the
Income Statement represents the aggregate of current tax and
the movement in deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the
Income Statement for the period, except to the extent that it is
attributable to a gain or loss that is recognised directly in equity.
In such cases the gain or loss shown in equity is stated
separately from the attributable income tax, which is also
recognised directly in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable to, or receivable from,
the taxation authorities on the taxable profit or loss for the
period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the
reporting date, and includes any adjustment to tax payable in
respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on
differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities
in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax basis
used in the computation of taxable profit or loss, accounted for
using the reporting date liability method.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to
apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset
realised, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively
enacted at the reporting date.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 49
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 49 Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to
the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised,
except:
• where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial
recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a
transaction that is not a business combination that at the
time of the transaction affects neither the accounting nor
taxable profit or loss; or
• in respect of taxable or deductible temporary differences
associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates,
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences
can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each
reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all
or part of the asset to be recovered.
Any income tax expense or income in respect of taxable gains
or losses attributable to policyholders falls to be borne by or to
the benefit of the Group’s unit-linked policyholders. As a result,
the Directors consider it appropriate to differentiate on the face
of the Income Statement between tax attributable to
policyholders and that attributable to shareholders.
(j) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment is capitalised on
initial recognition. Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised
when it is probable that there will be future economic benefits
associated with the expenditure which can be measured reliably.
All other expenditure is recognised in the Income Statement as
an expense as incurred.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated so as to write off
the cost of assets, using the straight-line method, over their
estimated useful lives, as follows:
Leasehold improvements – over 10 years
Computer equipment – over 3 years
Office furniture & equipment – over 3-5 years
Motor vehicles – over 3-4 years
Depreciation is recognised as an expense in the Income
Statement.
The carrying value of assets and their useful lives are reviewed
at each reporting date. If an indication of impairment exists, the
assets are written down to their recoverable amount and the
impairment is charged to the Income Statement in the period in
which it arises.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon
disposal or when no further future economic benefits are
expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition
of the asset (calculated as the fair value less costs to sell) is
included in the Income Statement in the year the asset is
derecognised.
(k) Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
Goodwill arising from a business combination is initially
measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business
combination over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Following
initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any
accumulated impairment losses.
Business combinations arising after 31 December 2009 are
accounted for under IFRS 3 (Revised): Business Combinations.
Where the initial amount of goodwill can only be determined on a
provisional basis at the end of the financial reporting period,
adjustments are made to the amount of goodwill up to twelve
months from the date of acquisition to the extent that they relate
to revisions to the quantum of net assets acquired.
Any adjustment to the initial consideration, including amounts
which are conditional upon performance criteria, are recognised
in the Income Statement in the period in which the subsequent
change arises.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value may be impaired.
(ii) Investment management contracts
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial
recognition at cost. The measurement of intangible assets
acquired in a business combination is at fair value as at the date
of acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are
carried at initial fair value less accumulated amortisation and any
accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of investment management contracts are finite
and such contracts are amortised on a straight-line basis over
their estimated useful lives or average contractual term, with
amortisation being charged to the Income Statement. The
amortisation period is reviewed at each financial year end.
Details of estimated useful lives are shown in note 13.
(iii) Software and licences
Separately purchased intangible assets have a finite life and are
shown at cost less accumulated amortisation and any
accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is charged to the
Income Statement in equal annual instalments, based on the
following useful economic lives:
Software – 3 years
Licences – over the contractual term (3-5 years)
Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is
expensed as incurred.
(l) Impairment of intangible assets
At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there is an
indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication
exists, or when annual impairment testing is required, the Group
makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An
asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-
generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use,
and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does
not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those
from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying
50 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 50 amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset
is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable
amount. Any impairment arising is recognised in the Income
Statement. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash
flows are discounted to their present value using a discount rate
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
money and the risks specific to the asset.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a
business combination is allocated to a cash-generating unit that
is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Each unit to which the goodwill is so allocated represents the
lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored
for internal management purposes.
Where intangible assets form part of a cash-generating unit and
part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the
intangible assets associated with the operation disposed of are
included in the carrying amount of the operation when
determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
(m) Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value, plus
directly attributable transaction costs, in the case of investments
not at fair value through profit or loss.
The fair value of instruments that are actively traded in organised
financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market
bid prices (mid price for OEICs) at the close of business on the
reporting date. For investments where there is no active market,
fair value is determined using valuation techniques. Such
techniques include using: recent arm’s length market
transactions; reference to the current market value of another
instrument which is substantially the same; or discounted cash
flow analysis and option pricing models.
Financial instruments are classified into the categories described
below:
(i) Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss
include investments that are held for trading purposes or
that have been specifically designated as ‘at fair value
through profit or loss’. They are carried in the Statement of
Financial Position at fair value and movements in fair value
are taken to the Income Statement in the period in which
they arise. Interest and dividend income on these financial
instruments is recognised separately in Finance revenue.
The Group has adopted “trade date” accounting for
purchases or sales of financial assets under a contract
whose terms require delivery of the asset within the time
frame established in the marketplace concerned.
Accordingly, such financial instruments are recognised on the
date the Group commits to the purchase of the investments,
and are derecognised on the date it commits to their sale.
The Group has adopted the Fair Value Option in IAS 39,
which enables the liabilities in respect of the Group’s unit-
linked investment contracts to be matched to the fair value
of the related assets which are solely attributable to the
investment contract policyholders, thus reflecting the
contractual entitlement of the policyholders. Differences in
fair values are taken to the Income Statement.
(ii) Available for sale financial assets are also carried at fair
value in the Statement of Financial Position. In respect of
unquoted instruments, or where the market for a financial
instrument is not active, fair value is established by using
recognised valuation methodologies, in accordance with
International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation
Guidelines. Where insufficient information exists to produce
a valuation then the price of recent investments is used.
Such techniques include using: recent arm’s length market
transactions; reference to the current market value of
another instrument which is substantially the same; or
discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
For unquoted investments in early stage enterprises and
enterprises with revenues but without significant profits or
significant positive cash flows, fair value is determined using
the “Price of a Recent Investment” method. Repayments
are treated as reductions to carrying value. After an
appropriate period, an assessment is made as to whether
the circumstances of the investment have changed such
that another valuation methodology is appropriate, and
whether there is any evidence of deterioration or strong
defensible evidence of an increase in value. In the absence
of these indicators, fair value is determined to be that
reported at the previous reporting date.
Unquoted investments with revenues, maintainable profits
and/or maintainable cash flows are valued by deriving an
Enterprise Value of the underlying business.
Movements in fair value, other than impairment losses and
foreign exchange movements on monetary assets, are
taken to the fair value reserve in equity until derecognition of
the asset, at which time the cumulative amount in this
reserve is recognised in the Income Statement.
(iii) Loans and receivables are measured on initial recognition at
fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs
incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and
receivables are measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest rate method. Gains and losses are
recognised in the Income Statement when loans and
receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as
through the amortisation process.
(iv) Other financial liabilities include the NCI put options which
are recognised at fair value through profit or loss.
The NCI put options, over equity in majority-owned
subsidiaries, are recognised at fair value at the reporting
date. Upon initial recognition the fair value of the put option
is debited to equity. Subsequent movements to the fair
value are reflected in the Income Statement. Fair value is the
amount at which a derivative could be exchanged in a
transaction at the reporting date between willing parties.
The remaining financial liabilities are recognised at amortised
cost using the effective interest rate after initial recognition.
Expenses incurred in respect of raising capital on interest
bearing loans and borrowings are amortised over the term
of the loan on an effective interest rate basis. These
expenses are offset against the loan amount.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 51
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 51 Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets
A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset,
is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the
asset have expired.
Financial liabilities
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the
liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Impairment of financial assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether a financial
asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans
and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the
amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the
asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated
future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s original
effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is
reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the Income
Statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss
decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an
event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the
previously recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any
subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the
Income Statement to the extent that the carrying value of the
asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Available for sale financial assets
If an available for sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising
the difference between its cost (net of any principal payment
and amortisation) and its current fair value, less any impairment
loss previously recognised in the Income Statement, is
transferred from equity to the Income Statement. Reversals in
respect of equity instruments classified as available for sale are
not recognised in the Income Statement. Reversals of
impairment losses on debt instruments are taken through the
Income Statement if the increase in fair value of the instrument
can be objectively related to an event occurring after the
impairment loss was recognised in the Income Statement.
(n) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits
held at call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid
investments in money market instruments with original maturity
dates of three months or less.
(o) Investment contracts
The Group sells unit-linked pension investment contracts
through its insurance entity, F&C Managed Pension Funds
Limited (MPF). These unit-linked contracts involve both the
transfer of a financial instrument and the provision of investment
management services. The financial instrument component is
classified as a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss.
The financial liability is measured using a valuation technique
based on the carrying value of the assets and liabilities that are
held to back the contract.
Unit-linked policyholder assets held by MPF and related
policyholder liabilities are carried at fair value, with changes in
fair value taken to profit or loss.
Amounts received from and paid to investors under these
contracts are accounted for as deposits received or paid, and
therefore not recorded in the Income Statement. At the reporting
date the value of these contracts is stated at an amount equal
to the fair value of the net assets held to match the contractual
obligations.
(p) Insurance contract liabilities
Insurance contract liabilities are measured in accordance with
actuarial principles and guidance. Any change in the value of the
liability is taken to “Movement in fair value of unit-linked
liabilities” in the Income Statement. Where these liabilities are
reinsured, the element of the risk reinsured is valued on the
same basis as the related liability and is included as an asset in
the Statement of Financial Position. Changes in the value of the
asset are taken to the Income Statement. Amounts recoverable
under reinsurance contracts are assessed for impairment at
each reporting date.
(q) Employee and member benefits
(i) Short-term employee benefits
Short-term employee benefits are recognised as an
undiscounted expense and liability when the employee has
rendered services during an accounting period. Short-term
compensated absences are recognised, in the case of
accumulating compensated absences, when the employees
render service that increases their entitlement to future
compensated absences or, in the case of non-accumulating
compensated absences, when the absences occur.
(ii) Profit-sharing and bonus payments
These are recognised when there is a present legal or
constructive obligation to make such payments as a result of past
events and a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
(iii) Profit entitlement of members of Limited Liability
Partnerships
Where a member of a Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) has an
automatic entitlement to distributions of partnership profits in
respect of their services, an expense (Distributions to members
of LLPs) and a liability (Liabilities to members of LLPs) are
recognised as their services are rendered during an accounting
period.
(iv) Pension obligations
Defined benefit schemes
The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension
arrangements. These schemes provide benefits based on final
pensionable salary. The assets of the funded schemes are held
in separate trustee-administered funds.
The pension liability recognised in the Statement of Financial
Position is the present obligation of the employer, which is the
estimated present value of future benefits that employees have
earned in return for their services in the current and prior years,
less the value of the plan assets in the schemes. The discount
rate applied to the employees’ benefits is the appropriate AA
52 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 52 corporate bond yield at the reporting date. A qualified actuary
performs the calculation annually using the projected unit credit
method. The pension costs of the schemes in the Income
Statement are analysed into:
• current service cost, which is the actuarially calculated
present value of the benefits earned by the active
employees in each period;
• past service costs, which relate to employee service in prior
periods, and arise as a result of the introduction of, or
improvement to, retirement benefits in the current period.
These are recognised in the Income Statement on a
straight-line basis over the period in which the increase in
benefits vests;
• settlements or curtailments recognised in the Income
Statement to the extent that they are not allowed for in the
actuarial assumptions. Gains or losses on settlements or
curtailments are recognised at the date on which there is a
demonstrable commitment to making a significant reduction
in the number of employees covered by the plan or an
amendment to the terms of the plan;
• the expected return on pension assets recognised within
‘Finance revenue’; and
• the interest on pension obligations recognised in ‘Finance
costs’.
The actuarial gains and losses, which arise from any new
valuation and from updating the previous actuarial valuation to
reflect conditions at the reporting date, are taken in full to the
Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period.
Defined contribution schemes
Contributions made to these schemes are charged to the
Income Statement as they become payable in accordance with
the rules of the scheme.
(v) Other long-term employee benefits
Other long-term employee benefits are recognised at the
discounted present value of the obligation at the reporting date.
The benefit is determined using actuarial techniques to estimate
the amount of benefit employees have earned for their services
at the reporting date.
(vi) Termination benefits
Termination benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense
when the Group is committed to the termination of employment
before the normal retirement date. A commitment to such
termination benefits arises when the Group has initiated detailed
plans which cannot realistically be withdrawn.
(r) Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of share scheme arrangements
which require to be accounted for as share-based payments.
All grants of shares, share options or other share-based
instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 have
been recognised as an expense. Where applicable, the fair
values of share-based payment awards are measured using a
valuation model applicable to the terms of the awards (Black
Scholes, Binomial or Monte Carlo simulation). The fair value is
measured by an independent external valuer at the date the
award is granted and the expense is spread over the period
during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to
exercise the awards, known as the vesting period. Where
options exist for awards to vest on more than one date, the
expense is initially spread over the period to the earliest possible
vesting date. The cumulative expense recognised in the Income
Statement is equal to the estimated fair value of the award
multiplied by the number of awards expected to vest. Vesting of
awards typically depends upon meeting defined performance
criteria such as underlying earnings per share (EPS) targets
and/or share price return targets or continued employment.
The fair value of share-based payment awards, where it is not
considered possible to estimate reliably the fair value of these
awards at the grant date, is determined by measurement of the
equity instruments at intrinsic value. The intrinsic value is spread
over the vesting period.
Vesting of equity-settled employee share awards depends upon
meeting “market” and/or “non-market related” performance
conditions. The type of vesting criteria affects the calculation of
the expense charged to the Income Statement and subsequent
adjustments, as follows:
(i) Non-market related conditions are performance criteria not
directly linked to Company share price targets, such as EPS
targets and/or continued employment. The probability of
meeting non-market conditions is incorporated into the
expense charge via the estimate of the number of awards
expected to vest. The total cumulative expense is
reassessed at each reporting date and is ultimately adjusted
to reflect the actual number of awards which vest.
Therefore, if no awards vest, no cumulative expense charge
is ultimately recognised.
(ii) Market-related conditions are performance criteria linked to
Company share price targets. The probability of meeting
market conditions is incorporated into the calculation of the
fair value of the award. Should the market-based
performance condition not ultimately be met, no
“true-up/down” adjustment is made to reflect this.
Therefore, an expense charge is made whether market-
based awards ultimately vest or not.
IFRS 2: Share-based Payment makes a distinction between
awards settled in equity and those settled in cash. Equity-settled
awards are charged to the Income Statement with a
corresponding credit to equity. Cash-settled awards are charged
to the Income Statement with a corresponding credit to
liabilities. The estimated fair value of cash-settled awards is re-
measured at each reporting date until the payments are
ultimately settled.
Awards to employees treated as “good leavers” or employees
who cancel their savings contracts (under the Share Save
Scheme) vest immediately and the remaining full expense of the
awards is charged to the Income Statement at that time. Good
leavers include retirees and involuntary redundancies.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as
additional share dilution in the computation of EPS.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 53
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 53 (s) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the Statement of Financial Position
when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result
of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic
benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is
material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected
future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market
assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate,
the risks specific to the liability. No provision is established where
a reliable estimate of the obligation cannot be made.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be
recovered from external parties, the recovery is recognised as a
separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Where the Group has obligations under property leases and
where the space has ceased to be used for the purposes of the
business, full provision is made for future net outstanding
liabilities under such leases after taking into account the effect of
any expected sub-letting arrangements.
(t) Share capital
When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial
liability of the Company or Group is presented as a liability in the
Statement of Financial Position, measured initially at fair value,
net of transaction costs and thereafter at amortised cost until
extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The remainder of the issue proceeds is allocated to the equity
component and included in shareholders’ equity, net of
transaction costs.
Ordinary Share capital
When Ordinary Shares are repurchased, the amounts of
consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, are
recognised in the own share reserve included within retained
earnings and are classified as deductions in equity. The
Company’s dealings in its own shares are reflected
through equity.
Dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised on the date of
payment, or if subject to approval, the date approved by the
shareholders.
(u) Accounting for Employee Benefit Trusts (EBTs)
The Group has several EBTs which own shares in the Company
and other investments to enable it to satisfy certain future
settlements of share-based awards. The assets of the EBTs,
which relate to unvested awards, are consolidated into the
Group’s results, with these own shares included within retained
earnings at cost. Consideration received for such shares is also
recognised in retained earnings. No gain or loss is recognised in
the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or
cancellation of equity shares. Other investments held by EBTs
are recognised as assets in the Statement of Financial Position.
54 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies
(v) New standards and interpretations not applied
The International Accounting Standards Board has issued the following standards, relevant to the Group, which have not yet been applied
and have an effective date after the date of these Financial Statements:
Effective for
accounting periods
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS) beginning on or after
Endorsed by the European Union and available for early adoption:
IFRS 7 Amendment Disclosures – Transfers of financial assets 1 July 2011
Not yet endorsed by the European Union:
IFRS 1 Amendment Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed Dates 1 July 2011
for First-time Adopters
IAS 12 Amendment Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets 1 January 2012
IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income 1 July 2012
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2013
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2013
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2013
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013
IAS 27 Revised Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2013
IAS 28 Revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2013
IAS 19 Amendment Employee Benefits 1 January 2013
IFRS 7 Amendment Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2013
IAS 32 Amendment Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2014
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (issued in 2009 and 2010) 1 January 2015
One of the changes in respect of the IAS 19 Amendment for the defined benefit pension arrangements is that the Net Interest Cost will
replace the Interest Cost and Expected Return on Assets. The discount rate will be used to calculate the Net Interest Cost instead of a
separate assumption for “asset returns”. In addition administrative expenses will require to be shown separately and not within the Net Interest
Cost. The overall impact on the Income Statement will depend on the size of the defined benefit deficit and the differential between the
expected return rate and the discount rate. It is expected that there will be a slight increase in the net expense as a result of these changes.
The Directors are investigating the impact of the other new and revised standards. It is anticipated that, at a minimum, additional
disclosures will be required. The Group intends to adopt the standards in the reporting period in which they become effective.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 54 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 55
1. Operating segments
From a management perspective, the Group has three operating units and therefore presents three operating segments for segment reporting
purposes:
• F&C;
• F&C REIT; and
• Thames River Capital (TRC).
While there are different sources of revenue and distinct distribution channels within operating segments, and assets under management can
be categorised by client type and asset class, the Directors do not consider these to constitute separate operating segments within the
meaning of IFRS 8: Operating Segments.
Management monitors the results of its three operating segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation
and performance assessment.
Transfer prices between the operating segments reflect arm’s-length agreements entered into at the time of acquiring REIT and TRC and
creating the F&C REIT and TRC operating segments. Segment revenue, operating expenses, finance revenue and profit/(loss) for the year
include transactions between operating segments, which are eliminated on consolidation. The accounting policies of the operating segments
are the same as those of the Group.
(a) Operating segments’ financial information
F&C F&C REIT TRC Total
2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
External clients 199.5 205.2 37.8 40.0 45.9 14.6 283.2 259.8
Inter-segment revenue 0.9 1.0 –– 1.5 0.7 2.4 1.7
Segment revenue 200.4 206.2 37.8 40.0 47.4 15.3 285.6 261.5
Fee and commission expenses (12.3) (14.4) (3.1) (2.1) (0.8) (0.1) (16.2) (16.6)
Net gains and investment income
on unit-linked assets 13.7 74.3 – – – – 13.7 74.3
Movement in fair value of unit-linked liabilities (13.4) (73.3) – – – – (13.4) (73.3)
Operating expenses
Operating expenses (145.7) (144.8) (16.7) (16.9) (38.3) (12.3) (200.7) (174.0)
Amortisation and depreciation (31.7) (40.2) (11.0) (11.6) (6.9) (2.3) (49.6) (54.1)
Other exceptional net operating expenses (8.6) (12.7) – (0.2) (10.4) (8.0) (19.0) (20.9)
Total operating expenses (186.0) (197.7) (27.7) (28.7) (55.6) (22.6) (269.3) (249.0)
Operating profit/(loss) 2.4 (4.9) 7.0 9.2 (9.0) (7.4) 0.4 (3.1)
Finance revenue 39.6 21.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 39.8 21.7
Finance costs (35.3) (33.6) – – (0.1) – (35.4) (33.6)
F&C REIT put option fair value gain 8.7 6.4 – – – – 8.7 6.4
TRC acquisition consideration adjustments 7.6 – – – – – 7.6 –
Tax income/(expense) 4.5 6.9 (0.5) (1.4) 0.1 0.3 4.1 5.8
Profit/(loss) for the year 27.5 (3.9) 6.6 7.9 (8.9) (6.8) 25.2 (2.8)
Segment assets 1,297.5 1,479.3 196.2 210.6 72.1 79.2 1,565.8 1,769.1
Segment liabilities (937.8) (1,116.3) (20.0) (23.8) (30.7) (29.8) (988.5) (1,169.9)
Other information
Expenditure on non-current assets 3.9 3.5 0.4 0.2 0.5 40.1 4.8 43.8
Non-cash expenses/(income) other
than depreciation and amortisation (4.4) 1.8 0.1 0.1 10.0 6.1 5.7 8.0
Revenues from two external clients each represent 10% or more of the Group’s total revenues. Revenues from the largest client amount to
£31.0m (2010: £32.1m) and are earned in the F&C and F&C REIT segments. Revenues from the second largest client amount to £29.8m
(2010: £30.6m) and are earned in the F&C segment.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 55 1. Operating segments continued
(b) Reconciliations to Group Financial Statements
2011 2010
£m £m
Total revenue
Total revenue for reportable segments 285.6 261.5
Elimination of inter-segment revenue (2.4) (1.7)
Group revenue 283.2 259.8
Operating expenses
Total operating expenses for reportable segments 269.3 249.0
Elimination of inter-segment expenses (2.4) (1.7)
Group operating expenses 266.9 247.3
Finance revenue
Total finance revenue for reportable segments 39.8 21.7
Elimination of inter-segment finance revenue (22.6) (10.6)
Group finance revenue 17.2 11.1
Profit/(loss) for the year
Total profit/(loss) for reportable segments 25.2 (2.8)
Adjustment for inter-segment profit distributions (22.6) (10.6)
Group profit/(loss) for the year 2.6 (13.4)
Assets
Total assets for reportable segments 1,565.8 1,769.1
Elimination of inter-segment assets (10.3) (9.0)
Reclassification between assets and liabilities – (2.5)
Group assets 1,555.5 1,757.6
Liabilities
Total liabilities for reportable segments (988.5) (1,169.9)
Elimination of inter-segment liabilities 10.3 9.0
Reclassification between assets and liabilities – 2.5
Unallocated defined benefit pension liabilities (20.5) (27.6)
Group liabilities (998.7) (1,186.0)
The reportable segments’ totals for all other line items reported in the table at note 1(a) are the same as those for the Group, with no
reconciling differences.
(c) Geographical information
2011 2010
Revenue by location of clients £m £m
United Kingdom 108.9 102.1
Continental Europe* 150.3 138.0
Rest of the World 24.0 19.7
Group total 283.2 259.8
2011 2010
Non-current assets by domicile
†
£m £m
United Kingdom 84.2 113.1
Continental Europe* 39.3 53.1
Rest of the World 15.0 18.6
138.5 184.8
Unallocated 611.9 611.9
Group total 750.4 796.7
* Continental Europe is defined as being within the European Economic Area.
†
Excluding financial investments, other receivables, deferred acquisition costs and deferred tax assets.
56 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 56 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 57
2. Net revenue
2011 2010
£m £m
Base management fees 267.2 245.3
Performance-related management fees 11.8 12.9
Total investment management fees 279.0 258.2
Other income 4.2 1.6
Total revenue 283.2 259.8
Renewal commission on open-ended investment products (8.8) (10.1)
Other selling expenses (7.4) (6.5)
Fee and commission expenses (16.2) (16.6)
Net revenue 267.0 243.2
Other income in 2011 includes £1.4m of compensation in respect of the loss of strategic partner assets.
3. Net gains and investment income on unit-linked assets
2011 2010
Notes £m £m
Interest income on financial instruments attributable to policyholders 7 7.2 7.5
Dividend income 7.3 10.0
Movement in fair values of unit-linked assets (0.8) 56.8
29 13.7 74.3
Note 18(a)(i)(1) gives further background to the unit-linked assets held by the Group.
4. Expenses
(a) Total operating expenses
Total operating expenses, including exceptional costs, can be summarised into the following categories:
2011 2010
£m £m
Employee and member benefits and related expenses* 149.4 125.0
Premises expenses 12.6 9.3
Communication and information technology expenses 16.6 14.4
Third-party administration expenses 8.5 6.6
Promotional and client servicing expenses 7.1 6.4
Depreciation and amortisation expenses 49.6 54.1
Other expenses 23.1 31.5
Total operating expenses 266.9 247.3
* This includes £7.4m (2010: £5.6m) of employment-related expenses, which are not included in the employee benefit expense table in note 5.
(b) Operating expenses
Operating expenses include the following:
2011 2010
Notes £m £m
Depreciation of owned tangible property, plant and equipment 12 3.2 2.7
Amortisation of software and licences 13 0.6 0.7
Auditor’s remuneration 4(c) 1.3 1.2
Operating lease rentals – land and buildings (head leases) 10.7 11.8
Operating lease rentals – vehicles 0.4 0.3
Operating lease rentals – other* 2.3 4.2
Rentals receivable – operating leases (sub-leases) (3.9) (4.1)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.1
Realised exchange gains on forward currency contracts – (0.9)
Other foreign exchange losses – 1.6
* Stated net of amounts receivable from brokers under Commission Sharing Arrangements.
Sub-lease rentals of £3.9m (2010: £4.1m) were received during the year, of which £3.7m (2010: £3.9m) relates to guaranteed payments and
£0.2m (2010: £0.2m) relates to contingent payments.
All amounts included within operating lease and sub-lease rental payments represent minimum lease payments.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 57 4. Expenses continued
(c) Auditor’s remuneration
Fees paid to the Group’s auditor are summarised as follows:
KPMG
2011 2010
£m £m
Annual audit fees – 2011 0.5 –
Annual audit fees – 2010 – 0.5
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor for the audit of the Group and Company’s annual Financial Statements 0.5 0.5
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3
Total audit fees of the Group 0.8 0.8
Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1
Other assurance services 0.2 0.2
Other non-audit services 0.2 0.1
Total auditor’s remuneration 1.3 1.2
The Group’s policy on the award of non-audit services to accountancy firms is outlined in the Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance.
During the year the fees paid by F&C to other accountancy firms for non-audit services were as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
PricewaterhouseCoopers 0.5 0.7
Ernst & Young 0.3 0.4
Deloitte 0.2 1.8
BDO 0.1 –
Moore Stephens 0.1 –
1.2 2.9
In addition to the above, the following fees were paid by OEICs and unit trusts, for services provided directly to them, for which Group
companies are the Authorised Corporate Director or Manager:
2011 2010
£m £m
PricewaterhouseCoopers 0.3 0.4
5. Employee and member benefit expenses
Total employee benefit expenses, including remuneration of the Directors and expenses relating to LLP members, were:
2011 2010
Notes £m £m
Short-term employee and member benefits:
Salaries and related benefits 62.1 58.7
Bonus 19.5 16.0
Wages and salaries 81.6 74.7
Distributions to members of LLPs 18.3 6.0
Social Security costs 10.2 10.4
TRC Commutation payment to LLP members – 1.4
110.1 92.5
Post-employment benefits:
Defined contribution pension expenses 25(h) 3.5 3.9
Defined benefit pension expense/(income) 25(d) 3.0 (1.3)
6.5 2.6
Total of wages and salaries, Social Security costs and post-employment benefits 116.6 95.1
Other long-term employee benefits – 0.1
Termination benefits 7.6 1.6
Share-based payment expense 26 17.8 22.6
Total employee and member benefits expenses 142.0 119.4
The monthly average number of employees and members (including Executive Directors) of the Group during 2011 was 952 (2010: 1,018).
F&C Asset Management plc had no employees during either year.
The above table includes £14.4m (2010: £6.1m) of exceptional net employment costs.
58 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 58 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 59
6. Exceptional income and expenditure
(a) Other exceptional net operating expenses
The Group has classified the following operating (expenses)/income as exceptional:
2011 2010
Notes £m £m
Exceptional employment (expense)/income (i) (8.7) 2.5
TRC Commutation expenses (ii) (5.7) (6.2)
TRC Management Retention and Incentive Plans (iii) (4.6) (1.8)
Operations outsourcing expenses (iv) (2.7) –
F&C Partners litigation expense (v) (1.9) (6.0)
TRC integration expenses (vi) (0.2) (1.1)
F&C REIT variable non-controlling interests SBP income (vii) 4.8 0.3
Corporate advisory fees (viii) – (9.9)
Foreign exchange transfer from reserves on liquidation of subsidiary (ix) – 1.3
(19.0) (20.9)
(i) Exceptional employment (expense)/income
During 2011, the Board initiated actions to achieve ‘rightsizing’ staff cost savings as a result of the operations outsourcing and the subsequent
strategic review process. As a result, some £8.7m of non-recurring redundancy and related staff costs were incurred during the year in order to
achieve the targeted level of recurring staff cost savings.
During 2010 the Group recognised a net £2.5m of non-recurring income associated with employee remuneration arrangements. This
comprised a £4.0m pension curtailment credit arising from benefit changes made to defined benefit pension arrangements, as outlined in note
25(d), offset by a £0.6m past service pension cost and £0.9m of redundancy and related staff costs, which were incurred as a result of cost
saving actions initiated during that year.
The Directors consider these non-recurring employment (expenses)/income to be exceptional in nature and have therefore excluded them from
the measurement of underlying earnings in the respective financial year.
(ii) TRC Commutation expenses
The Divisional Members of TRC Investment Teams entered into put and call options at the time of the TRC acquisition, which, if exercised, will
typically transfer up to 20% of their entitlement to management fee profits to the F&C Group. Under IFRS, the share element of the
consideration payable under these Commutation arrangements requires to be accounted for as a share-based payment.
Given the capital nature of these arrangements, the Directors consider it appropriate to treat the total Commutation expense as exceptional in
nature and exclude it from the measurement of underlying earnings for each financial year.
(iii) TRC Management Retention and Incentive Plans
As a condition of the acquisition of TRC, the Group established a Management Retention Plan (MRP) and Management Incentive Plan (MIP) to
retain and incentivise certain TRC personnel. At 31 December 2011 it has been assessed that none of the MIP performance criteria will be met
and, as a result, the cumulative charge previously recognised has been reversed and a credit has been recognised in the 2011 Income
Statement. The MRP expense (including NIC) recognised in the income statement is £4.7m (2010: £1.7m). The 2011 credit in respect of the
MIP is £0.1m (2010: charge of £0.1m). Details of these share-based payment arrangements are given in notes 26(e) and (f).
Given the quantum and nature of these awards, the Directors consider it appropriate to treat the associated expense/(credit) as exceptional
and exclude them from the measurement of underlying earnings for each financial year.
(iv) Operations outsourcing expenses
During 2011, £2.7m of legal, advisory and consultancy costs were incurred in respect of the planning and execution of the outsourcing of
certain of the Group’s back and middle office investment operations to State Street.
The Directors consider these project costs to be exceptional in nature and have therefore excluded this expense from the measurement of
underlying earnings for 2011.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 59 6. Exceptional income and expenditure continued
(v) F&C Partners litigation expense
Note 24 outlines the background and status of this litigation and details the amounts paid and potentially payable to the founder members of
F&C Partners LLP . During 2011, £2.1m of further legal costs were incurred by the Group in continuing to defend its position in respect of all
disputed matters and £2.2m of related interest costs payable to the founder members have been recognised. These costs have been offset by
the utilisation of the £2.4m provision previously recognised in respect of the totality of this dispute, resulting in a net cost of £1.9m being
recognised in the Income Statement during the year.
During 2010, some £6.0m of legal and professional costs were incurred with respect to this matter.
Given the quantum and nature of this expense, the Directors continue to consider it appropriate to treat it as exceptional in nature and exclude
it from the measurement of underlying earnings in both financial years.
(vi) TRC integration expenses
In 2010 the Group incurred some £1.1m of integration expenses associated with the alignment of certain activities within the enlarged Group.
A further £0.2m of such costs were incurred in 2011.
Given the nature of this expense, the Directors consider it appropriate to treat it as exceptional and exclude it from the measurement of
underlying earnings for each year.
(vii) F&C REIT variable non-controlling interests SBP income
30% of F&C REIT, the Group’s property asset management business, is held by the former owners of REIT, two of whom occupy key
management roles within F&C REIT.
The former owners have the opportunity to increase their ownership of F&C REIT by a further 10% through the achievement of stretching
performance targets over the six-year period to 31 December 2014. This earn-out mechanism meets the criteria of, and is accounted for as, a
share-based payment. At 31 December 2011 it has been assessed that the performance target is unlikely to be achieved in any of the
remaining performance periods. As a result, the cumulative charge previously recognised has been reversed and a credit of £4.8m has been
recognised in the 2011 Income Statement (2010: a credit of £0.3m).
These credits have been excluded from underlying earnings, as this arrangement is considered to be of a capital nature. Further details of this
arrangement are given in note 26(c).
(viii) Corporate advisory fees
During 2010, £7.5m of corporate advisory and related transaction expenses were incurred in connection with the acquisition of TRC, together
with £2.0m of abortive acquisition costs in respect of C-Quadrat and other corporate costs of some £0.4m.
The Directors considered these corporate costs to be exceptional in nature and therefore excluded this £9.9m aggregate expense from the
measurement of underlying earnings.
(ix) Foreign exchange transfer from reserves on liquidation of subsidiary
Following the transfer of its assets under management to another F&C Group company, F&C Luxembourg was put into voluntary liquidation
during 2010. The cumulative foreign exchange gain of £1.3m previously recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve was ‘recycled’ to
the Income Statement in accordance with accounting requirements.
Due to the nature of this gain, the Directors excluded this credit from the calculation of underlying earnings for 2010.
(b) F&C REIT put option fair value gain
2011 2010
£m £m
F&C REIT put option fair value gain 8.7 6.4
The fair value of the F&C REIT put option liability, as disclosed in note 28, reflects the value of the portion of the F&C REIT business which is
currently owned by the non-controlling interest partners and which is the subject of options. The £8.7m reduction in the fair value of the
options during 2011 has been recognised as a gain in the Income Statement (2010: gain of £6.4m).
The Directors consider the value of these options and movements therein to be of a capital nature, and have therefore excluded these gains
from the measurement of underlying earnings.
60 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 60 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 61
6. Exceptional income and expenditure continued
(c) TRC acquisition consideration adjustments
2011 2010
£m £m
Net asset consideration adjustment 0.1 –
Deferred consideration adjustment 7.5 –
7.6 –
The total consideration of £48.6m recognised in 2010 for the acquisition of TRC included a £7.5m estimate of further cash consideration and
£7.5m of estimated conditional consideration payable if certain performance criteria were achieved.
During 2011, a payment of £7.4m was made to the vendors of TRC, under the terms of the Sale and Purchase Agreement, representing an
adjustment to the initial cash consideration to reflect the excess of net assets acquired over and above the agreed target. As the payment was
less than the estimate of £7.5m, the excess of £0.1m has been credited to the Income Statement in accordance with IFRS.
The 31 December 2011 conditional consideration performance target was not achieved and it is anticipated that the comparable position
measured at 30 June 2012 will not be achieved. As a result, the associated liability of £7.5m has been released to the 2011 Income Statement
in accordance with IFRS.
Due to the capital nature of these items, the Directors have excluded the total credit of £7.6m from the calculation of underlying earnings
for 2011.
7. Finance revenue
2011 2010
Note £m £m
Loans and receivables:
Bank interest receivable 1.8 1.1
Other interest receivable 0.2 0.2
Designated as fair value through profit or loss:
Movement in fair value of investments – 0.3
Designated as available for sale:
Investment income receivable 3.7 –
5.7 1.6
Other finance revenue:
Expected return on pension plan assets 25(d) 11.5 9.5
Total finance revenue 17.2 11.1
2011 2010
Note £m £m
Summary of total interest income:
Bank interest receivable 1.8 1.1
Other interest receivable 0.2 0.2
Interest income on other financial instruments attributable to policyholders 3 7.2 7.5
Total interest income 9.2 8.8
8. Finance costs
2011 2010
Note £m £m
Interest expense on financial liabilities recognised at cost using
the effective interest rate method:
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 8.4 8.4
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 13.5 12.2
Floating Rate Secured Notes 2010 – 0.2
Bank charges and other interest payable 0.4 0.5
Total interest expense 22.3 21.3
Amortisation of loan note issue costs and facility fees 1.0 0.5
Unwinding of discount on onerous provisions 0.5 0.5
Designated as fair value through profit or loss:
Movement in fair value of investments 0.1 –
Other finance costs:
Interest cost on pension obligations 25(d) 11.5 11.3
Total finance costs 35.4 33.6
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 61 9. Income tax
(a) Analysis of tax income in the year
The major components of tax (income)/expense recognised in the Income Statement and Statement of Changes in Equity are:
2011 2010
£m £m
Current income tax:
UK 3.7 0.8
Overseas 5.7 8.5
Adjustments in respect of previous years (0.1) (0.2)
Deferred income tax:
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences (12.7) (12.8)
Adjustments in respect of previous years 0.1 (1.3)
Adjustments in respect of Corporation Tax rate change (0.8) (0.8)
Tax income reported in the Income Statement (4.1) (5.8)
2011 2010
£m £m
Deferred and current income tax related to items charged or credited directly to equity:
Fair value movements on financial investments (0.5) 0.3
Net actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 1.0 3.0
Loss on overseas pension schemes (0.3) –
Adjustments in respect of Corporation Tax rate change 0.3 0.2
Tax expense recognised directly in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 0.5 3.5
Tax credit associated with purchase of NCI* in F&C Partners LLP (2.9) –
Tax (income)/expense recognised directly in Statement of Changes in Equity (2.4) 3.5
* Non-controlling interests (NCI).
(b) Factors affecting the tax income for the year
A reconciliation between the actual tax income and the accounting loss multiplied by the Group’s domestic tax rate for the years ended
31 December 2011 and 2010 is as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
Loss before tax (1.5) (19.2)
At the Group’s statutory income tax rate of 26.5% (2010: 28.0%) (0.4) (5.4)
Adjustments in respect of previous years – (1.5)
Disallowed expenses 0.2 3.4
Non-taxable income (3.0) (1.6)
Overseas tax 0.2 0.1
Unrecognised losses 0.1 0.1
Share-based payments (0.4) (0.1)
Disallowed distributions to LLP members 4.9 1.7
Non-taxable income attributable to LLP members (4.9) (1.7)
Corporation Tax rate change (0.8) (0.8)
Tax income reported in the Income Statement (4.1) (5.8)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown in note 17.
(c) Effective rate of tax and factors affecting future tax charges
The Chancellor of the Exchequer’s Emergency Budget on 22 June 2010 announced that the UK Corporation Tax rate will reduce from 28% to
24% over a period of four years from 2011. A further 1% reduction in the UK Corporation Tax rate was announced in the Chancellor’s Budget
of 23 March 2011. The combination of these announcements when substantively enacted will take the Group’s UK effective tax rate to 23%
by 2015.
The first tranche of these reductions became effective during 2011 when the Corporation Tax rate moved from 28% to 26% on 1 April 2011,
leading to a statutory tax rate in the UK for the Group of 26.5% for 2011.
A further rate change to 25% was substantively enacted on 5 July 2011, effective from 1 April 2012. As a result, the statutory rate for the UK
Group will move to 25.25% for 2012.
The effect of the rate changes substantively enacted during the year has been to reduce the net deferred tax liability by a net £0.5m as at
31 December 2011. This comprises a £2.8m tax credit attributable to intangible assets, a £2.0m tax charge associated with the reduction in
value of deferred tax assets and a £0.3m tax charge to equity reflecting the deferred tax that is expected to reverse through equity.
The Directors are of the view that due to the significant level of estimation required it is not yet possible to quantify the effect of the proposed
subsequent 2% rate reduction in future years, although this will further reduce the Group’s current tax charge in future and reduce the Group’s
deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the Statement of Financial Position.
62 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 62 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 63
10. Earnings per share
Basic loss per share amounts are calculated by dividing the loss for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the
weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted loss per share amounts are calculated by dividing the loss for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the
weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares that would be
issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential Ordinary Shares into Ordinary Shares at the reporting date.
In the opinion of the Directors the ‘underlying earnings’ as quantified in the ‘Reconciliation of (loss)/earnings’ table below, more accurately
reflects the underlying earnings performance of the Group.
2011 2010
(as restated*)
Reconciliation of (loss)/earnings per Ordinary Share p p
Basic loss per Ordinary Share (0.10) (3.31)
Amortisation of intangibles 5.61 6.48
F&C REIT put option fair value gain (1.69) (1.28)
F&C Partners litigation expense 0.16 0.88
TRC Commutation expenses 1.10 1.24
Exceptional employment expense/(income) 1.24 (0.38)
F&C REIT variable NCI SBP income (0.93) (0.06)
TRC Management Retention and Incentive Plans 0.80 0.30
TRC integration expenses 0.01 0.18
Operations outsourcing expenses 0.39 –
TRC acquisition consideration adjustments (1.47) –
Deferred Tax – Corporation Tax rate change* 0.39 0.16
Corporate advisory fees – 1.97
Foreign exchange transfer from reserves on liquidation of subsidiary – (0.26)
Prior year unrealised losses on forward currency contracts, now realised – (0.18)
Underlying earnings per Ordinary Share 5.51 5.74
Foreign exchange losses included within underlying earnings per share – 0.28
Underlying earnings per Ordinary Share excluding foreign exchange losses 5.51 6.02
* As restated for the effect of the Deferred Tax – Corporation Tax rate change being excluded from underlying EPS.
2011 2010
p p
Diluted loss per Ordinary Share* (0.10) (3.31)
Diluted underlying earnings per Ordinary Share 4.93 5.52
Diluted underlying earnings per Ordinary Share excluding foreign exchange losses 4.93 5.79
* Where the Group has incurred a basic loss per Ordinary Share, no dilution arises despite the ‘dilutive potential weighted average number of Ordinary Shares’ being
greater than the ‘weighted average number of Ordinary Shares used to determine the basic loss per share’. As a result, the reported basic and diluted loss per
Ordinary Share are the same in 2011 and 2010.
All amounts disclosed in the table above are stated net of any attributable tax, as presented in the ‘Reconciliation of (loss)/earnings’ table below.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 63 10. Earnings per share continued
The following tables disclose the (loss)/earnings and share capital data used in the (loss)/earnings per share calculations:
2011 2010 (as restated*)
Gross Tax Net Gross Tax Net
Reconciliation of (loss)/earnings £m £m £m £m £m £m
Loss attributable to ordinary equity holders
of the parent for basic loss per share (4.0) 3.5 (0.5) (22.1) 5.5 (16.6)
Amortisation of intangibles
(1)
42.6 (13.7) 28.9 47.3 (14.8) 32.5
F&C REIT put option fair value gain (8.7) – (8.7) (6.4) – (6.4)
F&C Partners litigation expense 1.9 (1.1) 0.8 6.0 (1.6) 4.4
TRC Commutation expenses 5.7 – 5.7 6.2 – 6.2
Exceptional employment expense/(income)
(2)
8.7 (2.3) 6.4 (2.6) 0.7 (1.9)
F&C REIT variable NCI SBP income (4.8) – (4.8) (0.3) – (0.3)
TRC Management Retention and Incentive Plans 4.6 (0.5) 4.1 1.8 (0.3) 1.5
TRC integration expenses 0.2 (0.1) 0.1 1.1 (0.2) 0.9
Operations outsourcing expenses 2.7 (0.7) 2.0 –––
TRC acquisition consideration adjustments (7.6) – (7.6) –––
Deferred Tax – Corporation Tax rate change* – 2.0 2.0 – 0.8 0.8
Corporate advisory fees ––– 9.9 – 9.9
Foreign exchange transfer from reserves on liquidation of subsidiary ––– (1.3) – (1.3)
Prior year unrealised losses on forward currency contracts, now realised ––– (1.3) 0.4 (0.9)
Underlying earnings attributable to ordinary
equity holders of the parent 41.3 (12.9) 28.4 38.3 (9.5) 28.8
Foreign exchange losses included within underlying earnings ––– 2.0 (0.6) 1.4
Underlying earnings attributable to ordinary equity holders
of the parent excluding foreign exchange losses 41.3 (12.9) 28.4 40.3 (10.1) 30.2
* As restated for the effect of the Deferred Tax – Corporation Tax rate change being excluded from underlying EPS.
(1)
Excludes £2.0m (2010: £2.3m) of amortisation of intangibles (net of tax) which is attributable to NCI.
(2)
Excludes £nil (2010: £0.1m) of costs (net of tax) which are attributable to NCI.
2011 2010
Share capital No. No.
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares
(3)
515,372,721 501,469,251
Weighted average dilutive potential Ordinary Shares exercisable:
The Long Term Remuneration Plan awards 30,316,564 16,130,914
TRC Commutation arrangements 13,175,821 –
TRC Management Retention Plan awards 12,554,160 –
The Executive Director Remuneration Plan awards 2,157,665 2,543,218
Deferred Share awards 975,054 –
Purchased Equity Plan awards 606,632 694,880
Dilutive potential weighted average number of Ordinary Shares 575,158,617 520,838,263
(3)
Excluding own shares held by Nominees/Employee Benefit Trusts.
In the period between the reporting date and the approval of the Consolidated Financial Statements, 1,112,958 share awards (2010:
9,474,354) vested which were satisfied by the utilisation of own shares held by Employee Benefit Trusts.
64 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 64 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 65
10. Earnings per share continued
Potential future dilution
The following share-based payment arrangements could potentially dilute basic earnings per share in the future, but were not included in the
above calculation of diluted earnings per share because they were either anti-dilutive for the years presented or had not met the relevant
performance criteria at the reporting date:
• Long-Term Remuneration Plan (restricted awards)
• F&C REIT variable NCI SBP
This earn-out arrangement gives the F&C REIT NCI partners the opportunity to increase their ownership of F&C REIT from 30% to 40%
before 31 December 2014. At 31 December 2011, the Directors do not expect any of the ownership percentage to transfer. Any transfer
would potentially dilute the profits attributable to the equity holders of the parent. However, the principle of this incentive arrangement is
that the incremental profits which would become attributable to NCI as a result of achieving the performance criteria are funded from the
increased level of absolute profits generated by F&C REIT for the year in which vesting arises, rather than diluting the current level of profits
attributable to equity holders of the parent. There can be no guarantee that, subsequent to vesting, the higher level of profits which met the
vesting criteria would be sustainable.
• TRC Management Incentive Plan
• TRC Commutation arrangements
The Divisional Members of TRC Investment Teams have put and call options to transfer up to 20% of their entitlement to management fee
profits of their respective Investment Teams to F&C. The exercise of these options is expected to enhance the profits attributable to equity
holders of the parent. However, there can be no guarantee that, subsequent to the exercise of the options, a higher level of absolute profits
would be sustainable.
• Share Save Scheme
• 1995 and 2002 Executive Share Option Schemes
At 31 December 2011, the 909,900 (31 December 2010: 1,318,528) options outstanding have all vested. These have exercise prices
between 139.00p and 240.83p and are anti-dilutive as the option prices are above the average share price for the year.
Details of all awards potentially dilutable, together with the total number of awards outstanding at each reporting date, are disclosed in note 26.
In addition, the TRC conditional consideration payment (as detailed in note 15(a)) could potentially dilute earnings per share. Under the
acquisition agreement, one further potential instalment of up to £10.0m is payable to the vendors where the Run-rate EBITDA performance
target is achieved. While the achievement of the performance criteria would enhance the level of profits attributable to the equity holders of the
parent, there can be no guarantee that the higher level of profits which met the performance criteria would be sustainable.
11. Ordinary dividends
2011 2010
Declared and paid during the year £m £m
Equity dividends on Ordinary Shares:
Final dividend for 2010: 2.0p (2009: 4.0p) 10.4 19.4
Interim dividend for 2011: 1.0p (2010: 1.0p) 5.2 5.1
15.6 24.5
Proposed for approval at the Annual General Meeting
Equity dividends on Ordinary Shares:
Final dividend for 2011: 2.0p (2010: 2.0p) 10.4 10.3
The entitlement of Employee Benefit Trusts to receive dividends (on some of their holdings of F&C shares) has been waived by the Trustees.
This has resulted in the following dividends being waived:
Shares £m
2011 Dividends
2010 Final 14,436,341 0.3
2011 Interim 11,008,289 0.1
2010 Dividends
2009 Final 9,169,006 0.4
2010 Interim 17,372,505 0.2
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 65 12. Property, plant and equipment
Office
Leasehold Computer furniture and Motor
improvements equipment equipment vehicles Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 January 2010 13.2 7.6 2.3 0.9 24.0
Fair value of additions arising on acquisition of TRC 0.5 0.9 0.3 – 1.7
Additions 0.1 0.8 0.1 0.2 1.2
Disposals (0.1) (0.6) (0.1) (0.1) (0.9)
Foreign exchange losses (0.2) ––– (0.2)
At 31 December 2010 13.5 8.7 2.6 1.0 25.8
Additions 0.6 1.5 0.3 0.3 2.7
Disposals (0.8) (0.2) – (0.3) (1.3)
At 31 December 2011 13.3 10.0 2.9 1.0 27.2
Depreciation and impairment:
At 1 January 2010 6.8 6.8 1.7 0.3 15.6
Depreciation charge for the year 1.5 0.8 0.2 0.2 2.7
Disposals – (0.6) – (0.1) (0.7)
Foreign exchange gains (0.1) ––– (0.1)
At 31 December 2010 8.2 7.0 1.9 0.4 17.5
Depreciation charge for the year 1.7 1.1 0.2 0.2 3.2
Disposals (0.6) (0.1) – (0.2) (0.9)
At 31 December 2011 9.3 8.0 2.1 0.4 19.8
Net book values:
At 31 December 2009 6.4 0.8 0.6 0.6 8.4
At 31 December 2010 5.3 1.7 0.7 0.6 8.3
At 31 December 2011 4.0 2.0 0.8 0.6 7.4
There are no restrictions on the Group’s title to the above assets and none are pledged as security for liabilities, other than the security over
FCAM’s holding in F&C REIT, which was relinquished on 29 June 2010 and which effectively yielded beneficial entitlement to some of the
Group’s property, plant and equipment.
The cost of fully depreciated property, plant and equipment which is still in use at 31 December 2011 is £9.1m (31 December 2010: £8.2m).
13. Goodwill and other intangible assets
Investment
management Software
Goodwill contracts and licences Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 January 2010 595.1 685.1 4.7 1,284.9
Fair value of additions arising on acquisition of TRC — 23.0 0.5 23.5
Additions 16.8 — 0.6 17.4
Foreign exchange losses — (3.5) — (3.5)
At 31 December 2010 611.9 704.6 5.8 1,322.3
Additions —— 2.1 2.1
Foreign exchange losses — (1.1) — (1.1)
At 31 December 2011 611.9 703.5 7.9 1,323.3
Amortisation and impairment:
At 1 January 2010 — 478.4 4.1 482.5
Amortisation charge for the year — 50.7 0.7 51.4
At 31 December 2010 — 529.1 4.8 533.9
Amortisation charge for the year — 45.8 0.6 46.4
At 31 December 2011 — 574.9 5.4 580.3
Net book values:
At 31 December 2009 595.1 206.7 0.6 802.4
At 31 December 2010 611.9 175.5 1.0 788.4
At 31 December 2011 611.9 128.6 2.5 743.0
66 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 66 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 67
13. Goodwill and other intangible assets continued
Goodwill
Goodwill has arisen from various business combinations and, reflecting the Group’s reportable operating segments disclosed in note 1, is
represented by three cash generating units (CGUs), as follows:
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
F&C 467.2 467.2
F&C REIT 127.9 127.9
Thames River Capital 16.8 16.8
611.9 611.9
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually at individual CGU level, or when indicators of potential impairment are identified.
The carrying value of goodwill attributable to each CGU was tested for impairment as at 31 December 2011, as described below; to date,
none of the CGUs has suffered any impairment of goodwill.
Investment management contracts (management contracts)
Management contracts predominantly relate to contracts arising from business acquisitions.
Management contracts are amortised over their expected useful lives and are tested for impairment only when indicators of potential
impairment are identified. No such indicators have been identified since the last impairment review undertaken as at 31 December 2008
and therefore no impairment review of management contracts has been undertaken this year. Management contract impairment losses
recognised in prior years relate entirely to the F&C operating segment; the accumulated impairment losses at 31 December 2011 were
£218.3m (31 December 2010: £218.3m).
The foreign exchange losses recognised in the year arise from the relative weakening of the Euro over the course of 2011, decreasing the value
of Euro-denominated contracts, (primarily F&C insurance contracts), in Sterling terms.
The categories of management contracts, their carrying amounts at the year end, remaining amortisation periods and estimated useful lives are
as follows:
31 December 2011 31 December 2010
Remaining Estimated Remaining Estimated
Net book amortisation useful Net book amortisation useful
values period life values period life
£m (years) (years) £m (years) (years)
RSAI insurance contracts 0.3 ½ 10 1.0 1½ 10
RSAI retail contracts/F&C OEICs 4.7 ½ – 3 10 9.1 1½ – 4 10
F&C insurance contracts 41.6 3 10 58.1 4 10
F&C institutional contracts (fixed term/non-fixed term) 4.8 3/– 10/4 6.7 4/– 10/4
F&C investment trust contracts 9.7 4½ 10 11.8 5½ 10
F&C advisory and sub-advisory contracts 14.0 3 10 19.3 4 10
Private equity fund of funds 0.8 13 20 0.9 14 20
REIT property contracts 37.3 47 47.5 57
Thames River Capital contracts 15.4 34 21.1 44
128.6 175.5
Impairment testing of goodwill
The recoverable amount of the CGUs has been determined on their value in use (including terminal value) at each respective testing date for
2010 and 2011. The value in use is calculated by discounting the cash flow projections based on the latest annual financial budget, and
management’s forecasts. A long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows reflecting the nature of the Group’s business and the
Board’s current view that there is no reason to believe that the CGUs will not continue in operation in perpetuity.
The key assumptions adopted in these calculations for each operating segment are as follows:
31 December 2011 31 December 2010
F&C F&C REIT TRC F&C F&C REIT TRC
Discount rate 10.15% 10.15% 12.15% 8.60% 8.60% 10.60%
Long-term market growth rate 5.20% 4.30% 5.45% 5.30% 4.25% 5.80%
Inflation rate* 3.95% 3.95% 3.95% 4.15% 4.15% 4.15%
* The costs included in year one of the projections reflect those included in the budget for the respective year.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 67 13. Goodwill and other intangible assets continued
The discount rate is based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital to estimate a market relevant rate, calculated as at the year end,
and takes into account the relative risks associated with the Group’s various revenue streams included in the respective operating segments.
The discount rates disclosed above are the post-tax rates which have been applied in the projections; the pre-tax discount rates are 12.50%
and 14.65% for F&C/F&C REIT and TRC respectively (2010: 10.85% and 13.00% respectively). All discount rates shown subsequently within
this note are stated after tax.
Revenues are based on the budget for each operating segment, and management’s net business flow forecasts for the subsequent four years.
Thereafter, revenues have been grown in line with the Group’s long-term view of market growth, consistent with that experienced historically, in
the long-term, across the markets in which assets are invested. The different rates reflect the composite mix of assets held in each operating
segment for each period. Net new business revenues are included at the levels assumed in the 2012 budget and management’s forecasts up
to 2016 with no further net new business included thereafter. Additional costs associated with the increased revenues have been included in
the projections, primarily to reflect variable remuneration costs. Where revenues earned from significant contracts with a fixed term are
assumed to terminate at the end of the fixed term, the operating costs have been reduced by an amount which assumes associated profit
margins of 50% (2010: 70%).
Projected operating costs for the first year are driven by the budgeted profit margins for each operating segment for 2012. Thereafter, both
existing budgeted costs and, as noted above, further costs added associated with net new business revenue forecasts have been grown at
inflation rates to accord with anticipated future salary and other cost increases.
Values in use are compared to the carrying values of goodwill, attributable management contracts and other intangible assets (net of
associated deferred tax provisions), and property, plant and equipment in order to ascertain whether any impairment exists.
As this annual impairment review of goodwill indicated surpluses in all segments, no impairment has been recognised in the year in respect of
goodwill (2010: £nil).
The key assumptions noted in the above table are those to which the calculated values in use are most sensitive. These assumptions, together
with the inclusion in the projections of forecast net new business revenues and associated costs, result in the following surpluses of goodwill:
31 December 2011 31 December 2010
F&C F&C REIT TRC F&C F&C REIT TRC
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Excess of recoverable amount over carrying value 557.8 16.8 94.4 787.8 44.6 234.9
In order to assess the sensitivity of the key assumptions on the carrying values of goodwill, an analysis was conducted to ascertain the change
that would be required to derive values in use which approximated to the carrying values of goodwill, and beyond which impairment would
arise.
The absolute levels, on a standalone basis, of the key assumptions which most closely resulted in a match in the values in use to the carrying
values of goodwill were as follows:
31 December 2011 31 December 2010
F&C F&C REIT TRC F&C F&C REIT TRC
Discount rate 16.97% 11.02% 30.80% 16.19% 10.36% 39.84%
Long-term market growth rate 1.67% 3.49% (2.29)% 2.49% 2.85% (5.93)%
Inflation rate 8.39% 5.10% 11.83% 7.38% 6.74% 14.21%
Per cent. achievement of new business targets <0.00% 72.56% <0.00% <0.00% <0.00% <0.00%
68 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 68 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 69
14. Financial investments
The following assets are designated as available for sale:
2011 2010
Unquoted investments £m £m
At 1 January 3.5 2.2
Fair value movement in the year 1.5 1.3
Fair value gains transferred to the Income Statement (3.3) –
At 31 December 1.7 3.5
Unquoted investments include the Group’s direct investment, co-investments and carried interest entitlement in private equity limited
partnerships. The investments have no fixed maturity date or coupon rate.
The fair value of the unquoted investments has been estimated using International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
The Directors believe that the estimated fair values resulting from the valuation technique applied to unquoted shares which are recorded in the
Statement of Financial Position, and the related realised fair value gains recorded in the Income Statement, are reasonable and the most
appropriate at the reporting date.
Included within the unquoted financial investments at 31 December 2011 are £0.1m (31 December 2010: £0.1m) of equity instruments
measured at the price of recent investments. The fair value of these investments cannot be measured reliably as the Group does not have
access to the underlying information to produce fair value valuations for these investments. These investments consist of loans and carried
interest in private equity limited partnerships. These investments are managed by external fund managers and the Group obtains income when
the investments are realised. The Group intends to hold these investments until all the private equity investments are realised. In 2011, the
Group received £0.4m (2010: £nil) in respect of the investments held at cost.
15. Acquisition of subsidiaries
The acquisition of Thames River Capital Group was made on 1 September 2010. Section (a) discloses the 2010 acquisition note andsection
(b) discloses the 2011 updates for changes in consideration.
(a) 2010 – Acquisition of Thames River Capital Group
F&C Asset Management plc (FCAM) acquired and gained control of the Thames River Capital Group (TRC or the TRC Group) on 1 September
2010 (‘Completion’ date). TRC is a London-based asset management business that provides specialist products and services to wholesale
and wealth management clients. TRC manages a range of specialist high alpha and absolute return products.
The acquisition of TRC represented an attractive opportunity to broaden F&C’s specialist investment management capabilities in multiple
product areas, augment its sales and marketing skills and expand its distribution footprint, thereby accelerating the achievement of F&C’s
strategic objectives.
The TRC Group operates its business through two limited liability partnerships (LLPs), Thames River Capital LLP and Thames River Multi-
Capital LLP . Between them they had seven Investment Teams at 1 September 2010.
FCAM acquired 100% ownership of Thames River Capital Group Limited which, in turn, owned, directly or indirectly, 100% of the following
entities at the date of acquisition:
Thames River Capital Holdings Limited
Thames River Capital UK Limited (TRC UK)
TRC UK’s interest in Thames River Capital LLP
TRC UK’s interest in Thames River Multi-Capital LLP
Thames River Capital GmbH
As a result of the acquisition, F&C indirectly acquired TRC UK’s economic and membership interests in the LLPs.
The consideration payable by FCAM for the acquisition will be up to £53.6m (excluding the adjustment in respect of the consolidated net
assets target) comprised as follows:
(i) The initial consideration:
• £33.6m was paid in cash at Completion; and
• The consideration paid at Completion will be subject to an adjustment if the consolidated net asset value of the TRC Group at the
Completion date exceeds or falls short of an agreed target amount of £9.0m.
(ii) The conditional consideration payment:
• Up to a further £20.0m of conditional consideration is payable, in two instalments, shortly after 31 December 2011 and 30 June 2012,
and is contingent on the TRC Group achieving certain financial targets at each of these dates;
• The first instalment is a variable amount dependent on the Run-rate Earnings Before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation
(Run-rate EBITDA) on an annualised basis as at 31 December 2011. This instalment becomes payable if the December 2011 Run-rate
EBITDA exceeds £12.5m and the amount payable increases on a straight-line basis from zero to a maximum of £10.0m, which is
payable if the December 2011 Run-rate EBITDA equals or exceeds £15.0m;
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 69 15. Acquisition of subsidiaries continued
• The second instalment varies according to the Run-rate EBITDA on an annualised basis as at 30 June 2012. This instalment becomes
payable if the June 2012 Run-rate EBITDA exceeds £15.0m and the amount payable increases on a straight-line basis from zero to a
maximum of £10.0m, which is payable if the June 2012 Run-rate EBITDA equals or exceeds £17.0m; and
• The conditional consideration payment, if payable, will be satisfied by the issue of a variable number of Ordinary Shares or, in certain
limited circumstances, the issue of bank guaranteed loan notes by F&C.
F&C funded the cash consideration for the acquisition through a combination of the £14.2m net proceeds of a non-pre-emptive cash placing
of F&C Ordinary Shares carried out on 28 April 2010, a £15m acquisition loan facility and existing cash resources.
In addition, as a condition of the acquisition, two new share-based payment agreements were established to retain and incentivise TRC Group
employees: TRC Management Retention Plan and the TRC Management Incentive Plan. Details of these schemes are disclosed in notes 26(e)
and (f).
The fair value of consideration paid by the Group for its 100% holding in Thames River Capital Group Limited was as follows:
£m
Initial consideration – cash 33.6
Estimated additional cash consideration payable as a result of TRC net assets exceeding target net assets 7.5
Estimated fair value of first instalment of conditional consideration 5.0
Estimated fair value of second instalment of conditional consideration 2.5
Fair value of consideration paid for 100% of TRC Group 48.6
FCAM also incurred £7.5m of acquisition expenses relating to the legal, accounting and other professional advisor fees associated with the
transaction (£7.2m of these have been capitalised in the Company Financial Statements, as shown in note 4 on page 131). These expenses
are treated as exceptional costs, as explained in note 6(a)(viii).
The provisional fair values of assets and liabilities acquired at Completion were as follows:
Provisional
fair value to
the Group at
acquisition,
Accounting as at
Book policy Acquired Fair value 31 December
value alignment intangibles adjustments 2010
£m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets:
Property, plant and equipment 1.7 ––– 1.7
Intangible assets:
– management contracts –– 23.0 – 23.0
– software and licences 0.5 ––– 0.5
Deferred acquisition costs – 0.1 –– 0.1
Deferred tax assets 0.6 0.1 – 0.1 0.8
Current assets:
Financial investments 1.1 –– 0.8 1.9
Deferred acquisition costs – 0.1 –– 0.1
Trade and other receivables* 13.3 ––– 13.3
Cash and cash equivalents 27.2 ––– 27.2
Non-current liabilities:
Provisions (0.1) –– (0.1) (0.2)
Employee benefits (1.1) ––– (1.1)
Deferred income – (0.4) –– (0.4)
Deferred tax liabilities –– (6.4) – (6.4)
Current liabilities:
Trade and other payables (17.6) (0.1) –– (17.7)
Employee benefits (6.3) —– 0.3 (6.0)
Deferred income – (0.3) –– (0.3)
Members’ liabilities (3.4) ––– (3.4)
Current tax payable (1.0) –– (0.3) (1.3)
Estimated net assets acquired 14.9 (0.5) 16.6 0.8 31.8
Goodwill 16.8
Total consideration 48.6
* The gross contractual amounts receivable at Completion are £13.3m, which is also the estimate of contractual cash flows expected to be collected.
70 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 70 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 71
15. Acquisition of subsidiaries continued
The following adjustments were made to the book values of the assets and liabilities acquired:
• The key accounting policy alignment adjustments relate to the recognition of deferred income and deferred acquisition costs, together with
associated tax adjustments, in accordance with IFRS requirements adopted by the F&C Group;
• An intangible asset of £23.0m, together with an associated deferred tax liability of £6.4m, has been recognised on acquisition, being the
fair value of the management contracts acquired with TRC. Further details of intangible assets are given in note 13; and
• Fair value adjustments include:
– the recognition of an investment of £0.8m, being the fair value of F&C Ordinary Shares acquired with TRC, which relate to employee
benefit arrangements. On consolidation, this investment has been transferred to equity as the shares are required to be accounted for
as ‘own shares’;
– a reduction of £0.3m to the initial estimate of employee benefits included in the Completion Accounts; and
– the tax effect of pre-tax adjustments.
The adjustments noted above reflect the Directors’ best estimate of the necessary fair value adjustments to the net assets of the acquired
entities as at 31 December 2010.
As at 31 December 2010, the fair values of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are considered by the Directors to be
provisional. Any subsequent amendments to the fair values will be made after the TRC Completion Accounts review process has been
completed.
No provisions for reorganisation or restructuring costs were included in the liabilities of the acquired entities. The net revenues and loss before
tax attributable to the TRC Group for the four-month period between the date of acquisition and 31 December 2010 were £14.6m and £3.7m
respectively. On an underlying basis excluding the Commutation expense and the costs associated with the TRC Management Retention and
Incentive Plans, the pre-tax result was a profit of £2.8m.
As a pre-condition of the acquisition agreements, a group restructuring involving the entities being acquired by the F&C Group was completed
in advance of the acquisition. This restructuring was required as the Group was not acquiring Nevsky Holdings Limited or TRC UK’s interest in
Nevsky Capital LLP , as outlined in the Circular issued to shareholders in respect of this transaction. As a result, the pre-acquisition results of
the acquired entities would have differed materially from the post-acquisition results of TRC entities included within the F&C Group results.
Therefore, it is not considered possible to determine what the F&C Group results would have been had the acquisition completed on 1 January
2010.
The value of goodwill arising on acquisition includes the value of the investment management teams acquired and the value of future business
flows that the distribution capability of TRC is expected to generate. No tax deduction is expected to be available in respect of the goodwill
arising on acquisition.
Commutation arrangements
The Divisional Members of Investment Teams have entered into put and call options which, if exercised, will transfer value to F&C by way of
variation of the entitlements to the allocation of management fee profits (as defined in the underlying legal agreements) and capital profits in the
respective LLP . The exercise of these options will increase TRC UK’s share of the management fee profits of the respective Investment Teams
by up to 20%.
These options are exercisable:
• 18 months after Completion:
At the option of the Investment Teams, TRC UK will purchase an additional 10% of the management fee profits of each Investment Team.
The option for Investment Teams to exercise this put option is conditional on that team’s respective net fund flows being positive for the
twelve months preceding the option exercise period.
• 36 months after Completion:
FCAM has a call option to purchase, through TRC UK, an additional 20% of the management fee profits of each of the Investment Teams.
The level of 20% is reduced by the percentage of any profits which have already been commuted at an earlier date.
The 18/36 months options to acquire such management fee profits may be deferred for a period of twelve months if the F&C EBITDA Multiple,
which is one of the components used to quantify the Commutation consideration, is less than five.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 71 15. Acquisition of subsidiaries continued
The Commutation consideration may be satisfied in two tranches, at F&C’s sole discretion, by:
•The allotment and issue at the relevant Commutation completion date to each Divisional Member of such number of F&C Shares as shall
have a value equal to 50% of the consideration, or the payment to the Divisional Members of 50% of the consideration in cash at the
relevant Commutation completion date; and
•The allotment and issue at the relevant Commutation completion date to a Nominee of such number of F&C Shares as shall have a value
equal to 50% of the consideration (Deferred Commutation Shares), or in certain circumstances the payment of 50% of the consideration in
cash on the date falling 24 months after the relevant Commutation completion date. Deferred Commutation Shares shall be released by
the Nominee 24 months after the Commutation completion date, provided the Member continues to provide services to the respective
LLP or has ceased to do so in certain “good leaver” circumstances.
At Completion, two Divisions entered into an initial 10% Commutation, resulting in TRC UK obtaining a further 10% of the related management
fee profits in those Investment Teams. The aggregate consideration payable in respect of this initial Commutation of profits was satisfied by: a
cash payment of £1.4m; the issue of 3,042,999 Ordinary Shares and the issue of 3,042,997 Deferred Commutation Shares. The aggregate fair
value of the Ordinary Share capital and share premium arising on the issue of these Shares was £3.8m. The corresponding charge in respect
of these has been recognised in the own share reserve, a separate component of retained earnings, in accordance with the treatment of new
shares issued to satisfy share-based payment arrangements.
Under IFRS the share element of these Commutation arrangements requires to be accounted for as a share-based payment. Further details
are given in note 26(g). The cash payment has been expensed and is included within the Commutation expenses outlined in note 6(a)(ii).
(b) 2011 – Acquisition of Thames River Capital Group (update)
The fair value of consideration paid by the Group as disclosed in 2010 has been revised as follows:
(i) The additional cash consideration paid as a result of TRC net assets exceeding target net assets was £7.4m, compared to £7.5m as
estimated in the 2010 Financial Statements. Accordingly, £0.1m has been released to the Income Statement.
(ii) The fair values of both the first and second instalments of conditional consideration have been assessed as zero, as the Run-rate EBITDA
target at 31 December 2011 was not achieved and the 30 June 2012 target is not expected to be achieved. Therefore, the total
conditional consideration of £7.5m has been released to the Income Statement.
In accordance with IFRS, the release of both elements of consideration have been shown as exceptional income (as disclosed in note 6(c))
in the Income Statement.
The fair values of assets and liabilities acquired at Completion have remained unchanged from those disclosed in 2010.
(c) Acquisition of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited
Following the review of the Completion Accounts and subsequent fair value adjustments to the purchase consideration for the acquisition
of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited on 11 October 2004, there is an estimated further consideration of £0.7m payable to Achmea B.V. (formerly
Eureko B.V.) at 31 December 2011 (31 December 2010: £0.7m).
16. Deferred acquisition costs
2011 2010
£m £m
At 1 January 8.8 9.0
Fair value of additions arising on acquisition of TRC – 0.2
Costs deferred in the year 1.1 2.4
Amortisation in the year (2.8) (2.8)
At 31 December 7.1 8.8
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Split as follows:
Non-current assets 4.7 6.0
Current assets 2.4 2.8
7.1 8.8
Deferred acquisition costs represent the commission paid to gain new asset inflows into open-ended funds. These costs are amortised over
the expected terms of the contracts, in line with the initial fees received from investors, as disclosed in note 27.
72 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 72 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 73
17.Deferred tax assets and liabilities
(a) Recognised deferred assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
31 December 2011 31 December 2010
Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Employee benefits* 6.9 – 6.9 8.3 – 8.3
Share-based payments 11.1 – 11.1 12.8 – 12.8
Unused tax losses 5.5 – 5.5 4.2 – 4.2
Property, plant and equipment 2.7 – 2.7 2.9 – 2.9
Receivables, payables and provisions 2.1 – 2.1 2.7 – 2.7
Intangible assets – management contracts – (32.1) (32.1) – (47.3) (47.3)
Unrealised fair value gains on available for sale assets – (0.3) (0.3) – (0.8) (0.8)
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 28.3 (32.4) (4.1) 30.9 (48.1) (17.2)
* Includes £5.1m (31 December 2010: £7.3m) relating to deferred tax on defined benefit pension deficit.
Based on Board-approved budgets and forecasts, the Directors believe that it is appropriate to recognise deferred tax assets at the reporting
date because it is considered probable that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying temporary differences can be
deducted.
(b) Movement in temporary differences during the year
1 January Recognised Recognised Revaluation Acquired 31 December
2011 in income in equity in year in year 2011
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Employee benefits 8.3 (0.4) (0.9) (0.1) – 6.9
Share-based payments 12.8 (1.7) ––– 11.1
Unused tax losses 4.2 1.3 ––– 5.5
Property, plant and equipment 2.9 (0.2) ––– 2.7
Receivables, payables and provisions 2.7 (0.5) (0.1) –– 2.1
Intangible assets – management contracts (47.3) 14.9 – 0.3 – (32.1)
Unrealised fair value gains on available for sale assets (0.8) – 0.5 –– (0.3)
(17.2) 13.4 (0.5) 0.2 – (4.1)
1 January Recognised Recognised Revaluation Acquired 31 December
2010 in income in equity in year in year 2010
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Employee benefits 15.3 (4.2) (3.2) (0.1) 0.5 8.3
Share-based payments 12.4 0.4 ––– 12.8
Unused tax losses 0.6 3.6 ––– 4.2
Property, plant and equipment 2.6 0.1 –– 0.2 2.9
Receivables, payables & provisions 3.4 (0.8) –– 0.1 2.7
Intangible assets – management contracts (57.7) 15.8 – 1.0 (6.4) (47.3)
Unrealised fair value gains on available for sale assets (0.6) – (0.3) 0.1 – (0.8)
(24.0) 14.9 (3.5) 1.0 (5.6) (17.2)
(c) Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
At 31 December 2011 the Group has unrecognised tax losses of £0.3m (31 December 2010: £0.3m) that are available indefinitely for offset
against future taxable profits of the companies in which the losses arose. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these
losses as they cannot be used to offset taxable profits elsewhere in the Group, and they have arisen in companies that have not reported
taxable profits for some time.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 73 18. Financial instruments
(a) Analysis of assets and liabilities at the reporting date
Financial investments held in relation to the activities of the Group’s insurance subsidiary have been classified as fair value through profit or loss
within current assets.
Stocks of units and shares are held in relation to fund management activities and are classified as held for trading within current assets.
Financial investments included within non-current assets are classified as available for sale and are carried at fair value (or at amortised cost if
fair value cannot be measured reliably). Other loans and receivables included within non-current assets are carried at amortised cost.
(i) Designated as fair value through profit or loss
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
Notes £m £m
Financial investments in respect of unit-linked contracts (1) 447.8 538.8
Other financial investments (2) 6.6 9.9
454.4 548.7
(1) Financial investments in respect of unit-linked contracts
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Equity securities:
Listed 116.0 232.4
OEICs and unit trusts 124.7 106.9
Total equity securities 240.7 339.3
Debt and fixed income securities:
Government bonds 46.8 59.2
Other listed fixed interest securities 80.4 87.2
Index-linked gilts 69.7 42.8
Participation in pooled investments 10.2 10.3
Total debt and fixed income securities 207.1 199.5
Total unit-linked financial investments designated as fair value through profit or loss 447.8 538.8
Financial instruments relating to unit-linked contracts
The Group’s insurance subsidiary, F&C Managed Pension Funds Limited, provides unit-linked pension wrappers. From F&C’s perspective, the
risks and rewards of managing these assets are the same as other assets under management, as the financial risks and rewards attributable to
the assets invested fall to be borne by, or to the benefit of, the Group’s clients. Hence, while a number of significant financial instruments are
recognised in the Statement of Financial Position in respect of this subsidiary, the key risk to the Group is the impact on the level of
management fees which are earned from this entity and which are directly affected by the underlying value of policyholder assets. While F&C
Managed Pension Funds Limited has some insurance risks, these risks are fully reinsured, thereby negating any net insurance risk to the
Group’s equity holders.
The amounts included in the Statement of Financial Position in respect of assets and liabilities held within unit-linked funds are as follows:
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments 447.8 538.8
Loans and receivables:
Deferred acquisition costs 0.1 0.1
Trade and other receivables 0.1 0.1
Payables:
Trade and other payables (0.3) –
Cash and cash equivalents* 25.1 20.2
Total unit-linked assets less liabilities 472.8 559.2
* This does not include £3.0m of non-linked policyholders’ cash (31 December 2010: £3.2m).
These unit-linked assets are matched by the associated investment contract liabilities disclosed in note 29.
74 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 74 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 75
18. Financial instruments continued
(2) Other financial investments
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
Note £m £m
Purchased Equity Plan 26(h)(ii) 1.5 4.0
NIC hedge 2.4 2.6
Bonus – investments 1.0 1.8
TRC Employee Benefit Trust assets 1.1 1.2
Mutual funds 0.3 –
Corporate bonds 0.3 0.3
6.6 9.9
The ‘Purchased Equity Plan’ represents investments held by an Employee Benefit Trust in F&C funds for the purpose of future settlement of
Purchased Equity Plan awards. A corresponding liability is recognised over the vesting period.
The ‘NIC hedge’ represents an investment in equities and other assets made via an Employee Benefit Trust for the purpose of funding future
national insurance contributions (NIC) payments on legacy employee share plans. The provision for the NIC liability is separately recognised.
‘Bonus – investments’ represent investments in managed funds for the purpose of future settlement of bonus awards. The liability for these
bonuses is separately recognised.
‘TRC Employee Benefit Trust assets’ represents investments held by an Employee Benefit Trust in TRC funds for the purpose of future
settlement of TRC bonus awards. A corresponding liability is recognised in employee benefit liabilities.
‘Mutual funds’ represents investments in mainly fixed interest funds.
‘Corporate bonds’ represents an investment in corporate bonds held by F&C Managed Pension Funds Limited. The corporate bonds have the
following maturity dates:
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Maturity date
2014 0.3 0.3
(ii) Designated as held for trading
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Stock of units and shares 0.9 0.1
The Group holds a stock of units and shares in respect of its OEIC and unit trust business. This stock of units and shares is commonly referred
to as the ‘Manager’s Box’. The Group’s stock of units and shares is valued using quoted market values. The Group is therefore exposed to
market value movements in the value of these assets.
(iii) Designated as loans and receivables
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 225.0 202.2
Trade and other receivables:
Trade debtors 13.3 21.5
Accrued income 29.0 38.9
Other debtors 4.8 10.8
OEIC and unit-trust debtors 29.5 81.2
Amounts owed by Achmea Group* – 1.4
Amounts owed by TRC related party entities 0.6 0.7
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities 0.1 0.1
302.3 356.8
* As the Achmea Group ceased to be a related party during 2011, these balances are now included within other debtors at 31 December 2011.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 75 18. Financial instruments continued
(b) Fair values
(i) Fair value hierarchy
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by category of valuation technique:
Level 1: Quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
As at 31 December 2011, the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value:
31 December
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2011
Assets measured at fair value £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments in respect of unit-linked contracts 396.2 51.2 0.4 447.8
Other financial investments 1.8 4.6 0.2 6.6
Classified as held for trading:
Stock of units and shares 0.9 –– 0.9
Available for sale financial assets:
Unquoted investments –– 1.7 1.7
398.9 55.8 2.3 457.0
31 December
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2011
Liabilities measured at fair value £m £m £m £m
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
F&C REIT put options –– (45.3) (45.3)
Investment contract liabilities – (472.8) – (472.8)
– (472.8) (45.3) (518.1)
31 December
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2010
Assets measured at fair value £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments in respect of unit-linked contracts 491.4 46.0 1.4 538.8
Other financial investments 4.6 5.1 0.2 9.9
Classified as held for trading:
Stock of units and shares 0.1 –– 0.1
Available for sale financial assets:
Unquoted investments –– 3.5 3.5
496.1 51.1 5.1 552.3
31 December
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2010
Liabilities measured at fair value £m £m £m £m
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
F&C REIT put options –– (54.0) (54.0)
Investment contract liabilities – (559.2) – (559.2)
– (559.2) (54.0) (613.2)
76 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 76 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 77
18. Financial instruments continued
Level 3 assets/(liabilities) measured at fair value
Available
for sale Financial
Financial assets financial liabilities
at FVTPL assets at FVTPL
Financial
investments
in respect Other
of unit-linked financial Unquoted F&C REIT
contracts investments investments put options Total
Fair value movements £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010 3.5 0.2 2.2 (60.4) (54.5)
Total gains or losses:
In profit or loss 0.4 –– 6.4 6.8
In other comprehensive income –– 1.3 – 1.3
Purchases 1.4 ––– 1.4
Settlements (0.7) ––– (0.7)
Transfers out of level 3* (3.2) ––– (3.2)
At 31 December 2010 1.4 0.2 3.5 (54.0) (48.9)
Total gains or losses:
In profit or loss (0.2) – (3.3) 8.7 5.2
In other comprehensive income –– 1.5 – 1.5
Settlements (0.6) ––– (0.6)
Transfers out of level 3* (0.2) ––– (0.2)
At 31 December 2011 0.4 0.2 1.7 (45.3) (43.0)
* Transfers out of level 3 resulted from investments receiving an active market price during the year.
Total gains or losses included in the Income Statement for the year:
2011
Net gains and investment income on unit-linked assets (0.2) ––– (0.2)
Finance revenue –– 3.3 – 3.3
F&C REIT put option fair value gain ––– 8.7 8.7
(0.2) – 3.3 8.7 11.8
2010
Net losses and investment income on unit-linked assets 0.4 ––– 0.4
F&C REIT put option fair value gain ––– 6.4 6.4
0.4 –– 6.4 6.8
The gains or losses included in profit or loss for the year were all in respect of assets or liabilities held at the reporting date.
Sensitivities for level 3
While the Group believes that its estimates of fair value are appropriate, the use of different assumptions could lead to different measurements
of fair value. Potential changes in the assumptions used in the valuation of level 3 financial assets are not considered to have a material impact
on the Income Statement. In respect of level 3 financial liabilities changing one or more of the unobservable inputs to reasonably possible
alternative assumptions would have the following effects:
Effect on other
Effect on profit or loss comprehensive income
Favourable (Unfavourable) Favourable (Unfavourable)
At 31 December 2011 £m £m £m £m
Available for sale financial assets: Unquoted investments –– 0.2 (0.2)
Financial liabilities at FVTPL: F&C REIT put options 4.7 (3.4) ––
At 31 December 2010
Available for sale financial assets: Unquoted investments –– 0.3 (0.3)
Financial liabilities at FVTPL: F&C REIT put options 5.0 (4.6) ––
The F&C REIT put option sensitivities were derived from reasonable changes to the assumptions, as disclosed in note 28, on the following
unobservable inputs:
• Recurring discount rates +/– 1%
• Weightings of 2011 results +/– 10%
• Recurring EBITDA multiple +/– 1x
• Flexing the relative weightings of the 3 valuation methodologies +/– 10%
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 77 18. Financial instruments continued
(ii) Fair value comparisons
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments.
Carrying amount Fair value
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2011 2010 2011 2010
Financial assets £m £m £m £m
Financial investments: available for sale 1.7 3.5 1.7 3.5
Financial investments: fair value through profit or loss 454.4 548.7 454.4 548.7
Held for trading: stock of units and shares 0.9 0.1 0.9 0.1
Financial liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings:
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 (124.4) (124.4) (80.5) (92.0)
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 (149.4) (149.3) (154.0) (154.0)
Other financial liabilities:
F&C REIT put options (45.3) (54.0) (45.3) (54.0)
Investment contract liabilities (472.8) (559.2) (472.8) (559.2)
The fair values of short-term ‘trade and other receivables’, ‘cash and cash equivalents’ and ‘trade and other payables’ have been excluded
from the above table as their carrying amounts are a reasonable approximation of their fair value.
The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table:
Securities
The fair value of listed investments is based on quoted bid market prices at the reporting date without any deduction for transaction costs. The
fair value of unlisted investments has been valued in accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines and
in accordance with the underlying limited partnership agreements.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
The fair value of the Subordinated Notes and Guaranteed Loan Notes is based on a quoted market price at the reporting date.
Unquoted investments
Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated future cash flows are based on management’s best estimates and the discount
rate is a market-related rate for a similar instrument at the reporting date. Where other pricing models are used, inputs are based on
market-related data at the reporting date.
Put options
The fair value is based on an external valuation of the business, as detailed in note 28.
19. Reinsurance assets
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Reinsurers’ share of insurance contract liabilities 2.0 2.0
Total reinsurance assets – current assets 2.0 2.0
78 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 78 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 79
20. Trade and other receivables
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Non-current:
Other debtors 1.0 0.4
Prepayments 0.1 0.1
Amounts owed by Achmea Group* – 1.4
Accrued income – 0.1
1.1 2.0
Current:
Trade debtors 13.3 21.5
Accrued income 29.0 38.8
OEIC and unit trust debtors 29.5 81.2
Other debtors 3.8 10.4
Prepayments 7.6 8.7
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities 0.1 0.1
Amounts owed by TRC related party entities 0.6 0.7
VAT recoverable – 1.2
83.9 162.6
* As the Achmea Group ceased to be a related party during 2011, these balances are now included within other debtors at 31 December 2011.
Trade debtors are non-interest bearing and are generally receivable within 30 days.
21. Cash and cash equivalents
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Shareholders:
Cash at bank and in hand 30.4 29.7
Short-term deposits 166.5 149.1
196.9 178.8
Policyholders:
Cash at bank and in hand 3.2 5.2
Short-term deposits 24.9 18.2
28.1 23.4
Total cash and cash equivalents 225.0 202.2
Cash and cash equivalents are held by the Group for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments rather than for investment or other
purposes. All short-term deposits are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are not subject to significant risk of changes in value.
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are generally made for varying periods of
between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-
term deposit rates. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2011 is £225.0m (31 December 2010: £202.2m).
Restrictions on use of cash
The policyholders’ cash is not available for general use by the Group. These funds are held on behalf of policyholders of unit-linked insurance
contracts which are included in the Statement of Financial Position.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 79 22. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
The contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings are as follows:
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 124.4 124.4
Interest rate of 6.75% per annum until 19 December 2016, payable annually in arrears. Issuer has
the option to extend the notes beyond this date at a rate of 2.69% above three-month LIBOR until
19 December 2026, payable quarterly in arrears.
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 149.4 149.3
Interest rate of 9.0% per annum until 19 December 2016, payable annually in arrears.
273.8 273.7
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
Repayment periods £m £m
Amounts repayable:
In one year or less, or on demand – –
In more than one year but not more than two years – –
In more than two years but not more than five years* 273.8 –
In more than five years – 273.7
273.8 273.7
* Assumes Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes are not extended beyond 2016.
Additional information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate risk is provided in note 37.
Borrowing facilities
The Group has borrowing facilities available to it. The undrawn committed facilities available at the year end are as follows:
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Expiring in one year or less:
Revolving credit facility 20.0 20.0
Bank overdraft facilities 2.0 2.0
22.0 22.0
Prior to the acquisition of TRC in 2010, the Group entered into a facilities agreement with HSBC to provide two lines of credit:
• a £15.0m bridging facility for the acquisition of TRC; and
• a £20.0m revolving credit facility available for general corporate and working capital purposes.
The £15.0m facility was utilised to partially fund the initial cash consideration for the purchase of TRC and was repaid shortly thereafter
following the issue of a further £20.0m of the existing 9% Guaranteed Fixed Rate Notes in September 2010.
The revolving credit facility expired on 29 February 2012 and had not been utilised.
80 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 80 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 81
23. Trade and other payables
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Non-current:
Accruals 2.9 2.0
Other creditors* 4.0 10.1
6.9 12.1
Current:
Trade creditors
†
3.7 5.2
Amounts owed to Achmea Group
$
– 2.0
VAT payable 0.9 –
Accruals 18.0 25.1
OEIC and unit trust creditors 27.8 80.1
Other creditors* 21.3 25.8
Amounts owed to F&C REIT related party entities – 0.3
71.7 138.5
* At 31 December 2010, other creditors includes £7.5m current and £7.5m non-current of estimated consideration payable in respect of the TRC acquisition.
†
Trade creditors are non-interest bearing and are settled in accordance with the individual contractual arrangements.
$
As the Achmea Group ceased to be a related party during 2011, the balances are now included within other creditors at 31 December 2011.
24. Provisions
Long-
Onerous NIC on Long- term F&C
premises share term Guaranteed service Partners
contracts schemes sickness product award litigation Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010 8.4 5.6 2.0 0.5 0.1 2.4 19.0
Fair value of provisions
on acquisition of TRC – 0.2 –––– 0.2
Provided during the year 0.3 2.1 –––– 2.4
Utilised during the year (1.7) (1.3) (0.2) ––– (3.2)
Released during the year (0.4) – (0.8) (0.1) –– (1.3)
At 31 December 2010 6.6 6.6 1.0 0.4 0.1 2.4 17.1
Provided during the year 1.3 0.9 0.2 – 0.1 9.1 11.6
Utilised during the year (1.8) (1.3) (0.2) –– (9.5) (12.8)
Released during the year – (0.1) –––– (0.1)
At 31 December 2011 6.1 6.1 1.0 0.4 0.2 2.0 15.8
At 31 December 2011
Non-current liabilities 4.1 1.9 0.8 0.3 0.2 – 7.3
Current liabilities 2.0 4.2 0.2 0.1 – 2.0 8.5
At 31 December 2010
Non-current liabilities 4.9 2.0 0.8 0.3 0.1 – 8.1
Current liabilities 1.7 4.6 0.2 0.1 – 2.4 9.0
Onerous premises contracts
The Group holds all properties under operating leases. This includes a number of vacant or sub-let properties which were either previously
occupied or are partially occupied by the Group. Provision has been made for the residual lease commitments where significant, after taking
into account existing and expected sub-tenant contractual arrangements. The remaining terms are for up to nine years, although a significant
element of this provision relates to lease incentive arrangements and is expected to be utilised within two years.
Assumptions have been made as to whether each leasehold property may be sub-let or assigned in the future. All leases, and the majority of
sub-leases, are for minimum guaranteed rentals. One sub-lease involves the possible receipt of contingent rent. Any contingent rent received in
excess of the anticipated amount is recognised as income during the period. The provision is subject to uncertainties over time, including
market rent reviews and break options within the lease arrangements. In addition, exposure could exist if an existing tenant defaulted or went
into liquidation or administration.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 81 24. Provisions continued
NIC on share schemes
The provision for national insurance contributions (NIC) on share schemes represents the potential employer’s NIC liabilities in respect of a
number of share-based payment schemes operated by the Group. The provision is subject to uncertainties in respect of the extent to which
performance conditions are met, movements in the Company’s share price, the extent to which awards are forfeited and, where eligible, the
timing of when employees choose to exercise options. The current element of the provision for NIC on share schemes relates to awards which
are expected to vest within one year. At 31 December 2011, £2.4m (31 December 2010: £2.6m) of financial investments were held by the
Group to partially fund the NIC liability on the Deferred Investment Plan and Deferred Investment Option Plan. This is disclosed in
note 18(a)(i)(2).
Long-term sickness
The Group has long-term sickness insurance arrangements which cover the cost of absence from work of all current employees. However, the
cost of employees who went on long-term absence prior to these arrangements being established are self-insured by the Group. The provision
represents the expected present value of income protection payments due to these individuals.
This provision has been quantified on the assumption that all employees currently on long-term sick leave do not return to the employment of
the Group. The discount rate and salary growth assumptions used in each year are identical to those used for the purposes of determining UK
defined benefit pension obligations.
Guaranteed product
The provision for the guaranteed product represents the actuarially assessed cost of meeting potential obligations under certain investment
products which have a guaranteed payout in the event of death of the investor. This provision is subject to uncertainties in respect of
movements in market levels and the mortality rates of investors. The underlying investment plan was closed to new investors during 2004.
Long-term service award
This provision represents the obligation in respect of long-term service benefits to which some employees are entitled, including incremental
holiday entitlement and long-term service awards.
F&C Partners litigation
On 14 July 2011 a judgment was handed down by the High Court in respect of litigation between the Group and the two individual founder
members of F&C Partners LLP (Partners), the Group’s fund of hedge funds business which is now in run-off. As disclosed in the Group’s last
two Annual Reports and Financial Statements, the Group had sought a declaration as to the validity of the exercise of put options by the
individual founder members to sell their non-controlling interest in Partners to the Group for a sum of approximately £7.8m. The individual
founder members had sought an order that the Group buy out their interest, either at the put option price or at a price determined by the Court
under section 996 of the Companies Act 2006 on the grounds that the affairs of Partners had been conducted in a manner which was unfairly
prejudicial to the individual founder members’ interests.
The Court held that the put options were validly exercised by the individual founder members and that their interests were unfairly prejudiced
with the result that the Group was required to buy out the relevant interests which it did, on 7 October 2011, for just over £7.8m.
On 28 October 2011, the Court handed down a judgment in respect of the costs and interest of the litigation and ordered that F&C pay to the
founder members sums by way of interest and 70% of the founder members’ legal costs. The amount of costs (and consequently interest)
payable under the terms of the judgment is to be determined by the Court in due course, but the Board has been advised that it is likely to be
in the region of £5m.
F&C has, however, applied to the Court of Appeal for permission to appeal the terms of the costs awarded and the Board has been advised by
leading counsel that it is likely to be successful on that appeal. In that case, it is estimated that the total costs and interest payable to the
founder members would be in the region of £3m.
In order to protect its position pending the appeal, F&C has made payments totalling some £2.7m to the founder members in respect of costs
and interest, and has also recognised a withholding tax cost of £0.3m attributable to the interest paid.
As a result of the judgments outlined above, the payments already made and the tax cost recognised, the Directors have re-assessed their
estimate of the provision held in respect of this matter, resulting in a total provision of £2.0m as at 31 December 2011 in respect of further
amounts of interest and costs which could be payable.
82 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 82 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 83
24. Provisions continued
The following table analyses the payments and the associated movements in provisions:
Amounts
Amounts recognised
recognised in Statement
in Income of Changes
Statement in Equity Provision
Note £m £m £m
Opening provision at 1 January 2011 –– 2.4
Increase in provision during the year 7.6 1.5 9.1
Transfer of put option cost to equity and payment to founder members (7.8) 7.8 (7.8)
Interest paid to founder members –– (1.7)
Legal costs paid to founder members – 1.4 –
F&C legal costs incurred 2.1 ––
F&C Partners litigation expense recognised in Income Statement 6(a)(v) 1.9
Consideration for NCI recognised in Statement of Changes in Equity 10.7
Closing provision at 31 December 2011 2.0
The amounts recognised in the Statement of Changes in Equity represents the fair value of the consideration paid for the acquisition of the
40% non-controlling interest in F&C Partners LLP , which was acquired pursuant to the valid exercise of the Put Option, as outlined above. At
31 December 2011, £1.5m of this consideration (31 December 2010: £nil) is included within provisions and £0.4m
(31 December 2010: £nil) has been recognised in other creditors.
25. Pension benefits
The Group operates defined benefit schemes in the United Kingdom, The Netherlands, the Republic of Ireland and participates in one in
Portugal. The UK scheme is closed to new entrants. All new UK employees are eligible to benefit from defined contribution arrangements,
which provide greater certainty over the future cost to the Group.
A former Chairman of the Group, Mr R W Jenkins, has a pension entitlement of £119,000 per annum, which commenced in January 2011.
This pension will be indexed in line with the Retail Price Index on 1 January in each subsequent year. The Group has not earmarked any assets
to date with respect to this liability.
The net pension deficit is recognised under non-current liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position and is stated gross of the related
deferred tax asset.
The results of the latest full actuarial valuations were updated at 31 December 2011 by qualified independent actuaries.
The pension deficits of the Group are summarised in aggregate and by scheme as follows:
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
Aggregate Note £m £m
Fair value of plan assets 25(d) 215.9 190.4
Benefit obligations 25(d) (236.4) (218.0)
Total pension deficit 25(d) (20.5) (27.6)
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
By scheme £m £m
F&C Asset Management Pension Plan (FCAM Plan) (10.3) (17.5)
F&C Netherlands pension plan (6.6) (6.5)
F&C Ireland pension plan (0.4) (0.4)
F&C Portugal pension plan – (0.2)
R W Jenkins pension (3.2) (3.0)
Total pension deficit (20.5) (27.6)
Disclosure relating to the Group’s defined benefit obligations
The information given in (a) to (d) below reflects the aggregate disclosures in respect of all Group defined benefit pension arrangements, except
where otherwise indicated.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 83 25. Pension benefits continued
(a) Plan assets and expected rates of return
31 December 2011 31 December 2010
Plan assets £m % £m %
LDI pools 67.5 31 50.4 26
Equity-linked bond funds 58.4 27 52.7 28
Equities 58.0 27 71.9 38
Property (including secured leases) 13.0 6 0.6 –
Insurance contracts 10.7 5 10.1 6
Cash 6.2 3 2.4 1
Corporate bonds 2.1 1 ––
Government bonds –– 2.3 1
Total fair value of plan assets 215.9 100 190.4 100
Plan assets include £13.9m (31 December 2010: £31.2m) of underlying investments held by the Group pension schemes via transferable
investment contracts with F&C Managed Pension Funds Limited, the Group’s unit-linked pooled pension business. The plan assets do not
include Ordinary Shares issued by the Company.
31 December 31 December
Expected long-term rates of return on UK plan assets 2011 2010
LDI pools 3.10% 3.90%
Equity-linked bond funds 6.30% 7.00%
Equities 6.30% 7.00%
Property (including secured leases) 4.85% – 6.30% 7.00%
Insurance contracts 4.70% 7.00%
Cash 0.50% 0.50%
Basis used to determine the expected rate of return on plan assets
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, the Group considered the current level of expected returns on risk-free
investments (primarily government bonds and swaps), the historical level of risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the
portfolio is invested, and the expectations for the future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then
weighted, based on the actual asset allocation, to develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio.
(b) Major assumptions used by schemes’ actuaries in respect of benefit obligations
(i) Mortality assumptions
The mortality assumptions used for the main UK defined benefit scheme and the unfunded UK obligation are:
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
Mortality table for males retiring in the future S1NMA L MC min1% – 1 S1NMA L MC min1% – 1
Mortality table for females retiring in the future S1NFA L MC min1% – 1 S1NFA L MC min1% – 1
Mortality table for current male pensioners S1NMA L MC min1% – 1 S1NMA L MC min1% – 1
Mortality table for current female pensioners S1NFA L MC min1% – 1 S1NFA L MC min1% – 1
The mortality assumptions for the overseas schemes are:
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
F&C Netherlands Prognosetafel 2010 – 2060 generational table Prognosetafel 2010 – 2060 generational table
F&C Ireland Compulsory Purchase Annuity Rates Compulsory Purchase Annuity Rates
F&C Portugal Males TV 73/77 (rated down 1 year) Males TV 73/77 (rated down 1 year)
Females TV 88/90 (rated down 2 years) Females TV 88/90 (rated down 2 years)
(ii) Impact of mortality assumptions
To demonstrate what these mortality assumptions mean in respect of the FCAM Plan, the expected ages at death of members retiring at age
60 are as follows:
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
Years Years
Expected age at death for a male retiring in the future at age 60, currently aged 40 91 90
Expected age at death for a female retiring in the future at age 60, currently aged 40 92 92
Expected age at death for a current male pensioner aged 60 89 89
Expected age at death for a current female pensioner aged 60 90 90
84 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 84 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 85
25. Pension benefits continued
(iii) Cost of annuities
The table below summarises the cost of providing annuities of £1 per annum (with associated death benefits and pension increases) for UK
members currently aged 40, retiring at age 60, based on the assumptions used for the pension disclosures:
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£ £
Male annuity 27.50 25.60
Female annuity 26.70 25.00
These rates assume a monthly payments model with a discount rate of 4.70% (2010: 5.30%). The rates also assume two-thirds of the
members’ benefit will be paid to the spouse; a five-year guarantee is provided; and pensions in excess of Guaranteed Minimum Pension will
increase by 3.20% (2010: 3.35%) per annum.
(iv) Discount and growth assumptions
The range of assumptions used to determine benefit obligations are as follows:
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
Discount rate 4.70% – 5.20% 5.30%
Rate of salary increase 2.00% – 4.00% 2.00% – 4.00%
Rate of price inflation (CPI) 2.60% 3.50%
Rate of inflation increase (RPI) 2.00% – 3.30% 2.00% – 3.50%
The range of assumptions used to determine net pension cost for the year are as follows:
2011 2010
Discount rate 5.30% 5.50% – 5.70%
Weighted average expected long-term return on plan assets 4.91% – 6.04% 4.91% – 6.00%
Rate of salary increase 2.00% – 4.00% 2.00% – 4.00%
Rate of inflation increase (RPI) 2.00% – 3.50% 2.00% – 3.60%
(v) Sensitivities
An estimate of the sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the schemes’ liabilities are set out below:
Assumption Change in assumption Estimated impact on scheme liabilities
Inflation Increase/decrease by 0.1% Increase/decrease by 1.7%
Salaries Increase/decrease by 0.1% Increase/decrease by 0.1%
Pensions Increase/decrease by 0.1% Increase/decrease by 1.3%
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.1% Decrease/increase by 2.2%
Life expectancy Increase/decrease by 1 year Increase/decrease by 2.5%
(c) Profile of schemes’ membership
The profile of the current membership of defined benefit arrangements in the Group is as follows:
31 December 2011 31 December 2010
% of total Average % of total Average
membership age membership age
Active members 16% 44 17% 44
Deferred members 71% 44 70% 44
Pensioners 13% 66 13% 66
100% 100%
The profile of the liabilities of defined benefit arrangements throughout the Group is as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
Active members 52.6 52.7
Deferred members 112.3 105.0
Pensioners 71.5 60.3
Benefit obligations at 31 December 236.4 218.0
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 85 25. Pension benefits continued
(d) Aggregate disclosures
2011 2010
Change in benefit obligations: £m £m
Benefit obligations at 1 January 218.0 204.2
Foreign exchange movements (0.6) (0.7)
Current service cost 2.3 2.1
Past service costs* 0.7 0.6
Interest cost on pension obligations 11.5 11.3
Curtailment income
†
– (4.0)
Members’ contributions 0.3 0.2
Actuarial losses 9.1 9.0
Benefits paid (4.9) (4.7)
Benefit obligations at 31 December 236.4 218.0
* The past service costs in both 2011 and 2010 relate to the augmentation of pension entitlements for certain employees.
† The Board and Trustees implemented changes to the UK FCAM Pension Plan during 2010. The changes capped future increases in pensionable salary for past
and future service. These changes resulted in a one-off credit to the Income Statement. The curtailment income has been recognised as an exceptional item
within exceptional employment income/(expenses) (see note 6(a)(i)). For future service the changes increased the normal pension age (unless additional employee
contributions were paid) and reduced the level of pension increases applied.
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
Analysis of defined benefit obligations: £m £m
Plans that are wholly or partly funded 233.2 215.0
Obligation that is wholly unfunded 3.2 3.0
Benefit obligations at 31 December 236.4 218.0
2011 2010
Change in plan assets: £m £m
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 190.4 157.5
Foreign exchange movements (0.4) (0.5)
Expected return on pension plan assets 11.5 9.5
Actuarial gains 12.4 19.4
Employer contributions 6.6 9.0
Member contributions 0.3 0.2
Benefits paid (4.9) (4.7)
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 215.9 190.4
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Net pension deficit recognised (20.5) (27.6)
2011 2010
Components of defined benefit pension expense/(income): £m £m
Current service cost 2.3 2.1
Past service cost 0.7 0.6
Curtailment income – (4.0)
Interest cost on pension obligations 11.5 11.3
Expected return on pension plan assets (11.5) (9.5)
Total defined benefit pension expense recognised in the Income Statement 3.0 0.5
86 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 86 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 87
25. Pension benefits continued
2011 2010
Classification of defined benefit pension expense/(income) in the Income Statement: Notes £m £m
Operating expenses 5 3.0 (1.3)
Finance revenue 7 (11.5) (9.5)
Finance costs 8 11.5 11.3
Total defined benefit pension expense recognised in the Income Statement 3.0 0.5
2011 2010
£m £m
Net actuarial gains immediately recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 3.3 10.4
The cumulative actuarial losses recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income (31.0) (34.3)
2011 2010
£m £m
Actual return on plan assets 23.9 28.9
Five year history
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m £m
Benefit obligations at 31 December (236.4) (218.0) (204.2) (167.9) (177.4)
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 215.9 190.4 157.5 146.1 150.6
Total pension deficit (20.5) (27.6) (46.7) (21.8) (26.8)
Difference between expected and actual return on plan assets:
Amount 12.4 19.4 4.2 (21.1) (1.6)
Percentage of plan assets 6% 10% 3% (14%) (1%)
Experience (losses) and gains on benefit obligations:
Amount (0.3) 5.8 1.1 1.3 (3.4)
Percentage of benefit obligations 0% 3% 1% 1% (2%)
Total gains and (losses):
Amount 3.3 10.4 (27.2) 2.5 11.1
Percentage of benefit obligations 1% 5% (13%) 1% 6%
(e) Pension schemes’ details
(i) F&C Asset Management Pension Plan (FCAM Plan)
Date of last actuarial valuation 31 March 2010
Scheme Actuary Mercer Limited
Method of valuation Projected Unit
Market value of assets at last valuation date £156.4m
Level of funding 88%
The FCAM Plan’s assets, which are managed by F&C, are held under the control of the Trustees and are used to secure benefits for the
members of the FCAM Plan and their dependants in accordance with the Trust Deed and Rules.
Trustee Board of the FCAM Plan
The appointment of Trustees is determined by the FCAM Plan’s trust documentation. The Trustee Board currently consists of three employer-
appointed Trustees, three member-selected Trustees and two independent Trustees, one of whom is currently the Chairman of the Trustee
Board. Of the current employer-appointed and member-selected Trustees, four are employees of F&C and active members of the FCAM Plan,
one is a deferred member and one is retired and receiving a pension from the FCAM Plan.
Relationship between F&C and the Trustees of the FCAM Plan
The FCAM Plan’s assets are held in a separate Trustee-administered fund to meet long-term pension liabilities to past and present employees.
The Trustees of the FCAM Plan are required to act in the best interests of the FCAM Plan’s beneficiaries.
(ii) Other pension schemes
F&C Portugal
Certain employees in Portugal participate in the multi-employer scheme, Fundo de Pensoes do Grupo Banco Comercial Português. The assets
and liabilities of the scheme are separately identifiable. There are no Trustees, and F&C Portugal controls the assets relating to the F&C
members of the scheme. From 1 January 2011, this scheme has been integrated into the Social Security system and part of the employees’
occupational pension benefits is funded through the Social Security system from that date. However, the scheme benefit structure and
employees’ total pensions have not changed.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 87 25. Pension benefits continued
F&C Netherlands
The Plan in The Netherlands is financed via an insurance contract. There are no Trustees, but the Works Council participates in negotiations in
respect of potential changes to the Plan.
F&C Ireland
The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme in Ireland. There are currently four Trustees of this plan, all of whom are employees of
F&C.
(f) Future funding requirements
FCAM Plan
A revised schedule of contributions was agreed in January 2011, under which the Group agreed to pay a minimum of 17.0% of Pensionable
Salaries plus £3.0m per annum in respect of deficit recovery contributions, £0.5m per annum in respect of administrative expenses and any
additional amounts required as a result of the asset underperformance guarantee. Further, to the extent that the Group repays any amount of
its fixed or floating rate notes after 1 January 2011 then the Group shall pay, within one month of that repayment, a special contribution to
reduce the deficit determined in the valuation at 31 March 2010 in the same proportion as the aggregate reduction in fixed or floating rate
notes. If there is more than one such reduction then the special contributions necessary shall be computed taking into account the aggregate
percentage reduction in fixed or floating rate notes since 1 January 2011 and the amount of any previous such special contribution paid. For
the avoidance of doubt, a repayment does not include a repayment of the notes from the issue of a capital instrument specified for that
purpose. The minimum estimated contribution expected to be paid into the Plan during 2012 is £5.5m (2011: £5.2m).
As the FCAM Plan is a closed scheme, under the projected unit method the current service cost will tend to increase as a percentage of
pensionable salaries as the average age of members increases.
Non-UK schemes
The figures in the table below assume that contributions will continue to be paid to the overseas schemes at the level paid in 2011, with
appropriate increases for future changes in salary assumptions.
Contributions to defined benefit schemes
Amounts paid into the Group’s defined benefit schemes in the past two years and expected future payments over the next five years are as
follows:
Contributions paid £m
2010 9.0
2011 6.6
Expected future contributions £m
2012 6.6
2013 5.9
2014 5.9
2015 5.9
2016 5.9
(g) Risk management
(i) FCAM Plan
The Trustees set general investment policy but delegate the responsibility for the selection of specific investments (other than investments in
respect of members’ voluntary contributions) to the investment manager. The Trustees regularly monitor the FCAM Plan’s investments.
The Trustees seek advice from their investment advisor and believe they have sufficient skills and expertise to make investment decisions
based on this advice.
The Trustees have set performance and risk targets for the investment manager. The performance objectives are long-term, and the Trustees
monitor the investment manager on a regular basis in order to ensure that the scheme is on track to meet its long-term objectives.
The results of an asset-liability review undertaken alongside the 31 March 2010 actuarial valuation of the Plan have been used to assist the
Trustees and the Group in managing volatility in the underlying investment performance and the risk of a significant increase in the FCAM Plan’s
deficit by providing information used to determine the FCAM Plan’s investment strategy.
88 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 88 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 89
25. Pension benefits continued
Asset allocation
During the year, the Trustees, with the agreement of F&C, decided to further diversify the FCAM Plan’s investment strategy by introducing an
allocation to funds investing in secured property leases. In addition, the geographical allocation of the Plan’s equity holdings was reviewed
during the year, with a larger proportion being allocated to emerging markets. In previous periods, diversifying allocations to both UK and
overseas equity-linked bond funds and an overseas private equity fund have been made. Previously the Trustees have implemented a Liability
Driven Investment (LDI) approach to the investment strategy. Other allocations to alternative asset classes may be made in the future.
Interest rate and inflation risk
The LDI pools are intended to help provide a degree of matching to the liabilities of the FCAM Plan. Each pool comprises zero coupon
derivatives with the same maturity as the expected cash flows of the scheme. Each pool has leveraged exposure of varying amounts to
inflation and interest rates. The pools are valued using the market values of the underlying securities.
The equity-linked bond funds also provide a degree of matching to the liabilities but in addition retain an exposure to equity market
movements.
Currency risk
In order to increase the diversification of the equity portfolio, the FCAM Plan invests in overseas assets. However, the FCAM Plan’s liabilities are
denominated entirely in Sterling and therefore there is a risk that the appreciation of Sterling against other currencies will reduce the return from
overseas assets.
Operational risk
The investment managers do not directly hold any of the FCAM Plan’s securities. These are held by an external custodian. The assets are
ring-fenced from F&C’s creditors and are therefore transferable.
(ii) Non-UK schemes
The plan in The Netherlands is financed via an insurance contract. The value of the plan assets is the value of the reserve which the insurance
company holds to match guaranteed pension liabilities. These reserves are, in effect, fixed interest instruments, so provide a reasonable match
to pension liabilities.
The plan in Ireland invests in pooled unitised funds, with returns reflecting the performance of the underlying assets.
The plan in Portugal is part of an industry-wide banking sector plan. Each participant company holds a share of the assets, which are invested
using the same asset allocation as the overall plan assets. F&C Portugal is the asset manager for the overall scheme.
At 31 December 2011, the assets of both the F&C Portugal and F&C Ireland plans were invested in diversified portfolios that consisted
primarily of debt and equity securities.
(h) Cost of defined contribution plans
2011 2010
Note £m £m
Group personal pension plans 3.4 3.4
Other defined contribution schemes 0.1 0.5
Defined contribution pension expense 5 3.5 3.9
The Group had £0.4m of pension contributions outstanding as at 31 December 2011 (31 December 2010: £0.1m).
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 89 26. Share-based payments
The Group operates several share-based payment plans as part of its total employee compensation arrangements.
Summary
The total share-based payment expense is analysed as follows:
2011 2010
By Scheme: Note £m £m
The Long-Term Remuneration Plan (deferred awards) 8.8 11.8
The Long-Term Remuneration Plan (restricted awards) 1.0 0.3
Executive Director Remuneration Plan (deferred awards) 0.6 1.5
F&C REIT variable non-controlling interests SBP (4.8) (0.3)
F&C REIT Long-Term Remuneration Plan 1.1 0.8
TRC Management Retention Plan 4.5 1.5
TRC Management Incentive Plan (0.1) 0.1
TRC Commutation arrangements 5.7 4.8
Purchased Equity Plan (FCAM plc shares) 0.1 0.5
Purchased Equity Plan (F&C investment funds) 0.5 1.3
Deferred Share Awards 0.4 0.1
Share Save Scheme – 0.2
Total share-based payment expense recognised in the Income Statement 5 17.8 22.6
The total expense recognised during the year in respect of share-based payment schemes is split as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
Equity-settled 17.3 19.5
Cash-settled 0.5 3.1
Total share-based payment expense recognised in the Income Statement 17.8 22.6
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Total carrying amount of cash-settled liabilities 6.0 10.9
The details of each scheme are disclosed below.
Details of option pricing models and key assumptions used to obtain the fair value of services received, or the fair value of the equity
instruments granted, have been disclosed only for awards granted during the year ended 31 December 2011. Details of awards granted in
previous accounting periods are disclosed in the previous years’ Financial Statements.
The fair value of services received in return for awards granted is measured by reference to the fair value of share awards granted.
The cash-settled element of the awards is based on dividends payable on the shares during the vesting period, being notionally re-invested in
F&C Asset Management plc shares. Once the share awards vest, the value of the notional shares is paid to the employee in cash. The value of
dividend payments has been separated from the equity-settled awards as these are settled in cash.
The cumulative grant expense for each award is “trued-up” during the vesting period and at the end of the vesting period, after allowing for
actual forfeitures and, where applicable, the extent to which the performance criteria have been met.
The weighted average share price during 2011 was £0.74 (2010: £0.64).
The weighted average share price at exercise date during 2011 was £0.77 (2010: £0.65).
90 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 90 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 91
26. Share-based payments continued
The following tables summarise the inputs into the valuations used for awards granted and the fair values assigned, during the year ended
31 December 2011.
Deferred Awards
LTRP Deferred
Award: Share Awards
Award date 10 March 2011
Number of awards granted 15,437,379
Share price at grant date 82.35p
Exercise price 0.0p
Vesting period 3 years
Full term of award 3 years
Expected dividend yield (%) 4.27%
Expected volatility (%) n/a
Risk-free interest rate (%) p.a. n/a
Expected forfeiture rate (%) 0.0%
Fair value at measurement date (per award)
– Equity 72.46p
– Cash 9.89p
Valuation basis market price
Estimated vesting percentage at award date n/a
LTRP Restricted Share Awards
Investment Net New
Element of Award: EPS Performance Business TSR
Award date 4 May 2011 4 May 2011 4 May 2011 4 May 2011
Number of awards granted 937,421 937,421 937,421 937,421
Share price at grant date 77.8p 77.8p 77.8p 77.8p
Exercise price 0.0p 0.0p 0.0p 0.0p
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Full term of award 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected dividend yield (%) 3.9% 3.9% 3.9% 3.9%
Expected volatility (%) n/a n/a n/a 58.0%
Risk-free interest rate (%) p.a. n/a n/a n/a 1.52%
Expected forfeiture rate (%) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Fair value at measurement date (per award)
– Equity 69.0p 69.0p 69.0p 50.2p
– Cash 8.8p 8.8p 8.8p 4.3p
Valuation basis market price market price market price Monte Carlo
simulation model
Estimated vesting percentage at award date 64% 50% 67% 100%
F&C REIT Long-Term Remuneration Plan
Award: 2011 award
Award date 1 May 2011
Number of units in F&C REIT LLP granted 15,833.33 units
Value of unit at award date £90.00 per unit
Vesting period 3 years
Full term of award 3 years
Expected forfeiture 0.0%
Model used External valuation of F&C REIT LLP business
(a) The Long-Term Remuneration Plan (LTRP)
The LTRP is the primary long-term incentive arrangement of the Group. The LTRP rules allow both Deferred Share Awards and Restricted
Share Awards to be made at the discretion of the Board.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 91 26. Share-based payments continued
(i) Deferred Share Awards
The LTRP allows deferred awards to be granted to employees below Executive Director level, subject only to a time-vesting period of
three years.
The number of Deferred Share Awards is as follows:
2011 2010
No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January 39,371,737 28,769,100
Granted during the year 15,437,379 17,335,585
Exercised during the year (10,697,991) (5,243,031)
Forfeited during the year (6,170,470) (1,280,575)
Expired during the year (983,387) (209,342)
Outstanding at 31 December 36,957,268 39,371,737
Exercisable at 31 December 957,480 209,259
The awards exercisable at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 relate to good leavers.
At 31 December 2011 the following LTRP Deferred Share Awards were outstanding:
Grant date No. of options outstanding Earliest exercise date Exercise price
8 July 2009 10,979,123 8 July 2012 0.0p
7 April 2010 13,365,317 7 April 2013 0.0p
10 March 2011 12,612,828 10 March 2014 0.0p
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2011 have a weighted average outstanding term of 1.4 years (31 December 2010: 1.6 years).
(ii) Restricted Share Awards
Ordinary Shares that are the subject of a Restricted Share Award under the LTRP will vest dependent upon achieving four specified
performance conditions and conditions of continued service being met. The performance conditions applied to the LTRP are determined by
the Board, are measured over a three-year performance period and comprise the following:
• 25% of the award comprises an underlying Earnings Per Share (EPS) condition;
• 25% of the award comprises a Total Shareholder Return (TSR) condition;
• 25% of the award comprises an Investment Performance condition; and
• 25% of the award comprises a Net New Business condition.
To the extent that any element of the award has not vested in accordance with the performance criteria detailed below it lapses immediately.
(1) The EPS element
The EPS condition is based on the amount by which the average annual percentage growth in underlying EPS exceeds the percentage
increase in the Retail Price Index condition over the three-year performance period (EPS Outperformance Percentage).
The awards vest according to the following criteria:
EPS Outperformance Percentage Percentage of award vesting
Less than 3% 0%
3% 25%
Equal to or greater than 11% 100%
Between 3% and 11% Straight-line vesting between 25% and 100%
(2) The TSR element
The TSR condition compares the TSR of the Group over a three-year performance period (commencing on the award date) with a list of
companies in a predetermined financial services comparator group. At the end of the performance period, the Group and each of the
comparator companies are listed and ranked in accordance with their TSR over the performance period (TSR Position). The TSR measure
reflects the movement in the value of shares plus any dividends declared during the relevant period.
The awards vest according to the following criteria:
TSR Position Percentage of award vesting
Below median 0%
Median 25%
Upper quartile 100%
Between median and upper quartile Straight-line vesting between 25% and 100%
92 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 92 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 93
26. Share-based payments continued
(3) The Investment Performance element
The Investment Performance condition is based on the Total Weighted Outperformance Percentage (25% of the one-year outperformance
percentage and 75% of the three-year outperformance percentage) on investment management performance over a three-year period.
The awards vest according to the following criteria:
Total Weighted Outperformance Percentage Percentage of award vesting
Equal to or less than 42% 0%
75% or more 100%
Between 42% and 75% Straight-line vesting between 0% and 100%
(4) The Net New Business element
The Net New Business condition is based on a comparison of the actual versus the budgeted amount of net new business for the period (Net
New Business Percentage). The budgeted net new business is determined on an annual basis by the Board. Performance is measured over a
three-year period.
The awards vest according to the following criteria:
Net New Business Percentage Percentage of award vesting
Equal to or less than 25% 0%
125% or more 100%
Between 25% and 125% Straight-line vesting between 0% and 100%
The number of Restricted Share Awards is as follows:
2011 2010
No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January 3,786,486 327,548
Granted during the year 3,749,683 3,786,486
Forfeited during the year (250,637) –
Expired during the year (199,989) (327,548)
Outstanding at 31 December 7,085,543 3,786,486
At 31 December 2011 the following LTRP restricted share awards were outstanding:
No. of options Earliest Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date* price
4 May 2010 3,786,486 4 May 2013 0.0p
4 May 2011 3,299,057 4 May 2014 0.0p
* Assuming performance criteria satisfied.
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2011 have a weighted average outstanding term of 1.8 years (31 December 2010: 2.3 years).
(b) The Executive Director Remuneration Plan (EDRP)
Any Executive Director of the Company is eligible to participate in the EDRP . The EDRP provides for the grant of two different forms of award,
Deferred Share Awards and Restricted Share Awards. There were no outstanding Restricted Share Awards at either 31 December 2011 or
2010.
Deferred Share Awards
Awards vest at the end of a three-year period from grant date, subject to the continued employment of the participant within the Group. There
are no performance criteria attached to the deferred shares and the vested shares transfer to the participant as soon as possible after vesting.
The number of Deferred Share Awards is as follows:
2011 2010
No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January 3,214,632 4,715,206
Exercised during the year (1,025,640) (1,500,574)
Outstanding at 31 December 2,188,992 3,214,632
No awards were exercisable at either 31 December 2011 or 31 December 2010.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 93 26. Share-based payments continued
At 31 December 2011 the following EDRP Deferred Share Awards were outstanding:
No. of awards Earliest Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date price
8 July 2009 2,188,992 8 July 2012 0.0p
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2011 have a weighted average outstanding term of 0.5 years (31 December 2010: 1.1 years).
(c) F&C REIT variable non-controlling interests SBP
In accordance with the F&C REIT Partnership Agreement, the F&C REIT minority partners (Kendray Properties Limited, Leo Noé and Ivor
Smith) have the potential to increase their stake in F&C REIT Asset Management LLP (F&C REIT) collectively from 30% to 40%.
A variable NCI was granted as an incentive to achieve increased levels of profit including realisation of future performance fees in return for a
potential increased stake in the business. This variable NCI is therefore accounted for under IFRS 2: Share-based Payment. The fair value of
the “award” at date of acquisition reflected the value assessed as part of the acquisition valuation. The fair value of the award is reassessed at
each reporting date and this fair value is spread over the relevant vesting period.
The minority partners have the potential to increase their stake in F&C REIT by 3.33% for every year in which the EBITDA performance target
of £45.0m is achieved, up to a maximum of 10%. The variable NCI performance criteria could be achieved in any year of the
six calendar years ending 31 December 2014. At 31 December 2011 the Directors have assessed that the performance target is unlikey to be
achieved in any of the remaining performance measurement periods. The cumulative charge previously recognised has been reversed at 31
December 2011, but would be reinstated to the extent that any performance criteria were met.
(d) F&C REIT Long-Term Remuneration Plan (F&C REIT LTRP)
During 2010, a new scheme was introduced to incentivise F&C REIT employees.
There are two elements to the Plan:
(i) Deferred Award with no performance conditions; and
(ii) Restricted Awards with performance conditions.
Participants are awarded notional units in the F&C REIT Asset Management LLP Group (F&C REIT), each equal to 0.00005% of the market
value of F&C REIT. The market value of F&C REIT is determined annually by an independent valuation.
The Deferred Awards vest at the end of a pre-determined period from grant date (normally three years), subject to the continued employment
of the participant. On vesting, the awards are settled by a cash payment based on the market value of each unit at the end of the vesting
period.
No Restricted Awards have been granted under the performance element of this Plan to date.
The number of F&C REIT LTRP Deferred Awards is as follows:
2011 2010
Units Units
Outstanding at 1 January 28,859.60 –
Granted during the year 15,833.33 28,859.60
Forfeited during the year (219.53) –
Expired during the year (865.16) –
Outstanding at 31 December 43,608.24 28,859.60
At 31 December 2011 the following F&C REIT LTRP Deferred Awards were outstanding:
No. of units Earliest Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date price
1 May 2010 15,891.47 1 April 2012 0.0p
1 May 2010 12,216.77 1 May 2013 0.0p
1 May 2011 15,500.00 1 May 2014 0.0p
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2011 have a weighted average outstanding term of 1.3 years (31 December 2010: 1.7 years).
The intrinsic value of a unit at 31 December 2011 was £75.50 (31 December 2010: £90.00).
94 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 94 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 95
26. Share-based payments continued
(e) Thames River Capital Management Retention Plan (TRC MRP)
The TRC MRP was one of the two new share plans established at the date of the TRC acquisition to retain and incentivise key professionals
within the TRC Group. Awards of deferred shares vest three years after completion of the acquisition, subject to continued employment within
the F&C Group or membership of one of the two TRC LLPs. The TRC MRP awards are not subject to any performance criteria. The TRC MRP
includes good and bad leaver provisions.
The number of TRC MRP awards is as follows:
2011 2010
No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January 21,312,209 –
Granted during the year – 21,312,209
Outstanding at 31 December 21,312,209 21,312,209
No awards were exercisable at either 31 December 2011 or 31 December 2010.
At 31 December 2011 the following TRC MRP awards were outstanding:
No. of awards Earliest Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date price
1 September 2010 21,312,209 1 September 2013 0.0p
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2011 have a weighted average outstanding term of 1.7 years (31 December 2010: 2.7 years).
(f) Thames River Capital Management Incentive Plan (TRC MIP)
The TRC MIP is the second of two plans established at the date of the TRC acquisition to further incentivise TRC employees and members of
the two TRC LLPs in the six-year period from the date of acquisition (Completion) on 1 September 2010.
Awards under the TRC MIP will vest upon achievements of specified financial targets as follows:
• 12.5% of the shares subject to awards will vest on the date falling 30 months following Completion provided that the Run-rate EBITDA of
the TRC Group as at 31 December 2011 is £15.0m or more. If the Run-rate EBITDA is £12.5m or less, none of this tranche of shares will
vest and the number of the shares that vest will increase on a linear basis if the Run-rate EBITDA falls between the two thresholds;
• 12.5% of the shares subject to awards will vest on the third anniversary of Completion provided that the Run-rate EBITDA of the TRC
Group as at 30 June 2012 is £17.0m or more. If the Run-rate EBITDA is £15.0m or less, none of this tranche of shares will vest and the
number of the shares that vest will increase on a linear basis if the Run-rate EBITDA falls between the two thresholds; and
• the remaining 75.0% of the shares subject to awards will vest in two equal instalments on each of the fifth and sixth anniversaries of
Completion provided that the cumulative EBITDA of the TRC Group for the four-year period to 31 March 2014 is equal to £100.0m or
more. If the cumulative EBITDA is equal to £60.0m or less, none of this tranche of shares will vest and the number of the shares that vest
will increase on a linear basis if the Run-rate EBITDA falls between these two thresholds.
Vesting is subject in each case to continued employment within the F&C Group or membership of the relevant LLP (as the case may be). The
terms of the TRC MIP includes good and bad leaver provisions, change of control provisions and a cash-settled element. In addition,
participants in the TRC MIP will receive an additional cash payment (up to a maximum aggregate amount of £3.0m), payable at the time that
shares are delivered and in proportion to the number of shares which vest.
The 31 December 2011 Run-rate EBITDA target was not met. The Directors also believe that none of the other financial targets are expected to
be achieved and the cumulative charge has been reversed at 31 December 2011, but will be reinstated should the performance criteria be met.
The number of TRC MIP awards is as follows:
2011 2010
No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January 14,208,140 –
Granted during the year – 14,208,140
Outstanding at 31 December 14,208,140 14,208,140
No awards were exercisable at 31 December 2011 or 31 December 2010.
At 31 December 2011 the following TRC MIP awards were outstanding:
No. of awards Earliest Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date* price
1 September 2010 1,776,018 1 March 2013 0.0p
1 September 2010 1,776,018 1 September 2013 0.0p
1 September 2010 5,328,052 1 September 2015 0.0p
1 September 2010 5,328,052 1 September 2016 0.0p
* Assuming performance criteria satisfied.
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2011 have a weighted average outstanding term of 3.5 years (31 December 2010: 4.5 years).
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 95 26. Share-based payments continued
(g) Thames River Capital Commutation arrangements (TRC Commutation arrangements)
Note 15(a) outlines the key aspects of the Commutation arrangements which were established at the date of the acquisition of TRC by the
F&C Group. Under these arrangements, the Divisional Members of TRC Investment Teams entered into put and call options, which if exercised
will typically transfer up to 20% of their entitlement to management fee profits to the F&C Group. The members of the LLPs are considered to
be providing services to the Group and as a result, the share element of the Commutation consideration is required to be accounted for as a
share-based payment.
It is the intention of the Directors to settle these awards in equity and therefore they have been treated as equity-settled awards.
The maximum payable under Commutation arrangements is £81.4m and F&C has authority to issue a maximum of 122,511,485 shares to
settle the consideration payable on exercise of the options.
The options are re-measured at intrinsic value at each reporting date and the total expense is spread over the respective vesting period. The
options are considered to have non-market performance conditions – if the options are not exercised, then there is no charge to the Income
Statement.
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Cumulative TRC Commutation expense, recognised in equity 10.5 4.8
Total intrinsic value of unexercised Commutation options 14.9 20.1
No. No.
Potential number of FCAM plc shares which would be settled as at the reporting date
(based on Commutation Consideration Share Issue share price at 31 December) 23,527,481 25,449,030
No Commutation options were exercisable at either 31 December 2011 or 31 December 2010. However, at 31 December 2011 some
10.9 million of the shares which would be issued to settle Commutation arrangements relate to options potentially exercisable by the Divisional
Members, and 12.6 million shares relate to the options potentially exercisable by the Group.
The Commutation arrangements are exercisable at dates between 1 March 2012 and 1 September 2016.
(h) Purchased Equity Plan (PEP)
(i) F&C Asset Management plc shares
The PEP operated in conjunction with the discretionary bonus scheme and was intended to encourage shareholding by management and
employees of the Group by providing for the compulsory purchase of shares using annual bonus above a threshold level.
At the Board’s discretion, eligible employees who were awarded in a financial year an aggregate bonus in excess of a threshold level, typically
£100,000, were required to defer one-third of the element exceeding the threshold into shares (comprising either a range of investment
products managed by the Group or the Company’s shares) (Compulsory PEP) for three years.
The Compulsory PEP is subject to forfeiture in the event that the employee leaves the Group for any reason (other than as a good leaver) in the
three-year retention period.
The number of Compulsory PEP share awards is as follows:
2011 2010
No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January 783,727 1,396,860
Granted during the year – 493,810
Exercised during the year (66,716) (1,105,055)
Forfeited during the year (25,813) (1,888)
Outstanding at 31 December 691,198 783,727
Exercisable at 31 December 2,728 13,145
The awards exercisable at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 relate to good leavers.
At 31 December 2011 the following awards granted under the PEP to acquire Ordinary Shares were outstanding:
No. of options Earliest Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date price
2 April 2009 197,388 2 April 2012 0.0p
31 March 2010 493,810 31 March 2013 0.0p
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2011 have a weighted average outstanding term of 0.9 years (31 December 2010: 1.8 years).
96 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 96 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 97
26. Share-based payments continued
(ii) F&C Investment Funds
At the discretion of the Board, the cash bonus may be deferred on a mandatory basis into certain F&C Funds (Compulsory Purchased Equity)
subject to continued service over either three or four years. This option is available as an alternative to the Compulsory PEP into FCAM plc
shares. The main benefit of this arrangement is to incentivise fund managers to invest in the funds they manage, thereby further aligning
employee interests with those of clients.
The settlement of awards from the Compulsory PEP (F&C Investment Funds) is made by realisation of the holding in the fund at the vesting
date and purchase of FCAM plc shares at that date. The value of the investment in F&C Funds, the FCAM plc share price and hence the
ultimate number of FCAM plc shares to be settled is only known with certainty at the vesting date. Any dividends paid by F&C Funds during
the vesting period are re-invested in F&C Investment Funds.
The awards meet the criteria of IFRS 2: Share-based Payment. However, as the awards are ultimately settled in FCAM plc shares, it is not
considered possible to reliably estimate the fair value of these awards at the grant date. This is due to the number of market-based criteria
which ultimately combine to determine the number and value of FCAM plc shares settled. Settlement of these awards to employees is satisfied
by the purchase of FCAM plc shares in the market.
The fair value of these awards at the year end has been determined by measurement of the equity instruments at intrinsic value, being the
quoted price of the relevant F&C Funds, both at the grant date and at each subsequent reporting date. The intrinsic value is then spread over
the vesting period. The value of the services provided is measured using the ultimate value of awards which vest.
The underlying investments are held within an Employee Benefit Trust.
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
Note £m £m
Value of F&C Investments held within the Purchased Equity Plan 18(a)(i)(2) 1.5 4.0
No. No.
Number of FCAM plc shares which would be settled as at the reporting date
(based on year-end share price) 2,218,877 4,709,271
(i) Deferred Share Awards
The Group has made some deferred share awards which are not subject to ongoing performance conditions, but have a time-vesting period.
The number of share awards is as follows:
2011 2010
No. No.
Outstanding at 1 January 1,108,959 40,000
Granted during the year 22,200 1,068,959
Exercised during the year (40,000) –
Outstanding at 31 December 1,091,159 1,108,959
No awards were exercisable at either 31 December 2011 or 31 December 2010.
At 31 December 2011 the following Deferred Share Awards were outstanding:
No. of options Earliest Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date price
1 September 2010 1,068,959 1 March 2012 0.0p
1 April 2011 22,200 1 April 2014 0.0p
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2011 have a weighted average outstanding term of 0.2 years (31 December 2010: 1.2 years).
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 97 26. Share-based payments continued
(j) Share Save Scheme
The Share Save Scheme is an “all-employee share scheme”. Participants are required to enter into a savings contract with a savings provider.
At the end of the savings period employees can elect to receive cash or exercise options. The options granted entitle the holders to acquire
Ordinary Shares at a price per Ordinary Share determined by the Directors prior to the issue of invitations. The price at which options are
offered cannot be less than 80% of the middle-market quotation of an Ordinary Share at the date of grant.
The number and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of share options are as follows:
2011 2010
WAEP WAEP
No. £ No. £
Outstanding at 1 January 197,102 1.56 534,288 1.56
Forfeited during the year (68,268) 1.51 (293,178) 1.53
Expired during the year (22,405) 1.71 (44,008) 1.73
Outstanding at 31 December 106,429 1.45 197,102 1.56
Exercisable at 31 December 3,766 1.71 7,747 1.51
The 2006 (five-year) award vested during 2011. No options were exercised and the options expired.
At 31 December 2011 the following options granted under the Share Save Scheme to acquire Ordinary Shares were outstanding:
No. of options Earliest Exercisable Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date before price
18 April 2006 (five-year) 3,766 1 January 2012 1 June 2012 171.0p
25 April 2007 (five-year) 102,663 1 June 2012 1 December 2012 144.3p
The options outstanding at 31 December 2011 have a weighted average outstanding term of 0.3 years (31 December 2010: 0.9 years).
(k) 1995 and 2002 Executive Share Option Schemes
IFRS 2: Share-based Payment is only applied to grants of shares, share options or other equity instruments that were granted after 7
November 2002 and had not vested before 1 January 2005 (i.e. the effective date of IFRS 2). The 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme (1995
ESOS) and the 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme (2002 ESOS) both granted options before 7 November 2002 and are not therefore
subject to the full effects of IFRS 2 in terms of recognising an expense in the Income Statement. The standard does, however, require certain
disclosures to be made in respect of these schemes.
All options under both schemes have now vested.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee
leaves the Group.
The number and weighted average exercise price (WAEP) of share options are as follows:
2011 2010
WAEP WAEP
No. £ No. £
Outstanding at 1 January 1,318,528 2.43 1,614,150 2.37
Expired during the year (408,628) 3.45 (295,622) 2.14
Outstanding at 31 December 909,900 1.96 1,318,528 2.43
Exercisable at 31 December 909,900 1.96 1,318,528 2.43
At 31 December 2011 the following options granted under the 1995 and 2002 ESOS to acquire Ordinary Shares were outstanding:
No. of options Earliest Exercisable Exercise
Grant date outstanding exercise date before price
19 March 2003 399,343 1 January 2012 19 March 2013 139.00p
9 March 2004 510,557 1 January 2012 9 March 2014 240.83p
The options outstanding at 31 December 2011 have a weighted average outstanding term of 1.8 years (31 December 2010: 2.3 years).
98 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 98 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 99
27. Deferred income
2011 2010
£m £m
At 1 January 11.8 12.9
Fair value of additions arising on acquisition of TRC – 0.7
Income deferred in the year 2.4 2.4
Amortisation in the year (3.9) (4.2)
At 31 December 10.3 11.8
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Split as follows:
Non-current liabilities 7.0 8.1
Current liabilities 3.3 3.7
10.3 11.8
Deferred income primarily comprises initial fees arising on investments into open-ended funds. These fees are initially recognised as deferred
income and released to income over the estimated period (2011: four to seven years; 2010: four to seven years) for which the investment is
expected to be held.
28. Other financial liabilities
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Non-current:
F&C REIT put option liabilities 41.5 49.5
Current:
F&C REIT put option liabilities 3.8 4.5
Total other financial liabilities 45.3 54.0
The F&C REIT put options represent the fair value of the potential future liability to purchase the 30% interest in F&C REIT currently held by the
minority interest partners in this business. The REIT parties have the right to require F&C to acquire all or part of their membership interests in
F&C REIT at a valuation determined by an independent valuer, subject to an overall cap on F&C’s liability of £100.0 million. Ivor Smith’s option
is exercisable after the third anniversary of Completion and Leo Noé’s option is exercisable after the seventh anniversary of Completion. While
Kendray Properties Limited does not have any direct right to require F&C to acquire its holding in F&C REIT, under the terms of the Partnership
Agreement Kendray cannot hold a greater interest in F&C REIT than the aggregate of Leo Noé’s and Ivor Smith’s interests (or the holder of their
beneficial interests) and is therefore effectively required to transfer an element of its holding such that this requirement is achieved. The
consideration for such a transfer would be fair value. Hence, in determining the gross liability of the option, Kendray Properties Limited’s entire
holding in F&C REIT has been included. The reduction in the fair value of the F&C REIT put option liabilities of £8.7m during 2011 (2010: £6.4m
reduction) has been released to the Income Statement as detailed in note 6(b).
An external valuation of the F&C REIT business is performed at each reporting date to enable a fair value to be placed on the F&C REIT put
option liabilities.
The average of three valuation methodologies (equally weighted) was used to place a fair value on the F&C REIT business, namely:
1. Discounted cash flow method
2. Market earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) multiple
3. Fixed EBITDA multiple
The main assumptions used in the valuation methodologies are:
(a) Projections of the profit and loss for F&C REIT:
Net new business: Based on the F&C REIT approved budget for year one, with management forecast projections for the
subsequent few years
Revenue growth: 1.5% – 7.0% per annum
Cost inflation: 3.5% per annum
(b) Discount rates: 12.5% on recurring cash flows
25.0% on non-recurring cash flows
(c) Perpetuity growth rates: 3.0% for recurring cash flows
3.0% for non-recurring cash flows
(d) Earnings multipliers: 9.0 x recurring EBITDA
3.0 x non-recurring EBITDA
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 99 29. Investment contract liabilities
Investment contract liabilities in respect of policyholder investments at the start and end of the year and an analysis of movements during the
year are as follows:
2011 2010
Note £m £m
Liability as at 1 January 559.2 649.9
Contributions received 41.6 66.4
Investment return applied 3 13.7 74.3
Charges levied (1.9) (3.1)
Repayments (139.8) (229.2)
Movement in contingency reserve – (0.2)
Movement in reinsurance ceded – 1.1
Liability as at 31 December 472.8 559.2
All investment contract liabilities have been disclosed as current liabilities as this is considered to be appropriate to the rights of policyholders
who may withdraw their investments at short notice. The Directors expect that the majority of the investment contract liabilities will be
repayable outwith one year.
30. Insurance contract liabilities
Insurance contract liabilities include life assurance liabilities in respect of lifetime guarantees provided with certain investment products, and
annuity liabilities in respect of pension investment contracts where the investor has retired. These liabilities and related reinsurance balances at
the start and end of the year, together with an analysis of movements in the year, are as follows:
2011 2010
Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2.0 (2.0) – 1.9 (1.9) –
Claims paid (0.2) 0.2 – (0.1) 0.1 –
Change in economic assumptions 0.1 (0.1) – 0.1 (0.1) –
Unwinding of discount rate 0.1 (0.1) – 0.1 (0.1) –
At 31 December 2.0 (2.0) – 2.0 (2.0) –
The reinsurance liabilities relate to annuity business reinsured with Friends Life Limited.
A liability adequacy test was carried out at policy level and resulted in no additional provision for either 2011 or 2010. No significant gain or loss
arose on reinsurance contracts incepted in 2011 or 2010.
Assumptions
The principal assumptions used in determining the insurance contract liabilities and the reinsurer’s share of these liabilities, and the process
adopted to arrive at these assumptions are as follows:
Mortality rates 2011 2010
Annuities in payment Males: 97% FCMA00;
Females: 92% FCFA00 82–93% PCXA00
Due to the small number of annuity policies, the mortality assumptions reflect recent experience of the reinsurer together with an allowance for
future mortality improvement. Experience analysis for mortality is performed annually by the reinsurer.
Discount rate
The discount rate used at 31 December 2011 is 4.02% (31 December 2010: 4.81%) based on current fixed interest gross redemption yields,
with a prudent adjustment for risk.
100 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 100 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 101
31. Share capital
31 December 2011 31 December 2010
No. of No. of
Ordinary Share capital of 0.1p shares £m shares £m
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
Equity interests
Ordinary Shares of 0.1p* 532,118,789 0.5 532,118,789 0.5
* Includes those categorised as own shares.
2011 2010
No. of No. of
shares shares
Issued at 1 January 532,118,789 499,273,120
Placing of new shares – 24,807,145
Issued at Completion in respect of TRC Commutation arrangements – 6,085,996
Issue of shares at par to settle share-based payment awards
†
– 1,952,528
Issued at 31 December 532,118,789 532,118,789
†
During 2010 Ordinary Shares were allotted at par value into an EBT to settle share-based payment awards. There was no exercise price associated with these
awards.
The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at
meetings of the Company.
The Group held the following Ordinary Shares in Employee Benefit Trusts (EBTs) or similar arrangements. These are categorised as own shares
and are deducted from shareholders’ funds:
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
No. No.
F&C Management Limited Employee Benefit Trust 10,437,516 17,778,910
The Ivory & Sime Employee Benefit Trust 64,176 64,176
Thames River Capital (UK) Limited Family Benefit Plan 1,185,960 1,139,460
Held by RBC cees in a nominee capacity
#
2,253,335 2,195,059
13,940,987 21,177,605
#
These are specifically held as TRC Deferred Commutation Shares in respect of Commutation arrangements.
The aggregate nominal value of own shares held by EBTs at 31 December 2011 was £14,000 (31 December 2010: £21,000). The market
value of these shares at 31 December 2011 was £9.1m (31 December 2010: £17.8m).
During the year, the Group purchased 4,125,841 of its own 0.1p Ordinary Shares (2010: 14,988,822) to satisfy the settlements of awards
granted under share schemes and to hold as own shares within an EBT. The consideration paid for the shares was £3.2m (2010: £9.7m).
32. Reserves
The analysis of movements in reserves is disclosed within the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 45.
Nature and purpose of reserves:
Share premium account
The share premium account is used to record the issue of share capital in excess of par value.
Capital redemption reserve
The Capital redemption reserve is used to maintain the capital of the Company when shares are bought back and subsequently cancelled
without Court Approval.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve is used to record share premium on shares issued by way of consideration in respect of acquisitions. The element of the
merger reserve which relates to amortisation and impairment of intangible assets charged to the Income Statement is considered to be
realised.
A transfer is made from the merger reserve to retained earnings to recognise the extent to which the merger reserve has been realised, thereby
offsetting the corresponding element of the intangible amortisation and any impairment charge.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 101 32. Reserves continued
Other reserves:
• Foreign currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of
foreign operations and non-Sterling denominated intangible assets.
• Fair value reserve
This reserve records fair value changes on available for sale investments until the investments are derecognised.
• Acquisition reserve
The acquisition reserve was created on the initial recognition of the F&C REIT NCI put option liabilities.
Retained earnings
Movements in retained earnings comprises:
• net profits and losses recognised through the Income Statement;
• dividend distributions to equity holders;
• actuarial gains and losses recognised on pension obligations;
• deferred tax on actuarial gains and losses;
• transactions relating to equity-settled share-based payments, and deferred tax movements on share-based payments reflected
through equity;
• transactions with NCI in respect of their share of the partnerships;
• the purchase and sale of own shares; and
• transfers from merger reserve.
Non-controlling interests (NCI)
This reserve represents the share of the Group’s net assets which are not attributable to equity holders of the parent, including the NCI share of
intangible assets arising from business combinations and subsequent amortisation thereof.
33. Notes to the statement of cash flows
(a) Analysis of movements in statement of cash flows
2011 2010
Notes £m £m
Adjustments for non-cash items:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 3.2 2.7
Amortisation of intangible assets 13 46.4 51.4
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.1
Equity-settled share-based payment expenses 26 17.3 19.5
Non-cash movements on forward currency contracts – (0.9)
67.2 72.8
Changes in working capital and provisions:
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 78.6 (57.2)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (56.5) 50.9
Decrease in employee benefit liabilities (1.2) (2.1)
(Increase)/decrease in stock of units and shares 18(a)(ii) (0.8) 0.2
Increase in liabilities to members of LLPs 0.3 1.0
Decrease in other liabilities – (0.4)
Decrease in investment contract liabilities 29 (86.4) (90.7)
Increase in insurance contract liabilities – 0.1
Decrease in deferred acquisition costs 16 1.7 0.4
Decrease in deferred income 27 (1.5) (1.8)
Pension charge to operating profit less defined benefit pension contributions paid (3.6) (10.3)
Decrease in provisions (3.3) (2.5)
Decrease in unit-linked financial investments 18(a)(i)(1) 91.0 86.1
18.3 (26.3)
(b) Property, plant and equipment
During the period the Group acquired property, plant and equipment with an aggregate cost of £2.7m (2010: £1.2m). Cash payments of
£3.0m (2010: £1.1m) were made to purchase property, plant and equipment during the year.
(c) Cash and cash equivalents
Note 21 provides details of cash and cash equivalent balances, a description of cash and cash equivalents and restrictions on use of cash,
and note 22 gives details of loans and borrowing facilities.
102 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 102 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 103
34. Contingent liabilities
Ongoing business operations
In the normal course of its business, the Group is subject to matters of litigation or dispute. While there can be no assurances, at this time the
Directors believe, based on the information currently available to them, that it is not probable that the ultimate outcome of any of these matters
will have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Group.
35. Commitments
Operating leases
The Group has the following future minimum rentals payable in respect of non-cancellable operating leases and other contracts at the year
end:
Premises Other contracts
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2011 2010 2011 2010
£m £m £m £m
Not later than one year 12.1 12.9 3.2 2.8
Later than one year and not later than five years 35.1 39.5 1.3 1.1
Later than five years 24.5 33.4 – –
71.7 85.8 4.5 3.9
Commitments in respect of premises leases exclude service charges and other costs, which are variable in nature, and cannot be reliably
estimated.
Obligations in respect of other contracts are stated gross and exclude amounts potentially recoverable from brokers under commission sharing
arrangements.
Sub-lease receivables
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases at the year end are as follows:
Premises
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Not later than one year 3.3 3.8
Later than one year and not later than five years 11.5 11.3
Later than five years 8.3 9.1
23.1 24.2
A contingent lease payment, based on a percentage of revenue, is receivable in addition to the minimum lease payments in respect of one
property. The maximum amount receivable under this arrangement is £0.6m (31 December 2010: £0.6m) per annum.
Other commitments
A number of third-party administration services are provided under contracts with a fixed-term duration. The actual amounts payable under
these contracts vary according to the level of services received. The minimum amounts payable under the terms of the contracts are as
follows:
Third-party administration
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Not later than one year 4.0 –
Later than one year and not later than five years 13.8 –
Later than five years 2.4 –
20.2 –
Capital commitments
The amount of capital expenditure contracted for, but not provided for in the Financial Statements at 31 December 2011, was £0.1m
(31 December 2010: £0.5m).
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 103 36. Financial risk management
Overview
The Group has exposure to a number of business risks. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Group’s risk management
arrangements, but has delegated the implementation and operation of the Board policies to management. The Group’s risk management
policies and the risk management framework for identifying, monitoring and managing risks across the Group, including strategic and
operational risks, are outlined in the Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance on page 32.
The Directors consider it appropriate to differentiate between those financial risks which directly impact the Group and those which indirectly
impact the Group due to the risks borne by our clients and the consequential impact on the Group’s assets under management and revenues.
The Group’s direct or indirect exposure to financial instruments arises from the following financial risks:
• Market risk
• Credit risk
• Liquidity risk
This note presents information on the Group’s direct or indirect exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and
processes for measuring and managing risk and the management of the Group’s capital. Note 37 provides numerical analysis of the Group’s
financial instrument exposure to such risks, including relevant sensitivity analysis, at the reporting date.
Indirect earnings risk through client assets
As an active fund manager, the Group is responsible for managing assets in accordance with the mandates specified by our clients. The assets
managed by the Group are subject to varying financial risks (market, credit and liquidity). While these risks could result in financial loss or gain
through a change in asset value, these risks and rewards are fully borne by, or fall to the benefit of, our clients.
However, as the majority of the Group’s revenues are quantified as a percentage of assets under management (generally on a quarterly,
monthly or daily basis), the Group’s income is impacted by movements in client assets which are caused by the exposure to financial risks. As
a result of the direct link of revenues to the value of client assets, the Group’s interests are aligned to those of our clients.
A key risk to our business is that of poor investment performance, which could lead to the subsequent loss of client mandates. A key role of
the heads of F&C’s investment functions is to monitor the fund performance achieved by our investment professionals. Where it is considered
necessary, actions are taken to change process or personnel with a view to attaining top quartile performance. The Group has the ability to
earn performance fees from a number of our clients based on absolute performance or where out-performance of the benchmark or set
objective is achieved. These arrangements reinforce the alignment of the Group’s interests with those of our clients.
The key components of financial risk to which our clients are exposed are:
Market risk – the risk of financial loss arising from changes in the market prices of assets. Market risks include exposure to all asset classes,
including equities, fixed income products and property as well as currency risk and interest rate risk.
Credit risk – the risk of financial loss if a counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations in respect of assets held
within client portfolios. Credit risk can vary by asset class and individual instrument.
Liquidity risk – the risk of financial loss to client portfolios because a counterparty does not have sufficient financial resources available and is
unable to realise assets in order to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can only realise assets by suffering financial loss.
Direct earnings and capital exposure
The Group has direct exposure to the following risks in respect of financial instruments on the Statement of Financial Position:
• Market risk – the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises three types of risk: currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk.
• Credit risk – the risk of financial loss if a counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations in respect of financial
instruments held by the Group. Credit risk includes investment credit risk, counterparty risk, deposit and loan risks and country risk.
• Liquidity risk – the risk of the Group failing to maintain adequate levels of financial resources to enable it to meet its financial obligations
as they fall due. Liquidity risk arises because of the possibility that the Group could be required to pay its liabilities earlier than expected
or because of any inability to realise assets in order to meet obligations as they fall due or is only able to realise assets by suffering
financial loss.
A fuller analysis follows of the financial risks associated with the Group’s financial instruments, together with the objectives, policies and
processes to manage the Group’s exposure to those risks.
104 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 104 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 105
36. Financial risk management continued
Unit-linked assets and liabilities
A significant element of the value of the Group’s financial assets relates to the Group’s unit-linked pooled pension entity, F&C Managed Pension
Funds Limited (F&C MPF). As outlined in note 18(a)(i)(1), Financial Instruments, the risks and rewards associated with these assets, which are
held by F&C MPF, fall to be borne by, or to the benefit of, the underlying policyholders. As a result, the investment contract liabilities included in
the Statement of Financial Position are equal and opposite in value to the assets which are held on behalf of unit-linked policyholders. The
Group has no direct exposure to fluctuations in the value of the assets arising from changes in market prices or credit default, although the
revenue stream earned from managing these assets varies in line with the movement in assets held on behalf of clients.
The financial risk management disclosures specifically exclude policyholders’ unit-linked assets and liabilities relating to F&C MPF as there is no
direct exposure to the Group from the associated financial instruments.
Financial investments
Recognising that the Group’s revenue stream has significant financial exposure to fluctuations in assets managed on behalf of clients, a key
principle of the Group Treasury Policy set by the Board is to restrict investment of the Group’s assets to low risk deposits or money market
instruments where the risk of capital loss is low, thereby seeking to protect the Group’s capital. Advance Board approval is required for any
investment or financial instrument which does not follow this general principle.
The Board recognises that the Group has significant exposure to Euro-denominated cash flows, but at this point in time has not chosen not to
enter into any medium-term forward exchange contracts. During 2010 the Group recognised £0.9m of a realised gain in respect of a historic
medium-term forward currency contract. This gain represented the partial reversal of a £1.3m unrealised loss recognised in prior periods. As at
31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, the Group held short-term contracts, to a gross value of less than £1.0m, which were specifically
matched to foreign currency assets at year end.
Financial investments classified as available for sale, as detailed in note 14, primarily reflect the value of the Group’s private equity investments.
These represent carried interest entitlement which arises from the Group’s historical ownership of private equity businesses. The Board does
not seek to manage any of the financial risks associated with these investments and recognises that uncertainty exists as to the quantum and
timing of future distributions which may arise from these investments.
Other financial investments, classified as fair value through profit or loss, as detailed in note 18(a)(i)(2), primarily comprise assets held in
connection with current or historic employee remuneration arrangements. The Group has no net financial exposure to Purchased Equity Plan,
Bonus investments and TRC Employee Benefits assets as the risks and rewards of all movements in the value of these financial assets fall to
the beneficiary and are offset by equal and opposite movements in the Group’s associated employee benefit liabilities, which accrue over the
vesting period. The ‘NIC hedge’ economically hedges the Group’s exposure to movements in future national insurance contributions
obligations in respect of legacy employee share plans.
Stock of units and shares
The Group operates and manages a number of OEICs whose funds, into which retail and institutional investors can invest, have a wide range
of investment objectives. The Group holds a stock of units and shares in these OEIC funds in order to facilitate the creation and redemption of
units by investors. The Group’s risk management policy limits the aggregate value of the units held by the Group to £1.25m, thereby capping
the maximum financial risk exposure associated with these assets.
Trade debtors and accrued income
Trade debtors and accrued income represent amounts recognised within net revenue in the Income Statement, but which have not been
settled in cash. The nature of F&C’s business is such that asset management fees accrue based on daily, month-end or quarter-end asset
values which, once known, are billed to clients and are due to be settled in line with individual contractual terms. As a result, the aggregate
value of debtors and accrued income can represent up to four months of revenue at any point in time. In addition, as a significant portion of the
performance fees which can be earned by the Group accrue in respect of the calendar year and can only be billed subsequently, the quantum
of accrued income recognised in the Statement of Financial Position at the reporting date is generally higher than at other points during the
year and is sensitive to the magnitude of performance fees earned.
Before the Group takes on new clients, it undertakes the required “Know Your Client” procedures. As the Group manages assets on behalf of
clients and management fees are typically charged to and paid from the underlying funds managed by the Group, there is a relatively low risk
of default on management fees. The Group does not hold any credit insurance. Due to the scale of some of F&C’s larger clients, the Group is
exposed to a concentration of credit risk from large clients or groups of connected clients, arising from timing difference between the
recognition of income and the receipt of management fees outlined above. Very few clients have an external credit rating.
Where management fees are denominated in a currency other than Sterling, the Group is exposed to currency risk. As noted earlier, the Group
no longer hedges any significant element of its exposure to monetary assets denominated in foreign currency.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 105 36. Financial risk management continued
OEIC and unit trust debtors
‘OEIC and unit trust debtors’ include trustee debtors and debtors due from investors in respect of the purchase of units. Typically, the Group
recognises ‘OEIC and unit trust creditors’ of a similar magnitude at any point in time. In operating and managing OEICs, the Group seeks to
match the purchase and sale of investments to align to the receipt or payment of funds from or to investors. However, if these obligations are
not matched then there is a requirement for the Group to fund any shortfall from its corporate cash resources. The risk relating to unsettled
transactions is considered small due to the short settlement period involved. In the event that investors default on sums due, then the Group is
entitled to reimbursement of costs from the investor.
Cash and cash equivalents
F&C adopts a low risk approach to treasury management and seeks to ensure that its capital is preserved and financial risks are managed
appropriately.
The Group treasury operations are managed by the Finance function within parameters defined by the Board. The regulatory capital and
treasury position of the Group are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
The Group’s cash and cash equivalent assets are exposed to a number of financial risks in the normal course of its business. The policy
adopted is designed to manage risk and recognises that treasury management operations are specifically not treated as a profit centre. The
key aspects of this policy and its implementation are detailed below:
• Funds on deposit will only be placed on a short-term basis (maximum term 90 days) to help maximise regulatory capital.
• Deposits may only be placed with counterparties approved by the F&C Credit Committee, and the Board has set a £25.0m limit for the
maximum exposure to any single counterparty. The F&C Credit Committee’s primary focus is to assess the credit position of counterparties
prior to placing any client assets with them and to monitor credit risk thereafter.
• Exposure to cash and cash equivalent balances held in foreign currency is managed to reduce the risk of movements in exchange rates,
where possible, by the repatriation of surplus foreign currency into Sterling. This is achieved in practice via the regular settlement of the
Group’s transfer pricing arrangements and through the payment of dividends from foreign subsidiaries, having regard to any restrictions in
respect of their respective legal, regulatory and working capital requirements.
• Cash and deposit balances can be exposed to interest rate movements. The Group utilises the experience and skills of its professional
dealing team to obtain the best interest rates, ensuring the expected maturity dates of deposits are aligned to the Group’s working
capital requirements.
Any exception to the treasury policy requires the prior approval of the Board. Recognising the potential consequences of the recent global and
European financial crises, management sought to operate throughout 2010 and 2011 with a maximum corporate exposure to any one financial
institution of £15.0m. Prior approval was given for a limited number of exceptions.
Reinsurance assets
The Group’s unit-linked pooled pension subsidiary is an insurance company and has some exposure to insurance contract liabilities, as
outlined in note 30. These liabilities are fully reinsured as the Group seeks to have no net insurance exposure. The reinsurance assets represent
the expected amounts recoverable to meet insurance liabilities as they fall due. The Group has exposure to both credit and liquidity risk on
these assets.
Defined benefit pension deficit
The Group’s defined benefit pension deficit represents the discounted value of future pension obligations in excess of plan assets, details of
which are given in note 25.
The Group has exposure to movements in the market value of the plan assets, which include equities and LDI fixed interest pools.
Approximately 25% of the assets held in respect of the UK scheme are held in LDI pools, with maturity profiles which match the expected
maturity profile of pension obligations. The market values of the LDI pools are impacted by movements in interest rates.
The value of defined benefit pension obligations is quantified and discounted using corporate bond rates. Movements in these rates can have
a significant impact on the pension liabilities and hence the quantum of the Group’s pension deficit.
Management of capital
While F&C considers its capital to be its total equity, this is effectively managed via the net assets to which it relates. The Company’s Ordinary
Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. The Board monitors significant movements in the composition of its shareholder base.
Details of substantial interests in share capital are shown in the Report of the Directors on page 25. In the ordinary course of business the only
movements in the absolute number of shares in issue would be through the issue of new or own shares to satisfy obligations under share-
based payment arrangements or through the purchase of own shares to satisfy future share scheme obligations.
106 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 106 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 107
36. Financial risk management continued
The Directors give careful consideration to the appropriate funding structure for financing all acquisitions, which historically have included both
equity and debt funded transactions. During 2010 some 24.8 million new shares were placed in the market to partially fund the TRC
acquisition and some 6.1 million of new shares were issued in respect of the Commutation arrangements.
Dividends are only declared by the Board after due consideration of a number of key items, including the financial results and the outlook of the
financial position of the Company and of the Group. The dividend policy seeks to achieve a targeted dividend cover of 1.5 times underlying
earnings per share. The Board declared a total dividend of 3.0 pence per share for 2011.
The overall objective of shareholder liquidity risk management is to ensure that there is sufficient liquidity over short and medium time horizons
to meet the needs of the business. This includes liquidity to cover, among other things, capital expenditure, servicing debt and equity capital as
well as working capital to fund the Group’s day-to-day operational requirements. The Board indicated that it will seek to reduce net debt over
the medium-term, with a target of zero net debt to be achieved by the end of 2014. While the Board consider this target to be achievable, the
Directors recognise that a number of risks exist which could prevent this target from being achieved.
Working capital
Working capital is monitored on a daily basis to ensure that settlement terms of all forthcoming liabilities can be met. This activity includes
timely collection of debtors and monitoring of cash on deposit, having regard to regulatory capital requirements, as outlined below. The
Group’s Finance function includes a Treasury team which manages the cash flow requirements of the Group while seeking to maximise the
amount of cash on deposit.
At 31 December 2011 the Group had a £20m revolving credit facility and bank overdraft facilities available to it which provided some protection
against any short-term cash-flow deficiencies. The revolving credit facility expired on 29 February 2012. The undrawn committed facilities
available at the reporting date are shown in note 22 as are details of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
The Group has some £150m of Guaranteed Fixed-Rate Loan Notes which mature in December 2016 together with some £125m of
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes in issue. The earliest repayment date for these Subordinated Notes is 2016, but this can be extended
at the option of the Group to 2026. In addition, the Group has the option to defer interest payments on this subordinated debt, but if it elects to
do so then no dividend can be paid to Ordinary Shareholders until the cumulative amount of any unpaid interest due on the subordinated debt
is settled in full. No such interest payments have been deferred.
The Board Reserved List prohibits the use of derivatives including futures, options and forward contracts, in respect of the Group’s net assets,
without prior Board approval, recognising the general principle of seeking to minimise capital loss.
Regulatory capital requirements
The Group is required to maintain a minimum level of capital in accordance with the Capital Requirements Directive (CRD) prescribed in the UK
by the Financial Services Authority (FSA).
In 2006, the Group obtained from the FSA a waiver from meeting any minimum capital requirements under the consolidated supervision rules
of the CRD. This waiver took effect from 1 January 2007 and was due to expire at the end of 2011. However, in April 2011 the FSA approved
F&C’s application to renew the waiver, which now expires in April 2016.
At 31 December 2011, there were 15 regulated companies in the Group, of which 11 are registered in the United Kingdom and are subject to
regulation by the FSA. This includes F&C MPF which, being a regulated insurance firm, as opposed to an investment firm, is not part of the
consolidation Group for regulatory capital reporting purposes. Overseas regulated companies, registered in the Republic of Ireland, The
Netherlands, Portugal and Hong Kong are subject to regulatory capital requirements set out by their respective local regulatory authority, as
embedded within the legislation of those jurisdictions.
Regulations set out the measurement of Capital Resources and Capital Resources Requirements (CRR) to determine the regulatory capital
surplus or deficit. This CRR is referred to as the Pillar 1 capital requirements under the CRD.
For the UK-regulated investment firms, the CRR is the higher of:
•the sum of the ‘credit risk capital requirement’ and the ‘market risk capital requirement’; and
• the ‘fixed overhead requirement’.
Credit risk represents the risk of a party being unable to meet its obligations to a firm and is calculated using risk weighted percentages applied
to the various exposure amounts. The market risk for F&C represents the risk of loss from fluctuations in exchange rates and is calculated as a
percentage of the total of the long or short positions, denominated in foreign currencies, whichever is the greater. The fixed overhead
requirement is calculated as a quarter of a firm’s relevant fixed annual expenditure in the previous year’s audited Financial Statements.
The regulated companies are required to submit financial returns to the FSA, or the local regulatory authority for overseas companies, setting
out the calculation of the regulatory capital surplus (or deficit). The Group’s regulated companies are required to submit financial returns
monthly, quarterly or semi-annually, and the Group must submit a consolidated return semi-annually.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 107 36. Financial risk management continued
The CRD requires the Group to conduct an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP), referred to as Pillar 2 capital
requirements. The objective of this process is to ensure that companies have adequate capital to enable them to manage risks not deemed to
be adequately covered under the Pillar 1 minimum requirements. This is a forward-looking exercise which includes stress-testing key risks,
considering how the company would cope with a significant market down turn for example, and an assessment of the Group’s ability to
mitigate the risks.
All of the Group’s regulated entities maintained surpluses of regulatory capital throughout 2010 and 2011.
37. The extent of risks arising from financial instruments
Note 36 presents details of the Group’s direct or indirect exposure to financial risks arising from financial instruments and the Group’s
objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk and the management of the Group’s capital. This note provides numerical
analyses of the Group’s direct exposure to such financial risk, including relevant sensitivity analysis, at each reporting date.
The disclosures in this note exclude any policyholder unit-linked assets and liabilities in respect of F&C MPF, as the risks and rewards rest
primarily with the policyholders.
(a) Credit risk
(i) Maximum exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk. The maximum exposure of each class of
financial asset is:
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments 6.6 9.9
Stock of units and shares 0.9 0.1
Available for sale financial assets:
Financial investments 1.7 3.5
Loans and receivables:
Trade debtors 13.3 21.5
Accrued income 29.0 38.9
OEIC and unit trust debtors 29.5 81.2
Other debtors 4.8 10.8
Amounts owed by Achmea Group* – 1.4
Amounts owed by TRC related party entities 0.6 0.7
Amounts owned by F&C REIT related party entities 0.1 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholders 196.9 178.8
283.4 346.9
* As the Achmea Group ceased to be a related party during 2011, the balances are now included within other debtors at 31 December 2011.
The accrued income balance is higher than the average monthly balance during the year. This is primarily due to the level of performance fees
recognised at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010.
The quantum of OEIC and unit trust debtors fluctuates significantly during the year; the balance is dependent upon the timing and values of
creations and liquidations of units or shares.
108 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 108 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 109
37. The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
The credit risk of the financial assets analysed by the credit ratings of the counterparties, based on external credit ratings, is set out below:
Other Not
AAA AA A rated rated Total
As at 31 December 2011 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments – 1.2 – 0.3 5.1 6.6
Stock of units and shares –––– 0.9 0.9
Available for sale financial assets:
Financial investments –––– 1.7 1.7
Loans and receivables:
Trade debtors –– 0.3 0.1 12.9 13.3
Accrued income –– 0.1 0.1 28.8 29.0
OEIC and unit trust debtors –––– 29.5 29.5
Other debtors ––– 0.3 4.5 4.8
Amounts owed by TRC related party entities –––– 0.6 0.6
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities –––– 0.1 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholders 6.3 58.1 118.5 9.8 4.2 196.9
6.3 59.3 118.9 10.6 88.3 283.4
As at 31 December 2010
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments – 1.4 – 0.3 8.2 9.9
Stock of units and shares –––– 0.1 0.1
Available for sale financial assets:
Financial investments –––– 3.5 3.5
Loans and receivables:
Trade debtors –– 1.3 0.1 20.1 21.5
Accrued income –– 0.7 0.2 38.0 38.9
OEIC and unit trust debtors –––– 81.2 81.2
Other debtors –– 5.7 – 5.1 10.8
Amounts owed by Achmea Group –– 1.4 –– 1.4
Amounts owed by TRC related party entities –––– 0.7 0.7
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities –––– 0.1 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholders 16.8 67.0 71.0 24.0 – 178.8
16.8 68.4 80.1 24.6 157.0 346.9
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 109 37. The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
(ii) Analysis of financial assets past due but not impaired
The analysis of financial assets which are receivable but have not been impaired is as follows:
Neither Less Between Between
past due than 30 30 and 90 90 days Beyond
nor days days and 1 year 1 year
impaired overdue overdue overdue overdue Total
As at 31 December 2011 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments 6.6 –––– 6.6
Stock of units and shares 0.9 –––– 0.9
Available for sale financial assets:
Financial investments 1.7 –––– 1.7
Loans and receivables:
Trade debtors 7.7 2.2 2.2 1.2 – 13.3
Accrued income 29.0 –––– 29.0
OEIC and unit trust debtors 29.5 –––– 29.5
Other debtors 4.8 –––– 4.8
Amounts owed by TRC related party entities 0.6 –––– 0.6
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities 0.1 –––– 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholders 196.9 –––– 196.9
277.8 2.2 2.2 1.2 – 283.4
As at 31 December 2010
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments 9.9 –––– 9.9
Stock of units and shares 0.1 –––– 0.1
Available for sale financial assets:
Financial investments 3.5 –––– 3.5
Loans and receivables:
Trade debtors 10.9 2.6 3.5 4.5 – 21.5
Accrued income 38.9 –––– 38.9
OEIC and unit trust debtors 81.2 –––– 81.2
Other debtors 10.2 –– 0.2 0.4 10.8
Amounts owed by Achmea Group 1.4 –––– 1.4
Amounts owed by TRC related party entities ––– 0.7 – 0.7
Amounts owed by F&C REIT related party entities 0.1 –––– 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholders 178.8 –––– 178.8
335.0 2.6 3.5 5.4 0.4 346.9
Based on past experience and the nature of the Group’s business, the Directors believe that no additional impairment provision is necessary at
either 31 December 2011 or 31 December 2010 in respect of trade debtors. The trade debtor balances, which have been impaired at the
reporting dates, are shown below.
(iii) Impairment losses
Details of impairment of financial assets at 31 December are as follows:
Trade debtors provision:
2011 2010
£m £m
At 1 January 0.8 0.6
Bad debt charge in the year* 0.4 0.3
Utilised in the year (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 December 1.1 0.8
Gross impaired trade debtors 1.1 0.8
* Included within operating expenses in the Income Statement.
No other financial instruments have been impaired during 2011 (2010: none).
110 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 110 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 111
37. The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
(iv) Concentration risk
Specific concentration of risk in respect of amounts receivable from any one bank or financial institution, client or group of connected clients at
the reporting date is given below:
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
Concentrations of £1.0m or more £m £m
Amounts held with banks and similar financial institutions – 2011: 24 (2010: 17) 196.8 175.1
Amounts due from Achmea Group* – 4.4
Amounts due from OEIC Trustees 21.8 12.7
Amounts due from other significant clients – 2011: 9 clients (2010: 10) 25.3 88.2
Amounts due from significant other debtors – 2011: no debtors (2010: 1) – 5.5
243.9 285.9
* As the Achmea Group ceased to be a related party during 2011, the balances are now included within other significant clients at 31 December 2011.
Concentration risk comprises individual entities or clients with a receivable balance of £1.0m or more at the reporting date. This disclosure
shows the potential impact of some of these entities or clients failing to satisfy payment of the receivable amounts. The table does not consider
the likelihood of any of these entities or clients defaulting.
(b) Liquidity risk
The following are the maturity dates of the Group’s financial liabilities:
Within
1 year, or More
repayable Within Within than
on demand 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total
As at 31 December 2011 £m £m £m £m £m
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings:
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 –– 125.0 – 125.0
Interest on Subordinated Notes* 8.4 8.4 25.4 – 42.2
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 –– 149.7 – 149.7
Interest on Guaranteed Loan Notes 2016 13.5 13.5 40.3 – 67.3
Trade and other payables:
Trade creditors 3.7 ––– 3.7
OEIC and unit trust creditors 27.8 ––– 27.8
Other creditors 21.3 0.7 1.9 1.4 25.3
Accruals 18.0 1.6 0.8 0.5 20.9
Liabilities to members of LLPs 4.7 ––– 4.7
Other financial liabilities 3.8 3.8 37.7 – 45.3
101.2 28.0 380.8 1.9 511.9
As at 31 December 2010
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings:
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 ––– 125.0 125.0
Interest on Subordinated Notes* 8.4 8.4 25.3 8.5 50.6
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 ––– 149.7 149.7
Interest on Guaranteed Loan Notes 2016 13.5 13.5 40.4 13.4 80.8
Trade and other payables:
Trade creditors 3.4 ––– 3.4
OEIC and unit trust creditors 80.1 ––– 80.1
Other creditors 25.8 7.9 0.9 1.3 35.9
Accruals 25.1 – 1.5 0.5 27.1
Amounts owed to Achmea Group 2.0 ––– 2.0
Amounts owed to F&C REIT related party entities 0.3 ––– 0.3
Liabilities to members of LLPs 4.4 ––– 4.4
Other financial liabilities 4.5 4.5 45.0 – 54.0
167.5 34.3 113.1 298.4 613.3
* To the date of the Group’s option to extend the Notes beyond 19 December 2016.
The quantum of OEIC and unit trust creditors fluctuates significantly during the year; the balance is dependent upon the timing and values of
creations and liquidations of units or shares.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 111 37. The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
The maturity dates of the Group’s financial liabilities have been determined by reference to the earliest contractual date on which the
counterparty could demand payment and the stated amounts represent undiscounted cash flows.
Other financial liabilities comprise the F&C REIT put options, included at the earliest date at which the options could be exercised.
The Group has borrowing facilities available to it. The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 are
shown in note 22.
(c) Market risk
(i) Market price risk
The analysis of financial assets which are exposed to market price risk is as follows:
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Financial investments 5.4 8.5
Stock of units and shares 0.9 0.1
6.3 8.6
Details of the assets held by the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes, which are also exposed to market price risk, are given in note 25.
(ii) Other price risk
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Available for sale financial assets:
Financial investments 1.7 3.5
(iii) Currency risk
The Group is exposed to currency risk at the reporting date in respect of:
• Financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies; and
• The foreign currency risk of net assets of foreign operations.
The net monetary assets and net investment in foreign operations, in Sterling, which are denominated in foreign currencies or for which the fair
value of the asset or liability varies with movements in foreign currencies are:
Euro US Dollar Other Total
£m £m £m £m
As at 31 December 2011 64.0 2.8 1.4 68.2
As at 31 December 2010 75.0 11.0 1.7 87.7
The above table excludes intangible assets.
112 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 112 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 113
37. The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
(iv) Interest rate risk
The following tables set out the carrying amount and maturity profile of the Group’s financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk:
Within Within Within More than
1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years
As at 31 December 2011 £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate:
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 –– (125.0) –
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 –– (149.7) –
Financial investments – corporate bonds –– 0.3 –
Financial investments – NIC hedge 0.1 –––
Floating rates:
Financial investments – NIC hedge 1.2 –––
Financial investments – mutual funds 0.3 –––
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholder 196.9 –––
198.5 – (274.4) –
As at 31 December 2010
Fixed rate:
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 ––– (125.0)
Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 ––– (149.7)
Financial investments – corporate bonds –– 0.3 –
Financial investments – NIC hedge –– 0.1 –
Floating rates:
Financial investments – NIC hedge 1.5 –––
Cash and cash equivalents – shareholder 178.8 –––
180.3 – 0.4 (274.7)
(v) Sensitivity analysis
The Group has quantified the impact of specific changes in its significant market risk variables. This analysis measures the change in fair value
of the Group’s financial instruments.
The sensitivity analysis, which is for illustrative purposes only, is prepared based on financial instruments at the reporting dates. The sensitivity
assumes changes in certain market conditions. These assumptions may differ materially from the actual outturn due to the inherent
uncertainties in global financial markets. In practice, market risks rarely change in isolation and are likely to be interdependent. The methods
and assumptions used are the same for both reporting periods.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared based on the impact that a set percentage increase or decrease in the market conditions would
have on the profit or loss and on total equity.
Changes in exchange rates assume an instantaneous increase or decrease of 10.0% in foreign currency to Sterling rates at the reporting date,
with all other variables remaining constant.
The estimated changes in fair values of investments assume a 10.0% increase or decrease in the fair values of investments at the reporting
date, with all other variables remaining constant.
Changes in market interest rates assume an increase or decrease of 1.0% in the rate applied to average cash balances in the year.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 113 37. The extent of risks arising from financial instruments continued
The financial impact of market risk sensitivities, after taxation, are summarised below:
Profit or loss Profit or loss Equity Equity
sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity
As at 31 December 2011 £m £m £m £m
Exchange rate movement* +10% -10% +10% -10%
Sterling/Euro exchange rates 1.0 (1.2) 5.5 (6.7)
Sterling/USD exchange rates 0.1 (0.2) 0.1 (0.2)
Fair value movement – Investments +10% -10% +10% -10%
Sterling equity prices 0.4 (0.4) 0.6 (0.6)
Interest rate movement +1% -1% +1% -1%
Sterling market interest rates 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5)
As at 31 December 2010
Exchange rate movement* +10% -10% +10% -10%
Sterling/Euro exchange rates 0.8 (0.9) 6.5 (7.8)
Sterling/USD exchange rates 0.4 (0.6) 0.4 (0.6)
Fair value movement – Investments +10% -10% +10% -10%
Sterling equity prices 0.6 (0.6) 0.8 (0.8)
Interest rate movement +1% -1% +1% -1%
Sterling market interest rates 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5)
* +10% represents a movement in favour of the Group and -10% represents a movement against the Group.
In addition, the F&C REIT put options are disclosed in note 28 at fair value. A 10% movement in the fair value of the options at 31 December
2011 would result in a £4.5m (31 December 2010: £5.4m) charge or credit to the Income Statement and to equity.
Impairment of financial assets can also be affected by changes in the relevant underlying risk.
(d) Capital
A summary of the Group’s capital and the net assets which it represents is shown below:
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Share capital 0.5 0.5
Share premium account 51.8 51.8
Capital redemption reserve 0.8 0.8
Merger reserve 359.7 383.3
Other reserves (22.8) (19.5)
Retained earnings 154.3 138.2
Non-controlling interests 12.5 16.5
Total equity 556.8 571.6
Net assets 556.8 571.6
Note 36 describes the Group’s management of capital, working capital and regulatory capital requirements.
38. Insurance risk management
The Group’s insurance contracts are all annuity contracts which guarantee payment during the lifetime of the annuitant at a specified level or
with a specified escalation factor. They are all 100% reinsured with Friends Life Limited.
The only risk that the Group is subject to in respect of these contracts is the credit risk of the reinsurer. Given the small amount at risk (£2.0m
at 31 December 2011; £2.0m at 31 December 2010), this is not considered to be significant.
114 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 114 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 115
39. Subsidiary undertakings
The principal entities controlled by the parent undertaking are as follows:
Percentage Country of
interest and registration or
voting rights* incorporation Nature of business
(i) United Kingdom
FP Asset Management Holdings Limited
(1)
100 England Holding company
F&C Asset Management Services Limited
(1)
100 Scotland Employee service company
ISIS Investment Manager plc
(1)
100 England Investment management
F&C Managed Pension Funds Limited
(1)
100 England Unit-linked pooled pensions business
F&C Treasury Limited
(1)
100 England Treasury management company
F&C Group (Holdings) Limited
(1)
100 England Holding company
F&C Group ESOP Trustee Limited
(1)
100 Scotland ESOP Trustee
F&C Investment Business Limited
(1)
100 Scotland Investment management
F&C Finance plc
(1)
100 England Debt financing company
F&C Aurora (GP) Limited
(1)
100 Scotland General Partner
The Aurora Fund (Founder Partner) LP
(1)
50
†
Scotland Founder Partner
F&C European Capital Partners (GP) Limited
(1)
100 Scotland General Partner
F&C European Capital Partners (Founder Partner) LP
(1)
50
†
Scotland Founder Partner
F&C Climate Opportunity Partners (GP) Limited
(1)
100 Scotland General Partner
F&C Climate Opportunity Partners (Founder Partner) LP
(1)
50
†
Scotland Founder Partner
F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
(1)
70
†
England Property asset management
FP Fund Managers Limited
(2)
100 England Investment management
F&C Asset Managers Limited
(2)
100 England Investment management
F&C Property Limited
(2)
100 England Property asset management
WAM Holdings Limited
(3)
100 England Holding company
F&C Property Investments Limited
(4)
100 England Property asset management
F&C Fund Management Limited
(4)
100 England OEIC investment management
F&C Managers Limited
(4)
100 England Investment management
F&C Alternative Investments (Holdings) Limited
(5)
100 England Holding company
F&C Group Management Limited
(5)
100 England Holding company
F&C Holdings Limited
(6)
100 England Holding company
F&C (CI) Limited
(7)
100 England Investment company
F&C Investment Services Limited
(7)
100 England Support services company
F&C Management Limited
(7)
100 England Investment management
FCEM Holdings (UK) Limited
(8)
100 England Holding company
F&C Emerging Markets Limited
(9)
100 England Investment management
F&C Partners LLP
(10)
100
†
England Hedge fund investment management
F&C Private Equity Nominee Limited
(11)
100 England Investment company
F&C REIT Property Asset Management plc
(12)
70 England Property asset management
REIT Asset Management Limited
(12)
70 England Property asset management
F&C REIT Corporate Finance Limited
(13)
70 England Property asset management
Tier Services Limited
(14)
70 England Property asset management
Thames River Capital UK Limited
(16)
100 England Employee service company
Thames River Capital LLP
(17)#
100
†
England Investment management
Thames River Multi-Capital LLP
(17)#
100
†
England Investment management
(ii) Non United Kingdom
Thames River Capital Group Limited
(1)
100 Cayman Islands Holding company
F&C Netherlands B.V.
(5)
100 The Netherlands Investment management
F&C Ireland Limited
(5)
100 Republic of Ireland Investment management
F&C Portugal Gestao de Patrimonios S.A.
(5)
100 Portugal Investment management
F&C Asset Management Asia Limited.
(5)
100 Hong Kong Investment management
F&C Management Luxembourg S.A.
(5)
100 Luxembourg Investment management
F&C Channel Islands Limited
(8)
100 Jersey Employee service company
F&C REIT Asset Management S.à.r.l.
(12)
70 Luxembourg Property asset management
F&C REIT Asset Management Sweden AB
(14)
70 Sweden Property asset management
F&C REIT Asset Worldwide Limited
(14)
70 Gibraltar Property asset management
F&C REIT Asset Management GmbH & Co KG
(14)
70
†
Germany Property asset management
F&C REIT Property Management India Pvt Ltd
(14)#
70 India Property asset management
Thames River Capital Holdings Limited
(15)
100 Cayman Islands Holding company
* Voting rights are ordinary share capital except where indicated.
†
Partnership interest in voting rights.
#
These companies have non-coterminous 31 March reporting dates, to comply with local reporting requirements and partnership agreements.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 115 39. Subsidiary undertakings continued
(1) Owned by F&C Asset Management plc
(2) Owned by FP Asset Management Holdings Limited
(3) Owned by F&C Treasury Limited
(4) Owned by WAM Holdings Limited
(5) Owned by F&C Group (Holdings) Limited
(6) Owned by F&C Group Management Limited
(7) Owned by F&C Holdings Limited
(8) Owned by F&C Management Limited
(9) Owned by FCEM Holdings (UK) Limited
(10) Owned by F&C Alternative Investments (Holdings) Limited
(11) Owned by F&C (CI) Limited
(12) Owned by F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
(13) Owned by REIT Asset Management Limited
(14) Owned by F&C REIT Asset Management S.à.r.l.
(15) Owned by Thames River Capital Group Limited
(16) Owned by Thames River Capital Holdings Limited
(17) Owned by Thames River Capital UK Limited
40. Related party transactions
In the ordinary course of business, the Group carried out transactions with related parties, as defined by IAS 24: Related Party Disclosures.
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company are shown in note 39.
During the year, the Group entered into the following transactions with related parties:
(a) Compensation of key management personnel of the Group
In aggregate these are set out below:
Total Outstanding at Total Outstanding at
compensation 31 December compensation 31 December
2011 2011 2010 2010
£m £m £m £m
Short-term employee and member benefits 13.5 6.1 10.2 4.2
Post-employment benefits 0.8– 0.8 –
Termination benefits 1.7 0.7 ––
Share-based payments 6.0 – 3.2 –
Total 22.0 6.8 14.2 4.2
‘Key management personnel’ comprise:
• Directors of all principal companies in the Group;
• Members of the Group Management;
• Members of F&C REIT’s Executive Committee; and
• Members of TRC’s Management Committee.
116 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 116 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 117
40. Related party transactions continued
Compensation of key management personnel excludes the profit entitlement attributable to minority interests, which are separately disclosed
within note 40(c)(iii).
Where key management personnel participate in defined benefit pension schemes which have been accounted for as such under IAS 19, the
amount included as compensation reflects the current service and/or past service cost for the relevant year. Where key management personnel
are members of multi-employer defined benefit arrangements or defined contribution schemes, the benefits shown reflect the contributions
payable for each year.
The share-based payments disclosed in the table above reflect the value of any share-based payments vesting during the year. This is
quantified as the aggregate of cash payments plus the fair value of shares on the date of vesting (excluding any consideration payable on
exercise) of such share-based payment awards.
(b) Transactions with key management personnel of the Group
Appropriations of profits paid to key management are as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
Ordinary dividends paid 0.1 0.2
Distributions paid to minority interests* 7.1 5.9
* An analysis of profit entitlements for 2011 and 2010 and net assets attributable to minority interests at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 are disclosed
on pages 119 and 120.
(c) Transactions and balances with Group related parties
Transactions with related parties during 2011 and 2010 and outstanding balances with these parties as at 31 December 2011 and
31 December 2010 are given below, by each group of related parties.
(i) Related party transactions with Sherborne
Sherborne owns approximately 20% of the Ordinary Share capital of F&C and is represented on the Board by the Executive Chairman, Edward
Bramson, who is a partner in Sherborne. Sherborne is entitled to ordinary dividends, and a fee in respect of the Chairman’s services to F&C.
The Group’s transactions with Sherborne are disclosed below:
Total expensed Outstanding at Total expensed Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2011 2011 during 2010 2010
£m £m £m £m
Ordinary dividends paid to Sherborne* 3.0 – n/a n/a
Director’s fees payable to Sherborne* 0.1 – n/a n/a
Other expenses payable to Sherborne* 0.2 – n/a n/a
* With effect from Mr Bramson’s appointment as Chairman on 3 February 2011.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 117 40. Related party transactions continued
(ii) Related party transactions with Achmea B.V. and subsidiary companies (Achmea Group)
While the Achmea Group held in excess of 10% of the Ordinary Share capital of the Company they were entitled to appoint a representative to
the Board of the Company. However, since 1 March 2011, Achmea no longer had Board representation and as a result ceased to be a related
party. The disclosures below represent transactions up to that date or balances at that date.
Companies within the F&C Group provide investment management services to the Achmea Group. Companies within the Achmea Group,
under the Transitional Services Agreement, provide services in respect of investment accounting and other administration services.
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2011* 2011 during 2010 2010
£m £m £m £m
Shared services and administrative services:
Achmea Group 0.1 n/a 0.2 –
Friends First – n/a 0.1 0.1
Amounts outstanding at 31 December are included within accruals.
Management fees:
Achmea Group 4.0 n/a 25.5 1.5
Friends First 0.8 n/a 4.6 0.2
Imperio 0.1 n/a 0.5 0.2
Amounts outstanding at 31 December are included
within trade debtors and accrued income.
Dividends payable to Achmea B.V.:
Ordinary dividends n/a n/a 2.6 –
* Until Achmea ceased to have Board representation on 1 March 2011.
Other amounts owed by/to Achmea
In addition to the above, the Group was owed £1.7m at 1 March 2011 (31 December 2010: £1.4m) by Achmea B.V. and its subsidiaries.
The Group also owed Achmea B.V. £1.3m at 1 March 2011 (31 December 2010: £1.3m) in respect of taxation balances.
The Group owed Achmea B.V. £0.7m at 31 December 2011 (31 December 2010: £0.7m) in respect of additional estimated purchase
consideration for the acquisition of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited on 11 October 2004 as disclosed in note 15(c).
(iii) Transactions with minority partners
(1) F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
F&C Asset Management plc owns 70% of the “A” and “B” partnership units in F&C REIT Asset Management LLP (the Partnership). The other
partners in the Partnership, all of whom have significant influence over the management of the Partnership or a significant economic interest in
the Partnership are:
Kendray Properties Limited 30.0% ownership interest in “B” units
Leo Noé 22.5% ownership interest in “A” units
Ivor Smith 7.5% ownership interest in “A” units
These parties are considered to be related parties.
118 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 118 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 119
40. Related party transactions continued
The partners are entitled to receive a share of the profits of F&C REIT Group as disclosed in the table below:
2011 2010
amortisation 2011 2011 NCI at amortisation 2010 2010 NCI at
of intangible profit distributions 31 December of intangible profit distributions 31 December
assets share paid 2011 assets share paid 2010
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Kendray Properties Limited (1.0) 2.3 (3.5) 6.8 (1.2) 2.4 (2.4) 9.0
Leo Noé (0.7) 1.9 (2.4) 4.7 (0.9) 2.2 (2.3) 5.9
Ivor Smith (0.3) 0.7 (1.0) 1.0 (0.3) 0.7 (0.9) 1.6
(2.0) 4.9 (6.9) 12.5 (2.4) 5.3 (5.6) 16.5
F&C has a shared services agreement and a staff secondment agreement with F&C REIT Asset Management LLP whereby the F&C Group
provides certain administrative and professional services to the F&C REIT Group. Amounts charged under these agreements are set out below:
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2011 2011 during 2010 2010
£m £m £m £m
Shared services and administrative services:
Employee benefits 9.3 4.3 9.0 3.3
Administration service fees 1.0 0.2 1.0 0.1
The above amounts are eliminated on consolidation.
In addition, F&C REIT Asset Management LLP paid Leo Noé and Ivor Smith £0.4m during 2011 (2010: £0.5m) in respect of rent for the F&C
REIT Group’s head office at Wigmore Street, London.
The F&C REIT Asset Management LLP Group has balances with several entities connected with the minority partners of the Partnership. These
balances primarily remain from the creation of the F&C REIT Group in 2008.
Balances Balances
outstanding at outstanding at
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Kendray Properties Limited – (0.3)
REIT Europe Limited 0.1 0.1
During 2011, F&C Asset Management plc made a carried interest investment in F&C REIT Carry LP , an associated entity. This investment will
entitle the Company to future carried interest profits from the management of F&C REIT Club Deals LP .
£13.5m of profit distributions were paid by F&C REIT Asset Management LLP to the Company in 2011 (2010: £10.6m), which eliminate on
consolidation.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 119 40. Related party transactions continued
Certain management fees receivable by F&C companies outwith the F&C REIT Group are passed to the F&C REIT Group under revenue
delegation agreements, as the asset management activity has been delegated to F&C REIT. Amounts payable during the year and outstanding
at the year end are set out below:
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2011 2011 during 2010 2010
£m £m £m £m
Management fees 11.2 4.4 13.3 4.6
These amounts are eliminated on consolidation.
As part of the acquisition of REIT in 2008, F&C issued £35.0m of Floating Rate Secured Notes to Kendray Properties Limited, of which £25.0m
was repaid to Kendray Properties Limited during 2009 and £10.0m was repaid in 2010.
Interest on Floating Rate Secured Notes
Charged Outstanding at Charged Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2011 2011 during 2010 2010
£m £m £m £m
Interest payable to Kendray Properties Limited –– 0.2 –
The F&C Group recognises a share-based payment credit or expense in respect of the variable minority interest enhancement which could be
achieved by Kendray Properties Limited, Leo Noé and Ivor Smith. Full details are disclosed in note 26(c).
The F&C REIT minority partners each have a put option to sell their minority stake in F&C REIT after a minimum number of years. Details of the
carrying amount of these option liabilities are disclosed in note 28. The option liability is split in the ownership proportions of Kendray Properties
Limited, Leo Noé and Ivor Smith.
(2) F&C Partners LLP
F&C Alternative Investments (Holdings) Limited owned 60% of F&C Partners LLP until the founder partners exercised their put options over
their shares on 7 October 2011, whereupon F&C acquired the remaining 40% of the interest in the Partnership. The founder partners, both of
whom held significant influence over the management of the Partnership and had the following economic interest in the Partnership until
7 October 2011, were:
F. Barthelemy 20% ownership interest
A. Culligan 20% ownership interest
These parties were considered to be related parties until the date of transfer of the membership interests.
The partners were entitled to receive a share of the profits in F&C Partners LLP .
2011 NCI at 2010 NCI at
2011 profit distributions 31 December 2010 profit distributions 31 December
entitlement* paid* 2011 entitlement paid 2010
£m £m £m £m £m £m
F. Barthelemy 0.1125 (0.1125) n/a 0.15 (0.15) –
A. Culligan 0.1125 (0.1125) n/a 0.15 (0.15) –
0.225 (0.225) n/a 0.3 (0.3) –
*Until 7 October 2011.
Under the terms of the Partnership agreement, a portion of certain management fees receivable by F&C Partners LLP are passed to F&C
Alternative Investments (Holdings) Limited.
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2011 2011 during 2010 2010
£m £m £m £m
Management fees – n/a 0.2 0.1
These amounts are eliminated on consolidation.
120 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 120 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 121
40. Related party transactions continued
The Group has a shared services agreement with F&C Partners LLP whereby the F&C Group provides certain administrative and professional
services to F&C Partners LLP .
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2011* 2011 during 2010 2010
£m £m £m £m
Employee services 0.3 n/a 0.8 0.4
Administration service fees 0.1 n/a 0.1 –
These amounts are eliminated on consolidation.
* Until 7 October 2011.
(iv) Transactions with Thames River Capital related party entities
Two of the directors of Thames River Capital UK Limited are also members of Nevsky Capital LLP , an entity to which Thames River Capital UK
Limited provides support and infrastructure services.
Thames River Capital UK Limited recharges Nevsky Capital LLP at cost for these services.
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2011 2011 during 2010* 2010
£m £m £m £m
Support and infrastructure services:
Nevsky Capital LLP 3.0 0.6 0.6 0.7
*Period from 1 September 2010 – 31 December 2010.
(v) Post-employment benefit plans
The Group operates and participates in several post-employment benefit plans as detailed in note 25.
The Group contributed amounts to the defined benefit plans and had amounts outstanding at 31 December each year as follows:
Employer Outstanding at Employer Outstanding at
contributions 31 December contributions 31 December
2011 2011 2010 2010
£m £m £m £m
F&C Asset Management Pension Plan 5.3 – 8.1 –
F&C Portugal
(1)
0.4 – 0.3 –
F&C Netherlands 0.6 – 0.4 –
F&C Ireland 0.2 – 0.2 –
6.5 – 9.0 –
(1)
Incorporated within the Fundo de Pensoes do Grupo Banco Comercial Português scheme.
In addition to the above, the Group has an unfunded obligation to provide a former Chairman, Mr R W Jenkins, with a pension as detailed in
note 25.
The Group manages certain of the assets of the F&C Asset Management Pension Plan. The assets of the Plan managed by the Group totalled
£189.8m at 31 December 2011 (31 December 2010: £176.1m).
The Group received the following investment management fees from this scheme:
Fees Outstanding at Fees Outstanding at
receivable 31 December receivable 31 December
2011 2011 2010 2010
£m £m £m £m
F&C Asset Management Pension Plan 0.1 – 0.1 –
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 121 40. Related party transactions continued
(vi) Asset management vehicles
The Group has some carried interest investments in asset management vehicles, which entitle the Group to a share of profits if certain
investment return thresholds are achieved.
The Group provides asset management services for a number of asset management vehicles where Group companies directly sponsor or are
involved in the management of underlying funds, which meet the criteria of related parties. In return the Group receives investment
management fees for provision of these services.
These asset management vehicles and the investment management fees are summarised below:
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2011 2011 during 2010 2010
£m £m £m £m
Asset management vehicles 51.9 4.5 52.1 4.5
41. Capital Requirements Directive
Under Pillar 3 of the Capital Requirements Directive, prescribed in the UK by the Financial Services Authority, the Group is required to disclose
information relating to its risks, regulatory capital, remuneration policy and risk management objectives and policies. The Group’s Pillar 3
disclosures are given on the Company’s website (www.fcamplc.com).
42. Guarantees
The Company’s subsidiary, F&C Netherlands B.V., has provided a lease guarantee for £0.3m to the landlord of its premises at Jachthavenweg
109E, 1081 KM Amsterdam.
43. Events after the reporting period
Corporation Tax
The Chancellor of the Exchequer announced a further Corporation Tax rate reduction in his budget of 21 March 2012. This will become
effective from 1 April 2012 and will now move the UK Group’s statutory effective tax rate to 24.5% for 2012. Furthermore this reduction will
move the Group’s tax rate to 22% by 2015.
44. Parent undertaking and controlling party
In the opinion of the Directors, the Group has no ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party.
122 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 122 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 123
Historical summaries
The Five Year Record is shown based on International Financial Reporting Standards which have been adopted by the Group.
This Five Year Record is not part of the audited Financial Statements.
2008
2007 (as restated
*
) 2009 2010 2011
£m £m £m £m £m
Consolidated Income Statements
Revenue
Investment management fees 267.2 244.2 237.8 258.2 279.0
Other income 10.6 1.1 4.1 1.6 4.2
Total revenue 277.8 245.3 241.9 259.8 283.2
Fee and commission expenses (13.3) (15.4) (16.8) (16.6) (16.2)
Net revenue 264.5 229.9 225.1 243.2 267.0
Net gains/(losses) and investment income on unit-linked assets 45.0 (208.7) 136.0 74.3 13.7
Movement in fair value of unit-linked liabilities (43.9) 210.5 (134.6) (73.3) (13.4)
Operating expenses
Operating expenses (183.8) (171.0) (164.8) (169.7) (183.8)
Distributions to members of LLPs ––– (6.0) (18.3)
Amortisation of intangible assets – management contracts (42.4) (48.9) (49.8) (50.7) (45.8)
Impairment of intangible assets – management contracts – (48.3) –– –
Unrealised (losses)/gains on forward currency contracts – (12.3) 1.2 – –
Other exceptional net operating costs (10.6) (10.6) (19.0) (20.9) (19.0)
Total operating expenses (236.8) (291.1) (232.4) (247.3) (266.9)
Operating profit/(loss) 28.8 (59.4) (5.9) (3.1) 0.4
Finance revenue 23.8 25.7 11.5 11.1 17.2
Finance costs (27.3) (29.4) (30.3) (33.6) (35.4)
F&C REIT put option fair value gain –– 5.6 6.4 8.7
TRC acquisition consideration adjustments –––– 7.6
Gain on debt exchange –– 27.9 – –
Loss on disposal of subsidiaries and associates – (4.1) –– –
Impairment in associates and other financial investments – (0.1) (0.1) – –
Share of profit of associates 0.6 ––– –
Profit/(loss) before tax 25.9 (67.3) 8.7 (19.2) (1.5)
Tax – Shareholders (6.6) 17.6 10.4 6.2 4.1
Tax – Policyholders (0.6) (0.9) (0.4) (0.4) –
Tax (expense)/income (7.2) 16.7 10.0 5.8 4.1
Profit/(loss) for the year 18.7 (50.6) 18.7 (13.4) 2.6
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 17.1 (52.5) 15.9 (16.6) (0.5)
Non-controlling interests 1.6 1.9 2.8 3.2 3.1
Profit/(loss) for the year 18.7 (50.6) 18.7 (13.4) 2.6
Underlying earnings per Ordinary Share
#
10.43p 7.75p 4.57p 5.74p 5.51p
Basic earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share 3.54p (10.66)p 3.24p (3.31)p (0.10)p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share 3.43p (10.66)p 3.19p (3.31)p (0.10)p
Dividends
Memo
Final dividend for 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 33.8 19.7 19.8 19.4 10.4
Interim dividend for 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 9.7 9.9 9.7 5.1 5.2
43.5 29.6 29.5 24.5 15.6
Final dividend per Ordinary Share for 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 7.0p 4.0p 4.0p 4.0p 2.0p
Interim dividend per Ordinary Share for 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 2.0p 2.0p 2.0p 1.0p 1.0p
Dividend cover
†
0.39 (1.78) 0.54 (0.68) (0.03)
Dividend cover before exceptional items
†#
1.16 1.29 0.76 1.17 1.82
* As restated for the amendment to IFRS 2: Share-based Payment.
#
As restated in 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 for the effect of the Deferred Tax – Corporation Tax rate change being excluded from Underlying EPS.
†
Based on the dividends paid during 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011.
Five Year Record
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 123 The following tables reconcile the reported earnings to underlying earnings attributable to equityholders of the parent. In addition, the
calculation of certain key performance indicators is given below.
Year ended 31 December 2011
£ millions unless otherwise stated Profit attributable to
Underlying Group Earnings equity holders of the parent
Non-
Adjusted controlling
Reported Income interests Underlying
earnings Adjustments Statement profits* earnings
A Net Revenue 267.0 – 267.0 – 267.0
Net policyholder income 0.3 – 0.3 – 0.3
Operating expenses (183.8) – (183.8) – (183.8)
Distributions to members of LLPs (18.3) – (18.3) – (18.3)
Amortisation of intangible assets (45.8) 45.8 –––
Other exceptional net operating expenses (19.0) 19.0 –––
Total operating expenses (266.9) 64.8 (202.1)
†
– (202.1)
B Operating profit 0.4 64.8 65.2 – 65.2
Interest paid (23.8) – (23.8) – (23.8)
Interest and investment income received 5.7 – 5.7 – 5.7
F&C REIT put option fair value gain 8.7 (8.7) –––
TRC acquisition consideration adjustments 7.6 (7.6) –––
Other non-operating items (0.1) – (0.1) – (0.1)
Non-controlling interests profits ––– (5.7) (5.7)
(Loss)/profit before tax (1.5) 48.5 47.0
‡
(5.7) 41.3
Tax income/(expense) 4.1 (17.6) (13.5) 0.6 (12.9)
C Profit for the year 2.6 30.9 33.5 (5.1) 28.4
Underlying EPS (C÷D) 5.5p
Underlying operating margin (B÷A) 24.4%
D Weighted average number of shares (000’s) 515,373
* Excluding NCI share of amortisation of intangible assets.
†
Defined as ‘underlying operating costs’.
‡
Defined as ‘Group underlying profit before tax’.
Year ended 31 December 2010
£ millions unless otherwise stated Profit attributable to
Underlying Group Earnings equity holders of the parent
Non-
Adjusted controlling
Reported Income interests Underlying
earnings Adjustments Statement profits* earnings
A Net Revenue 243.2 – 243.2 – 243.2
Net policyholder income 1.0 – 1.0 – 1.0
Operating expenses (169.0) – (169.0) – (169.0)
Exchange losses (1.6) – (1.6) – (1.6)
Realised gains attributable to closed FX contracts 0.9 – 0.9 – 0.9
FX contract losses recognised in prior periods – (1.3) (1.3) – (1.3)
Operating expenses (169.7) (1.3) (171.0) – (171.0)
Distributions to members of LLPs (6.0) – (6.0) – (6.0)
Amortisation of intangible assets (50.7) 50.7 –––
Other exceptional net operating expenses (20.9) 20.9 –––
Total operating expenses (247.3) 70.3 (177.0)
†
– (177.0)
B Operating (loss)/profit (3.1) 70.3 67.2 – 67.2
Interest paid (22.3) – (22.3) – (22.3)
Interest and investment income received 1.6 – 1.6 – 1.6
F&C REIT put option fair value gain 6.4 (6.4) –––
Other non–operating items (1.8) – (1.8) – (1.8)
Non-controlling interests profits ––– (6.4) (6.4)
(Loss)/profit before tax (19.2) 63.9 44.7
‡
(6.4) 38.3
Tax income/(expense) 5.8 (16.0) (10.2) 0.7 (9.5)
C (Loss)/profit for year (13.4) 47.9 34.5 (5.7) 28.8
Underlying EPS (C÷D) 5.7p
Underlying operating margin (B÷A) 27.6%
D Weighted average number of shares (000’s) 501,469
* Excluding NCI share of amortisation of intangible assets and other exceptional costs.
†
Defined as ‘underlying operating costs’.
‡
Defined as ‘Group underlying profit before tax’.
Reconciliations of reported to underlying earnings
124 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS |
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 124 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 125
Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2011
These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice
(UK GAAP).
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the F&C Asset Management Group, given on pages 42 to 122 have been
prepared in accordance with IFRS.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 125 126 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS |
Company Balance Sheet
as at 31 December 2011
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets 5 0.9 1.3
Investments in subsidiaries 6 1,256.0 1,262.8
Other investments 7 5.4 9.8
1,262.3 1,273.9
Current assets
Debtors – amounts falling due:
Within one year 8 106.7 107.1
Outwith one year 8 60.6 61.8
Cash and short-term deposits 2.0 0.2
169.3 169.1
Creditors (amounts falling due within one year) 9 (11.7) (31.1)
Net current assets 157.6 138.0
Total assets less current liabilities 1,419.9 1,411.9
Creditors (amounts falling due outwith one year) 9 (303.9) (311.1)
Provisions for liabilities 10 (8.3) (6.9)
Net assets 1,107.7 1,093.9
Capital and reserves
Called up Ordinary Share capital 15, 16 0.5 0.5
Share premium account 16 51.8 51.8
Capital redemption reserve 16 0.8 0.8
Merger reserve 16 912.7 912.7
Other reserves 16 75.4 75.8
Profit and loss account 16 66.5 52.3
Total shareholders’ funds 16 1,107.7 1,093.9
The Company Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 23 March 2012. They were signed
on its behalf by:
Edward Bramson Alain Grisay
Executive Chairman Chief Executive
The accompanying notes to the Company Financial Statements form an integral part of these financial statements.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 126 Basis of preparation
The separate Financial Statements of the Company are presented
as required by the Companies Act and are prepared under the
historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of
investments, and in accordance with applicable accounting
standards in the United Kingdom.
The principal accounting policies set out below have been
applied consistently for the years ended 31 December 2011 and
31 December 2010.
The Company’s Financial Statements are presented in millions of
pounds Sterling (rounded to one decimal place), the Company’s
functional and presentational currency.
In accordance with Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 a
separate Profit and Loss Account for the Company is not presented.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29:
Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and has not
disclosed the information required by that standard because the
Company is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements
which are publicly available and include disclosures given under
IFRS 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to
affect its future development, performance and position are set out
in the Business Review on pages 2 to 21. The financial position of
the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are also described in
the Business Review. In addition, note 36 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements on pages 104 to 108 includes the Group’s
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its
financial risk management objectives; details of its financial
instruments and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation
that the Company has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these
Financial Statements.
Turnover
Turnover comprises fees for secretarial services provided to
Investment Trusts, and shared services and administration services
provided to subsidiary undertakings. Fees are recognised in the
Profit and Loss Account over the period for which these services
are provided.
Dividend recognition
Dividends receivable and dividends payable are recognised only
when they have been declared and approved or at the date of
payment for interim dividends.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less accumulated
impairment losses. The cost includes the uplift arising from the
equity-settled share-based payments calculated in accordance with
FRS 20: Share-based Payment, where no cash contributions are
made by the subsidiaries. The uplift is credited to a capital
contribution reserve in equity. The Company recharges certain
subsidiaries when it satisfies these equity-settled awards with its
own shares.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Expenditure on tangible fixed assets is capitalised on initial
recognition. Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised when it is
probable that there will be future economic benefits associated with
the expenditure which can be measured reliably. All other
expenditure is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account as an
expense as incurred.
Tangible fixed assets are depreciated, using the straight-line
method, to write off the cost of assets over their estimated useful
lives, as follows:
Leasehold improvements – 10 years
Office furniture & equipment – 3-5 years
Computer equipment – 3 years
The carrying value of assets and their useful lives are reviewed at
each reporting date. If an indication of impairment exists, the assets
are written down to their recoverable amount and the impairment is
charged to the Profit and Loss Account in the year in which it arises.
Financial instruments
When financial instruments are recognised initially they are
measured at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
The fair value of instruments that are actively traded in organised
financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid
prices (mid-price for Open Ended Investment Companies) at the
close of business on the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments are classified into the categories described
below:
(i) Available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value in the
Balance Sheet. In respect of unquoted instruments, or where
the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is
established by using recognised valuation methodologies, in
accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital
Valuation Guidelines.
For unquoted investments in early stage enterprises and
enterprises with revenues but without significant profits or
significant positive cash flows, fair value is determined using the
“Price of a Recent Investment” method. Repayments are treated
as reductions to carrying value. After an appropriate period, an
assessment is made as to whether the circumstances of the
investment have changed such that another valuation
methodology is appropriate or there is any evidence of
deterioration or strong defensible evidence of an increase in
Company Accounting Policies
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 127
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 127 128 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Company Accounting Policies
value. In the absence of these indicators, fair value is
determined to be that reported at the previous balance
sheet date.
Unquoted investments with revenues, maintainable profits
and/or maintainable cash flows are valued by deriving an
Enterprise Value of the underlying business.
Movements in fair value, other than impairment losses and
foreign exchange movements on monetary assets, are taken to
the fair value reserve in equity until derecognition of the asset, at
which time the cumulative amount in this reserve is recognised
in the Profit and Loss Account. The following assets are
classified as available for sale:
• Fixed assets
– Other investments
(ii) Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss include
investments which have been specifically designated as ‘at fair
value through profit or loss’. These are carried in the Balance
Sheet at fair value and movements in fair value are taken to the
Profit and Loss Account in the period in which they arise. The
following assets are classified as financial instruments at fair
value through profit or loss:
• Fixed assets
– Other investments
(iii) Loans and receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair
value plus any incremental costs incurred. Subsequent to initial
recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortised
cost using the effective interest rate method. Gains and losses
are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account when loans and
receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the
amortisation process. The following assets and liabilities are
classified as loans and receivables:
• Current assets:
– Debtors
– Cash and short-term deposits
(iv) Financial liabilities are recognised at amortised cost using the
effective interest rate method after initial recognition. The
following liabilities are classified as financial liabilities:
• Creditors (amounts falling due within one year)
• Creditors (amounts falling due outwith one year)
The Company has adopted “trade date” accounting for
purchases or sales of financial assets under a contract whose
terms require delivery of the assets within the timeframe
established in the marketplace concerned. Accordingly, such
financial instruments are recognised on the date the Company
commits to the purchase of the investments, and are
derecognised on the date it commits to their sale.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets
A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset, is
derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset
have expired.
Financial liabilities
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the
liability is either discharged, cancelled or expires.
Impairment of financial assets
The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a
financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost
If there is objective evidence that an impairment in loans and
receivables carried at amortised cost has occurred, the amount of
the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the
asset’s carrying amount and the expected recoverable amount. The
carrying amount of the asset would be reduced and the amount of
the loss recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss
decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event
occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously
recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any subsequent reversal of
an impairment loss is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account to
the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its
amortised cost at the reversal date.
Available for sale financial assets
If an available for sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the
difference between its cost (net of any principal payment and
amortisation) and its current fair value, less any impairment loss
previously recognised in the Profit and Loss Account, is transferred
from reserves to the Profit and Loss Account. Reversals in respect
of equity instruments classified as available for sale are not
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. Reversals of impairment
losses on debt instruments are taken through the Profit and Loss
Account, if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be
objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss
was recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that
have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where
transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in
an obligation to pay less or receive more tax, with the following
exceptions:
• Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation
(and similar fair value adjustments) of fixed assets, or gains on
disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into
replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet
date, there is a commitment to dispose of the assets
concerned. However, no provision is made where, on the basis
of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more
likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into
replacement assets and charged to tax only when the
replacement assets are sold;
• Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on
remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only
to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have
been accrued as receivable; and
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 128 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 129
• Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the
Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be
suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing
differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates
that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences
reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively
enacted at the balance sheet date.
Operating leases
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the Profit and
Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives are recognised by the Company as a reduction of
the rental expense, allocated on a straight-line basis, over the
shorter of the lease term and a period ending on a date from which
it is expected the prevailing market rental will be payable.
Accounting for Employee Benefit Trusts (EBTs)
UITF 38 requires that own shares acquired through an EBT be
deducted in arriving at shareholders’ funds until they vest
unconditionally to the employees. Consideration paid and received
for the purchase or sale of these shares is included in shareholders’
funds and no gain or loss is recognised. Other assets and liabilities
of the EBTs are recognised as assets and liabilities of the Company.
Ordinary Shares of the Company are held by EBTs in order to satisfy
a number of F&C Group share-based payment plans and future
exercises of options and awards to employees of subsidiary
companies. The cost relating to the share-based payment plans is
recognised in the subsidiary companies which employ the staff in
receipt of awards and the Company recognises any fresh issue of
shares or re-issue of own shares when such a transaction occurs.
These shares are included in the Financial Statements of the
Company as a deduction from shareholders’ funds.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Company
has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and
it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to
settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are
determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-
tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. No
provision is established where a reliable estimate of the obligation
cannot be made.
Where the Company expects some or all of a provision to be
reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset
but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Where the Company has obligations under property leases and
where the space has ceased to be used for the purposes of the
business, full provision is made for future net outstanding liabilities
under such leases after taking into account the effect of any
expected sub-letting arrangements.
Related party disclosures
FRS 8: Related Party Disclosures requires disclosure of the details of
material transactions between the reporting entity and related
parties. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS
8 not to disclose transactions between F&C Group companies
which eliminate on consolidation.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional
currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at
the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at
the balance sheet date, and any exchange differences arising are
taken to the Profit and Loss Account.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost in a
foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date
of transaction and are not subsequently restated. Non-monetary
assets and liabilities stated at fair value in a foreign currency are
translated at the exchange rate at the date the fair value was
determined. When fair value movements in assets and liabilities are
reflected in the Profit and Loss Account, the corresponding
exchange movements are also recognised in the Profit and Loss
Account. Conversely, when fair value movements in assets and
liabilities are reflected directly in equity, the corresponding exchange
movements are also recognised directly in equity, with the exception
of available for sale debt instruments, which are reflected in the
Profit and Loss Account.
Share-based payments
The Company operates a share scheme arrangement which is
required to be accounted for as a share-based payment.
The fair value of share-based payment awards, where it is not
considered possible to estimate reliably the fair value of these
awards at the grant date, is determined by measurement of the
equity instruments at intrinsic value. The fair value is measured by an
independent external valuer at each reporting date. The intrinsic
value is spread over the vesting period.
Vesting of equity-settled employee share awards depends upon
meeting “non-market related” performance conditions. The type of
vesting criteria affects the calculation of the expense charged to the
Profit and Loss Account and subsequent adjustments as non-
market related conditions are performance criteria, such as earnings
targets and/or service requirements. The probability of meeting non-
market conditions is incorporated into the expense charge via the
estimate of the number of awards expected to vest. The total
cumulative expense is ultimately adjusted to reflect the actual
number of awards which vest. Therefore, if no awards vest, no
cumulative expense is ultimately recognised.
FRS 20: Share-based Payment makes a distinction between awards
settled in equity and those settled in cash. Equity-settled awards are
charged to the Profit and Loss Account with a corresponding credit
to equity. Cash-settled awards are charged to the Profit and Loss
Account with a corresponding credit to liabilities. The estimated fair
value of cash-settled awards is re-measured at each reporting date
until the payments are ultimately settled.
Ordinary Share capital
When Ordinary Shares are issued the proceeds on issue are
allocated to the equity component and included in shareholders’
funds, net of transaction costs.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 129 130 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Company Accounting Policies
When Ordinary Shares are repurchased, the amounts of
consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, are
recognised in the own share reserve included within retained
earnings and are classified as deductions in equity. Dealings in
own shares are reflected through equity.
Dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised on the date of
payment, or if subject to approval, the date approved by the
shareholders.
Cash flow statement
The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions in FRS 1
(revised): Cash Flow Statements and has elected not to prepare a
Cash Flow Statement as it is included within the Consolidated Cash
Flow Statement in the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C
Asset Management plc.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 130 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 131
1. Auditor’s remuneration
Amounts received by the Company’s auditor in respect of services to the Company have not been disclosed as the Group-wide information is
disclosed in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
2. Directors’ remuneration
Details of Directors’ remuneration are as follows:
2011 2010
£m £m
Aggregate emoluments 2.3 2.2
Company contributions paid to defined contribution pension schemes 0.1 0.1
Aggregate value of gains made by Directors on exercise of share awards 1.9 0.9
2011 2010
No. No.
Members of defined contribution pension schemes 2 2
Full disclosure of Directors’ remuneration is shown on page 35 and pages 38 to 39.
The Company has no employees (including Directors) under contract of employment, all F&C Group employees being employed by several
subsidiary companies.
3. Dividends
Details of dividends paid and proposed during the year are disclosed in note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 65.
4. Acquisitions
The acquisition of Thames River Capital Group was made on 1 September 2010. Section (a) discloses the 2010 acquisition note and section
(b) discloses the 2011 updates for changes in consideration.
(a) 2010 – Acquisition of Thames River Capital Group
Full details of the acquisition of the TRC Group are disclosed in note 15(a) to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 69 to 72. Under
UK GAAP the expenses of acquisition are capitalised in accordance with FRS 7, while under IFRS these are expensed by the Group through
the Income Statement. The details of the acquisition are otherwise similar to those disclosed in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The aggregate consideration in respect of the acquisition of TRC in the Company Financial Statements is summarised as follows:
£m
Initial consideration – cash 33.6
Estimated additional cash consideration payable as a result of TRC net assets exceeding target net assets 7.5
Estimate of first instalment of conditional consideration 5.0
Estimate of second instalment of conditional consideration 2.5
Expenses of acquisition 7.2
Total estimated consideration 55.8
(b) 2011 – Acquisition of Thames River Capital Group
The aggregate consideration paid by the Company as disclosed in 2010 has been revised as follows:
(i) The additional cash consideration paid as a result of TRC net assets exceeding target net assets was £7.4m, compared to £7.5m as
estimated in the 2010 Financial Statements.
(ii) The fair values of both the first and second instalments of conditional consideration have both been revised to zero, as the Run-rate
EBITDA targets on an annualised basis have not been achieved. Therefore, the total conditional consideration liability of £7.5m has been
released.
Both of these adjustments have resulted in a reduction in the carrying value of the Company’s investments in subsidiaries and a release of the
corresponding acquisition creditor.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 131 132 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Company Financial Statements
5. Tangible fixed assets
Leasehold Office furniture Computer
improvements and equipment equipment Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 January 2011 4.1 0.4 5.3 9.8
Disposals –– (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 December 2011 4.1 0.4 5.2 9.7
Depreciation:
At 1 January 2011 2.8 0.4 5.3 8.5
Depreciation charge for the year 0.4 –– 0.4
Disposals –– (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 December 2011 3.2 0.4 5.2 8.8
Net book values:
At 31 December 2010 1.3 –– 1.3
At 31 December 2011 0.9 –– 0.9
6. Investments in subsidiaries
Note £m
Cost:
At 1 January 2011 1,265.8
Adjustment to acquisition creditor for TRC net assets consideration 4(b) (0.1)
Reversal of TRC conditional consideration 4(b) (7.5)
Additions in respect of share-based payment awards 17.3
Recharge in respect of share-based payment awards (16.5)
At 31 December 2011 1,259.0
Cumulative impairment:
At 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011 3.0
Net book values:
At 31 December 2010 1,262.8
At 31 December 2011 1,256.0
Included within the above net book value is £74.2m (31 December 2010: £73.4m) in respect of equity-settled share-based payment awards
made by subsidiary undertakings.
7. Other investments
The classification of investments at 31 December is as follows:
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
Notes £m £m
Available for sale (a) 1.5 3.2
Fair value through profit or loss (b) 3.9 6.6
5.4 9.8
(a) Available for sale
Unquoted
£m
At 1 January 2011 3.2
Fair value movement in the year 1.6
Fair value gains transferred to the Profit and Loss Account (3.3)
At 31 December 2011 1.5
These investments represent carried interest entitlement in private equity funds.
The unquoted investments have been valued in accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines and in
accordance with the limited partnership agreements where possible.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 132 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 133
7. Other investments continued
(b) Fair value through profit or loss
Purchased
Equity Plan NIC Hedge Total
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2011 4.0 2.6 6.6
Disposals in the year (2.6) (0.1) (2.7)
Fair value movement in year 0.1 (0.1) –
At 31 December 2011 1.5 2.4 3.9
Further details of these investments are disclosed in note 18(a)(i)(2) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, on page 75.
The cost of quoted investments as at 31 December 2011 was £3.8m (31 December 2010: £5.9m).
The valuation of quoted investments as at 31 December 2011 was £2.6m (31 December 2010: £5.1m). The fair value of quoted investments is
based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date without any deduction for transaction costs.
8. Debtors
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
Note £m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Trade debtors 1.0 1.2
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 2.2 2.4
Loan to subsidiary undertaking 94.4 89.4
Prepayments 2.3 3.4
VAT recoverable 0.5 0.7
Group relief receivable 4.6 3.0
Other debtors 1.7 7.0
106.7 107.1
Amounts due outwith one year:
Loan to subsidiary undertaking 60.0 60.0
Deferred tax 12 0.6 1.8
60.6 61.8
The loan to the subsidiary undertaking bears interest at three-month LIBOR minus 0.25% and is with F&C Treasury Limited. The Company will
give written notice of a minimum of one year to seek repayment of £60.0m. The £94.4m (31 December 2010: £89.4m) included within
Amounts due within one year is repayable on demand.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 133 134 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Company Financial Statements
9. Creditors
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
Note £m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Trade creditors 0.2 0.5
Accruals 2.5 8.0
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 3.4 2.5
Amounts owed to Achmea Group* – 0.7
Other creditors 1.6 9.4
Loans from subsidiary undertakings 11 4.0 10.0
11.7 31.1
Amounts due outwith one year:
Other creditors – 7.5
Loans from subsidiary undertakings 11 45.0 45.0
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026
†
11 258.9 258.6
303.9 311.1
* As the Achmea Group ceased to be a related party during 2011, these balances are now included within other creditors at 31 December 2011.
†
At 31 December 2011 £135.0m (31 December 2010: £135.0m) of the Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 are held by F&C Finance plc, a
subsidiary undertaking.
Other creditors at 31 December 2011 includes:
• £0.7m (31 December 2010: £0.7m) of estimated further consideration payable in respect of the acquisition of F&C Group (Holdings)
Limited during 2004; and
• £nil (31 December 2010: £15.0m) of estimated further consideration payable in respect of the acquisition of Thames River Capital Group
on 1 September 2010, as shown in note 4(a).
10. Provisions for liabilities
Onerous Pension
premises Plan Deferred Litigation
contracts guarantee tax guarantee Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010 7.2 – 0.6 2.4 10.2
Provided during the year 0.4 0.1 0.3 – 0.8
Utilised during the year (1.2) ––– (1.2)
Released during the year (0.5) –– (2.4) (2.9)
At 31 December 2010 5.9 0.1 0.9 – 6.9
Provided during the year 1.1 0.1 0.4 2.0 3.6
Utilised during the year (1.3) – (0.9) – (2.2)
At 31 December 2011 5.7 0.2 0.4 2.0 8.3
Onerous premises contracts
The Company holds all properties under operating leases. This includes a number of vacant or sub-let properties which were either previously
occupied or are partially occupied by the Company. Provision has been made for the residual lease commitments, where significant, after
taking into account existing and expected sub-tenant contractual arrangements. The remaining terms are for up to nine years.
Assumptions have been made as to whether each leasehold property may be sub-let or assigned in the future. All leases and sub-leases are
for minimum guaranteed rentals. The provision is subject to uncertainties over time including market rent reviews and break options within the
lease arrangements. In addition, exposure could exist if an existing tenant defaulted or went into liquidation or administration.
The amount included within the Profit and Loss Account in respect of unwinding of the discount on onerous premises provisions in 2011 is
£0.4m (2010: £0.4m).
Pension Plan guarantee
The Company has agreed to provide the F&C Asset Management Pension Plan (FCAM Plan) Trustees with a guarantee that, should F&C Asset
Management Services Limited become insolvent, the Company will guarantee an amount up to the lower of the cost of securing members’
benefits with an insurance company over the assets of the FCAM Plan (the ‘solvency deficit’) and £120.0m. The provision represents the
actuarial estimate of the fair value of the guarantee at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 134 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 135
10. Provisions for liabilities continued
Deferred tax
The deferred tax provision relates to short-term timing differences which have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date. The
provision is subject to uncertainties in respect of when timing differences might reverse. The provision relates to the revaluation of available for
sale assets, which is recognised as a separate component of reserves.
A further analysis of deferred taxation is disclosed in note 12.
Litigation guarantee
Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 82 and 83 outlines the background and status of the F&C Partners litigation.
A provision of £2.4m was recognised during 2009 as the Company had guaranteed any amounts validly due to the founder members in
respect of the put option, to the extent that F&C Alternative Investment Holdings (F&C AIH) is unable to meet such obligations. However, the
provision was released in 2010 as F&C AIH had sufficient resources available to it to meet any amount payable in respect of a valid put option
claim by the two founder members of Partners. The put option liability was settled during 2011.
The Company now has a joint legal obligation with F&C AIH to settle any litigation amounts payable to the founder partners. As a result, the
Company has recognised an amount of £2.0m as being potentially payable, in line with the provision recognised in note 24 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
11. Loans
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
Notes £m £m
Amounts repayable:
Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 (i) 258.9 258.6
Fixed Rate inter-company loan 2016 (ii) 25.0 25.0
Fixed Rate inter-company loan 2016 (iii) 20.0 20.0
Floating Rate inter-company loan repayable on demand (iv) 4.0 4.0
Floating Rate inter-company loan repayable on demand (v) – 6.0
307.9 313.6
(i) The £260.0m Fixed/Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016/2026 bear interest at 6.75% per annum for the period 20 December 2006 –
19 December 2016, payable annually in arrears. The Company has the option to extend the Notes beyond 19 December 2016 at a rate of
2.69% above three-month LIBOR for the period 20 December 2016 – 19 December 2026, payable quarterly in arrears.
(ii) The £25.0m loan bears interest at a fixed rate of 13.26%, payable half-yearly in arrears. This loan is due to F&C Finance plc, a subsidiary
undertaking, and is repayable on 19 December 2016.
(iii) The £20.0m loan bears interest at a fixed rate of 9.66%, payable half-yearly in arrears. This loan is due to F&C Finance plc and is repayable
on 19 December 2016.
(iv) The £4.0m loan bears interest at three-month LIBOR minus 0.25%, payable quarterly in arrears. This loan is due to F&C Managed Pension
Funds Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, and is repayable on demand.
(v) The £6.0m loan due to F&C Managers Limited was settled on 24 January 2011.
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
Note £m £m
Amounts repayable:
In one year or less, or on demand 9 4.0 10.0
In more than one year but not more than two years – –
In more than two years but not more than five years 9 303.9 –
In more than five years 9 – 303.6
307.9 313.6
Borrowing facilities
The Company has borrowing facilities available to it. The undrawn committed facilities available at the year end are as follows:
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Revolving credit facility 20.0 20.0
Bank overdraft facilities – 0.5
20.0 20.5
Details of the revolving credit facility, which expired on 29 February 2012, are disclosed in note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on
page 80.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 135 136 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Company Financial Statements
12. Deferred taxation
2011 2010
£m £m
At 1 January 0.9 1.0
Provided/(utilised) during the year 0.3 (0.1)
Adjustments in respect of previous periods (1.0) –
At 31 December 0.2 0.9
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
Notes £m £m
Deferred taxation is provided as follows:
Distributions from partnerships – 0.8
Depreciation in advance of capital allowances 0.5 0.7
Other timing differences 0.1 0.3
Revaluation of available for sale assets (0.4) (0.9)
0.2 0.9
Disclosed in the Financial Statements as follows:
Debtors: Amounts due outwith one year 8 0.6 1.8
Provisions for liabilities 10 (0.4) (0.9)
Net deferred tax asset 0.2 0.9
The Directors believe it is appropriate to recognise a deferred tax asset because it is considered that it is more likely than not that there will be
suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
13. Share-based payment
F&C REIT variable non-controlling interests share-based payment (SBP)
Details of this share-based payment award are disclosed in note 26(c) to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 94.
A combination of a reassessment of the likelihood of the financial targets being achieved and the re-measurement of the fair value of the F&C
REIT business resulted in a credit being recognised in both 2011 and 2010. The cumulative charge has been reversed at 31 December 2011,
but will be reinstated should the performance criteria be met.
2011 2010
£m £m
F&C REIT variable non-controlling interests SBP (4.8) (0.3)
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Total carrying amount of cash-settled liabilities – 4.8
14. Pension commitments
The sponsoring company and principal employer for the FCAM Plan is F&C Asset Management Services Limited.
The Company has provided a guarantee in respect of this Plan, further details of which are described in note 10.
15. Ordinary Share capital
31 December 2011 31 December 2010
No. of No. of
Ordinary Share capital of 0.1p shares £m shares £m
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
Equity interests
Ordinary Shares of 0.1p* 532,118,789 0.5 532,118,789 0.5
*Includes those categorised as own shares.
2011 2010
No. of shares No. of shares
Issued at 1 January 532,118,789 499,273,120
Placing of new shares – 24,807,145
Issued at Completion in respect of TRC Commutation arrangements – 6,085,996
Issue of Shares at par to settle share-based payment awards* – 1,952,528
Issued at 31 December 532,118,789 532,118,789
* During the year Ordinary Shares were allotted, at par value, to settle share-based payment awards. There was no exercise price associated with these awards.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 136 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 137
15. Ordinary Share capital continued
The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at
meetings of the Company.
No new Ordinary Shares were allotted in 2011 (2010: 32,845,669). £14.2m was received in respect of the Ordinary Share capital issued during
the year ended 31 December 2010.
Contingent rights to the allotment of shares
The Group operates several share-based payment schemes and has a number of contractual obligations which have a contingent right to
Ordinary Shares which may be settled by the allotment of shares in the Company. The Company may choose to purchase shares in the market
or utilise its own shares to settle some of these awards.
At 31 December 2011 the maximum contingent right to the allotment of shares was as follows:
No. of awards Exercise
Scheme outstanding price (p) Exercise/vesting dates
Long-Term Remuneration Plan (Deferred Award) 36,957,268 0.00 1 January 2012 – 10 March 2014
Long-Term Remuneration Plan (Restricted Award) 7,085,543 0.00 4 May 2013 – 4 May 2014
Executive Director Remuneration Plan (Deferred Award) 2,188,992 0.00 8 July 2012
TRC Management Retention Plan 21,312,209 0.00 1 September 2013
TRC Management Incentive Plan 14,208,140 0.00 1 March 2013 – 1 September 2016
TRC Commutation Awards* 23,527,481 0.00 1 March 2012 – 1 September 2016
Purchased Equity Plan (FCAM plc Shares) 691,198 0.00 1 January 2012 – 31 March 2013
Purchased Equity Plan (F&C Investment Funds)
†
2,218,877 0.00 2 April 2012
Deferred Share Awards 1,091,159 0.00 1 March 2012 – 1 April 2014
Share Save Scheme 3,766 171.00 1 January 2012 – 1 June 2012
Share Save Scheme 102,663 144.30 1 June 2012 – 1 December 2012
2002 Executive Share Option Scheme 399,343 139.00 1 January 2012 – 19 March 2013
2002 Executive Share Option Scheme 510,557 240.83 1 January 2012 – 9 March 2014
110,297,196
* The potential number of shares as quantified at the reporting date.
†
The number of shares is dependent on the share price and the value of F&C Funds as explained in note 26(h)(ii) to the Consolidated Financial Statements on
page 97.
Details of share-based payment arrangements are given in note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Employee Benefit Trusts (EBTs)
The following shares are held in EBTs where the Company is the sponsoring employer or in Nominee for the Company. These are categorised
as own shares and deducted from shareholders’ funds:
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
No. of shares No. of shares
F&C Management Limited Employee Benefit Trust 10,437,516 17,778,910
The Ivory & Sime Employee Benefit Trust 64,176 64,176
Held by RBC cees in a nominee capacity* 2,253,335 2,195,059
12,755,027 20,038,145
* These are specifically held as TRC Deferred Commutation Shares in respect of Commutation arrangements.
The aggregate nominal value of own shares held by EBTs at 31 December 2011 was £13,000 (31 December 2010: £20,000). The market
value of these shares at 31 December 2011 was £8.4m (31 December 2010: £16.8m).
The Trustees of the EBTs have waived their right to the dividend entitlement on some of these shares.
During the year, the Company purchased 4,079,341 of its own Ordinary Shares (2010: 13,849,362) of 0.1p to satisfy the settlement of awards
granted under share schemes and to hold as own shares in EBTs. The consideration paid for the shares was £3.2m (2010: £8.8m). The cost of
this to the Company, after exercise price monies paid by the employees, was £3.2m (2010: £8.6m).
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 137 138 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Company Financial Statements
16. Reserves
Reconciliation of movement in reserves:
Ordinary Share Capital Fair Capital Profit Total
Share premium redemption Merger value contribution and loss shareholders’
capital account reserve reserve reserve
(1)
reserve
(1)
account funds
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2010 0.5 33.8 0.8 912.7 1.4 66.9 43.0 1,059.1
Share capital allotted on placement of shares – 14.2
(2)
–– ––– 14.2
Share capital allotted in respect of TRC
Commutation arrangements – 3.8 –– –– (3.8) –
Purchase of own shares –– –––– (8.8) (8.8)
Settlement proceeds received on disposal of own shares –– –––– 0.2 0.2
Profit for the year –– –––– 33.2 33.2
Final 2009 dividend paid –– –––– (19.4) (19.4)
Interim 2010 dividend paid –– –––– (5.1) (5.1)
Fair value gain –– –– 1.2 –– 1.2
Tax on fair value gain –– –– (0.2) –– (0.2)
Equity settled share-based payment charge –– ––– 19.5 – 19.5
Transfer to Profit and Loss Account on settlement
of share-based payment awards by subsidiaries –– ––– (13.0) 13.0 –
Balance at 31 December 2010 0.5 51.8 0.8 912.7 2.4 73.4 52.3 1,093.9
Purchase of own shares –– –––– (3.2) (3.2)
Profit for the year –– –––– 16.5 16.5
Final 2010 dividend paid –– –––– (10.4) (10.4)
Interim 2011 dividend paid –– –––– (5.2) (5.2)
Fair value gain –– –– 1.6 –– 1.6
Fair value gains transferred to Profit and Loss Account –– –– (3.3) –– (3.3)
Tax on fair value movements –– –– 0.5 –– 0.5
Equity settled share-based payment charge –– ––– 17.3 – 17.3
Transfer to Profit and Loss Account on settlement
of share-based payment awards by subsidiaries –– ––– (16.5) 16.5 –
Balance at 31 December 2011 0.5 51.8 0.8 912.7 1.2 74.2 66.5 1,107.7
(1)
The Fair value reserve and Capital contribution reserve constitute ‘Other reserves’ as disclosed on the face of the Balance Sheet and amount to
£75.4m at 31 December 2011 (31 December 2010: £75.8m).
(2)
The share premium recognised during 2010 is stated net of £0.4m of transaction expenses associated with the related share placing.
The profit after tax of the Company for the year, before dividends paid, was £16.5m (2010: £33.2m).
17. Financial commitments
The Company had the following annual commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases and other contracts:
Premises Other Contracts
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
2011 2010 2011 2010
£m £m £m £m
Commitments expiring within one year – – – 0.1
Commitments expiring within two to five years 0.1 0.1 – –
Commitments expiring outwith five years 4.5 4.6 – –
4.6 4.7 – 0.1
The premises financial commitments disclosed above do not include any sub-leasing arrangements which the Company may have in place.
The amounts shown reflect gross commitments at the balance sheet dates.
18. Capital commitments
There are no capital commitments not provided for at 31 December 2011 (31 December 2010: £nil).
19. Subsidiary undertakings
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings are disclosed in note 39 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 115 and 116.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 138 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 139
20. Related party transactions
The Company has taken exemption from the requirement to disclose related party transactions with wholly-owned members of the F&C Asset
Management plc Group on the basis that these companies are included within the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C Asset
Management plc.
(a) Related party transactions with Sherborne
Sherborne owns approximately 20% of the Ordinary Share capital of F&C and is represented on the Board by the Executive Chairman, Edward
Bramson, who is a partner in Sherborne. Sherborne is entitled to ordinary dividends, and a fee in respect of the Chairman’s services to F&C.
The Company’s transactions with Sherborne are disclosed below:
Total Total
expensed Outstanding at expensed Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2011 2011 during 2010 2010
£m £m £m £m
Ordinary dividends paid to Sherborne* 3.0 – n/a n/a
Other expenses payable to Sherborne* 0.2 – n/a n/a
* With effect from Mr Bramson’s appointment as Chairman on 3 February 2011.
(b) Transactions with entities which are not wholly owned
F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
F&C Asset Management plc owns 70% of F&C REIT Asset Management LLP . The other partners in the Partnership, all of whom have
significant influence over the management of the Partnership or a significant economic interest in the Partnership, are:
Kendray Properties Limited 30.00% ownership interest in “B” units
Leo Noé 22.50% ownership interest in “A” units
Ivor Smith 7.50% ownership interest in “A” units
These parties are considered to be related parties.
Interest on Secured Loan Notes
The remaining £10.0m of Secured Loan Notes issued as part consideration for the acquisition of the REIT Group were repaid to Kendray
Properties Limited on 29 June 2010.
Charged Outstanding at Charged Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2011 2011 during 2010 2010
£m £m £m £m
Interest payable to Kendray Properties Limited n/a n/a 0.2 –
Shared services and administrative services
The Company has a shared services agreement with F&C REIT Asset Management LLP whereby it provides certain administrative and
professional services to F&C REIT Asset Management LLP . Amounts charged under this agreement are set out below:
Total Total
invoiced Outstanding at invoiced Outstanding at
and accrued 31 December and accrued 31 December
during 2011 2011 during 2010 2010
£m £m £m £m
Administration service fees 0.8 0.1 0.8 0.1
£13.5m of profit distributions were paid to the Company by F&C REIT Asset Management LLP in 2011 (2010: £10.6m).
F&C Asset Management plc recognises a share-based payment credit or expense in respect of the variable minority interest enhancement in
ownership interest which could be achieved by Kendray Properties Limited, Leo Noé and Ivor Smith. Full details are disclosed in note 26(c) to
the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 94.
The F&C REIT minority partners each have a put option, requiring the Company to purchase their minority stake in F&C REIT after a minimum
number of years, at fair value. The fair value of the option is nil, as the potential amount payable is the same as the fair value of the interests to
be acquired.
In the Consolidated Financial Statements the gross amount payable under the option is dealt with as a liability, in accordance with IAS 32 as an
obligation for purchase of own equity. As at 31 December 2011, the value of this commitment is estimated at £45.3m (31 December 2010:
£54.0m). Further details are provided in note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 99. The option liabilities are split in the
ownership proportions of Kendray Properties Limited, Leo Noé and Ivor Smith.
During 2011, F&C Asset Management plc made a carried interest investment in F&C REIT Carry LP , an associated entity. This investment will
entitle the Company to future carried interest profits from the management of F&C REIT Club Deals LP .
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 139 140 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Notes to the Company Financial Statements
21. Guarantees
The Company has provided the following guarantees as at 31 December 2011:
• A guarantee in respect of the F&C Asset Management Pension Plan. Details of this guarantee are disclosed in note 10.
• A guarantee for the £149.7m 9% Guaranteed Fixed Rate Loan Notes 2016 issued by F&C Finance plc, details of which are disclosed in
note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 80. These Loan Notes are unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by the
Company.
• Guaranteed funding for its subsidiary F&C Treasury Limited until 27 September 2012 for satisfying its liabilities. At 31 December 2011,
F&C Treasury Limited had net liabilities of £24.1m.
• Guaranteed funding for its subsidary F&C Alternative Investments (Holdings) Limited until 28 September 2012 for satisfying its liabilities. At
31 December 2011, F&C Alternative Investments (Holdings) Limited had net liabilities of £9.7m.
22. Contingent liabilities
Ongoing business operations
In the normal course of its business, the Company is subject to matters of litigation or dispute. While there can be no assurances, at this time
the Directors believe, based on the information currently available to them, that it is not probable that the ultimate outcome of any of these
matters will have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company.
23. Post Balance Sheet Events
Corporation Tax
The Chancellor of the Exchequer announced a further Corporation Tax rate reduction in his budget of 21 March 2012. This will become
effective from 1 April 2012 and will now move the Company’s statutory effective tax rate to 24.5% for 2012. Furthermore this reduction will
move the Company’s tax rate to 22% by 2015.
24. Parent undertaking and controlling party
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has no ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 140 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 141
Notice is hereby given that the thirty-second Annual General Meeting
of F&C Asset Management plc will be held at Ironmongers Hall,
Shaftesbury Place, Barbican, London EC2Y 8AA on Wednesday 9
May 2012 at 10 a.m. (UK time) for the following purposes:
Ordinary Business
To be proposed as ordinary resolutions:
1. To receive the Financial Statements and the Reports of the
Directors and the Independent Auditor for the year ended
31 December 2011.
2. To declare a final dividend of 2.0 pence per share on the
ordinary shares of the Company to be paid on 25 May 2012 to
members whose name appears on the register of members at
the close of business on 30 March 2012.
3. To elect Keith Jones as a Director.
4. To elect Keith Percy as a Director.
5. To re-elect Edward Bramson as a Director.
6. To re-elect Keith Bedell-Pearce as a Director.
7. To re-elect Ian Brindle as a Director.
8. To re-elect David Logan as a Director.
9. To re-elect Jeff Medlock as a Director.
10. To re-elect Derham O’Neill as a Director.
11. To re-elect Kieran Poynter as a Director.
12. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year
ended 31 December 2011.
13. To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditor to the Company to
hold office until the conclusion of the next General Meeting at
which Financial Statements are laid before the Company and to
authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
14. THAT:
(A) pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 (‘the
Act’), the Directors be generally and unconditionally
authorised to allot:
(1) shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe
for or to convert any security into shares in the
Company, up to a maximum nominal amount of
£177,355.19, subject to paragraph A(2); and
(2) shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe
for or to convert any security into shares in the
Company, comprising equity securities (within the
meaning of section 560(1) of the Act) up to a maximum
nominal amount (when aggregated with any allotment
made pursuant to paragraph A(1)) of £354,710.38 in
connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer undertaken by
means of a rights issue;
(B) the authorities given in this Resolution:
(1) shall be in substitution for all pre-existing authorities to
allot shares under section 551 of the Act (other than the
specific authorities granted at the general meeting of
the Company held on 18 June 2010 to allot shares to
satisfy the consideration payable in relation to the
acquisition of Thames River and the related
commutation arrangements and for the settlement of
awards made under the management share plans) but
without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority
prior to the date hereof; and
(2) unless renewed, revoked or varied in accordance with
the Act, shall expire at the completion of the Annual
General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2013,
save that the Company may before such expiry make
an offer or agreement which would or might require the
allotment of shares in the Company, or the right to
subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in
the Company, after such expiry; and
(C) for the purpose of this Resolution, “Pre-Emptive Offer”
means an offer of equity securities to:
(1) holders of ordinary shares (other than the Company) on
a fixed record date in proportion to their respective
holdings of such shares; and
(2) other persons entitled to participate in such offer by
virtue of the rights attaching to any other equity
securities held by them,
in each case, subject to such exclusions or other
arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or
appropriate in relation to fractional entitlements, legal,
regulatory or practical problems under the laws or the
requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange of
any territory or otherwise.
To be proposed as special resolutions:
15. THAT:
(A) subject to the passing of resolution 14 set out in this Notice
(‘the Allotment Authority’), the Directors be given power
pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 (‘the
Act’) to allot equity securities (within the meaning of section
560(1) of the Act) for cash, pursuant to the authorities given
by the Allotment Authority, and to sell treasury shares wholly
for cash, as if section 561(1) of the Act did not apply to any
such allotment or sale, provided that such power shall be
limited to the allotment of equity securities or the sale of
treasury shares:
(1) in the case of paragraph A(1) of the Allotment
Authority, (a) in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer (as
defined in the Allotment Authority); or (b) in order to
satisfy options or awards under any share scheme for
employees or share incentive plan approved by the
Company in general meeting; or (c) otherwise, up to a
maximum nominal amount of £26,605.94;
(2) in the case of paragraph A(2) of the Allotment
Authority, in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer
undertaken by means of a rights issue;
Notice of Annual General Meeting
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 141 142 | SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION | Notice of Annual General Meeting
(B) the power given in this Resolution:
(1) shall be in substitution for all pre-existing authorities
under section 570 of the Act but without prejudice to
the exercise of any such authority prior to the date
hereof; and
(2) unless renewed in accordance with the Act, shall expire
at the same time as the Allotment Authority, save that
the Company may before such expiry make an offer or
agreement which would or might require equity
securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold
after such expiry.
This power applies to a sale of shares which is an allotment
of equity securities by virtue of section 560(3) of the Act as if
the words “in the case of paragraph A(1) of the Allotment
Authority,” and “in the case of paragraph A(2) of the
Allotment Authority,” were omitted from, respectively,
paragraphs A(1) and A(2) of this resolution.
16. THAT, in substitution for any existing power under section 701
of the Companies Act 2006 (‘the Act’), but without prejudice to
the exercise of any such power prior to the date hereof, the
Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally
authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with section 701 of
the Act, to make market purchases (within the meaning of
section 693 of the Act) of fully paid ordinary shares of 0.1 pence
each in the capital of the Company (‘ordinary shares’) in such
terms and in such manner as the Directors of the Company may
decide, provided that:
(i) the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby
authorised to be purchased is 53,211,879 (being
approximately 10 per cent. of the issued ordinary share
capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at
22 March 2012);
(ii) the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share
is 0.1 pence (exclusive of expenses); and
(iii) the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be
paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per
cent. of the average of the middle market quotations (as
derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock
Exchange) for the ordinary shares for the five business days
immediately preceding the date of purchase,
such authority to expire on the earlier of the date falling 15
months after the date of the passing of this resolution and
the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the
Company to be held in 2013, unless previously revoked,
varied or renewed by the Company in general meeting, save
that the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of
such authority enter into a contract or contracts to purchase
ordinary shares under such authority which will or might be
completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration
of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary
shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts as if
this authority had not expired.
Special Business
To be proposed as a special resolution:
17. THAT the period of notice for calling a general meeting (other
than an Annual General Meeting) shall be not less than 14 clear
days provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of
the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2013.
By order of the Board
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
23 March 2012
Notes
(i) A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to
appoint one or more proxies to attend and speak and vote on his/her
behalf. A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each
proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares. A
member may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights
attached to any one share. A proxy need not be a member of the
Company.
(ii) A Form of Proxy for use by Ordinary Shareholders in connection with the
meeting is enclosed with these Accounts. To be valid, the Form of Proxy
should be completed and signed and sent or delivered, together with any
power of attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is signed or an
extract from the Books of Council and Session or a notarially certified
copy or a copy certified in accordance with the Powers of Attorney Act
1971 of such power or authority, in accordance with the instructions
contained therein, so as to reach the Company’s registrars, at the
address stated thereon, not later than 10 a.m. (UK time) on 4 May 2012.
(iii) Alternatively, shareholders who would like to lodge their proxy
electronically may do so via the Sharevote website
(www.sharevote.co.uk) or through CREST in each case so as to be
received by no later than 10 a.m. (UK time) on 4 May 2012. Further
details relating to proxy appointments through CREST are set out in note
(xvi) below. If you return more than one valid proxy appointment in
respect of the same share, either by paper or electronic communication,
the one which is received last will take precedence; if the Company is
unable to determine which of them was received last, none of them will
be treated as valid in respect of that share.
(iv) Completing and returning a Form of Proxy will not prevent an Ordinary
Shareholder from attending in person at the meeting referred to above
and voting should he or she wish to do so.
(v) To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting (and for the purposes of
the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast),
shareholders must be registered in the register of members of the
Company at 6.00 p.m. on Friday, 4 May 2012 (or, in the event of any
adjournment, on the date which is two days (excluding any part of a day
that is not a working day) before the time of the adjourned meeting).
Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be
disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at
the meeting.
(vi) If you are not a member of the Company but you have been nominated
by a member of the Company to enjoy information rights, you do not
have a right to appoint a proxy. See note (vii) below.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 142 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 143
(vii) If you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 of the
Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights:
• You may have a right under an agreement between you and the
member of the Company who has nominated you to have
information rights (‘Relevant Member’) to be appointed or to have
someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
• If you either do not have such a right or if you have such a right but
do not wish to exercise it, you may have a right under an agreement
between you and the Relevant Member to give instructions to the
Relevant Member as to the exercise of voting rights.
(viii) Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more
corporate representative(s) who may exercise on its behalf all of its
powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the
same shares.
(ix) Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders meeting the
threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the
Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter
relating to: (i) the audit of the Company’s accounts (including the auditor’s
report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the
meeting; or (ii) any circumstance connected with an auditor of the
Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which
annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of
the Companies Act 2006. The Company may not require the
shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses
in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under
section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to
the Company’s auditor not later than the time when it makes the
statement available on the website. The business which may be dealt
with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been
required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a
website.
(x) Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to
the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be
given if (a) to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the
meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, (b) the
answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to
a question, or (c) it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the
good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
(xi) In accordance with section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the
contents of this notice, details of the total number of shares in respect of
which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting and,
if applicable, any members’ statements, members’ resolutions or
members’ matters of business received by the Company after the date of
this notice of meeting will be available on the Company’s website at
www.fcamplc.com.
(xii) As at 22 March 2012 (being the latest practicable date prior to
publication of this notice) the Company’s issued share capital consisted
of 532,118,789 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each carrying one vote
each. No shares are held in treasury. Therefore, total voting rights in the
Company as at 22 March 2012 are 532,118,789.
(xiii) Copies of the following documents will be made available for inspection
at the registered office of the Company and at the Company’s head office
during normal business hours on any week day (Saturdays, Sundays and
public holidays excepted) from the date of this notice until the close of the
meeting, and at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to and
during the continuance of the meeting:
• the Executive Directors’ service contracts and Non-executive
Directors’ letters of appointment; and
• the articles of association of the Company.
(xiv) A member may not use any electronic address provided either in this
Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents to
communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those
expressly stated.
(xv) The Company has made provision for shareholders who would like to
vote by electronic means.
(xvi) CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the
CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the
procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST Personal Members
or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who
have appointed a service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor
or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate
action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST
service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a ‘CREST Proxy
Instruction’) must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear
UK & Ireland Limited’s specifications, and must contain the information
required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual
(available via www.euroclear.com/CREST). The message, regardless of
whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to
the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be
valid, be transmitted so as to be received by our Registrars, Equiniti (ID
RA19) by 10 a.m. (UK time) on 4 May 2012. For this purpose, the time of
receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the time stamp
applied to the message by the CREST Application Host) from which the
issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the
manner prescribed by CREST. After this time any change of instruction to
proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the
appointee through other means. CREST members and, where applicable,
their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that
Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special
procedures in CREST for any particular message. Normal system timings
and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST
Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member
concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal
member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service
provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s)
take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is
transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this
connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST
sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those
sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the
CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the
circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated
Securities Regulations 2001.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 143 144 | SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION |
Shareholders should consult their own tax advisors as to the tax
considerations applicable to them relating to the purchase,
ownership and disposition of our ordinary shares (the ‘Shares’),
including the applicability of US Federal state and local tax laws and
non-US tax laws. This discussion does not address tax
considerations applicable to US Shareholders other than the passive
foreign investment company rules.
F&C Asset Management plc (the ‘Company’) and certain of its
subsidiaries may be treated as passive foreign investment
companies (each, a ‘PFIC’) within the meaning of section 1297 of
the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ‘Code’) for
US Federal income tax purposes.
Treatment of the Company or any of its subsidiaries as a PFIC could
result in adverse tax consequences for US Shareholders.
A foreign corporation generally will be treated as a PFIC in any year
in which either 75 per cent. or more of its gross income constitutes
passive income or at least 50 per cent. of the value of its assets is
attributable to assets which produce or are held for the production
of passive income. In applying these tests, a non-US corporation
that directly or indirectly owns at least 25 per cent., by value, of the
stock of another corporation is treated as if it held directly its
proportionate share of the other corporation’s assets and received
directly its proportionate share of the other corporation’s income.
Whether a non-US company is a PFIC is determined annually, and the
status of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, could change
depending among other things upon the changes in the composition
of its gross receipts and assets, and the nature of its business.
US Shareholders are particularly urged to consult their own Tax
Advisors regarding the US tax considerations relating to an
investment in a company that may be or may become a PFIC,
including the availability and consequences of elections that may be
available to mitigate the adverse Federal income tax consequences
of owning or disposing of PFIC shares. In that regard, US
Shareholders should be aware that the Company does not intend to
satisfy the record keeping and other requirements that would permit
a US Shareholder to make a qualified electing fund (‘QEF’) election
with respect to the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Each taxpayer is hereby notified that: (a) any discussion of US
Federal tax issues herein is not intended or written to be used, and
cannot be used by the taxpayer, for the purpose of avoiding
penalties that may be imposed on the taxpayer under US Federal
tax law; (b) any such discussion is written to support the promotion
or marketing of the transactions or matters addressed herein; and
(c) the taxpayer should seek advice based on its particular
circumstances from an independent tax advisor.
Notice To US Shareholders –
Certain PFIC Considerations
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 144 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 145
Corporate Information
Directors
Edward Bramson, Executive Chairman
‡
Alain Grisay, Chief Executive
Keith Bedell-Pearce, Senior Independent Non-executive
*†‡
Ian Brindle, Non-executive
Keith Jones, Non-executive
*
o
David Logan, Chief Financial Officer
Jeff Medlock, Non-executive
*†
o
Derham O’Neill, Non-executive
*†
o
Keith Percy, Non-executive
o
Kieran Poynter, Non-executive
*†‡
o
‡
Member of Nomination Committee
* Member of Remuneration Committee
†
Member of Audit & Compliance Committee
o
Member of the Risk Committee
Head Office
Exchange House
Primrose Street
London
EC2A 2NY
Telephone 020 7628 8000
Facsimile 020 7628 8188
Email: enquiries@fandc.com
Secretary and Registered Office
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
80 George Street
Edinburgh
EH2 3BU
Telephone 0131 718 1000
Facsimile 0131 225 2375
Solicitors
Norton Rose LLP
3 More London Riverside
London
SE1 2AQ
Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP
1 Exchange Crescent
Conference Square
Edinburgh
EH3 8UL
Principal Banker
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
142-144 Princes Street
Edinburgh
EH2 4EQ
Stockbrokers
J.P . Morgan Cazenove
10 Aldermanbury
London
EC2V 7RF
Jeffries Hoare Govett
Vintners Place
68 Upper Thames Street
London
EC4V 3BJ
HSBC Bank plc
8 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London
E14 5HQ
Auditor
KPMG Audit Plc
Saltire Court
20 Castle Terrace
Edinburgh
EH1 2EG
Registrar and Transfer Office
Equiniti Limited
34 South Gyle Crescent
South Gyle Business Park
Edinburgh
EH12 9EB
Corporate information
F&C Asset Management plc
Registered in Scotland
Company Registration Number SC73508
Website
Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website
www.fcamplc.com
Shareholder services available from Equiniti Limited
Shareview
The Company’s registrar, Equiniti, offers a Shareview service enabling shareholders to have more control over their shares and other investments:
Direct access to data held on the share register including recent share movements and dividend details.
The ability to change address details or dividend payment instructions online.
To sign up for Shareview, shareholders need the “shareholder reference” printed on the proxy form or dividend stationery, and there is no
charge to register.
On registration, shareholders can select their preferred format (post or e-mail) for shareholder communications. Shareholders selecting “e-mail”
as their mailing preference will be sent shareholder communications, such as proxy forms and notice of Company results by e-mail instead of
post, as long as this option is available. Shareholders selecting “post” as their preference will be sent paper documents as usual. Details of
software and equipment requirements are given on the website, www.shareview.co.uk
Voting Online
In accordance with good governance practice, the Company is offering shareholders use of an online voting service, “sharevote”, offered by
Equiniti, at www.sharevote.co.uk. Shareholders can use this service to vote or appoint a proxy online. The same voting deadline (10 a.m.
(UK time) on 4 May 2012) applies as for the Personalised Voting Form to vote or appoint a proxy by post to vote. Shareholders need to use
the unique personal identification details (Reference Number, Card ID and Account Number) that are printed on the Personalised Voting Form
to use this service.
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page 145 F&C Asset Management plc
Head Office: Exchange House Primrose Street London EC2A 2NY
Telephone: 020 7628 8000 Email: enquiries@fandc.com
Website: www.fcamplc.com
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 2:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:13 Page BC1 F&C Asset Management plc
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Business Review
Our year in brief 02
Welcome from the Chairman 03
Chief Executive’s Report 04
This is F&C 07
Our strategy 09
Governance
Company Directors 12
Extracts from the Report of the Directors 13
Extracts from the Directors’ Report on
Corporate Governance 15
Extracts from the Directors’ Remuneration Report 15
Summary Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Statement 18
Consolidated Income Statement 19
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 20
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 21
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 22
Earnings per Share 23
Five Year Record 25
Reconciliations of reported to underlying earnings 26
Shareholder Information
Notice of Annual General Meeting 27
Notice to US Shareholders 30
Corporate Information 31
SUMMARY ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 01
F&C Asset Management plc
Summary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
Summary Annual Report and
Financial Statements
These Summary Annual Report and Financial
Statements are a summary of information included
in the audited 2011 Annual Report and Financial
Statements. This summary does not contain
sufficient information to allow for a full understanding
of the results of the F&C Group or of the state of
affairs of the Company. For further information the
full 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements
should be consulted. A copy of the 2011 Annual
Report and Financial Statements is available on the
Company's corporate website (www.fcamplc) or
can be obtained free of charge from the Company
Secretary at the address shown inside the back
cover.
The Auditor has issued an unqualified report on the
full Consolidated Financial Statements, the
Company Financial Statements, the auditable part
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and on the
consistency of the Directors’ Report with those
Consolidated Financial Statements. Their audit
report contained no statement under section
498(2) or 498(3) of the Companies Act 2006.
Forward-looking statements
This Summary Annual Report and Financial
Statements may contain certain “forward-looking
statements” with respect to certain of the Group’s
plans and its current goals and expectations
relating to its future financial condition,
performance, results, strategy and objectives.
Statements containing the words “believes”,
“intends”, “expects”, “plans”, “seeks” and
“anticipates”, and words of similar meaning, are
forward-looking.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to
future events and circumstances which are beyond
the Group’s control including among other things,
UK domestic and global economic and business
conditions, market related risks such as
fluctuations in market indices, interest rates and
exchange rates, and the performance of financial
markets generally; the policies and actions of
regulatory authorities, the impact of competition,
inflation and deflation; the timing, impact and other
uncertainties of future acquisitions or combinations
within relevant industries; and the impact of
changes in capital, solvency or accounting
standards, and tax and other legislation and
regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Group
operates.
As a result, the Group’s actual future financial
condition, performance and results may differ
materially from the plans, goals, and expectations
set forth in the Group’s forward-looking
statements. F&C undertakes no obligation to
update the forward-looking statements contained
in this Summary Annual Report and Financial
Statements. Nothing in this publication should be
considered as a profit forecast.
Definitions
“F&C, FCAM, Group or Company” F&C Asset
Management plc and its subsidiaries
“FL”, “FL Group” Friends Life and its subsidiaries
“F&CGH” F&C Group (Holdings) Limited and its
subsidiaries
“F&C REIT” F&C REIT Asset Management LLP
and its subsidiaries
“REIT” REIT Property Asset Management LLP
and its subsidiaries
“Sherborne or the Sherborne Group” Sherborne
Investors (Guernsey) GP , LLC (Sherborne GP),
SIGA, LP (SIGA), Sherborne Investors (Guernsey) A
Limited, Sherborne Investors Management
(Guernsey) LLC and Sherborne Investors LP
“Thames River” or “TRC” Thames River Capital
Group Limited and its subsidiary companies or
limited liability partnerships (LLPs) which are
consolidated within the Group
“NCI” Non-controlling interests
About F&C
F&C is a leading asset management
company providing solutions that deliver
superior performance and service.
With offices in 8 countries we are a global
business with a strong presence in
Europe. Our clients are insurance
companies, institutional, retail and
wholesale investors, representing over
three million individuals – for whom we
manage approximately £100 billion.
Our values
• Client focus
• Accountable performance
• Commercial innovation
• Mutual respect (£13.4m)
(0.1)p
02 | BUSINESS REVIEW |
Our year in brief
Net revenue
£267.0m
Group underlying pro;t before tax
£47.0m
Underlying earnings per share
5.5p
Total dividend per share
3.0p
2011 Financial and Business Highlights
• First phase of the strategic review completed, second
phase expected in May 2012
• £33.2 million cost reduction programme is ahead of plan
and remains on track to be substantially achieved by the
end of 2012
• Assets under management of £100.1 billion
(2010: £105.8 billion)*
• £7.8 billion of gross new third-party business
(2010: £5.7 billion)
• Three-year investment performance track record remains
competitive, particularly in the Group’s largest asset class of
fixed income
• Consultant buy ratings at record levels
• Net debt reduced to £77.8 million (2010: £95.9 million)*
• Underlying earnings per share of 5.5 pence
(2010: 5.7 pence)
• Unchanged total dividends of 3.0 pence per share
(2010: 3.0 pence)
Assets under management*
£100.1bn
2011
£105.8bn
2010
Underlying operating margin
24.4%
2011
27.6%
2010
Group underlying pro;t before taxation
£47.0m
2011
£44.7m
2010
Underlying earnings per Ordinary Share
5.5p
2011
5.7p
2010
Total dividend per Ordinary Share
3.0p
2011
3.0p
2010
Basic loss per Ordinary Share
2011
(3.3)p
2010
Net revenue
£267.0m
2011
£243.2m
2010
Reported pro;t/(loss) after tax
£2.6m
2011 2010
Reconciliations of reported to underlying earnings and calculations of key performance
indicators are given on page 26.
Reconciliations between reported earnings/(loss) and underlying earnings and between basic
loss per share and underlying earnings per share are given on pages 23 and 24.
* As at the end of the reporting period. 2011 was a significant year for F&C with
changes in the composition of the Board and
important progress made in developing its
strategy. A review of business flows,
investment performance and operational
developments, is provided in the Chief
Executive’s Report.
Five new Directors joined the Board, three as
a result of the changes which arose from the
Extraordinary General Meeting in February
2011, which was covered in last year’s
Annual Report, and the subsequent
appointment of two additional Directors. In
the second half of 2011, Keith Jones and
Keith Percy were appointed as Independent
Non-Executive Directors. Both Mr Jones and
Mr Percy bring considerable industry
expertise to the Board as former chief
executive officers of major asset
management firms. Additional information on
the recently appointed and incumbent
Directors is included on page 12.
The Board has been conducting a
comprehensive review of strategy during the
year. As I wrote in last year’s report, F&C has
a great many strengths, including a strong
brand, competitive investment performance
across a range of products and high quality
professionals, but these have not been
reflected in its financial performance in recent
years. The goal of the review is therefore to
enhance shareholder value.
In setting the parameters for the revised
strategy the Board agreed three key
objectives:
• Generate above-average shareholder
returns with below-average volatility
• Achieve competitive scale in areas of
strategic focus
• Create a stable environment for
long-term growth
The first phase of this work completed in
October and focused on addressing certain
corporate issues, as well as the growth
strategy for our institutional business. In
particular, we announced steps to improve
profitability through an additional £21.2 million
expense reduction programme over and
above the £12.0 million target set-out at the
start of the year from the operational
outsourcing project and related restructuring.
These combined £33.2 million cost
reductions, which will substantially be
achieved by the end of this year and fully
achieved during 2013, will enhance
underlying earnings and the level of dividend
cover and provide the Group with the ability
to accelerate the retirement of its long-term
debt. Improving the Group’s financial position
will better enable F&C to implement its
revenue growth plans, with consistent
investment in the resources required to
support growth.
Our revised institutional strategy is to focus
on those areas where F&C has existing scale
and marketable track records in products
that meet the needs of insurance companies
and pension schemes. Both of these large
client groups are increasingly focused on
immunising liabilities, with fixed income as
the core asset class in their portfolios. F&C
has significant scale in fixed income, good
performance track records and has gathered
strong consultant support for its expertise in
Liability Driven Investment.
The second phase of the strategic review,
which will cover the growth strategies for our
retail, wholesale, investment trust and
real-estate businesses, is ongoing. We
expect to conclude this work in May.
Results and Dividend
The underlying profit after tax was £28.4
million compared to £28.8 million in 2010.
This represents underlying earnings per share
of 5.5 pence for 2011 (2010: 5.7 pence).
On a statutory reporting basis, which
includes exceptional and non-cash items, the
Group made a profit after tax of £2.6 million,
compared to a loss after tax of £13.4 million
in 2010. This represents a basic loss per
share of 0.1 pence compared to a loss of
3.3 pence in 2010.
The Board is recommending an unchanged
final dividend of 2.0 pence per share,
payable on 25 May 2012 to shareholders on
the register at 30 March 2012. This brings
full-year dividends to 3.0 pence per share
(2010: 3.0 pence per share).
Retirement of Alain Grisay
In October 2011 the Group announced that
Alain Grisay would be retiring in the latter part
of 2012 and would therefore step down as
Chief Executive and from the Board at the
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in
May. As part of a gradual and orderly
handover of responsibilities, I have
temporarily taken on the position of Executive
Chairman. This is an interim measure while
the Group completes its strategic review and
implements the related actions. The Board
expects that the roles of Chairman and Chief
Executive will be separated again by the time
of the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
As a result of the handover, and to ensure
accountability for delivery of goals for each
business line, we have clarified senior
management responsibilities. Richard Wilson
is now head of our Investment and
Institutional Business and Charlie Porter is
head of our Retail and Wholesale Business
(which incorporates investment trusts).
Responsibility for F&C REIT, our real-estate
business, and F&C Portugal remains
unchanged.
On behalf of the Board and management
team, I would like to thank Alain Grisay for
the huge contribution he has made to F&C
over many years, the last six of which he has
served as Chief Executive. His notable
achievements include successfully leading
F&C through a period of ownership
uncertainty to an independent stock market
listing and the acquisitions of Thames River
and REIT Asset Management. Alain leaves
F&C with our very best wishes for the future.
Edward Bramson
Executive Chairman
15 March 2012
2011 was a significant year
for F&C with changes in the
composition of the Board and
important progress made in
developing its strategy.
SUMMARY ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 03
Welcome from the Chairman Chief Executive’s Report
04 | BUSINESS REVIEW |
Market Overview
The ongoing European sovereign debt crisis
continued to cast a cloud of uncertainty
over the global economy during 2011 as
solvency fears spread beyond Greece,
Ireland and Portugal to the much larger
economies of Spain and Italy. Alongside this
the year also saw a number of significant
geopolitical developments and natural
disasters which contributed to extreme
volatility in global markets and poor investor
sentiment. These included the earthquake,
tsunami and nuclear reactor crisis in Japan,
violent upheaval in the Middle East and
North Africa and growing concerns over
Iran’s nuclear programme.
While across the year the equity market
ended only modestly down, with the FTSE
100 Index posting a total return of -2.2 per
cent., volatility as measured by the VIX
Index hit levels last seen at the height of the
credit crisis in 2008 when the global
financial system was on the brink of
collapse. At its lowest point the FTSE 100
Index had declined by -13.8 per cent. from
the start of the year and the S&P 500 Index
of leading US companies traded in a 24 per
cent. range with an average daily move of
around 1 per cent.
Volatile markets, combined with poor
liquidity, adversely affect the asset
management industry by impacting both new
business generation, particularly from retail
investors, and the ability of fund managers to
position client portfolios in order to deliver
out-performance. During 2011 only 17 per
cent. of funds in the IMA UK All Companies
sector managed to outperform the FTSE All
Share Index on a total return basis
(source: Lipper).
Underlying asset performance was a £2.9
billion positive contributor to assets under
management (AUM) over the year. However,
the Group saw its AUM decline 5.4 per cent.
to £100.1 billion (31 December 2010: £105.8
billion) principally as a result of net outflows
and adverse foreign exchange movements
associated with strategic partner assets.
Some 52 per cent. of the assets we manage
are in Euro-denominated portfolios, with
strategic partners making up 67 per cent. of
this exposure.
Business Flows
While the business saw overall net outflows
of £7.2 billion during the year, this was
primarily attributable to strategic partner
outflows. The outflows reflected the
underlying maturity profile of some of our
strategic partners’ insurance books, the
market conditions in Portugal and Ireland
and specific developments including the
partial nationalisation of the BCP Pension
Scheme in Portugal and the sale of Imperio
France by Achmea. We estimate annualised
revenues lost from these net outflows in
2011 to be approximately £11.9 million.
Net flows from third-party clients were flat
reflecting the difficult market environment,
particularly for retail and wholesale business.
Institutional gross sales were strong, with
£4.6 billion new mandates funded and an
additional £1.2 billion won but unfunded at
year end. Institutional flows were indicative
of our much improved position with
investment consultants where our
credentials in areas such as fixed income
and Liability Driven Investments (LDI) have
gained strong recognition.
Financial Results
While net revenues increased to £267.0
million (2010: £243.2 million), this reflected
the first full-year of Thames River’s inclusion
in the Group which also had a corresponding
impact on the expense base. Net revenues
included performance-related management
fees of £11.8 million (2010: £12.9 million).
The reduction in performance fees over the
previous year partially reflected weaker
investment performance in the second half of
the year at Thames River, where the majority
of products have performance fee potential,
and also the reduced performance fee
potential from certain F&C mandates.
Underlying operating costs, excluding
amortisation of intangible assets and
exceptional items, were £202.1 million
(2010: £177.0 million). These included a
full-year impact from the Thames River
acquisition, including £18.3 million in respect
of distributions payable to Thames River
members. Core operating expenses in the
legacy F&C business were slightly lower year-
on-year, with cost reductions more than
offsetting inflationary increases.
The Group also incurred a number of
exceptional and non-recurring costs which
are excluded from our underlying results.
These included costs associated with the
F&C Partners litigation, costs of
implementing our back and middle office
outsourcing and one-off expenses related to
our cost reduction programme. Offset
against these, and also excluded from
underlying results, are exceptional gains
arising from the reassessment of conditional
consideration payable for Thames River, and
in respect of the reduction in F&C REIT put
option liabilities. The Group anticipates that,
based on current and forecast financial
performance, no conditional consideration
will be payable for the Thames River Group.
The Group achieved an underlying operating
profit for 2011 of £65.2 million (2010: £67.2
million), resulting in an underlying operating
margin of 24.4 per cent. (2010: 27.6 per
cent.). In addition, the Group recognised
investment gains, which are included in
investment income, of £3.7 million during
the year.
Underlying earnings per share for the year
were 5.5 pence (2010: 5.7 pence).
On a statutory basis, which includes
amortisation and exceptional items, the
Group made a profit after tax of £2.6 million
(2010: a loss of £13.4 million). Statement of Financial
Position
The Group closed the year with £196.9
million of shareholders’ cash reserves
and net debt reduced to £77.8 million
(2010: £95.9 million). A significant proportion
of the shareholders’ cash reserves are held
in our regulated subsidiaries against their
capital requirements.
Gross debt of some £275 million (2010:
£275 million) comprises £125 million of
subordinated loan notes and £150 million of
senior loan notes, neither of which include
any financial covenants.
Business Review
While the Board conducted its review of
strategy, the operational focus of the
business during 2011 remained the delivery
of good investment performance and client
servicing during a period of market
turbulence, and the project to outsource our
back and middle office functions.
On an asset-weighted basis relative
investment performance during the year was
encouraging, particularly in fixed income,
which is the core asset class for both defined
benefit pension schemes and insurance
portfolios. Importantly, three-year track
records continue to be competitive: on an
asset-weighted basis some 87 per cent. of
fixed income, 64 per cent. of equities and 98
per cent. of property assets are above
benchmarks over three years.
Our position with investment consultants
continues to improve and we have a highly
active programme of consultant
engagement. We now have 70 individual
product buy ratings compared to 43 at the
end of 2010. This significant increase in
consultant ratings primarily reflects new
ratings for a number of investment solutions
products launched over the last two years,
including our equity-linked bond fund range
and a suite of Dynamic LDI funds that we
launched in December 2011. Our credentials
in providing solutions to help insurers to
address their solvency requirements and
pension schemes to immunise liabilities,
gained important recognition with our
appointment to the UK’s Pension Protection
Fund’s panel of LDI providers. F&C also
won the LDI Provider of the Year award
at the prestigious 2011 European
Pensions Awards.
As disclosed in our Interim Report, a further
notable achievement during the year was
our appointment by the National
Employment Savings Trust (NEST) to
manage their ethical fund option. NEST is a
new workplace defined contribution pension
scheme, into which UK employees who do
not currently have access to an occupational
pension scheme will gradually be auto-
enrolled by 2017. This mandate provides
long-term potential for business flows and
further recognition of F&C’s scale and
leadership in sustainable investing. We see
further opportunities for developing our
presence in socially responsible investment
arising from recent decisions by some other
asset managers to scale back their
resources and activities in this area.
The tough market environment for the
retail/wholesale mutual fund business
resulted in 2011 being a relatively subdued
year for new product innovation across the
industry. We closed a small number of funds
and share classes which were sub-scale and
where we saw little demand. In the UK, we
continued to focus heavily on multi-manager
products, including our Lifestyle risk-rated
funds, where we are seeing support from
Independent Financial Advisers (IFAs)
seeking an outsourced core investment
proposition for their clients. We have also
been planning for the implementation of the
recommendations of the Retail Distribution
Review, which will replace the traditional
commission-based IFA model with the
explicit charging of fees for advice. The new
regime will be fully implemented by the end
of 2012 and therefore we are in the process
of finalising our new fund pricing strategy.
F&C manages significant assets for a number
of strategic partners: Achmea (The
Netherlands), Millennium BCP (Portugal),
Friends First (Ireland) and Friends Life (UK).
These assets principally comprise insurance
funds but also include sub-advised mutual
funds and certain pension scheme assets.
These are long standing relationships which
have generally provided us with exclusivity to
manage the assets of these partners for a
minimum period of time. An exception to this
is the Millennium BCP relationship in
Portugal, which is principally represented by
a BCP-Ageas insurance joint venture, where
that exclusivity period has already come to
an end. We are in discussions with BCP-
Ageas regarding the longer-term nature of
our business relationship.
At 31 December 2011 AUM for strategic
partners were £60.2 billion (2010: £67.0
billion) representing 60 per cent. of our total
AUM. Due to the lower fees that we receive
for managing these assets, our revenue from
strategic partners is considerably less at
some 30 per cent. of 2011 revenues.
Friends Life has set out its intention to
establish an in-house asset management
function and, as previously disclosed, has
served notice to withdraw £2.3 billion of
assets at the end of this year. Our
expectation is that all or most of the assets
that we manage for Friends Life may be
withdrawn at the expiration of the contractual
exclusivity periods, which occur at various
times up to October 2014. Our strategy, as
set out in October 2011, anticipated this
potential withdrawal and we intend to offset it
through reductions of related costs and a
focus on generating new business.
As disclosed in our Interim Report, the
agreement to outsource certain back and
middle office functions to State Street came
into effect on 1 July with all impacted staff
now transferred to State Street. The project
has been managed successfully, with
minimal disruption to client servicing. As we
complete our move to State Street’s strategic
platform over the course of 2012, we expect
to deliver the cost savings associated with
this project.
SUMMARY ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 05 Summary
While the macroeconomic outlook remains
challenging and geopolitical instabilities
persist, markets have begun to make
headway in 2012 with the FTSE 100 Index
rising 5.4 per cent. to the end of February.
Encouragingly, our relative investment
performance has also been strong in the first
two months of 2012.
After six years as Chief Executive of F&C, this
will be my last report as I will be retiring from
the Board at the conclusion of the Annual
General Meeting in May. It has been a
privilege to serve as Chief Executive and in
particular to guide F&C through a period
which saw the two most significant market
downturns in eighty years. I wish my
colleagues on the Board and all of the staff at
F&C every success for the future.
Alain Grisay
Chief Executive
15 March 2012
The ongoing European
sovereign debt crisis continued
to cast a cloud of uncertainty
over the global economy during
2011 as solvency fears spread
beyond Greece, Ireland and
Portugal to the much larger
economies of Spain and Italy.
06 | BUSINESS REVIEW | Chief Executive’s Report SUMMARY ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 07
F&C is a leading asset management company providing solutions that deliver superior performance
and service.
With offices in 8 countries we are a global business with a strong presence in Europe. Our clients are
insurance companies, institutional, retail and wholesale investors, representing over three million
individuals – for whom we manage approximately £100 billion.
This is F&C
What we do
F&C’s sole activity is asset management. We are an active
international investor with a client focus on the UK and
Continental Europe.
We operate across multiple locations, with a physical presence in
eight countries. Our organisational philosophy has two key
parameters – to seek to avoid duplication by, for example, managing
each asset class from only one location, and to place client service
functions where appropriate in order to meet client requirements. 08 | BUSINESS REVIEW | This is F&C
Our objective is simple: to create value by delivering first quartile
performance in everything our clients expect from us.
Our clients
Our clients comprise a wide range of
insurance companies, institutional, wholesale
and retail investors, across multiple
geographies and jurisdictions, for whom we
manage a diverse spread of investments
including fixed income, equities, property and
alternative asset classes.
How we manage money
With over 250 investment professionals, F&C
has one of the largest investment teams in
Europe. Our scale gives us a competitive
edge in research resources and access to the
most senior management at companies. We
believe individuals work best as part of small,
focused teams. Our investment professionals
are therefore organised into dedicated teams,
focused on specific products or market
segments. We provide them with a high
degree of autonomy over their investment
process. We do this in order to foster a
strong culture of enterprise and accountability
for delivering performance. This approach –
of being both large in terms of resource, but
entrepreneurial in structure – is what we
describe as a ‘multi-specialist’ fund
management model.
Responsible investments
We seek to deliver strong investment
performance through active management.
However, as a shareholder representative,
we seek to engage with the companies in
which we invest, aiming to enhance and
protect long-term shareholder value. Our
approach is to have constructive dialogue
with companies. We cast votes on
shareholder resolutions globally, and disclose
this to our clients on our website.
Key risks
In addition to the “normal risks” facing the
business relating to the market, interest
rates and foreign currency, the Board has
identified the following as the key risks
facing the business:
• Investment management
• Effective strategy formulation and
execution
• Loss of strategic partners
• Outsourced activities
• Euro currency
• Loss of key employees
• Regulatory compliance
Assets Under Management by Client Category
as at 31 December
Assets Under Management by Asset Class
as at 31 December
2010 2011
£bn £bn
1 Insurance Funds 59.5 54.4
2 Institutional Funds 29.3 30.1
3 Sub-Advisory 3.0 2.7
4 Investment Trusts 5.9 5.6
Open Ended Funds (UK Onshore) 3.5 3.5
Open Ended Funds (Offshore) 4.6 3.8
2010 2011
£bn £bn
1 Fixed Interest 62.0 59.2
2 Equities 28.7 25.5
3 Property 8.2 7.9
4 Other Alternative Investments 2.4 1.7
5 Money Market 4.5 5.8
1 1
2 2
3 3
4 4
5
6
5
2011
£100.1bn
2010
£105.8bn
2011
£100.1bn
2010
£105.8bn SUMMARY ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 09
Our strategy
During the year the Board launched a comprehensive review of strategy. In October 2011, the results
of the first phase of this review, covering the Group’s corporate functions and institutional business,
were announced. The review of strategy for the retail, wholesale, investment trust and property
businesses is expected to be announced in May 2012. Strategic objectives announced in the first
phase of the review include:
• Generating above-average shareholder returns with below-average volatility;
• Achieving competitive scale in areas of strategic focus; and
• Creating a stable environment for long-term growth.
In supporting these strategic objectives, the Group has identified
the following priorities:
Resolving corporate uncertainty
The Board determined that concerns regarding the potential impact
of a significant loss of strategic partner assets, together with F&C’s
level of expenses and borrowings, were creating uncertainty over
the future outlook for the Group. Accordingly, the Board has:
• Provided a profile of strategic partner contract terms and
profitability;
• Set out a cost reduction programme to preserve Group
profitability in the event that strategic partner assets are
withdrawn at the end of their exclusivity periods; and
• Clarified that its objective is both to maximise the retention of
strategic partners’ mandates beyond current exclusivity periods
and to seek to add new insurance mandates.
Our 2012 priorities are to:
• Execute our cost reduction programme;
• Grow third-party institutional business;
• Develop new product areas for a re-risking scenario;
• Maximise the retention of strategic partner assets; and
• Utilise free cash flow, after dividends, to reduce gross and
net debt.
Improving financial results
The Board believes that the Group’s ability to execute its growth
plans will be enhanced with improved profitability and a stronger
balance sheet. Specific objectives include:
• Improving dividend cover, to provide shareholders with greater
certainty of future payments;
• Providing for consistent investment in new products and
distribution over time; and
• Creating the opportunity for improved employee compensation.
Our 2012 priorities are to:
• Deliver improved underlying earnings per share;
• Invest in core institutional products, which meet the Board’s
financial criteria. These criteria include scalability, high operating
leverage and low revenue volatility;
• Focus institutional product development on areas with growing
potential demand and which meet long-term client needs; and
• Integrate our investment and sales teams, through an enhanced
marketing function, to improve product development.
Enhance employee motivation
The Board believe that employee motivation can be improved by
providing a clear linkage of compensation to individual performance
and Group objectives.
Our 2012 priorities are to:
• Revise the Group’s objective-setting and performance appraisal
process to set and monitor measurable individual objectives for
key employees; and
• Deliver a remuneration structure that rewards employees for
meeting individual objectives, whilst linking that reward to
corporate earnings.
Improving marketing and product development
The strategic review identified a number of changes which could be
made to the Group’s marketing and product development functions
to deliver improved institutional flows. These include:
• Investment in the sales and marketing functions;
• Aligning product development with evolving customer needs;
• Integrating the Group’s investment process with its distribution
approach; and
• Clarifying the Group’s approach to each distribution channel.
Our 2012 priorities are to:
• Create a formal marketing strategy for the insurance sector and
expand our dedicated sales resource;
• Better communicate the Group’s overall positioning in the
institutional market; and
• Selectively incubate new products in the wholesale channel for
potential transfer to the institutional channel when sufficient track
records and scale are achieved. Whilst the change in priorities arising from the strategic review result
in our 2012 goals differing significantly from our 2011 priorities, we
have set out below our performance against our original 2011 goals
and objectives.
Client service
2011 key points
• Completed the outsourcing of key operational functions without
disrupting client service
• Transferred responsibility for investment trust client service and
business development to our funds business
• Held a series of successful educational seminars for pension
schemes trustees and a major investment conference for
discretionary wealth managers
Key performance indicators
Corporate Health – The Board considers a report on the Group’s
Operations and IT systems, Human Resources, Audit and Risk and
Compliance functions at each Board Meeting.
Investment performance
2011 key points
• 87 per cent. of fixed income assets were ahead of agreed index
benchmarks or targets over three years as at year end
• 64 per cent. of equity assets were ahead of agreed index
benchmarks or targets over three years as at the year end
• 98 per cent. of IPD monitored portfolios ahead of benchmark
over three years as at the year end
Key performance indicators
Average percentage of Fixed Income assets above index benchmark
or peer group on an asset weighted basis
% (3 years)
87 2011
72 2010
72 2009
Average percentage of Equity assets above index benchmark
or peer group on an asset weighted basis
% (3 years)
64 2011
63 2010
72 2009
Average percentage of Property assets above index benchmark
or peer group on an asset weighted basis
% (3 years)
98 2011
100 2010
100 2009
Grow new revenues and further diversify the
client base
2011 key points
• Good progress with institutional investment consultants, with
70 product buy ratings achieved by the end of the year
• Generated £7.8 billion of new third-party business (ex. strategic
partner flows), with a further pipeline of £1.2 billion in institutional
mandates awaiting funding
• 20 new institutional clients added during the year
Key performance indicators
Gross institutional new business
£bn
5.1 2011
3.9 2010
2.5 2009
Net (outflows)/inflows in third-party mutual funds
£m
(170) 2011
425 2010
64 2009
Focus on higher margin and specialist areas
for new business
2011 key points
• Average basis points (excluding performance fees) increased
from 22.6 in 2010 to 24.4 in 2011
• Key institutional products include emerging market debt, equity-
linked bond funds, liability driven investments and real-estate
• In the UK retail market key focus remains multi-manager and the
‘Lifestyle’ funds
• In the wholesale segments key products included global bonds
and global convertibles
Key performance indicators
Average basis points earned on assets under management*
24.4 2011
22.6 2010
21.8 2009
22.9 2008
22.5 2007
*excluding performance fees
Performance fees earned
£m
11.8 2011
12.9 2010
18.7 2009
7.9 2008
20.8 2007
10 | BUSINESS REVIEW | Our strategy SUMMARY ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 11
Create greater flexibility in our cost base
2011 key points
• Underlying operating costs reduced by £1.7 million
• Signed an agreement to outsource certain back and middle
office functions to State Street to create an operational cost base
that will adjust with assets under management and transaction
levels. Annualised cost savings of this and related actions
expected to be £12 million once fully implemented
• Launched a further cost reduction programme to deliver an
additional £21m of annualised cost savings with full run-rate
expected in 2013
Key performance indicators
Operating margin
%
24.4 2011
27.6 2010
23.0 2009
Improve capital strength
2011 key points
• Net debt reduced by £18.1 million
• Set out plans to reduce debt through the period to the expiry of
the exclusivity periods on strategic partner contracts
• Debt reduction plans will enable the Group to substantially
reduce its net interest expense
Key performance indicators
Net debt
£m
77.8 2011
95.9 2010
78.5 2009 12 | GOVERNANCE |
Company Directors
Non-executive Directors
2 Keith Bedell-Pearce CBE
Senior Independent Director
Mr Bedell-Pearce, a solicitor, joined the Board in
December 2002. Until December 2001,
Mr Bedell-Pearce was an executive director of
Prudential plc with over 30 years experience in
the financial services industry. He is currently
chairman of 4D Data Centres Ltd and a member
of the Council of the University of Warwick.
3 Ian Brindle
Mr Brindle joined the Board in February 2011.
Mr Brindle was UK chairman of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and deputy
chairman of the Financial Reporting Review
Panel. He is currently the chairman of Sherborne
Investors (Guernsey) A Limited and a non-
executive director of Spirent Communications
plc, Elementis plc and 4imprint Group plc.
4 Keith Jones*
O
Independent Director
Mr Jones joined the Board in November 2011.
Mr Jones is a former chief executive officer of
Morley Fund Management and former CEO of
NPI Investments and a past chairman of the
Investment Committee of the Association of
British Insurers. He currently holds non-
executive positions at Just Retirement Holdings
Ltd, Espirito Santo Investment Bank and Aon
Hewitt, and advisory positions at Lloyds Bank
and Permira LLP .
5 Jeff Medlock*
†
O
Independent Director
Mr Medlock joined the Board in October 2004.
Mr Medlock was chief executive officer of
Eureko from its formation in 1992 until 1999
when he became chief financial officer at
Achmea. He returned to the board of Eureko
in 2002 shortly after its merger with Achmea
and Seguros e Pensoes as chief financial officer
until his retirement in 2004. He is also a trustee
of the children’s charity Coram Life Education.
6 Derham O’Neill*
†
O
Independent Director
Mr O’Neill joined the Board in February 2011.
Prior to his appointment, Mr O’Neill was a
senior partner of Clifford Chance LLP . He is
currently the chairman of Schroder Asian
Property Managers Limited (Bermuda) and was
formerly the chairman of Scotty Group plc and
a non-executive director of Cedar plc, Georgica
plc, and Schroder Venture Managers Limited
(Bermuda).
7 Keith Percy
O
Independent Director
Mr Percy joined the Board in November 2011.
Mr Percy was most recently executive chairman
and chief executive officer of Société Générale
Asset Management UK and was previously
chief executive of Morgan Grenfell Asset
Management. He is a director of Brunner
Investment Trust plc, Standard Life Equity
Income Trust plc, Henderson Smaller
Companies Trust plc, JP Morgan Japanese
Investment Trust plc and The Childrens Mutual.
8 Kieran Poynter*
†‡
O
Independent Director
Mr Poynter joined the Board in June 2009. Prior
to his appointment, Mr Poynter was chairman
and senior partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP having spent 37 years with the firm. He is a
director of Nomura International plc,
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA
and British American Tobacco plc.
Executive Directors
1 Edward Bramson
‡
Executive Chairman
Mr Bramson joined the Board and was
appointed Chairman in February 2011 and
Executive Chairman in October 2011. He is
currently a partner of Sherborne Investors and
was formerly chairman of Spirent
Communications plc, Elementis plc, 4imprint
Group plc, Nautilus, Inc and Ampex Corporation.
9 Alain Grisay
Chief Executive
Mr Grisay joined the Board in October 2004
having previously been Deputy Chief Executive
of F&CGH and head of the institutional business.
Prior to joining F&C in April 2001, Mr Grisay was
at JP Morgan for 20 years, serving as managing
director responsible for the investment bank’s
market client business in Europe.
10 David Logan
Chief Financial Officer
Mr Logan joined the Board on 31 July 2006.
Prior to his appointment, Mr Logan spent
seventeen years in the accounting profession,
including four years as a partner at Deloitte &
Touche LLP and three years as a partner at
Andersen.
‡
Member of the Nomination Committee
* Member of the Remuneration Committee
†
Member of the Audit & Compliance Committee
O
Member of the Risk Committee (created in
March 2012)
12 3 4 5
67
8
9 10 SUMMARY ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 13
Extracts from the Report of the Directors
Directors’ interests
The Directors who held office at the year end and their interests
(together with those of their connected persons) in the share capital
of the Company are shown below:
Ordinary Shares 31 Dec 2011** 31 Dec 2010**
Edward Bramson Beneficial Nil Nil
Non-Beneficial
‡
106,397,130 96,329,200
Keith Bedell-Pearce Beneficial 51,285 51,285
Ian Brindle Beneficial Nil Nil
Alain Grisay Beneficial
†
562,657 2,062,657
Non-Beneficial* 64,176 64,176
Keith Jones Beneficial Nil Nil
David Logan Beneficial 344,627 198,428
Non-Beneficial* 64,176 64,176
Jeff Medlock Beneficial 20,000 20,000
Derham O’Neill Beneficial Nil Nil
Keith Percy Beneficial Nil Nil
Kieran Poynter Beneficial 30,000 30,000
‡
Edward Bramson is an associate of SIGA, LP , a member of the Sherborne
Group.
†
These shares include Mr Grisay’s participation in the Purchased Equity
Plan. At 31 December 2011, 493,810 shares in the Company are held
within the Purchased Equity Plan for Mr Grisay as a result of a Compulsory
Purchased Equity award made in 2010.
* Alain Grisay and David Logan are Directors of F&C Group ESOP Trustee
Limited, a company incorporated in 1995 as a discretionary employee
benefit trust to encourage and facilitate the acquisition and holding of
shares in the Company by employees.
** Or date of appointment if later.
Since the year end, the following Directors’ dealings (and those of their
connected persons) in the Company’s shares have taken place:
• Mr Logan subscribes for £125 worth of shares each month under the
Company’s Share Incentive Plan; and
• On 15th March 2012, Alain Grisay sold 65,000 shares at a price of 70.12
pence per share.
Substantial interests in share capital
The Company has been informed of the following substantial
interests, above 3 per cent. as at 23 March 2012:
Ordinary
Shares Percentage
Sherborne 106,397,130 19.99
Fidelity Worldwide 53,158,667 9.99
Aviva 48,621,733 9.14
Sarasin & Partners 25,381,134 4.77
M&G Investments 18,606,636 3.50
Legal and General 16,365,403 3.07
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The Company will hold its AGM on Wednesday, 9 May 2012 at
Ironmongers Hall, Shaftesbury Place, Barbican, London EC2Y 8AA.
The Meeting will start at 10 a.m. (UK time). Details of all resolutions
being put to shareholders are set out in the Notice of Annual
General Meeting commencing on page 27.
Board changes
On 3 February 2011, at a General Meeting of the Company,
shareholders approved the appointment of Messrs Bramson,
Brindle and O’Neill to the Board and resolved that Messrs
MacAndrew and Larcombe be removed from the Board.
On 6 October 2011, Alain Grisay, the Company’s Chief Executive,
announced his intention to retire on conclusion of this year’s Annual
General Meeting. The Board are in the process of reviewing the
Company’s succession plans for the Chief Executive position and
will make an announcement in due course.
On 25 November 2011, Messrs Jones and Percy joined the Board
as independent Non-executive Directors.
Authority to allot ordinary shares and disapplication
of pre-emption rights
Ordinary resolution 14 will be put to the AGM of the Company to
renew the Directors’ power to allot shares. The Directors currently
have a general authority to allot relevant securities up to a maximum
amount of £177,355.19 together with specific authorities to allot
shares to satisfy the consideration payable in connection with the
acquisition of Thames River and the related commutation
arrangements and for the settlement of awards made under the
management share plans (the Specific Authorities). The resolution
proposes that a similar general authority be granted in substitution
of the existing general authority to allot securities up to a maximum
amount of £177,355.19, representing approximately 33.33 per cent.
of the Company’s total issued ordinary share capital (excluding
treasury shares) as at the date of this report. The Specific Authorities
will remain unaffected by the passing of this resolution.
In addition, in accordance with guidance issued by the Association
of British Insurers in December 2008, the Company is seeking
additional authority to allot securities in connection with a pre-
emptive rights issue up to a maximum amount of £177,355.19,
representing approximately 33.33 per cent. of the Company’s total
issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) as at the
date of this report. The benefit to the Company of obtaining such
authority on an annual basis is that it would allow the Company to
implement a rights issue of an amount equal to approximately
66.67 per cent. of the issued ordinary share capital without the
need to call an additional general meeting. This would shorten the 14 | GOVERNANCE | Extracts from the Report of the Directors
implementation timetable for such a rights issue. The Directors
have no present intention of exercising this authority. The authority
will expire at the end of the AGM to be held in 2013, unless
previously cancelled or varied by the Company in general meeting.
It is the intention of the Directors to renew this authority annually at
each AGM.
Special resolution 15 will renew the present power to allot unissued
ordinary share capital and to sell ordinary shares held in treasury for
cash without first being required to offer such shares to existing
shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Such power will apply to the allotment of unissued ordinary shares
and treasury shares sold up to a maximum nominal amount of
£26,605.94 representing approximately 5 per cent. of the
Company’s issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this
report, except that:
(1) the maximum nominal amount of shares that can be allotted in
connection with a pre-emptive rights issue is £354,710.38
representing approximately 66.67 per cent. of the Company’s
total issued ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares) as
at the date of this report; and
(2) the maximum nominal amount of unissued ordinary shares that
can be allotted or treasury shares sold:
(a) pursuant to any other pre-emptive offering (where legal or
regulatory requirements prevent the issue of shares wholly
on a pre-emptive basis); or
(b) in order to satisfy options or awards under any share
scheme for employees or share incentive plan approved by
the Company in general meeting,
is £177,355.19, representing approximately 33.33 per cent.
of the Company’s total issued ordinary share capital
(excluding treasury shares) as at the date of this report.
The Directors consider that the authority proposed to be granted by
resolution 14 and the power proposed to be granted by resolution
15 are necessary in order to take advantage of opportunities as they
arise and to retain flexibility. The Directors do not have any intention
of exercising such authority or power at the present time other than
for the purposes referred to in (2)(b) above.
Purchase of own shares
Special resolution 16 will be put to the AGM to renew the present
power to make market purchases of the Company’s own ordinary
shares. Pursuant to the renewed power, the maximum aggregate
number of ordinary shares which may be purchased pursuant to the
authority shall be 53,211,879 (being approximately 10 per cent. of
the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of
this report. The minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary
share shall be 0.1 pence (exclusive of expenses). The maximum
price for an ordinary share (again exclusive of expenses) shall be an
amount equal to 105 per cent. of the average of the middle market
quotations for the Company’s ordinary shares for the five business
days immediately preceding the date of purchase. The power
conferred by this resolution will expire on the earlier of the date
falling 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution and
the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be
held in 2013.
As at the date of this report, the Company had 105,957,664 options
to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding (representing 19.91 per
cent. of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at the
same date, excluding treasury shares). If the buy-back authority is
renewed at the 2012 AGM and is then utilised in full, the options
outstanding at the date of this report would represent 22.12 per
cent. of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company (excluding
treasury shares).
Any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority would
either be held as treasury shares or cancelled. While any shares are
held in treasury, voting rights are suspended and currently no
dividends (or any other distribution) are paid (or made) on such
shares. The Directors consider it appropriate to have in place the
facility to acquire shares in circumstances where they believe that
future shareholder returns can be enhanced by taking such action.
This authority, if renewed, will only be exercised if to do so would
result in an increase in earnings per ordinary share and if it is
considered to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Notice of General Meetings
We are currently able to call general meetings (other than AGMs) on
14 days’ notice. We are proposing Special resolution 17 at the
Meeting so that we can continue to be able to do so. The flexibility
offered by this resolution will only be used where it is, in the opinion
of the Directors, appropriate in relation to the business to be
considered at the meeting and merited in the interests of the
shareholders as a whole.
The authority being sought pursuant to Special resolution 17 will
expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2013. It is the
current intention of the Directors to renew this authority annually. SUMMARY ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 15
The Group is committed to, and strives for, best practice in
corporate governance. The Board is accountable to the Group’s
shareholders for good corporate governance. This statement
describes how the principles of corporate governance set out in
section one of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued in 2010
(the Code) have been applied.
Statement of compliance
The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the year
ended 31 December 2011 and up to the date hereof, applied the
principles and met the requirements of the Code with the following
exceptions:
• The Company did not comply with Code provision A.3.1 in that
Mr Bramson, the Company’s Chairman was, by virtue of his
participation in Sherborne (the Company’s largest shareholder),
not independent on appointment.
• On 6 October 2011 Mr Grisay announced his intention to retire
from the Board with effect from the conclusion of this year’s
Annual General Meeting. On the same date, the Company
announced that Ed Bramson, the Company’s Chairman, would
take on the role of Executive Chairman to oversee the
implementation of the strategic review that was underway at that
time. Mr Bramson’s appointment as Executive Chairman is for an
interim period only. While the Board acknowledges that the
temporary appointment of Ed Bramson as Executive Chairman
does not meet the best practice guidance set out in the Code
(Provision A.2.1), they believe it to be appropriate given the
strategic review work being performed by Mr Bramson.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Risk & Compliance, Remuneration and
Nomination committees will be available to answer questions at this
year’s Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday, 9 May 2012.
Statement of the policy on Directors’ remuneration
The Company’s compensation policy detailed below is based upon
the following key principles:
a) Remuneration policies, procedures and practices should be
consistent with and promote sound and effective risk
management. The Policy should not incentivise risk-taking that
exceeds the approved risk appetite of F&C.
b) The Remuneration Policy should be aligned with the business
strategy, objectives, values and long-term interests of F&C.
c) The quantum of total variable remuneration should not limit the
ability of F&C to strengthen its capital base.
d) Total variable remuneration should in general reflect the financial
performance of the Group without jeopardising the ability to
attract, retain and motivate the key talent required to achieve its
goals.
In applying its policy the Group takes a total compensation
approach with a strong emphasis on variable pay. The Board
believes that shareholders’ interests are best served by containing
fixed costs and increasing the proportion of total compensation that
is directly performance-related and thus aligned with shareholders’
interests. Total remuneration will comprise basic salary, pension
provision, annual bonus and any awards under the long term share
incentive schemes.
The total cash component of compensation is benchmarked to
market median for solid performers and to upper quartile for
exceptional performers. A range of benchmark data is used, based
on comparable asset management businesses, with appropriate
data being used for each geographic location.
Performance graph for the share incentive schemes
The graph below compares the performance of the Company with a
notional investment made up of shares of the group of companies
from which the FTSE 250 Financial Companies Index of companies
is calculated for the period from creation of the index in July 2006 to
31 December 2011. The graph is based on the TSR for each period
(assuming all dividends are reinvested). The FTSE 250 Financial
Companies Index has been chosen as the comparator index as it is
the index that includes the Company and is considered the most
appropriate benchmark as there are very few comparable listed
asset management businesses.
TSR performance compared to FTSE 250 Financial
Companies Index
For the five financial periods ending 31 December
200
150
100
50
0
FCAM FTSE Financials Source: Datastream
17 Jul
2006
29 Dec
2006
31 Dec
2007
31 Dec
2008
31 Dec
2009
31 Dec
2010
30 Dec
2011
Extracts from the Directors’ Report
on Corporate Governance
Extracts from the Directors’
Remuneration Report 16 | GOVERNANCE | Extracts from the Directors’ Remuneration Report
Statement on Directors’ Remuneration
The remuneration of the Executive Chairman and the other Directors who held office during the year ended 31 December 2011 is set out in the
table below:
Total Total
Benefits 2011 2010
Salary and (excluding (excluding Pension
and fees Bonus allowances pension pension Contributions Total Total
2011 2011 2011 contribution) contribution) 2011 2011 2010
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive Directors
Alain Grisay 350 800 11 1,161 1,147 22 1,183 1,168
David Logan 275 300 2 577 585 40 617 623
Executive Chairman and Non-executive Directors
Edward Bramson (Executive Chairman)
(1)
136 –– 136 – – 136 –
Nick MacAndrew
(2)
14 –– 14 150 – 14 150
Keith Bedell-Pearce* 114 –– 114 95 – 114 95
Ian Brindle
(1)
36 –– 36 – – 36 –
Keith Jones
(3)
4 –– 4 – –4 –
Brian Larcombe
(2)
7 –– 7 73 –7 73
Jeff Medlock 55 –– 55 40 – 55 40
Derham O’Neill
(1)
51 –– 51 – – 51 –
Keith Percy
(3)
4 –– 4 – –4 –
Gerrhard Roggemann
(4)
21 –– 21 62 – 21 62
Kieran Poynter* 97 –– 97 57 – 97 57
Total 1,164 1,100 13 2,277 2,209 62 2,339 2 2, ,2 26 68 8
* Appointed as a member of the TRC Advisory Councils on 1 September 2010.
1 
Appointed to the Board in February 2011
2
Removed from the Board in February 2011
3
Appointed to the Board in November 2011
4
Retired from the Board in May 2011
Edward Bramson’s fees are paid to Sherborne. No other sums were paid to third parties in respect of any Director’s services.
During 2011 Compulsory Purchased Equity awards made to Alain Grisay and David Logan in 2008 vested. Their gains on vesting, representing
the gross value of the shares and the cash equivalent of re-invested dividends thereon, were £688,000 and £183,000 respectively.
Statement on Directors’ pensions
The number of Directors who held office during the year and to whom retirement benefits are accruing is set out below:
2011 2010
Number Number
Members of money purchase pension scheme 2 2
2011 2010
£000 £000
Company contributions paid to money purchase pension schemes:
Alain Grisay 22 21
David Logan 40 38
During the year, the Company paid a widow’s pension of £102,000 (2010: £100,000) in respect of the pension benefits which had accrued to
a former Chairman and £116,000 (2010: £nil) to Mr Jenkins, a former Chairman of the Company. 
No Directors were members of a defined benefit scheme during the year. SUMMARY ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 17
Statement on Directors’ Share Incentive Schemes
The Executive Directors who held office during the year and their awards under any of the Group’s share incentive schemes at 31 December
2011 are shown below.
Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the Group’s long term incentive plans.
Executive Director Remuneration Plan
Details of awards made under the Executive Director Remuneration Plan are set out below.
Gain on Gain on
Share price Share price vesting* vesting*
Nature at date at date of £000 £000
Date of Grant of Award Alain Grisay David Logan of award vesting Alain Grisay David Logan
25 Mar 2008 Deferred 740,740 284,900 192.5p –
8 Jul 2009 Deferred 1,649,452 539,540 64.9p –
Opening position at 1 January 2011 2,390,192 824,440 ––
Deferred awards that vested during the year (740,740) (284,900) 192.5p 78.8p 722 278
Deferred awards that lapsed during the year –– ––
Deferred awards remaining 
at 31 December 2011 1,649,452 539,540 ––
*  The gain on vesting represents the gross value of shares and the cash equivalent of re-invested dividends thereon transferred on vesting.
Long Term Remuneration Plan awards
Details of awards made under the Long Term Remuneration Plan are set out below.
Share price
Nature of Alain David at date 
Date of Grant Award Grisay Logan of award
4 May 2010 Restricted 2,795,929 990,557 64.8p
4 May 2011 Restricted 1,978,729 837,001 77.8p
No restricted awards made to Mr Grisay or Mr Logan vested or lapsed during the year.  18 | SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 
Independent Auditor’s Statement 
to the shareholders of F&C Asset Management plc
We have examined the Summary Annual Report and Financial
Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 set out on 
pages 19 to 24.
Respective responsibilities of the directors and 
the auditor
The directors are responsible for preparing the Summary Annual
Report and Financial Statements in accordance with applicable
United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of
the summary financial statements within the Summary Annual Report
and Financial Statements with the full annual financial statements, the
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Directors’ Report, and its
compliance with the relevant requirements of section 428 of the
Companies Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Summary
Annual Report and Financial Statements and consider the
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary
financial statement. The other information comprises only the
Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Statement and the
Corporate Governance Statement.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008/3 issued
by the Auditing Practices Board. Our report on the company’s full
annual financial statements describes the basis of our opinion on
those financial statements, the Directors’ Remuneration Report, and
the Directors’ Report.
Opinion
In our opinion the Summary Annual Report and Financial
Statements is consistent with the full annual financial statements,
the Directors’ Report and the Directors’ Remuneration Report of
F&C Asset Management plc for the year ended 31 December 2011
and complies with the applicable requirements of section 428 of the
Companies Act 2006 , and the regulations made thereunder. 
JM Mills (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
Edinburgh
23 March 2012 SUMMARY ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 19
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2011
2011 2010
£m £m
Revenue
Investment management fees 279.0 258.2
Other income 4.2 1.6
Total revenue 283.2 259.8
Fee and commission expenses (16.2) (16.6)
Net revenue 267.0 243.2
Net gains and investment income on unit-linked assets 13.7 74.3
Movement in fair value of unit-linked liabilities (13.4) (73.3)
Operating expenses
Operating expenses (183.8) (169.7)
Distributions to members of LLPs (18.3) (6.0)
Amortisation of intangible assets – management contracts (45.8) (50.7)
Other exceptional net operating expenses (19.0) (20.9)
Total operating expenses (266.9) (247.3)
Operating profit/(loss) 0.4 (3.1)
Finance revenue 17.2 11.1
Finance costs (35.4) (33.6)
F&C REIT put option fair value gain 8.7 6.4
TRC acquisition consideration adjustments 7.6 —
Loss before tax (1.5) (19.2)
Tax – Shareholders 4.1 6.2
Tax – Policyholders – (0.4)
Tax income 4.1 5.8
Profit/(loss) for the year 2.6 (13.4)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (0.5) (16.6)
Non-controlling interests 3.1 3.2
Profit/(loss) for the year 2.6 (13.4)
Basic loss per Ordinary Share (0.10)p (3.31)p
Diluted loss per Ordinary Share (0.10)p (3.31)p
£m £m
Memo – dividends paid 15.6 24.5
Memo – dividends proposed 10.4 10.3 20 | SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
for the year ended 31 December 2011
2011 2010
£m £m
Profit/(loss) for the year 2.6 (13.4)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income:
Foreign exchange movements on translation of foreign operations (2.0) (4.7)
Net actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 3.3 10.4
Gains on available for sale financial investments 1.5 1.3
Realised gains on available for sale financial investments transferred to the Income Statement (3.3) –
Tax expense on items taken directly to equity (0.5) (3.5)
Foreign exchange transfer to Income Statement on liquidation of subsidiary – (1.3)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (1.0) 2.2
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 1.6 (11.2)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (1.5) (14.4)
Non-controlling interests 3.1 3.2
1.6 (11.2) SUMMARY ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 21
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
as at 31 December 2011
31 December 31 December
2011 2010
£m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 7.4 8.3
Intangible assets:
– Goodwill 611.9 611.9
– Management contracts 128.6 175.5
– Software and licences 2.5 1.0
743.0 788.4
Financial investments 1.7 3.5
Other receivables 1.1 2.0
Deferred acquisition costs 4.7 6.0
Deferred tax assets 28.3 30.9
Total non-current assets 786.2 839.1
Current assets
Financial investments 454.4 548.7
Reinsurance assets 2.0 2.0
Stock of units and shares 0.9 0.1
Deferred acquisition costs 2.4 2.8
Trade and other receivables 83.9 162.6
Current tax receivable 0.7 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents:
– Shareholders 196.9 178.8
– Policyholders 28.1 23.4
225.0 202.2
Total current assets 769.3 918.5
Total assets 1,555.5 1,757.6
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 273.8 273.7
Other payables 6.9 12.1
Provisions 7.3 8.1
Pension deficit 20.5 27.6
Employee benefits 5.9 11.6
Deferred income 7.0 8.1
Other financial liabilities 41.5 49.5
Deferred tax liabilities 32.4 48.1
Total non-current liabilities 395.3 438.8
Current liabilities
Investment contract liabilities 472.8 559.2
Insurance contract liabilities 2.0 2.0
Trade and other payables 71.7 138.5
Provisions 8.5 9.0
Employee benefits 28.8 24.3
Liabilities to members of LLPs 4.7 4.4
Deferred income 3.3 3.7
Other financial liabilities 3.8 4.5
Current tax payable 7.8 1.6
Total current liabilities 603.4 747.2
Total liabilities 998.7 1,186.0
Equity
Ordinary Share capital 0.5 0.5
Share premium account 51.8 51.8
Capital redemption reserve 0.8 0.8
Merger reserve 359.7 383.3
Other reserves (22.8) (19.5)
Retained earnings 154.3 138.2
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 544.3 555.1
Non-controlling interests 12.5 16.5
Total equity 556.8 571.6
Total liabilities and equity 1,555.5 1,757.6
The Summary Consolidated Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 23 March 2012. They
were signed on its behalf by:
Edward Bramson Alain Grisay 
Executive Chairman Chief Executive 22 | SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2011
Foreign
Ordinary Share Capital currency Non-
Share premium redemption Merger translation Fair value Acquisition Retained controlling Total
capital account reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2010 0.5 33.8 0.8 416.6 50.1 1.4 (66.0) 132.5 19.2 588.9
(Loss)/profit for the year –– ––– –– (16.6) 3.2 (13.4)
Other comprehensive 
(expense)/income –– –– (6.0) 1.0 – 7.2 – 2.2
Total comprehensive 
(expense)/income –– –– (6.0) 1.0 – (9.4) 3.2 (11.2)
Transactions with owners:
Realised element of merger 
reserve to offset amortisation 
of intangible assets –– – (33.3) –– – 33.3 ––
Transfer of investment in own shares 
into equity on acquisition of TRC –– ––– –– (0.8) – (0.8)
Purchase of own shares –– ––– –– (9.7) – (9.7)
Settlement proceeds received on 
disposal of own shares –– ––– –– 1.1 – 1.1
Share-based payment
charges credited to equity –– ––– –– 19.5 – 19.5
Share capital allotted on placement 
of shares – 14.2 –– –––– – 14.2
Share capital allotted in respect of 
TRC Commutation arrangements – 3.8 –– ––– (3.8) ––
Final 2009 dividend paid –– ––– –– (19.4) – (19.4)
Interim 2010 dividend paid –– ––– –– (5.1) – (5.1)
Distributions to 
non-controlling interests –– ––– ––– (5.9) (5.9)
Balance at 31 December 2010 0.5 51.8 0.8 383.3 44.1 2.4 (66.0) 138.2 16.5 571.6
(Loss)/profit for the year –– ––– –– (0.5) 3.1 2.6
Other comprehensive
(expense)/income –– –– (2.0) (1.3) – 2.3 – (1.0)
Total comprehensive
(expense)/income –– –– (2.0) (1.3) – 1.8 3.1 1.6
Transactions with owners:
Realised element of
merger reserve to offset
amortisation of intangible assets –– – (23.6) –– – 23.6 ––
Purchase of own shares –– ––– –– (3.2) – (3.2)
Share-based payment charges
credited to equity –– ––– –– 17.3 – 17.3
Consideration for non-controlling
interests in F&C Partners LLP –– ––– –– (10.7) – (10.7)
Tax credit associated with purchase 
of non-controlling interests in F&C
Partners LLP –– ––– –– 2.9 – 2.9
Final 2010 dividend paid –– ––– –– (10.4) – (10.4)
Interim 2011 dividend paid –– ––– –– (5.2) – (5.2)
Distributions to non-controlling 
interests –– ––– ––– (7.1) (7.1)
Balance at 31 December 2011 0.5 51.8 0.8 359.7 42.1 1.1 (66.0) 154.3 12.5 556.8
The total of foreign currency translation reserve, fair value reserve and acquisition reserve constitutes ‘Other reserves’ as disclosed in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and amounts to a debit of £22.8m at 31 December 2011 (31 December 2010: £19.5m debit).
Cumulative defined benefit pension scheme actuarial losses recognised as at 31 December 2011 are £31.0m which are included in retained
earnings (31 December 2010: £34.3m).
The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at
meetings of the Company. SUMMARY ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 23
Earnings per Share
Basic loss per share amounts are calculated by dividing the loss for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the
weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted loss per share amounts are calculated by dividing the loss for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the
weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares that would be
issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential Ordinary Shares into Ordinary Shares at the reporting date.
In the opinion of the Directors the ‘underlying earnings’ as quantified in the ‘Reconciliation of (loss)/earnings’ table below, more accurately
reflects the underlying earnings performance of the Group.
2011 2010
(as restated*)
Reconciliation of (loss)/earnings per Ordinary Share p p
Basic loss per Ordinary Share (0.10) (3.31)
Amortisation of intangibles 5.61 6.48
F&C REIT put option fair value gain (1.69) (1.28)
F&C Partners litigation expense 0.16 0.88
TRC Commutation expenses 1.10 1.24
Exceptional employment expense/(income) 1.24 (0.38)
F&C REIT variable NCI SBP income (0.93) (0.06)
TRC Management Retention and Incentive Plans 0.80 0.30
TRC integration expenses 0.01 0.18
Operations outsourcing expenses 0.39 –
TRC acquisition consideration adjustments (1.47) –
Deferred Tax – Corporation Tax rate change* 0.39 0.16
Corporate advisory fees – 1.97
Foreign exchange transfer from reserves on liquidation of subsidiary – (0.26)
Prior year unrealised losses on forward currency contracts, now realised – (0.18)
Underlying earnings per Ordinary Share 5.51 5.74
Foreign exchange losses included within underlying earnings per share – 0.28
Underlying earnings per Ordinary Share excluding foreign exchange losses 5.51 6.02
*  As restated for the effect of the Deferred Tax – Corporation Tax rate change being excluded from underlying EPS.
2011 2010
p p
Diluted loss per Ordinary Share* (0.10) (3.31)
Diluted underlying earnings per Ordinary Share 4.93 5.52
Diluted underlying earnings per Ordinary Share excluding foreign exchange losses 4.93 5.79
*  Where the Group has incurred a basic loss per Ordinary Share, no dilution arises despite the ‘dilutive potential weighted average number of Ordinary Shares’ being
greater than the ‘weighted average number of Ordinary Shares used to determine the basic loss per share’. As a result, the reported basic and diluted loss per
Ordinary Share are the same in 2011 and 2010.
All amounts disclosed in the table above are stated net of any attributable tax, as presented in the ‘Reconciliation of (loss)/earnings’ table below. Earnings per share continued
The following tables disclose the (loss)/earnings and share capital data used in the (loss)/earnings per share calculations:
2011 2010 (as restated*)
Gross Tax Net Gross Tax Net
Reconciliation of (loss)/earnings £m £m £m £m £m £m
Loss attributable to ordinary equity holders
of the parent for basic loss per share (4.0) 3.5 (0.5) (22.1) 5.5 (16.6)
Amortisation of intangibles
(1)
42.6 (13.7) 28.9 47.3 (14.8) 32.5
F&C REIT put option fair value gain (8.7) – (8.7) (6.4) – (6.4)
F&C Partners litigation expense 1.9 (1.1) 0.8 6.0 (1.6) 4.4
TRC Commutation expenses 5.7 – 5.7 6.2 – 6.2
Exceptional employment expense/(income)
(2)
8.7 (2.3) 6.4 (2.6) 0.7 (1.9)
F&C REIT variable NCI SBP income (4.8) – (4.8) (0.3) – (0.3)
TRC Management Retention and Incentive Plans 4.6 (0.5) 4.1 1.8 (0.3) 1.5
TRC integration expenses 0.2 (0.1) 0.1 1.1 (0.2) 0.9
Operations outsourcing expenses 2.7 (0.7) 2.0 –––
TRC acquisition consideration adjustments (7.6) – (7.6) –––
Deferred Tax – Corporation Tax rate change* – 2.0 2.0 – 0.8 0.8
Corporate advisory fees ––– 9.9 – 9.9
Foreign exchange transfer from reserves on liquidation of subsidiary ––– (1.3) – (1.3)
Prior year unrealised losses on forward currency contracts, now realised ––– (1.3) 0.4 (0.9)
Underlying earnings attributable to ordinary
equity holders of the parent 41.3 (12.9) 28.4 38.3 (9.5) 28.8
Foreign exchange losses included within underlying earnings ––– 2.0 (0.6) 1.4
Underlying earnings attributable to ordinary equity holders
of the parent excluding foreign exchange losses 41.3 (12.9) 28.4 40.3 (10.1) 30.2
* As restated for the effect of the Deferred Tax  – Corporation Tax rate change being excluded from underlying EPS.
(1)
Excludes £2.0m (2010: £2.3m) of amortisation of intangibles (net of tax) which is attributable to NCI.
(2)
Excludes £nil (2010: £0.1m) of costs (net of tax) which are attributable to NCI.
2011 2010
Share capital No. No.
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares
(3)
515,372,721 501,469,251
Dilutive potential weighted average number of Ordinary Shares 575,158,617 520,838,263
(3) 
Excluding own shares held by Nominees/Employee Benefit Trusts.
24 | SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUMMARY ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 25
Historical summaries
The Five Year Record is shown based on International Financial Reporting Standards which have been adopted by the Group. 
This Five Year Record is not part of the audited Financial Statements.
2008
2007 (as restated
*
) 2009 2010 2011
£m £m £m £m £m
Consolidated Income Statements
Revenue
Investment management fees 267.2 244.2 237.8 258.2 279.0
Other income 10.6 1.1 4.1 1.6 4.2
Total revenue 277.8 245.3 241.9 259.8 283.2
Fee and commission expenses (13.3) (15.4) (16.8) (16.6) (16.2)
Net revenue 264.5 229.9 225.1 243.2 267.0
Net gains/(losses) and investment income on unit-linked assets 45.0 (208.7) 136.0 74.3 13.7
Movement in fair value of unit-linked liabilities (43.9) 210.5 (134.6) (73.3) (13.4)
Operating expenses
Operating expenses (183.8) (171.0) (164.8) (169.7) (183.8)
Distributions to members of LLPs ––– (6.0) (18.3)
Amortisation of intangible assets – management contracts (42.4) (48.9) (49.8) (50.7) (45.8)
Impairment of intangible assets – management contracts – (48.3) –– –
Unrealised (losses)/gains on forward currency contracts – (12.3) 1.2 – –
Other exceptional net operating costs (10.6) (10.6) (19.0) (20.9) (19.0)
Total operating expenses (236.8) (291.1) (232.4) (247.3) (266.9)
Operating profit/(loss) 28.8 (59.4) (5.9) (3.1) 0.4
Finance revenue 23.8 25.7 11.5 11.1 17.2
Finance costs (27.3) (29.4) (30.3) (33.6) (35.4)
F&C REIT put option fair value gain –– 5.6 6.4 8.7
TRC acquisition consideration adjustments –––– 7.6
Gain on debt exchange –– 27.9 – –
Loss on disposal of subsidiaries and associates – (4.1) –– –
Impairment in associates and other financial investments – (0.1) (0.1) – –
Share of profit of associates 0.6 ––– –
Profit/(loss) before tax 25.9 (67.3) 8.7 (19.2) (1.5)
Tax – Shareholders (6.6) 17.6 10.4 6.2 4.1
Tax – Policyholders (0.6) (0.9) (0.4) (0.4) –
Tax (expense)/income (7.2) 16.7 10.0 5.8 4.1
Profit/(loss) for the year 18.7 (50.6) 18.7 (13.4) 2.6
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 17.1 (52.5) 15.9 (16.6) (0.5)
Non-controlling interests 1.6 1.9 2.8 3.2 3.1
Profit/(loss) for the year 18.7 (50.6) 18.7 (13.4) 2.6
Underlying earnings per Ordinary Share
#
10.43p 7.75p 4.57p 5.74p 5.51p
Basic earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share 3.54p (10.66)p 3.24p (3.31)p (0.10)p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share 3.43p (10.66)p 3.19p (3.31)p (0.10)p
Dividends
Memo
Final dividend for 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 33.8 19.7 19.8 19.4 10.4
Interim dividend for 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 9.7 9.9 9.7 5.1 5.2
43.5 29.6 29.5 24.5 15.6
Final dividend per Ordinary Share for 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 7.0p 4.0p 4.0p 4.0p 2.0p
Interim dividend per Ordinary Share for 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 2.0p 2.0p 2.0p 1.0p 1.0p
Dividend cover
†
0.39 (1.78) 0.54 (0.68) (0.03)
Dividend cover before exceptional items
†#
1.16 1.29 0.76 1.17 1.82
* As restated for the amendment to IFRS 2: Share-based Payment.
#
As restated in 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 for the effect of the Deferred Tax – Corporation Tax rate change being excluded from Underlying EPS.
†
Based on the dividends paid during 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. 
Five Year Record 26 | SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 
The following tables reconcile the reported earnings to underlying earnings attributable to equityholders of the parent. In addition, the
calculation of certain key performance indicators is given below.
Year ended 31 December 2011
£ millions unless otherwise stated Profit attributable to 
Underlying Group Earnings equity holders of the parent
Non-
Adjusted controlling
Reported Income interests Underlying
earnings Adjustments Statement profits* earnings
A Net Revenue 267.0 – 267.0 – 267.0
Net policyholder income 0.3 – 0.3 – 0.3
Operating expenses (183.8) – (183.8) – (183.8)
Distributions to members of LLPs (18.3) – (18.3) – (18.3)
Amortisation of intangible assets (45.8) 45.8 –––
Other exceptional net operating expenses (19.0) 19.0 –––
Total operating expenses (266.9) 64.8 (202.1)
†
– (202.1)
B Operating profit 0.4 64.8 65.2 – 65.2
Interest paid (23.8) – (23.8) – (23.8)
Interest and investment income received 5.7 – 5.7 – 5.7
F&C REIT put option fair value gain 8.7 (8.7) –––
TRC acquisition consideration adjustments 7.6 (7.6) –––
Other non-operating items (0.1) – (0.1) – (0.1)
Non-controlling interests profits ––– (5.7) (5.7)
(Loss)/profit before tax (1.5) 48.5 47.0
‡
(5.7) 41.3
Tax income/(expense) 4.1 (17.6) (13.5) 0.6 (12.9)
C Profit for the year 2.6 30.9 33.5 (5.1) 28.4
Underlying EPS (C÷D) 5.5p
Underlying operating margin (B÷A) 24.4%
D Weighted average number of shares (000’s) 515,373
* Excluding NCI share of amortisation of intangible assets.
†
Defined as ‘underlying operating costs’.
‡
Defined as ‘Group underlying profit before tax’.
Year ended 31 December 2010
£ millions unless otherwise stated Profit attributable to 
Underlying Group Earnings equity holders of the parent
Non-
Adjusted controlling
Reported Income interests Underlying
earnings Adjustments Statement profits* earnings
A Net Revenue 243.2 – 243.2 – 243.2
Net policyholder income 1.0 – 1.0 – 1.0
Operating expenses (169.0) – (169.0) – (169.0)
Exchange losses (1.6) – (1.6) – (1.6)
Realised gains attributable to closed FX contracts 0.9 – 0.9 – 0.9
FX contract losses recognised in prior periods – (1.3) (1.3) – (1.3)
Operating expenses (169.7) (1.3) (171.0) – (171.0)
Distributions to members of LLPs (6.0) – (6.0) – (6.0)
Amortisation of intangible assets (50.7) 50.7 –––
Other exceptional net operating expenses (20.9) 20.9 –––
Total operating expenses (247.3) 70.3 (177.0)
†
– (177.0)
B Operating (loss)/profit (3.1) 70.3 67.2 – 67.2
Interest paid (22.3) – (22.3) – (22.3)
Interest and investment income received 1.6 – 1.6 – 1.6
F&C REIT put option fair value gain 6.4 (6.4) –––
Other non–operating items (1.8) – (1.8) – (1.8)
Non-controlling interests profits ––– (6.4) (6.4)
(Loss)/profit before tax (19.2) 63.9 44.7
‡
(6.4) 38.3
Tax income/(expense) 5.8 (16.0) (10.2) 0.7 (9.5)
C (Loss)/profit for year (13.4) 47.9 34.5 (5.7) 28.8
Underlying EPS (C÷D) 5.7p
Underlying operating margin (B÷A) 27.6%
D Weighted average number of shares (000’s) 501,469
* Excluding NCI share of amortisation of intangible assets and other exceptional costs.
†
Defined as ‘underlying operating costs’.
‡
Defined as ‘Group underlying profit before tax’.
Reconciliations of reported to underlying earnings SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SUMMARY ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 27
Notice is hereby given that the thirty-second Annual General Meeting
of F&C Asset Management plc will be held at Ironmongers Hall,
Shaftesbury Place, Barbican, London EC2Y 8AA on Wednesday 9
May 2012 at 10 a.m. (UK time) for the following purposes:
Ordinary Business
To be proposed as ordinary resolutions:
1. To receive the Financial Statements and the Reports of the
Directors and the Independent Auditor for the year ended 
31 December 2011.
2. To declare a final dividend of 2.0 pence per share on the
ordinary shares of the Company to be paid on 25 May 2012 to
members whose name appears on the register of members at
the close of business on 30 March 2012.
3. To elect Keith Jones as a Director.
4. To elect Keith Percy as a Director.
5. To re-elect Edward Bramson as a Director.
6. To re-elect Keith Bedell-Pearce as a Director.
7. To re-elect Ian Brindle as a Director.
8. To re-elect David Logan as a Director.
9. To re-elect Jeff Medlock as a Director.
10. To re-elect Derham O’Neill as a Director.
11. To re-elect Kieran Poynter as a Director.
12. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year
ended 31 December 2011.
13. To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditor to the Company to
hold office until the conclusion of the next General Meeting at
which Financial Statements are laid before the Company and to
authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
14. THAT:
(A) pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 (‘the
Act’), the Directors be generally and unconditionally
authorised to allot:
(1) shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe
for or to convert any security into shares in the
Company, up to a maximum nominal amount of
£177,355.19, subject to paragraph A(2); and
(2) shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe
for or to convert any security into shares in the
Company, comprising equity securities (within the
meaning of section 560(1) of the Act) up to a maximum
nominal amount (when aggregated with any allotment
made pursuant to paragraph A(1)) of £354,710.38 in
connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer undertaken by
means of a rights issue;
(B) the authorities given in this Resolution:
(1) shall be in substitution for all pre-existing authorities to
allot shares under section 551 of the Act (other than the
specific authorities granted at the general meeting of
the Company held on 18 June 2010 to allot shares to
satisfy the consideration payable in relation to the
acquisition of Thames River and the related
commutation arrangements and for the settlement of
awards made under the management share plans) but
without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority
prior to the date hereof; and
(2) unless renewed, revoked or varied in accordance with
the Act, shall expire at the completion of the Annual
General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2013,
save that the Company may before such expiry make
an offer or agreement which would or might require the
allotment of shares in the Company, or the right to
subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in
the Company, after such expiry; and
(C) for the purpose of this Resolution, “Pre-Emptive Offer”
means an offer of equity securities to:
(1) holders of ordinary shares (other than the Company) on
a fixed record date in proportion to their respective
holdings of such shares; and
(2) other persons entitled to participate in such offer by
virtue of the rights attaching to any other equity
securities held by them,
in each case, subject to such exclusions or other
arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or
appropriate in relation to fractional entitlements, legal,
regulatory or practical problems under the laws or the
requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange of
any territory or otherwise.
To be proposed as special resolutions:
15. THAT:
(A) subject to the passing of resolution 14 set out in this Notice
(‘the Allotment Authority’), the Directors be given power
pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 (‘the
Act’) to allot equity securities (within the meaning of section
560(1) of the Act) for cash, pursuant to the authorities given
by the Allotment Authority, and to sell treasury shares wholly
for cash, as if section 561(1) of the Act did not apply to any
such allotment or sale, provided that such power shall be
limited to the allotment of equity securities or the sale of
treasury shares:
(1) in the case of paragraph A(1) of the Allotment
Authority, (a) in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer (as
defined in the Allotment Authority); or (b) in order to
satisfy options or awards under any share scheme for
employees or share incentive plan approved by the
Company in general meeting; or (c) otherwise, up to a
maximum nominal amount of £26,605.94;
(2) in the case of paragraph A(2) of the Allotment
Authority, in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer
undertaken by means of a rights issue;
Notice of Annual General Meeting  (B) the power given in this Resolution:
(1) shall be in substitution for all pre-existing authorities
under section 570 of the Act but without prejudice to
the exercise of any such authority prior to the date
hereof; and
(2) unless renewed in accordance with the Act, shall expire
at the same time as the Allotment Authority, save that
the Company may before such expiry make an offer or
agreement which would or might require equity
securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold
after such expiry.
This power applies to a sale of shares which is an allotment
of equity securities by virtue of section 560(3) of the Act as if
the words “in the case of paragraph A(1) of the Allotment
Authority,” and “in the case of paragraph A(2) of the
Allotment Authority,” were omitted from, respectively,
paragraphs A(1) and A(2) of this resolution.
16. THAT, in substitution for any existing power under section 701
of the Companies Act 2006 (‘the Act’), but without prejudice to
the exercise of any such power prior to the date hereof, the
Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally
authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with section 701 of
the Act, to make market purchases (within the meaning of
section 693 of the Act) of fully paid ordinary shares of 0.1 pence
each in the capital of the Company (‘ordinary shares’) in such
terms and in such manner as the Directors of the Company may
decide, provided that:
(i) the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby
authorised to be purchased is 53,211,879 (being
approximately 10 per cent. of the issued ordinary share
capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at 
22 March 2012);
(ii) the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share
is 0.1 pence (exclusive of expenses); and
(iii) the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be
paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per
cent. of the average of the middle market quotations (as
derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock
Exchange) for the ordinary shares for the five business days
immediately preceding the date of purchase,
such authority to expire on the earlier of the date falling 15
months after the date of the passing of this resolution and
the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the
Company to be held in 2013, unless previously revoked,
varied or renewed by the Company in general meeting, save
that the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of
such authority enter into a contract or contracts to purchase
ordinary shares under such authority which will or might be
completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration
of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary
shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts as if
this authority had not expired.
Special Business
To be proposed as a special resolution:
17. THAT the period of notice for calling a general meeting (other
than an Annual General Meeting) shall be not less than 14 clear
days provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of
the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2013. 
By order of the Board
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Secretary
80 George Street
Edinburgh EH2 3BU
23 March 2012
Notes
(i) A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to
appoint one or more proxies to attend and speak and vote on his/her
behalf. A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each
proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares. A
member may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights
attached to any one share. A proxy need not be a member of the
Company.
(ii) A Form of Proxy for use by Ordinary Shareholders in connection with the
meeting is enclosed with these Accounts. To be valid, the Form of Proxy
should be completed and signed and sent or delivered, together with any
power of attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is signed or an
extract from the Books of Council and Session or a notarially certified
copy or a copy certified in accordance with the Powers of Attorney Act
1971 of such power or authority, in accordance with the instructions
contained therein, so as to reach the Company’s registrars, at the
address stated thereon, not later than 10 a.m. (UK time) on 4 May 2012.
(iii) Alternatively, shareholders who would like to lodge their proxy
electronically may do so via the Sharevote website
(www.sharevote.co.uk) or through CREST in each case so as to be
received by no later than 10 a.m. (UK time) on 4 May 2012. Further
details relating to proxy appointments through CREST are set out in note
(xvi) below. If you return more than one valid proxy appointment in
respect of the same share, either by paper or electronic communication,
the one which is received last will take precedence; if the Company is
unable to determine which of them was received last, none of them will
be treated as valid in respect of that share.
(iv) Completing and returning a Form of Proxy will not prevent an Ordinary
Shareholder from attending in person at the meeting referred to above
and voting should he or she wish to do so.
(v) To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting (and for the purposes of
the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast),
shareholders must be registered in the register of members of the
Company at 6.00 p.m. on Friday, 4 May 2012 (or, in the event of any
adjournment, on the date which is two days (excluding any part of a day
that is not a working day) before the time of the adjourned meeting).
Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be
disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at
the meeting.
(vi) If you are not a member of the Company but you have been nominated
by a member of the Company to enjoy information rights, you do not
have a right to appoint a proxy. See note (vii) below.
28 | SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION | (vii) If you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 of the
Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights:
• You may have a right under an agreement between you and the
member of the Company who has nominated you to have
information rights (‘Relevant Member’) to be appointed or to have
someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
• If you either do not have such a right or if you have such a right but
do not wish to exercise it, you may have a right under an agreement
between you and the Relevant Member to give instructions to the
Relevant Member as to the exercise of voting rights.
(viii) Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more
corporate representative(s) who may exercise on its behalf all of its
powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the
same shares.
(ix) Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders meeting the
threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the
Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter
relating to: (i) the audit of the Company’s accounts (including the auditor’s
report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the
meeting; or (ii) any circumstance connected with an auditor of the
Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which
annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of
the Companies Act 2006. The Company may not require the
shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses
in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under
section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to
the Company’s auditor not later than the time when it makes the
statement available on the website. The business which may be dealt
with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been
required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a
website.
(x) Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to
the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be
given if (a) to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the
meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, (b) the
answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to
a question, or (c) it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the
good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
(xi) In accordance with section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the
contents of this notice, details of the total number of shares in respect of
which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting and,
if applicable, any members’ statements, members’ resolutions or
members’ matters of business received by the Company after the date of
this notice of meeting will be available on the Company’s website at
www.fcamplc.com. 
(xii) As at 22 March 2012 (being the latest practicable date prior to
publication of this notice) the Company’s issued share capital consisted
of 532,118,789 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each carrying one vote
each. No shares are held in treasury. Therefore, total voting rights in the
Company as at 22 March 2012 are 532,118,789.
(xiii) Copies of the following documents will be made available for inspection
at the registered office of the Company and at the Company’s head office
during normal business hours on any week day (Saturdays, Sundays and
public holidays excepted) from the date of this notice until the close of the
meeting, and at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to and
during the continuance of the meeting:
• the Executive Directors’ service contracts and Non-executive
Directors’ letters of appointment; and
• the articles of association of the Company.
(xiv) A member may not use any electronic address provided either in this
Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents to
communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those
expressly stated.
(xv) The Company has made provision for shareholders who would like to
vote by electronic means.
(xvi) CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the
CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the
procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST Personal Members
or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who
have appointed a service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor
or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate
action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST
service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a ‘CREST Proxy
Instruction’) must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear
UK & Ireland Limited’s specifications, and must contain the information
required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual
(available via www.euroclear.com/CREST). The message, regardless of
whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to
the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be
valid, be transmitted so as to be received by our Registrars, Equiniti (ID
RA19) by 10 a.m. (UK time) on 4 May 2012. For this purpose, the time of
receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the time stamp
applied to the message by the CREST Application Host) from which the
issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the
manner prescribed by CREST. After this time any change of instruction to
proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the
appointee through other means. CREST members and, where applicable,
their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that
Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special
procedures in CREST for any particular message. Normal system timings
and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST
Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member
concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal
member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service
provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s)
take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is
transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this
connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST
sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those
sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the
CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the
circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated
Securities Regulations 2001.
SUMMARY ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 29 30 | SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION | 
Shareholders should consult their own tax advisors as to the tax
considerations applicable to them relating to the purchase,
ownership and disposition of our ordinary shares (the ‘Shares’),
including the applicability of US Federal state and local tax laws and
non-US tax laws. This discussion does not address tax
considerations applicable to US Shareholders other than the passive
foreign investment company rules. 
F&C Asset Management plc (the ‘Company’) and certain of its
subsidiaries may be treated as passive foreign investment
companies (each, a ‘PFIC’) within the meaning of section 1297 of
the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ‘Code’) for
US Federal income tax purposes. 
Treatment of the Company or any of its subsidiaries as a PFIC could
result in adverse tax consequences for US Shareholders. 
A foreign corporation generally will be treated as a PFIC in any year
in which either 75 per cent. or more of its gross income constitutes
passive income or at least 50 per cent. of the value of its assets is
attributable to assets which produce or are held for the production
of passive income. In applying these tests, a non-US corporation
that directly or indirectly owns at least 25 per cent., by value, of the
stock of another corporation is treated as if it held directly its
proportionate share of the other corporation’s assets and received
directly its proportionate share of the other corporation’s income. 
Whether a non-US company is a PFIC is determined annually, and the
status of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, could change
depending among other things upon the changes in the composition
of its gross receipts and assets, and the nature of its business. 
US Shareholders are particularly urged to consult their own Tax
Advisors regarding the US tax considerations relating to an
investment in a company that may be or may become a PFIC,
including the availability and consequences of elections that may be
available to mitigate the adverse Federal income tax consequences
of owning or disposing of PFIC shares. In that regard, US
Shareholders should be aware that the Company does not intend to
satisfy the record keeping and other requirements that would permit
a US Shareholder to make a qualified electing fund (‘QEF’) election
with respect to the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Each taxpayer is hereby notified that: (a) any discussion of US
Federal tax issues herein is not intended or written to be used, and
cannot be used by the taxpayer, for the purpose of avoiding
penalties that may be imposed on the taxpayer under US Federal
tax law; (b) any such discussion is written to support the promotion
or marketing of the transactions or matters addressed herein; and
(c) the taxpayer should seek advice based on its particular
circumstances from an independent tax advisor. 
Notice To US Shareholders – 
Certain PFIC Considerations SUMMARY ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 31
Corporate Information
Directors
Edward Bramson, Executive Chairman
‡
Alain Grisay, Chief Executive
Keith Bedell-Pearce, Senior Independent Non-executive
*†‡
Ian Brindle, Non-executive
Keith Jones, Non-executive
*
o
David Logan, Chief Financial Officer
Jeff Medlock, Non-executive
*†
o
Derham O’Neill, Non-executive
*†
o
Keith Percy, Non-executive
o
Kieran Poynter, Non-executive
*†‡
o
‡
Member of Nomination Committee
* Member of Remuneration Committee
†
Member of Audit & Compliance Committee
o
Member of the Risk Committee
Head Office
Exchange House
Primrose Street
London
EC2A 2NY
Telephone 020 7628 8000
Facsimile 020 7628 8188
Email: enquiries@fandc.com
Secretary and Registered Office
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
80 George Street
Edinburgh
EH2 3BU
Telephone 0131 718 1000
Facsimile 0131 225 2375
Solicitors
Norton Rose LLP
3 More London Riverside
London
SE1 2AQ
Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP
1 Exchange Crescent
Conference Square
Edinburgh
EH3 8UL
Principal Banker
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
142-144 Princes Street
Edinburgh
EH2 4EQ
Stockbrokers
J.P . Morgan Cazenove
10 Aldermanbury
London
EC2V 7RF
Jeffries Hoare Govett
Vintners Place
68 Upper Thames Street
London
EC4V 3BJ
HSBC Bank plc
8 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London
E14 5HQ
Auditor
KPMG Audit Plc
Saltire Court
20 Castle Terrace
Edinburgh
EH1 2EG
Registrar and Transfer Office
Equiniti Limited
34 South Gyle Crescent
South Gyle Business Park
Edinburgh
EH12 9EB
Corporate information
F&C Asset Management plc
Registered in Scotland
Company Registration Number SC73508
Website
Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website 
www.fcamplc.com
Shareholder services available from Equiniti Limited
Shareview
The Company’s registrar, Equiniti, offers a Shareview service enabling shareholders to have more control over their shares and other investments:
Direct access to data held on the share register including recent share movements and dividend details. 
The ability to change address details or dividend payment instructions online.
To sign up for Shareview, shareholders need the “shareholder reference” printed on the proxy form or dividend stationery, and there is no
charge to register.
On registration, shareholders can select their preferred format (post or e-mail) for shareholder communications. Shareholders selecting “e-mail”
as their mailing preference will be sent shareholder communications, such as proxy forms and notice of Company results by e-mail instead of
post, as long as this option is available. Shareholders selecting “post” as their preference will be sent paper documents as usual. Details of
software and equipment requirements are given on the website, www.shareview.co.uk
Voting Online
In accordance with good governance practice, the Company is offering shareholders use of an online voting service, “sharevote”, offered by
Equiniti, at www.sharevote.co.uk. Shareholders can use this service to vote or appoint a proxy online. The same voting deadline (10 a.m. 
(UK time) on 4 May 2012) applies as for the Personalised Voting Form to vote or appoint a proxy by post to vote. Shareholders need to use 
the unique personal identification details (Reference Number, Card ID and Account Number) that are printed on the Personalised Voting Form
to use this service.  F&C Asset Management plc 
Head Office: Exchange House Primrose Street London EC2A 2NY
Telephone: 020 7628 8000 Email: enquiries@fandc.com
Website: www.fcamplc.com
