 Friends Provident plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004
Friends Provident plc
Pixham End,
Dorking, Surrey,
England RH4 1QA
Tel 0870 608 3678
www.friendsprovident.com
Friends Provident plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004
Greater scale, 
broader scope Cautionary statement
Certain statements contained in this document constitute ‘forward-looking statements’. 
Such forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results,
performance or achievements of Friends Provident plc, its subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings, from time to time, or
industry results to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such
forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others, adverse changes to laws or
regulations; risks in respect of taxation; unforeseen liabilities from product reviews; asset shortfalls against product liabilities; 
changes in the general economic environment; levels and trends in mortality and morbidity; restrictions on access to product
distribution channels; increased competition; and the ability to attract and retain personnel. These forward-looking statements
are made only as at the date of this document and, save where required in order to comply with the Listing Rules, there is no
obligation on Friends Provident plc to update such forward-looking statements.
Published by Black Sun Plc
Printed by Wace
Shareholder enquiries
You should contact the Registrar if you:
• have any questions regarding your shareholding
• have any questions regarding your 
dividend payments
• have lost your Share Account Statement 
or share certiﬁcate
• have changed your name or address
• wish to transfer your shares into someone else’s
name or joint names
Registrar
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
BN99 6DA
Telephone: 0870 609 4534
(Monday to Friday 8.30am to 5.30pm)
Website: www.shareview.co.uk
To buy and sell shares
By post:
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
BN99 6DA
By telephone:
Lloyds TSB Registrars
Telephone: 0845 300 2946
(Monday to Friday 8am to 4.30pm)
(Please have your Account Number and bank
account details to hand)
By internet:
Lloyds TSB Registrars Shareview Dealing Service
www.friendsprovident.com/shareholderservices
(Please have your Account Number and bank
account details to hand)
Latest share price information
www.friendsprovident.com/shareprice
Dividend dates
Shares go ex dividend 6 April 2005
Record date 8 April 2005
Final dividend paid 31 May 2005
Annual General Meeting 26 May 2005
Shareholder Information
The Friends Provident Group is organised around a life 
and pensions business and an asset management
business. Both were developed further throughout 2004,
securing greater scale and broader scope for the Group:
Increasing our scale
The merger of ISIS and F&C nearly doubles the funds managed by the Group
Extending our reach
Our acquisition of Lombard* opens up the European market still further
Excelling in service
We are the only UK listed life and pensions company to hold 
a FIVE STAR rating** for service 
Winning with technology
Our online e-commerce facilities won seven awards in 2004
Attracting more customers
New life and pensions business in 2004 hit a record level
Establishing new distribution
Selected by many distributors for their ‘preferred provider’ panels 
Raising new capital
Successfully raised £380m new capital through an innovative securitisation
to support our ambitions for further growth 
Maintaining ethical heritage
Through our Stewardship range, we have more money invested in retail ethical funds 
than any other company
Featured on the front cover are Katy Macleod, Deven Beeharilal 
and Claire Bouldin who work in our Central London Ofﬁce 
delivering Five Star service to IFAs. 
* Completed in January 2005
**2004 Financial Adviser Practiv Service Awards
▼
A year of achievement Group Financial Highlights
£344m
Achieved operating proﬁt before amortisation of
goodwill, operating exceptional items and tax
(2003: £266m)
£267m
Achieved operating proﬁt on
ordinary activities before tax
(2003: £227m)
£83m
Contribution to proﬁts from new business**
(2003: £80m)
£434m
Life and pensions new business APE*
(2003: £429m)
£3.2bn
Shareholders’ funds plus market value 
of F&C at 31/12/04** 
(2003: £2.8bn)
£317m
Modiﬁed statutory solvency operating proﬁt
before amortisation of goodwill, operating 
exceptional items and tax
(2003: £260m)
£228m
Modiﬁed statutory solvency operating
proﬁt on ordinary activities before tax
(2003: £209m)
14.0p
F&C earnings per share***
(2003: 12.0p)
£125bn
Funds under management
(2003: £63bn)
7.55p
Dividend per share
(2003: 7.4p)
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 1
1 Group Financial Highlights
2 Chairman’s Statement
6 Group Chief Executive’s Review
12 Business Review – Life & Pensions
18 Business Review – Asset Management
22 Board of Directors
24 Financial Review
33 Supplementary information on FRS 27
37 Corporate Responsibility Report
40 Report of the Directors
42 Corporate Governance Report
46 Audit and Compliance Committee
47 Nomination Committee
48 With Proﬁts Committee
49 Remuneration Report of the Board
59 Independent Auditors’ Report
60 Consolidated Proﬁt and Loss Account
64 Consolidated Balance Sheet
66 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
67 Parent Company Balance Sheet
68 Notes to the Accounts
107 Supplementary Information
116 Executive Management
* 100% regular premiums + 10% single premiums
** On achieved proﬁt basis
*** Stated before amortisation of goodwill, exceptional 
items and cost of the Reinvestment Plan Chairman’s Statement
The structure of the Friends Provident Group is
centred around two core businesses – Life and
Pensions, and Asset Management – and the strategy
we set out at the time of our demutualisation and
public listing in 2001 clearly articulated our intention
to grow them both and, at the same time, to bring
them more into balance with each other in terms of
their respective contributions to the Group. As part 
of this strategy we established an objective of
becoming a “top ﬁve player” in the Asset
Management business in the UK by 2007.
The continuing weakness in stockmarkets worldwide
from 2001 to 2003 coupled with the aftermath of
“9/11” tested the Group’s resilience and resolve 
in the three years or so following our public listing.
However, tough times bring opportunities to build
businesses and we made two acquisitions in 2002,
with further initiatives through 2003 and 2004. We
have previously reported the development of ISIS
Asset Management plc through the acquisition of the
Royal & SunAlliance asset management business.
This was followed in October 2004 by the merger 
of the enlarged ISIS with F&C (well known for
managing the Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust
amongst others) creating a publicly listed Asset
Management business with £125 billion of funds
under management at 31st December 2004 and in
which we own a controlling interest of 51%. F&C
Asset Management plc is now ranked in the top ﬁve
in the UK in terms of funds under management,
some two years ahead of our original objective.
At the same time our Life & Pensions business has
developed with strong growth in new business over
the past two years and two signiﬁcant acquisitions 
in the international arena that have created a broader
base and brought better balance within this core
business. In 2002 we acquired the Royal & SunAlliance
international business based in the Isle of Man.
In 2004 the proposed acquisition of another
international business – Lombard International
Assurance S.A., based in Luxembourg – was
announced. This became effective in early 2005.
We have great hopes for the expanded international
business which we anticipate will contribute about
“The strong ethical
principles that underpin
our business continue
to provide a clear point
of differentiation for 
us today.”
David Newbigging, Chairman
2 Friends Provident  35% of total life and pensions new business in 2005.
This enlarged part of our Group will also make
Friends Provident one of the leading companies 
in international cross-border business, and Lombard
will continue to trade under its well-established 
and respected name from its Luxembourg base.
The acquisitions described above have dramatically
changed the proﬁle of the Friends Provident Group.
The accelerated development of the Asset
Management business means that both our 
core businesses have real scale and stature, and 
we have created the better balanced Group, in 
terms of diversiﬁed earnings streams, which we
identiﬁed as one of our key objectives following
demutualisation. Our geographical reach has also
been extended and by expanding the international
cross-border business we have created a stronger
platform for future growth. The Chief Executive
explains these acquisitions and their prospects 
more fully in his Review. 
The following table gives some key ﬁnancial
indicators of the progress of Friends Provident 
since our public listing in 2001.
As was made clear in the Notice of our Annual
General Meeting last year, I will retire as Chairman
and a Director at the close of our AGM on 26th May
this year. I will be succeeded as Chairman by Adrian
Montague who joined our Board in October 2004 
and has since served on the Audit, Remuneration 
and Investment Committees, giving him an excellent
grounding in our business. Your Board unanimously
recommends his election as a Director at the 
AGM. As you can see from page 23 of our 
Report & Accounts, Adrian is well qualiﬁed for 
the Chairmanship having been a partner of 
Linklaters & Paines, and global head of project
ﬁnance for Dresdner Kleinwort Benson before
becoming Chairman or Director of several public 
and private companies. I wish him every success.
Financial results
Our 2004 operating proﬁt before amortisation of
goodwill, operating exceptional items and tax, was
£344 million on an achieved proﬁts basis, and 
£317 million on a modiﬁed statutory solvency 
basis. On the industry standard Annual Premium
Equivalent* basis, new life and pensions business
increased from the record level set last year to a new
record of £434 million, and its contribution to proﬁts
before tax increased to £83 million, with underlying
margins continuing to improve.
Our balance sheet has been strengthened further 
by raising £380 million of tier one capital described
below and our free asset ratio has risen from 8.4% 
in 2002 to 12.2% at the end of 2004. Our risk capital
margin is now covered over six times.
Dividends
Subject to shareholders’ approval, the Board has
recommended a ﬁnal dividend of 5.0 pence per share
which, if approved, would bring the total dividend for
2004 to 7.55 pence per share. This would be covered
1.5 times and would represent a 2.0% increase over
the 2003 total dividend of 7.4 pence per share. We
have been able to increase the dividend each year
since our listing in 2001 and it remains our intention
to continue annual increases going forward.
Group funding
Both the merger with F&C and the acquisition of
Lombard were funded primarily through the issue of
new Friends Provident shares. On both occasions,
the underlying share price remained stable, indicating
that both acquisitions were received positively in the
market. Additionally, Friends Provident successfully
raised £380 million of tier one capital in December
2004. The securitisation vehicle we used for this
transaction is more common to the banking industry
but has proved a cost-effective method for
monetising some of the capital we had tied up in 
our business. The interest payable was set at an
attractive rate, equivalent to approximately 5.5% p.a.
This positive outcome was a combination of good
timing and the associated bonds representing an
attractive investment opportunity.
Regulatory environment
Industry complacency, coupled with well-publicised
corporate misdemeanours in this country and the
United States, have led to considerable regulatory
change over the last three years. We have been
broadly supportive, but there is a danger that the
pendulum may have swung too far toward over-
prescription which could inhibit the spirit of enterprise
which is so essential to any strong and developing
company or industry. It is essential that we do not
simply become “box tickers” in terms of Corporate
Governance. Boards must have the authority and
responsibility for their strategy and its execution. 
Friends Provident’s progress since 2001
2001 2004 Increase
Life and pensions
new business APE* £343m £434m +27%
Life and pensions contribution 
from new business £54m £83m +54%
Life and pensions contribution 
from new business/Pro forma
embedded value 1.5% 3.0% +100%
Asset management funds 
under management £34bn £125bn +268%
Asset management 
operating margin 28.7% 36.1% +26%
* The Annual Premium Equivalent (APE) measure adds together new regular premium business and one tenth of single premium business.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 3 Chairman’s Statement continued
Our industry now needs a period of stability and the
focus needs to switch from those who provide
ﬁnancial products and services to those who are in
urgent need of them. It has been widely reported
that the gap between what people are saving for
their retirement and what people need to save is far
in excess of the £27 billion so often quoted over the
past two years or so, and is probably much nearer to
the £57 billion referred to in the late-2004 report by
Adair Turner who had been commissioned by the
Government to undertake a study into pensions.
Boards and Management have a crucial role to play 
in restoring consumer conﬁdence and in helping to
increase ﬁnancial awareness generally. But our
efforts should aim to be in collaboration with the
Government, which needs to do more to encourage
and incentivise people to save for their future. Strong
leadership is required in both the Public and Private
sectors to achieve this.
Corporate responsibility
The strong ethical principles that underpin our
business can be traced back to our Quaker origins 
in 1832 and continue to provide a clear point of
differentiation for us today. In 2004 we celebrated
the 20th anniversary of our ground-breaking, ethically
invested Stewardship Unit Trust, the ﬁrst of its kind.
The Stewardship range is still the market leader in
terms of retail ethical funds under management. 
In July 2004, the Friends Provident Foundation was
endowed with £20 million worth of Friends Provident
shares, unclaimed since our demutualisation. This
should generate an income of some £0.8 million per
annum, which will represent the major part of our
future annual charitable giving and will enable the
Foundation to begin its ﬁnancial support of initiatives
that aim to address some of the social needs facing
the UK today. 
Through the signiﬁcant investments we hold in 
a wide range of quoted companies, we continue 
to use our voting power to bring about positive 
and constructive change in the wider business
community. Our voting record is published on our
website, www.friendsprovident.com. If you cannot
attend and vote in person at our Annual General
Meeting on 26th May 2005, may I encourage you 
to vote, either by post or online, on the resolutions
being put forward at that meeting. 
The Board
At the end of 2004, Graham Aslet retired after 
35 years with Friends Provident, the last 17 as 
an executive director and Appointed Actuary. It is
impossible to condense such a long and varied career
into just a few words but I must acknowledge
Graham’s contribution to the brilliant design of our
computer system in the mid to late 70s. This was 
a remarkable innovation at the time, providing Friends
Provident with a competitive edge that we still retain
today through the imaginative development over the
years of that base system. In later years, in his role
as Appointed Actuary, Graham was deeply involved
in our demutualisation to ensure that policyholders
were treated fairly and that the Company’s structure
was appropriate for a ﬂotation on the Stock
Exchange. This was a complex undertaking and
Graham’s diligence in this, as with everything he
handles, was invaluable.
At the close of the Annual General Meeting, Brian
Sweetland will also retire. Brian has dedicated the
greater part of his working life to Friends Provident,
having joined us in 1974, becoming the Company
Secretary in 1983 and an executive director in 1995.
As with Graham, a few words will inevitably
understate the huge impact Brian has made on
Friends Provident over his 30 years of loyal service.
In particular, we have Brian to thank for the
development of our extensive and comprehensive
governance, compliance and risk management
regimes; pre-requisites for operating effectively 
in the ﬁnancial services industry today. 
Both of these executive directors have made
immense contributions to the development of the
Friends Provident Group and they leave with our
grateful thanks. I am delighted that Graham will
remain a member of the Board’s With Proﬁts
Committee, which looks after the interests of the
with proﬁt policyholders, and that Brian will continue
to be a Trustee of the Friends Provident Foundation
and a member of the Committee of Reference,
which determines the investment selection criteria
for the Group’s range of Stewardship and other
ethical investment products and services.
I have already mentioned Adrian Montague, my
successor, who at the age of 57 represents a
generational change on the Friends Provident Board
at a time when we are well placed to meet and
succeed in the exciting challenges of the future. 
Closing remarks
In closing my valedictory remarks, there is a
temptation to reﬂect on the past when challenges
and prospects are of course in the future. I have
served on this Board and that of the Life Ofﬁce since
1993, and have been Chairman since 1998. So, for
more than a decade, I have observed the evolution 
of Corporate Governance Best Practice and the
associated opinions on the independence of
Directors and Chairmen. My own view is that
independence is a state of mind, not a function of
years of service. While skills can be taught and
bought, leadership cannot. I certainly have no regrets
at having served on all the main Committees of this
Board before becoming Chairman of the Life Ofﬁce
and then of the plc. That experience, particularly
chairing the Audit Committee, was invaluable in
4 Friends Provident  understanding the Group and monitoring ﬁnancial
controls, particularly through the complexities of the
demutualisation and public listing process in 2001. 
The fact that Friends Provident today is an
independent, publicly listed company and a respected
constituent of the FTSE 100 – some would say
against the odds in 2001 – shows how far it has
come from its roots as a mutual life ofﬁce founded
by Quakers in 1832 in Ackworth School in Yorkshire.
The Company has achieved its eminent position due
to the commitment, loyalty and determination of
many generations who have worked for Friends
Provident and I sincerely thank them. 
I must also thank my Board colleagues – executive
and non-executive – for their support and friendship. 
I believe our current directors are a ﬁrst class team
as were their predecessors who demonstrated 
a high level of resolve and commitment in 2001
when Friends Provident went through probably the
greatest change in its long history. I would particularly
like to thank Keith Satchell, who has been Chief
Executive throughout my Chairmanship. 
Much is written about the relationship between the
Chairman and the Chief Executive, but one thing for
certain is that a good and enduring relationship does
not just happen. It has to be made to happen. Keith
is an excellent Chief Executive; intelligent, straight,
professional in his understanding of the business,
and commanding the respect of his executive team.
He communicates well and his quick wit and sense
of humour have made my job much easier than it
might otherwise have been. I have enjoyed working
with him and indeed all our directors – past and
present – who are deeply committed to Friends
Provident. I have been proud to serve as Chairman 
of this company and wish it, our customers and
shareholders every good fortune in the future. 
David Newbigging
Chairman
17 March 2005
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 5
“The Company has
achieved its eminent
position due to the
commitment, loyalty
and determination 
of many generations
who have worked for
Friends Provident.” Group Chief Executive’s Review
“We have pushed hard over
recent years to transform
this Group from what it
was to what it is today.”
Group Chief Executive Keith Satchell with his 
Senior Executive Team: Philip Moore, Ben Gunn, 
Howard Carter and Brian Sweetland.
First, let me record my gratitude for the wise counsel 
and unswerving support that I have received from 
David Newbigging. David was appointed Chairman 
a year after my appointment in 1997 as Group Chief
Executive, so for me it has been a long and valued
partnership and one from which I have learned a great
deal. David brought a huge amount of understanding 
and wisdom to our Board, and on behalf of my fellow
directors and all my colleagues, I offer our sincere thanks
and send our very best wishes to David for the future. 
I welcome Adrian Montague as Chairman and very much
look forward to working with him on the next chapter 
of development of the Friends Provident Group. 
▼
6 Friends Provident  Industry overview
Life and Pensions
Following two years of contraction, market data
provided by the Association of British Insurers (ABI)
shows there was a 3% upturn in the life and
pensions market over 2004. This increase was 
aided by signs of a renewed conﬁdence in the
stockmarket, with Life single premium investment
business up 23% on 2003. The ABI data also reveals
that distributors continue to place a high proportion 
of business with the top ten providers. In 2004,
these top ten companies, which include Friends
Provident, attracted 71% of all UK life and pensions
new business, compared with 66% in 2001, rising 
to 70% in 2002 and 72% in 2003. This reﬂects the
range of services and levels of security that distributors
increasingly seek, and that generally are only found in
the larger, more ﬁnancially secure, providers.
Consolidation in the IFA community has continued
throughout 2004, leading to the emergence of fewer,
more powerful distributors. We believe the size and
shape of UK distribution will continue to evolve over
the next couple of years, as the impact of the current
regulatory changes is felt, with distributors now
having the option to ‘tie’ to a number of providers.
Market conditions remain tough, and the pressure 
to reduce costs and improve capital efﬁciency is 
a constant. Most product providers are active in
seeking to secure tied distribution agreements with
adviser organisations, with technology increasingly
holding the key to controlling costs and delivering
efﬁciencies for both parties, while enhancing service
to customers. 
Press coverage of the perceived ‘pensions crisis’ 
has been building throughout 2004 and now has 
a momentum which cannot be ignored. The Chairman
has alluded to the gap between actual and required
savings, highlighted by the Adair Turner Pensions
Commission report and the ABI’s Pensions and
Savings Index. Both reports point to around 12 million
people not saving enough to ensure adequate
income in their old age. In efforts to address this, the
Government has embarked on a number of initiatives,
particularly the introduction of the stakeholder
product suite, the increase to the stakeholder charge
cap and measures to simplify pensions. However, 
a Government-commissioned report released in
December 2004 shares our view that much more
needs to be done, principally by Government, to
address this growing issue. The task force behind 
the December report, led by Sir Peter Davis, noted
that three-quarters of stakeholder schemes set up 
by employers still have no members. Conversely,
where employers contribute to an occupational
pension scheme, three-quarters of their workforce
join the scheme. It remains questionable whether
pension provision, beyond State beneﬁts, can remain
entirely voluntary unless there is a more radical
approach to incentives and creation of demand. 
Asset Management
Despite a healthy 14% return from the FTSE All
Share Index during 2004, statistics published by 
the Investment Management Association reﬂect a
difﬁcult year for UK retail funds sales. While industry-
wide gross retail funds sales were 8% higher in 2004
than 2003, net sales were some 42% lower as
existing investors redeemed their investments. 
The picture was particularly challenging for sales of
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) where industry-
wide gross sales were ﬂat year on year and net sales
went into negative territory for the ﬁrst time since
ISAs were introduced in 1999.
We believe there are a number of factors contributing
to this lack of conﬁdence from retail investors. These
include concerns about the housing market, high oil
prices, events in Iraq and the breakdown of trust in
the ﬁnancial services industry. Against this difﬁcult
backdrop, survey work conducted for F&C suggests
that ISA sales have also suffered from a perception
that the Government has not been fully committed 
to this product because of the abolition of tax credits
on equity dividends within ISAs. 
During 2004 retail investors showed a strong
preference for income generating products, including
corporate bond funds, equity income funds and
commercial property. There were relatively few fund
launches in the UK, with the exception of property
investments, which appealed to investors because 
of their yield characteristics.
Regulatory overview
A number of proposed regulatory changes took
effect in 2004, the most signiﬁcant being the 
ending of polarisation and the introduction of
mortgage regulation.
Under the polarisation rules introduced in 1988,
ﬁnancial advisers were either independent or tied 
to one company. The new ‘depolarised’ world,
effective from 1 December 2004, has introduced 
the concept of ‘multi-ties’ whereby tied advisers 
can offer the products of more than one provider
company. A number of adviser organisations have
already opted for the multi-tie approach and we
believe more will follow. Friends Provident has been
working closely with major distributors throughout
2004 to ensure we are suitably prepared to meet
their changing requirements and to be considered 
as serious contenders for panel positions.
The lending, administration, advising and arranging 
of mortgages became regulated by the Financial
Services Authority (FSA) effective from October
2004. Protection and general insurances became 
FSA regulated from January 2005. We support 
this extension of regulation and see it as a further
step forward in increasing the professionalism 
and reputation of the industry. In the light of these
changes, we have repositioned our Appointed
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 7 Group Chief Executive’s Review continued
Representatives channel to focus exclusively on
mortgage and protection business in the future.
The long-awaited announcement of the stakeholder
charge cap being increased from the proposed 1% 
to 1.5% for the ﬁrst ten years of the product’s life
was made in June 2004. Associated with the charge
cap, a suite of stakeholder products coupled with 
a straightforward advice process will be launched in
April 2005. Although supportive of the Government’s
well-meaning intentions, we remain sceptical as to
whether distributors can create a business model
that adequately rewards their efforts and manages
their risks. We continue to evaluate any opportunities
from our own perspective.
The FSA’s Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) initiative
was launched as another aid to help consumers 
gain a better understanding of ﬁnancial services 
and to enhance consumer conﬁdence in the life 
and pensions industry. Our business is built on
helping our customers through the complexities 
of ﬁnancial services; therefore we fully support this
initiative. We have incorporated TCF into our
corporate strategy and are ensuring that all areas 
of our business continue to assess their processes
and procedures to best serve the interests of all 
our stakeholders. 
Looking further ahead to April 2006, the Government
plans to simplify the tax regimes relating to pensions,
making them easier for consumers to understand
and cheaper for both pension providers and the
Inland Revenue to administer. We welcome any
move to make pensions more straightforward, but
believe that this in itself will still be insufﬁcient to
stimulate consumers to save for their futures. 
Strategy 
Although the ﬁnancial services industry has been 
the subject of unprecedented levels of review and
reorganisation over recent years, the strategy that 
we developed long before our demutualisation, 
and subsequently published in 2001, at the time 
of our ﬂotation, continues to prove itself right for 
our business. 
There can be little argument that we continue to
deliver strongly against these strategic aims. Since
2001, the year of our ﬂotation, our share of the UK
life and pensions market has grown 27%, with an
increasing focus on the more proﬁtable product lines;
group pensions now represents our biggest market;
more than half of all new UK life and pensions
business is currently transacted online using systems
which have virtually ‘swept the board’ for awards in
2004; some 69% of new UK life and pensions
business is now through intermediaries and further
important Independent Financial Adviser (IFA)
partnerships have been established; F&C stands as
one of the top ﬁve asset management companies in
the UK and one of the largest in Europe, and we
have undertaken four signiﬁcant acquisitions 
to complement our organic growth. 
Mergers and acquisitions
As highlighted in the Chairman’s Statement, since
our last Annual Report we have merged our asset
management business with F&C, adopting the F&C
branding, and acquired Luxembourg-based Lombard
International Assurance S.A.
F&C Asset Management plc
The opportunity to enter into the merger with F&C
was facilitated by virtue of our longstanding afﬁliation
with Eureko, the former owners of F&C. To achieve
our 51% controlling interest in F&C, we paid Eureko
£383 million in a combination of cash and Friends
Provident shares. This price allowed to some extent
for the premium paid to reﬂect the prospective
synergies, although this premium was virtually
nulliﬁed through the rise in the value of the 100+
million shares we owned in ISIS. These shares were
suspended at 199 pence per share at the time the
proposed merger was announced, and have traded 
at around 230-255 pence since completion of the
transaction in October 2004. 
The merger of ISIS and F&C has transformed our
asset management business from a predominantly 
UK-focused to a pan-European company of real
stature, managing funds of £125 billion at the close
of 2004. It has effectively rebalanced the Friends
Provident Group and will lift the contribution of the
asset management business to consolidated Group
proﬁts substantially.
The two previous businesses were a compelling
strategic ﬁt. The merger has created a proﬁtable
European-focused asset management group that 
not only has scale but is also considerably more
diverse by skills, products, client type, geography 
and revenues than either of the two previous
entities. Our rationale is to create a platform which 
is scalable for future organic growth; to enhance
investment performance through increased
8 Friends Provident 
Delivering on our strategy
The six strands of our strategy can be summarised as:
• Grow life and pensions market share in a focused 
and proﬁtable manner
• Become one of the top pension providers,
emphasising the Group market
• Apply technology and e-commerce to enhance
distribution, improve service and reduce costs
• Develop particularly our links with the IFA community,
while remaining a multi-channel operator
• Develop our asset management business into 
one of the leaders in its ﬁeld
• Grow organically and pursue acquisitions, where 
the ﬁt is right resources; to achieve cost synergies in an industry
where there are many inefﬁciencies; and to further
diversify the business and widen the range of
products we offer to our clients. The business 
model is a strong one which is able to generate an
operating margin ahead of most of our competitors.
Over the medium term, Friends Provident’s earnings
will beneﬁt from the additional revenue opportunities
expected to arise from the greater strength of the
enlarged asset management business, which is also
likely to beneﬁt our life and pensions customers.
Asset management is a cash generative business
with low capital requirements, and therefore the
merger represents effective deployment of the
Group’s capital. 
Lombard International Assurance S.A. (Lombard)
Just as the merger with F&C has transformed our
asset management business, so the acquisition of
Lombard has transformed our international cross-
border operations, in terms of its scale and its
geographical reach.
The purchase price is geared to the performance of
Lombard up until the end of 2006 and is structured 
to provide appropriate incentive for Lombard’s
management team to continue pursuing the strong
growth that has characterised its past performance.
An initial instalment of c265 million was paid on
11 January 2005, the date the acquisition was
completed, and further instalments will be paid in
April of 2005, 2006 and 2007, based on Lombard’s
performance over the previous calendar year in terms
of new business proﬁts and underlying embedded
value. Based on Lombard’s excellent performance
over 2004, the April 2005 instalment is likely to be
the contract cap of c90 million. Friends Provident
holds the option for paying the purchase price either
in cash or, more likely, in Friends Provident shares.
The initial instalment was met by the issue of
113 million shares in Friends Provident.
Share price performance
During 2004, Friends Provident’s Total Shareholder
Return (TSR), which takes account of growth in 
the share price and the payment of dividends, was
21.33% compared with 23.27% for the FTSE Life
Assurance sector and 11.25% for the FTSE100 Index
of leading shares. Our performance is all the more
creditable when set against the issue of 265 million
new shares during the year relating to the ﬁnancing
of the F&C merger, and the prospective issue 
of shares in respect of the Lombard acquisition,
which, in effect, represented a 22% dilution 
of shareholdings.
Our people
I never cease to be proud of our people. We have
pushed hard over recent years to transform this
Group from what it was to what it is today. Such 
fast-paced growth presents enormous challenges
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 9
“There can be little
argument that we
continue to deliver
strongly against our
strategic aims.” Group Chief Executive’s Review continued
and our staff have never failed to rise to them. 
The many awards we have won in 2004 are 
a reﬂection of their determination not to settle 
for the ordinary but to reach ever higher. Through
their efforts, this Group has achieved so much 
and I know will achieve much more yet – the
potential is there and I know our people will take
every opportunity to continue the Friends Provident
success story, whether under the banner of 
Friends Provident or F&C or, in 2005 and beyond,
Lombard. On behalf of the Board, I thank them.
Outlook
Since our stock market listing in 2001, and in 
testing circumstances, we have successfully
transformed the Group. It is now not only of
considerably greater scale but also more diverse,
more proﬁtable, more customer-focused, and 
more ﬁnancially robust. The very signiﬁcant
foundations laid over the past two years will 
support accelerated proﬁtable growth over the 
next two years and beyond. 
UK Life and Pensions
The UK market remains one of considerable
potential, where the business environment demands
that providers demonstrate to customers positive
points of differentiation. Service is one of our points
of differentiation and we remain committed to
delivering a service experience unrivalled in our
industry and to drawing more customers, through 
the attraction of products, processes and service
designed to meet their needs. 
We have developed product ranges that are
innovative and which maximise the advantages
afforded by our leading-edge application of
technology, particularly in the protection and group
pensions markets. We believe the product streams
we focus on – protection, pensions and investments
– remain the right ones for continued proﬁtable
growth, although the latter is more dependent on
external economic factors.
The relationships we have developed with distributors
are close and strong, and have enabled us to develop
systems and administrative processes of mutual
beneﬁt. As a consequence, we have already 
secured places on most of the early ‘multi-tie’ 
panel announcements and expect more to follow,
demonstrating our ability to succeed in this
competitive environment. Although the time
between signing such agreements and any impact 
on new business volumes normally spans several
months, we believe our approach is securing strong
and proﬁtable distribution for future years. This
should deliver outperformance of the market this
year and accelerating market share growth in 
2006 and beyond. 
International Life and Pensions
The International cross-border market will become
10 Friends Provident 
increasingly important to us and will now be served
from two hubs, the Luxembourg-based Lombard
company working alongside the Isle of Man operation,
enabling us to provide wider access to the ﬁnancial
services we offer. In our 2003 Annual Report, I stated
that our medium-term target was for at least 20% of
our new business to come from outside the UK and
the acquisition of Lombard will more than meet this
target. In fact, we expect over 35% of our new
business to come from outside the UK in 2005.
This acquisition will also have a positive impact 
on the Group’s value of new business and new
business margins, and will further diversify our
earnings through a business that is not capital
intensive, as single premium business without
ﬁnancial guarantees requires comparatively low
capital backing. The transaction is expected to
enhance the Group’s Achieved Operating Earnings
per share by a high single digit percentage. For
German tax change reasons, the very high volumes
of new business from Germany experienced by
Lombard in 2004 will not be repeated this year.
However, we expect overall new business production
to continue to expand as we pursue the opportunities
for growth in other areas of Europe and in selected
markets in Asia and South America.
F&C Asset Management
The key drivers of F&C’s long-term success will be
the ability to generate organic growth in proﬁtable
lines of activity. A proposition with strong investment
performance is central to our ability to deliver this.
Allied with an efﬁcient, scalable operating model,
these are the basic elements of a successful asset
management business. We have created an efﬁcient
business structure that centralises most of the fund
management activities and complements this with
local client servicing and sales support. Where we 
do have local fund management, it is because of 
a particular requirement to maintain a centre of
excellence in that region. It does not lead to
duplication. This allows F&C to gain economies of
scale, but still meet the needs of clients in various
European centres.
A movement into higher fee business lines will result
in increased proﬁtability providing it does not require
a more than commensurate increase in costs. Given
the historic client base of the business – with a high
proportion of insurance assets – F&C has lower
average fees than most of its competitors. However,
there has been a focus on raising average fee rates
and this will continue.
A key milestone in the merger is the creation of 
an integrated F&C fund range. This began with the
re-branding of the ISIS funds within weeks of the
merger completing. The combined fund range has
now been reviewed and rationalisation proposals
issued that, subject to investor approval, are on
target to complete by end of April 2005. Because ISIS had already concluded a major fund rationalisation
exercise in August 2003, this current project has not
required a programme of streamlining on the same
scale. Nevertheless, the proposals will see a range of
53 funds reduced to 47, of which 9 will only be
marketed to institutional clients. All of the OEIC
funds will be registered under UCITS 3, enabling
them to be marketed across Europe. A further aspect
of the exercise is that by moving the range to a
single administration platform, with International
Financial Data Services, signiﬁcant costs savings 
will be achieved. 
During the remainder of 2005 the integration of
information technology systems remains a key
priority. On past experience, this usually takes around
12 months to complete. Initially work has focused 
on ensuring that the IT infrastructure is sufﬁciently
robust to meet both the needs of the enlarged
business and our growth ambitions. The next phase
is to introduce business systems that enhance the
ability of the fund managers and others to work 
to maximum effectiveness. The approach is to 
select the best available system from each of the
two merged entities. 
Focus is now on the delivery of good investment
performance and innovative product solutions so 
that signiﬁcant organic growth can be achieved,
particularly in the higher margin areas. This means
investing in our capabilities whilst maintaining our
track record for efﬁcient business management.
Summary
Overall, 2004 was a year in which we took great
steps forward, increasing our presence signiﬁcantly
in asset management and international life business.
This, coupled with the strong fundamentals of our UK
life and pensions business, has reshaped our Group
for the beneﬁt of customers and shareholders, and
we look forward with real conﬁdence. 
Keith Satchell
Group Chief Executive
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 11 Business Review Life & Pensions
Five Star service and major awards
We have consistently maintained that our service 
to our customers will positively differentiate us 
from others in the market. We seek to help our
customers, both existing and potential, through 
the complexities of ﬁnancial services and we have
incorporated the FSA’s initiative Treating Customers
Fairly into the objectives of all areas of our business.
We were therefore delighted to be recognised as 
a provider of Five Star service in the 2004 Financial
Adviser Practiv Service Awards, the largest industry
survey of its kind, based on the views of more than
2,000 IFAs. For the third consecutive year, we are 
the highest ranked of all the UK listed life companies
in this prestigious survey.
Our brand is being built around the powerful
combinations of processes and people, innovation
and operational efﬁciency. Our success in deploying
these attributes effectively is reﬂected not only in 
our 2004 business results, but also in the signiﬁcant
number of major awards received in 2004, in addition
to the overall Five Star service award.
12 Friends Provident 
£434m
New business APE – a new
record (2003: £429m) 
£83m
Contribution from new 
business (2003: £80m)
19. 1 %
New business margin 
(2003: 18.6%)
“Total new life and
pensions business
increased further to 
hit a new record level.”
Life & Pensions Highlights Annual Report & Accounts 2004 13
The phrase ‘award-winning systems’ has never been more true
than in 2004, our online services winning no fewer than seven
independent awards. Roger Williams, Janet Longden, Prashanth
Gurusimha and Andrew Murgett, pictured above, are a few of the
many who are ensuring our systems keep their ‘leading edge’. 
▼ Business Review Life & Pensions continued
2004 performance
Total new life and pensions business for 2004
increased a further 1% to hit a new record level 
of £434 million, consolidating the 14% increase
achieved in 2003. Importantly, the proﬁts earned 
on our new business have increased for the third
consecutive year, up 4% over 2003, 26% over 2002
and 54% greater than 2001, reﬂecting growth in 
both volumes and margins. 
UK IFAs provided 69% of our 2004 new business, up
from 65% in 2003, reﬂecting our strategy of building
closer relationships and working more collaboratively
with independent intermediaries. Our international
operations accounted for 17% of new business,
slightly up on the 16% produced by this business 
in 2003. The remaining 14% of new business was
principally sourced through tied agents. As expected,
this is less than the 19% contribution to 2003 new
business from tied channels, following the closure 
of our direct salesforce in early 2004.
Analysis of new business
Our focus throughout 2004 remained on our three
core market segments of protection, group pensions
and investments.
Protection
New protection business in 2004, including income
protection, increased 11.2% to a new record of 
£77.2 million, with each quarterly performance
exceeding the corresponding quarter of 2003. Over
the last two years, new business has increased
71.2% and the resulting 2004 market share of 7.7%
represents our highest ranking, further cementing 
our position as one of the leading providers in the
protection market. At the heart of the proposition 
is our online new business processing system –
eSelect – designed to make life easier for customer
and distributor alike. We continue to transact more
than half of all protection business online.
The overall protection market contracted by 12.2%
over the year, driven in large part by cooling in the
housing market. We expect, at best, modest market
growth in 2005. In addition, competitive activity 
is increasing. Against this, we are conﬁdent of
making further progress through a combination 
of the distribution agreements secured and similar
agreements expected to follow, our capacity to
handle signiﬁcantly higher volumes and our award-
winning products, systems and service. We also 
see further opportunities to grow our group risk
business, an area which complements our core 
skills and existing relationships in the group 
pensions and individual protection markets.
Pensions
Total new pensions business declined 7.2% over
2004 to £227.8 million.
Although group pensions new business declined 
7% to £163.7 million in 2004, it remains our biggest
market segment, contributing 38% of our total new
life and pensions business. The market continues to
be sluggish, having increased by only 1.1% in 2004.
Our experience and anecdotal industry evidence show
a general decline in the number of new schemes
placed by Employee Beneﬁt Consultants (EBCs)
and in transfer business from deﬁned contribution
schemes originally set up on now outmoded charging
structures. The merger of ISIS and F&C further
hinders our short-term position through the normal
practice of EBCs placing asset managers undergoing
such large-scale reorganisation ‘on hold’ during the
transitional period. However, media focus on the need
for pensions is a positive backcloth, and we have
seen an increase in EBC activity in early 2005. We
remain committed to this market. We added a further
1,477 new deﬁned contribution schemes in 2004 and
the annual round of new members and increments
relating to this growing portfolio of schemes will
increasingly provide a stable and reliable source 
of new business going forward. 
New individual pensions in 2004 decreased 9.8% to
£36.1 million and new annuity business declined
4.8% to £28 million. We have deliberately not
focused on either of these product areas over recent
years. In the case of annuities, we remain cautious in
the light of improving longevity. Regarding individual
pensions, the Government’s previous stance on
pricing did not provide a fair return for either us or our
distributors. However, following the Government’s
review of the charge cap, we intend to re-enter the
individual pensions market in the ﬁrst half of 2005,
seeking to grow in the areas we consider to be
potentially more proﬁtable, with particular focus 
on single premium business.
Investments
Total new investment business increased 12.6% 
to £128.7 million, with quarterly performance
14 Friends Provident 
“We have consistently
maintained that our
service to our
customers will positively
differentiate us from
others in the market.”
* All new business ﬁgures shown in this section are expressed as Annual Premium Equivalent (APE) unless stated otherwise. This measure
adds together new regular premium business and one tenth of single premium business. throughout 2004 exceeding the corresponding
quarters of 2003. Over the two-year period beginning
1 January 2003, a 32.7% increase in new business
has been achieved. 
Isolating UK performance, new business increased
22%, indicating that we have participated fully in the
general recovery of this market, which increased by a
similar 22% over 2004. We anticipate only single digit
growth in this market over 2005. Our Investment
Portfolio Bond and Income Distribution Bond account
for the majority of our UK investment business, with
online transactions in 2004 representing 65% and
50% of sales respectively.
Of the total new investment business in 2004,
54% came from international cross-border 
markets, the majority through the Isle of Man-based
business. The Far East was the biggest international
market for us in 2004 and we have moved to 
larger premises in Hong Kong. This demonstration 
of our long-term commitment to the region has 
been welcomed by the intermediaries based there. 
In the Middle East, we expect the opening of our
new sales ofﬁce in Dubai late last year to help us
make further progress.
With Proﬁts business
The with proﬁts market continues to contract and
now accounts for only 7% of our total life and
pensions new business, down from 10% in 2003 and
26% in 2002. Bonus rate changes continue to reﬂect
the large fall in investment values that occurred
between 2000 and 2002 and the general decline in
expected long-term investment returns. Nevertheless,
we were able to declare increased ﬁnal bonus rates
for a number of our policies. The objective continues
to be to ensure that all Friends Provident’s 1.5 million
with proﬁts policies are treated fairly both now and 
in the future, by achieving a closer alignment of
policy payouts with their underlying investment
values. In 2004, we allocated £244 million to our 
with proﬁt policyholders through regular and ﬁnal
policy bonuses, providing valuable guarantees to
customers and supporting the respectable returns
these policies continue to deliver, particularly for 
the longer-term contracts. 
Product innovation and development
Protection: The technology platform behind our
eSelect new business processing system has
beneﬁted from a range of enhancements over 2004,
giving us distinct competitive advantage and
recognised by a host of external awards. Our
protection products have also attracted major
awards. Our market leading Income Protection Plan,
for example, won three awards in 2004, including
best in category for both the specialist Protection
publications, and we were overall winner – Income
Replacement Company of the Year – in the 2004
Financial Adviser Life and Pensions Awards.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 15
352 00
343 01
377 02
429 03
434 04
Total New Business:
APE (£m)
“We boast one of the
most complete end to
end online services for
the distributor market 
in the UK.”
2004 New Business by
distribution channel
UK IFAs – 69%
International – 17%
Tied agents – 14% Business Review Life & Pensions continued
Investment: The Stewardship range of ethical
investment funds remains the market leader with
some £1.8 billion of investments under F&C’s
management. In June 2004, to coincide with the
20th anniversary of Stewardship and in keeping 
with our heritage of pioneering ethical investment
opportunities, we launched the Stewardship
Safeguard Optimiser fund. This is the ﬁrst open-
ended ethical fund in the UK market with built-in
protection against stock market falls, the objective 
of this fund being to protect both the investor’s fund
and their ethical principles by providing smoothed
investment returns from an ethical portfolio.
The Safeguard Optimiser concept was launched
towards the end of 2003 as an alternative to with
proﬁts and has attracted more than £21 million over
its ﬁrst year. During 2004, we have also enhanced
the dedicated multi-manager fund proposition,
launched in late 2003, with the introduction of 
further risk-graded multi-manager funds and
additional distribution funds. 
In August 2004, we enhanced our range of trust 
and investment solutions with the launch of the
Discounted Gift Plan, designed to help reduce the
impact of inheritance tax, which is affecting an
increasing number of customers following the 
house price rises seen over recent years.
In March 2005, we launched a new Portfolio
Management tool, designed to help IFAs build
portfolios appropriate for their clients. A Life ISA
product will also be launched in the ﬁrst half of 2005,
to take advantage of the new levels of tax-free
allowances being introduced. For the international
cross-border market, our Zenith single premium bond
is being introduced to provide intermediaries with a
more ﬂexible approach to charges and commissions.
Pensions: Signalling our commitment to the group
pensions market, a further twelve external funds
have been added this year to our multi-manager
facility – Activ Investment Solutions. We are also
introducing some important customer-focused
additions to our web-based service this year, which
will further strengthen our offering. We are optimistic
about our opportunities in this market.
Enhanced extranet services
We boast one of the most complete end to end
online services for the distributor market in the UK,
covering both the group and individual business
markets. This has been recognised in the industry by
seven independent awards in the latter part of 2004,
including being voted Overall E-commerce Company
of the Year in the inﬂuential Financial Adviser Practiv
Service Awards 2004.
Our services are designed to empower our
distribution partners and customers, providing them
with instant access to ‘right ﬁrst time’ servicing. The
usefulness of these services is evidenced by the
dramatic increase in their take-up. During 2004 we
recorded more than 560,000 ‘logins’ to our extranet
‘self servicing’ facilities, compared with around
110,000 during 2003. 
The Policy Servicing and Proposal Tracking facilities
are proving particularly popular, with over 221,000
policies interrogated via the policy servicing facility
(around 92,000 in 2003) and over 129,000 proposals
interrogated using the New Business Tracking service
(no comparative data for 2003). As previously
indicated, there has been a steady growth in new
business being submitted online.
During 2004 we extended the range of e-commerce
services that allow IFA back-ofﬁce systems to access
data directly from our core systems. At the beginning
of 2004 we were automatically handling around 200
policy valuation requests from distributor systems
per month, increasing to over 1,400 per month by
the end of the year. Extending these integration
services further is now a key focus for us to
maximise the beneﬁts that intermediaries and
customers can derive from e-commerce. 
Customer website
We continue to develop our customer website to
make it increasingly helpful, and this is reﬂected in
the signiﬁcant rise in the number of customers
electing to use the system to manage and service
their policies online, up from 7,000 in 2003 to 23,000
in 2004. Further new features were added in 2004,
the most signiﬁcant enabling customers to see the
impact on their pension of changing their intended
retirement date.
Distribution proﬁle
In the light of the many regulatory changes that have
impacted our industry over recent times, we have
taken important steps to reposition our distribution
proﬁle appropriately. In 2003 we announced the
closure of our direct sales operation and we followed
16 Friends Provident 
“Our brand is being built
around the powerful
combinations of
processes and people,
innovation and
operational efﬁciency.” this in 2004 by restructuring our Appointed
Representative channel, focusing it exclusively 
on the protection market, predominantly mortgage-
related, in anticipation of the new regulations
introduced in January 2005 relating to 
non-investment insurance contracts.
Depolarisation was the most signiﬁcant development
impacting future distribution, the revised regulations
allowing distributors to promote the products of
either a single or a number of providers. We have
consistently stated the importance of positioning
ourselves to be a natural partner for distributors and 
a strong contender for positions on their panels. 
The success of this strategy has been reﬂected in
the extent of our inclusion on these panels. In 2004
we secured panel positions with a number of
distributors including Millﬁeld Group, THINC Destini,
St James’s Place, Bankhall, Sesame, and Lighthouse.
We have been able to announce further distribution
agreements this year, including Barclays and National
Australia Bank, and a number of other agreements
remain in negotiation.
Our International business has secured distribution
agreements with the National Bank of Abu Dhabi
and, more recently, is partnering the Bahrain-based
provider, Solidarity. Through this arrangement, we
have developed bespoke products that will be
marketed via that company’s authorised ﬁnancial
advisers and bancassurance partners.
Following the acquisition of Lombard, our presence 
in the international cross-border market will be
signiﬁcantly enhanced and new channels of
distribution have now become available. Lombard 
has very good relationships with some 50 private
banks, family ofﬁces and specialist IFAs across 
a number of European countries. The company
intends to grow its business over the near future,
primarily through developing these already-
established relationships, as well as pursuing new
distribution opportunities in Asia and South America;
these will be pursued selectively and are likely to 
be partnership-led arrangements.
The geographical and customer segment reach 
of our combined international operations has been
substantially extended as a result of the acquisition 
of Lombard, with new focus on the very wealthy,
typically resulting in very large average case sizes.
Lombard’s new business APE increased 38% to
£130 million in 2004. Total premium income was 
up 65%, with December recording the highest
monthly level of business experienced by Lombard.
Although boosted by a one-off surge from Germany,
this is a strong performance with excellent growth
achieved, particularly in Spain and Belgium.
Switzerland and France also hold good growth
opportunities in Europe, with Mexico and the 
Far East offering attractive potential.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 17
91 00
68 01
97 02
114 03
129 04
New Savings &
Investment: APE (£m)
95 00
141 01
158 02
176 03
164 04
New Group Pensions:
APE (£m)
29 00
35 01
45 02
69 03
77 04
New Protection: APE
(£m) Business Review Asset Management
• The merged businesses are a compelling strategic ﬁt
• Integration of the merged businesses remains 
on track
• Synergies of £33 million remain the target 
for delivery by ﬁrst half of 2006
Business Highlights and Prospects
UK Retail
Despite the tough climate, our pro forma gross new
business for collectives in the UK was 39% up on
2003 and net new business was some 138% ahead of
2003, reﬂecting an improvement in redemption levels. 
Signiﬁcant retail activity took place in the ﬁrst half of
2004 with a focus on the launch of two new multi-
manager products in February.
This is a fast growing segment of the market that is
beneﬁting from moves by advisers to consolidate their
clients’ fund portfolios into managed products. With
the distribution environment changing as a result of
depolarisation and commercial pressures, advisers are
revisiting their business models. Some are choosing 
to focus on ﬁnancial planning rather than portfolio
management and are therefore concluding that they
should make greater use of multi-manager products.
With its long-standing presence in the fund of funds
segment, F&C is beneﬁting from this trend.
18 Friends Provident 
“The merger was the
largest transaction in the
global asset management
industry in 2004.”
£125bn
Funds under management 
(2003: £63bn)
36. 1 %
Operating margin 
(2003: 32.9%)
Asset Management Highlights Annual Report & Accounts 2004 19
Combining two companies the size of F&C and ISIS is no mean
feat but the emerging business is one of the biggest in its ﬁeld
and a major development for the Friends Provident Group and
its customers. Marc Harrington, Arnal Patel and David Hopwood
(pictured) are part of the new enlarged operation.
▼ Business Review Asset Management continued
Corporate bonds were also a key retail product area
for F&C in 2004, reﬂecting both investor interest in
income generating products and the strength and
depth of the proposition which has been built on
scale and team work. F&C’s credit team within the
ﬁxed income department has signiﬁcantly expanded
as a result of the merger, moving from 10 investment
professionals to 25, making F&C’s operation one of
the best resourced managers of corporate bonds
in the UK. The ﬂagship retail bond product, F&C
Strategic Bond Fund, recently won its category in 
the 2005 Lipper Fund Awards.
A notable highlight of 2004 has been the recognition
achieved for the excellent performance of the
Stewardship range of ethical funds. The funds received
signiﬁcant attention during the year, aided by the 20th
anniversary of the Stewardship Growth Fund and the
appearance of the Stewardship Income Fund in the
inﬂuential ‘White List Report’ produced by Principal
Investment Management. This rated the fund as one 
of the best equity income funds on a risk/return basis.
The manager of the Stewardship Income Fund won
the UK Equity Income category of the Lipper Citywire
‘2004 Fund Manager of the Year’ Awards.
Another area of success has been the Venture 
Capital Trust (VCT) market where F&C operates
under the Baronsmead brand. In the 2003/4 tax year,
Baronsmead achieved the largest market share of 
any VCT provider and, despite competition from 
over thirty new launches, Baronsmead has 
continued to generate large market share in 
the 2004/5 tax year.
F&C has a dominant share of the investment trust
regular savings scheme market and in 2004 celebrated
the 20th anniversary of the F&C Private Investors
Plan, the ﬁrst such plan. Looking to the future, F&C
will continue to be a pioneer of investment trust
savings products and is the only asset management
group to offer an investment trust Child Trust Fund
(CTF), a new Government savings initiative. F&C’s
position as the leading investment trust provider 
was conﬁrmed in a number of awards including 
‘Best Investment Trust ISA Provider, 2004’ (What
Investment), ‘Best Investment Trust Group 2004’
(Personal Finance) and ‘Best Investment Trust 
Group 2005’ (Professional Adviser).
F&C has combined its experience as a manager of
closed-end investments with the strong performance
of F&C Property Asset Management as an investor 
in commercial property. In May 2004, a £170 million
listed property trust was successfully launched, 
ISIS Property Trust 2 Limited. Dealings in a third
property trust, F&C Commercial Property Trust
Limited, commenced in March 2005. With assets
in the region of £1 billion, provided largely by 
Friends Provident, this is the largest launch of 
its kind in the UK.
European wholesale
The merger has provided exposure to the 
Continental European retail market, an area 
where ISIS had no presence but where F&C 
see attractive growth potential.
Whereas in the UK market Independent Financial
Advisers have historically been the dominant
distribution channel, in most Continental European
countries retail investors purchase ﬁnancial products
primarily through banks and insurance companies.
This requires a different approach to developing a
retail presence, so F&C strategy is to work primarily
through local distributors in a wholesaler capacity.
The three key markets for F&C’s European wholesale
business are Portugal (where F&C sub-advise the
mutual funds of Millennium BCP), The Netherlands
(where F&C sub-advise Achmea’s mutual funds and
unit linked products) and Germany where F&C
distributes its SICAV funds. Additionally, F&C also
manages assets for Millennium BCP’s unit-linked
products as part of its contract to manage their
insurance assets. Friends Provident has longstanding
relationships with both Millennium BCP and Achmea.
Funds under management for these wholesale
relationships grew marginally over 2004 from c8.3
billion to c8.4 billion. The Portuguese unit-linked
business grew from c3.7 billion to c4.3 billion over
the same period.
Institutional
Through F&C we now have leading positions in 
two key segments of the European institutional
marketplace. The ﬁrst is in managing assets for
insurance companies; the second is in managing
assets for pension funds. Both areas have expanded
as a result of the merger.
Whereas the asset management business has
always had a signiﬁcant exposure to insurance
assets, the client base has become more diverse.
Given the Group’s experience in this area, and its
expanded product range, F&C is well positioned 
to beneﬁt from any further moves by insurance
companies to outsource asset management to 
third-party providers. As part of its long-term
contracts with some of its insurance companies, 
F&C has contractual rights to manage assets
resulting from any corporate activity by these clients.
While insurance funds are heavily weighted to lower-
margin ﬁxed interest assets, there are indications
that such funds are increasingly looking at areas 
such as private equity, alternatives and structured
products. These areas generate higher fees. The
merger has strengthened the range of services 
that F&C can deliver to its insurance clients, which
now includes hedge funds, fund of hedge funds,
derivative-based products and a strong asset-liability
modelling capability.
20 Friends Provident  F&C is also a top-ten manager of European pension
funds with leading positions in the Dutch, Portuguese,
Irish and UK markets. The well-documented pension
short-fall problem in Europe, combined with shifts 
in asset allocation towards areas where we can
demonstrate strength and depth, offer good growth
opportunities. Its partnerships with local insurance
companies means F&C is well positioned to deliver
fully integrated investment and pension
administration services.
F&C is a large multi-asset manager but is also 
a specialist in a number of areas. In particular, its
strengths are in ﬁxed interest, Governance and
Socially Responsible Investment, high alpha UK
equities, alternatives (hedge funds and private
equity), and commercial property. Balanced pension
fund mandates represent just 16.5% of F&C’s
assets under management across Europe.
Alternative investments
There continues to be increasing interest in
‘alternative’ investments. In the broadest sense 
this includes both private equity and hedge funds
and, under some deﬁnitions, commercial property.
Although ISIS had a strong private equity (and
commercial property) presence, the business did 
not have any hedge fund capability. As a result 
of the merger, F&C now has strength in each of
these high-margin product areas.
In our 2003 Annual Report we announced that ISIS
had signed heads of agreement to acquire a 15%
equity stake in Cardinal Capital Partners (trading as
‘Cardinal Asset Management’), a new business
focused on alternative investment. At that time 
ISIS had no in-house hedge fund capability, so the
investment in Cardinal was a way of achieving
exposure to the segment without disrupting the
existing business.
A consequence of the merger of ISIS and F&C is that
the company now has both an in-house alternatives
proposition and a minority stake in, and a preferential
relationship with, an external provider. This provides a
strong base for developing F&C’s proposition in a
fast-growing market segment.
Merger
The merger of ISIS Asset Management and F&C
Asset Management was the largest transaction in
the global asset management industry in 2004* as
well as the most signiﬁcant in the UK for many years.
Ahead of the transaction F&C issued an integration
timetable to its shareholders. The integration project
has a dedicated team and all the separate work
streams covering the different aspects of integration
will complete their goals during 2005.
All London-based staff transferred to the new
headquarters before the end of December, with the
exception of those who are part of the operational
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 21
outsourcing arrangement with Mellon that was
announced on 16 November 2004. They are due 
to move to the Mellon ofﬁces later this year. 
Following the decision to adopt the F&C corporate
name a project was initiated during the latter part 
of 2004 to develop a brand proposition that would
include a clear statement of F&C’s corporate vision,
mission and values. This exercise involved both
internal and external consultation; it has now been
ﬁnalised and will provide the basis for future activities
aimed at building the F&C reputation.
Considerable progress has already been made in
raising the proﬁle of the F&C brand. At the end of
January 2005 a new advertising campaign was
launched, focusing on a solutions-driven approach.
Alongside this, the proﬁle of the business continues
to be raised through high levels of press activity.
Investment quality is essential to the success of
F&C. It can be deﬁned in a number of ways, but at
its most basic means offering products that meet
both the needs and expectations of clients in terms
of structures, returns and risk characteristics. Good
investment performance is paramount. As a large
asset manager with a diverse range of products
across all the major asset classes, there will be some
variability in performance. Post the merger, products
that were performing well have continued to do so,
and there has been an improvement in some areas
of weakness. However, a constant focus on
improving investment quality is fundamental.
*Source: Cambridge International Partners, The Cambridge Commentary review of 2004
F&C Vision
To become Europe’s partner of choice for 
investment solutions.
F&C Mission
We seek to differentiate ourselves by:
• Building business partnerships with clients,
intermediaries and consultants
• Providing them with solutions that deliver superior
performance and service
• Combining the beneﬁts of centres of excellence and
expert local teams
We aim to create value for clients, shareholders 
and staff. Board of Directors
1. David Newbigging 
OBE, 71, Chairman
Appointed a director in April 2001 and chairman 
in June 2001, having been an independent director
of Friends’ Provident Life Ofﬁce from 1993 
to 1998 and its chairman from 1998 to 2001.
Chairman of the Investment Committee; member
of the Nomination Committee.
Also chairman of Faupel Plc and Talbot Holdings
Limited and a director of Merrill Lynch & Co Inc.
and PACCAR Inc. Chairman of The Council of
Trustees of the Mission to Seafarers and chairman
of The Council of Trustees of Cancer Research UK. 
Former appointments include chairman and chief
executive of Jardine, Matheson & Co Ltd, and
chairman of Rentokil Group plc, Equitas Holdings
Limited and Thistle Hotels Plc. He will retire from
the board at the close of the AGM.
2. Keith Satchell
BSc, FIA, 53, Group Chief Executive
Appointed group chief executive and an executive
director in June 2001 having been an executive
director of Friends’ Provident Life Ofﬁce since
1992 and its chief executive since 1997. Member
of the Investment Committee. Joined Friends
Provident from UK Provident in 1986. Appointed 
a divisional general manager in 1987 and
managing director (business operations) 
in 1995. A non-executive director of F&C Asset
Management plc, which is 51% owned by 
the Company. 
Also a member of the senior board of Banco
Comercial Português SA and of the board of 
Swiss Mobiliar Cooperative Company and
European Alliance Partners Company AG.
3. Lady Judge 
BA, JD, 58, Deputy Chairman, 
senior independent director
Appointed a director and deputy chairman in 
June 2001 (when her name was Barbara Singer
Thomas), having been an independent director of
Friends’ Provident Life Ofﬁce from 1994 to 2001
and its deputy chairman from 1998 to 2001.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, deputy
chairman of the Investment Committee and
member of the Nomination Committee.
Chairman of the UK Atomic Energy Authority,
Deputy Chairman of The Financial Reporting
Council, Chairman of the Professional Standards
Advisory Board of the Institute of Directors. 
A director of Quintain Estates and Developments
plc and, amongst others, Portmeirion Group PLC.
A former commissioner of the United States
Securities and Exchange Commission.
4. Alison Carnwath
BA, ACA, 52, independent director
A qualiﬁed accountant, appointed a director in
December 2002. Member of the Remuneration
and Audit and Compliance Committees and, 
since April 1 2004, has chaired the With Proﬁts
Committees of Friends Provident’s three regulated
wholly-owned life and pensions operating
companies. Non-executive director of Gallaher
Group plc, Glas Cymru Cyfyngedig (Welsh Water),
Land Securities plc, Man Group plc and ISIS Equity
Partners plc. Chairman of Glas Cymru’s
Remuneration Committee and Man’s Audit
Committee. Previously a managing director of 
the US investment bank, Donaldson, Lufkin and
Jenrette International, before it merged with 
Credit Suisse Group in 2000. Formerly, a director
of J Henry Schroder Wagg & Co Ltd, National
Power plc, Arcadia Group plc, QA Group plc, The
Vitec Group plc and Nationwide Building Society.
5. Howard Carter
BA, MA, 53, Chief Executive, 
F&C Asset Management plc
Appointed an executive director in June 2001,
having been appointed an executive director 
of Friends’ Provident Life Ofﬁce from 2000 and
chief executive of ISIS Asset Management plc
(now called F&C Asset Management plc) since
October 2000 when its name was Friends Ivory &
Sime plc. Member of the Investment Committee.
Joined Prudential Bache in 1984 as chief economist
and director of gilt edged market making. Chief
economist/manager, ﬁxed interest at Friends
Provident (1988 – 1995) and head of investments
(1996 – 1998). Appointed chief investment ofﬁcer
of Friends Ivory & Sime plc in 1998.
6. Ben Gunn 
MA, FCII, 54, Chief Executive, Friends
Provident Life and Pensions Limited
Appointed an executive director in June 2001
having been appointed an executive director 
of Friends’ Provident Life Ofﬁce from 2000 and
managing director, Friends Provident Life and
Pensions Limited in March 2001. Joined the
Friends Provident Group in September 1998
following the acquisition of London and Manchester
Group plc where he was managing director of
London and Manchester Assurance and a group
executive director. Joined London & Manchester
in February 1996 from Hambro Countrywide
where he was an executive director. Also 
a non-executive director of Pension Advisers
Support System Limited, PASS Loans Limited,
PASS Fees Limited and PASS Review Limited.
22 Friends Provident 
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. Christopher Jemmett
68, independent director
Appointed a director in June 2001, having been 
an independent director of Friends’ Provident Life
Ofﬁce from 1997 to 2001. Chairman of the Audit
and Compliance Committee and member of the
Investment and Remuneration Committees. An
independent director of F&C Asset Management
plc (called ISIS Asset Management plc until
October 2004) since February 1998 (when its
name was Friends Ivory & Sime plc) and its
deputy chairman and senior independent director
since May 1998. Chairman of F&C’s Audit and
Compliance Committee.
Former director and member of the executive
committee of Unilever PLC and Unilever NV and 
a former member of the Council of The Crown
Agents Foundation.
8. Ray King
BSc, FCA, 51, independent director
A qualiﬁed accountant, appointed a director in
January 2004. Member of the Audit and Compliance
Committee. Group ﬁnance director for BUPA since
2001. Formerly the deputy chief executive of
Parity Group plc, the director of group ﬁnance 
and control at Diageo plc and the group ﬁnance
director of Southern Water plc.
9. The Rt Hon Lord MacGregor 
of Pulham Market
OBE, MA, LLB, 68, 
independent director
Appointed a director in June 2001, having been 
an independent director of Friends’ Provident Life
Ofﬁce from 1998 to 2001. Chairman of the
Nomination Committee and a member of the
Audit and Compliance Committee.
Also a non-executive director of Associated British
Foods plc, Slough Estates plc and Uniq plc and 
a member of the Supervisory Board of DAF Trucks
NV of Eindhoven, The Netherlands. A Conservative
Member of Parliament 1974 – 2001 and a member
of the Government 1979 – 1994. This included ﬁve
Cabinet posts including Chief Secretary to the
Treasury. Formerly a member of the Committee
for Standards in Public Life.
10. Adrian Montague
CBE, MA, Solicitor, 57, 
independent director
Appointed a director in October 2004. Member 
of the Audit and Compliance, Investment and
Remuneration Committees. He is currently the
non-executive Chairman of British Energy Holdings
plc, Michael Page International plc, Cross-London
Rail Links Limited (a pro bono appointment until 
31 March 2005) and Infrastructure Investors
Limited; and a non-executive director of Cellmark
Holdings AB (Sweden).
Mr Montague was a partner with Linklaters &
Paines, and subsequently the Global Head of
Project Finance for Dresdner Kleinwort Benson,
Chief Executive of the Treasury Taskforce, Deputy
Chairman of Partnerships UK plc, and Deputy
Chairman of Network Rail. He has held several
other part-time advisory or supervisory positions
including Private Finance Adviser to the
Department of Transport, Environment and the
Regions and a Board Member of the Strategic Rail
Authority. Mr Montague is the chairman-elect.
11. Philip Moore
TD, MA, FIA, 45, 
Group Finance Director
Appointed an executive director on 1 September
2003, having joined Friends Provident plc on 
1 July 2003. Member of the Investment Committee.
Previously at AMP (UK) where he was corporate
director of ﬁnance and head of mergers and
acquisitions, having been ﬁnance director and
actuary of NPI on its acquisition by AMP . Prior 
to joining NPI in 1998 he spent 9 years at
PricewaterhouseCoopers, initially in London 
and then based in Hong Kong as the partner
responsible for the ﬁrm’s East Asia Insurance
Consultancy Practice. A non-executive director 
of Lombard International Assurance SA, a
Luxembourg registered insurance company
wholly-owned by the Company and a non-
executive director of F&C Asset Management plc
since January 2005.
12. Brian Sweetland
LLB, Solicitor, ACoI, 59, 
Executive Director
Appointed an executive director in June 2001,
having been an executive director of Friends’
Provident Life Ofﬁce since 1995. Joined Friends’
Provident Life Ofﬁce in 1974; was its Secretary
from 1983 to June 2001. Member of the
Investment Committee. Company Secretary from
June 2001 to end-December 2004. Responsible 
at board level for the Group’s corporate services,
group risk, governance (including corporate social
responsibility) and health and safety. A non-
executive director of F&C Commercial Property
Trust Limited. A trustee of the Friends Provident
Charitable Foundation and a member of the
Committee of Reference that independently
determines the investment selection criteria for
F&C Asset Management plc’s Stewardship range
of investment products and has a monitoring role
for the Friends Provident Group’s Stewardship 
and other ethical and environmental portfolios. 
Formerly a director of F&C Asset Management plc
and Benchmark Group PLC. He will retire from 
the board at the close of the AGM.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 23
7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. Financial Review
As in the past we report our results on two bases:
achieved proﬁt and Modiﬁed Statutory Solvency (MSS).
The achieved proﬁt basis has been developed by the
Association of British Insurers. We believe it provides
a more representative reﬂection of the performance
of long-term business that fully recognises the
shareholders’ interest in the in-force portfolio.
The MSS basis is required under legislation for
reporting long-term insurance business results. 
It is an extension of the statutory requirement
designed to demonstrate solvency. We will adopt 
the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
basis of reporting from the interim results 2005. 
IFRS will replace the MSS basis of reporting.
In addition to these two bases a number of initiatives
are underway which will lead to changes in reporting
in future. 
The European Insurers’ Chief Financial Ofﬁcers (CFO)
Forum agreed a timetable for the introduction of
changes to the achieved proﬁt basis of reporting,
known as the European Embedded Value Basis. We
believe this methodology will lead to an improvement
in the achieved proﬁts basis of reporting and it is our
intention to adopt this basis from year-end 2005 in
accordance with the agreed timetable. 
24 Friends Provident 
“Our 2004 results 
represent a year of 
strong proﬁt growth.”
* stated before amortisation of goodwill, operating exceptional items and tax
£344m
Operating proﬁt on 
achieved proﬁt basis* 
(2003: £266m)
£317m
Operating proﬁt on modiﬁed
statutory solvency basis* 
(2003: £260m)
7 .55p
Dividend per share 
(2003: 7.40p)
Financial Highlights Annual Report & Accounts 2004 25
Those in Group Finance and Actuarial Services are among the
unsung heroes who routinely ‘burn the midnight oil’ to meet the
welter of new ﬁnancial regulations affecting our industry. And
doing it in a manner that maintains a resilient balance sheet,
supporting ongoing proﬁtable growth and increasing value for
shareholders. Pictured are Simon Moss, Tara Burton and
Malcolm Channing of Group Finance.
▼ Financial Review continued
At the end of this report, we publish information in
respect of the Group’s life and pensions business
based on the forthcoming new accounting rules,
contained in FRS 27. These rules are coming into
force in 2005 but, in line with industry best practice,
we are providing disclosures this year in accordance
with a memorandum of understanding signed by the
Accounting Standards Board, Association of British
Insurers and leading insurance companies. 
Achieved proﬁt result
2004 2003
Achieved proﬁt highlights £m £m
Group achieved operating proﬁt* 344 266
Operating proﬁt on ordinary activities before tax 267 227
Contribution from new business 83 80
New business margin 19.1% 18.6%
Experience variances 2 (23)
Effect of changes in operating assumptions (9) (11)
Development costs (15) (23)
Asset Management operating proﬁt* 40 26
* before amortisation of goodwill, operating exceptional items and tax
The 29% increase in Group achieved operating proﬁt
for 2004 is mainly due to the effect of higher opening
value of in-force business, improved operating
performance and a stronger asset management result.
The key components of proﬁt are discussed below.
The contribution from new business is before
allowing for the cost of solvency capital and the
pension service charge on an FRS17 basis. The
contribution from new business has grown for three
consecutive years, and has increased by 54% to 
£83 million in 2004 from £54 million in 2001. 
As expected, there was an adverse impact of
approximately two percentage points in the
underlying margin relative to 2003 as a result 
of the changes in economic assumptions (mainly 
the increase in the risk discount rate from 7.0% 
to 7.3%). This has been more than offset by strong
expense control and an improved mix of business.
The experience variance includes the shareholders’
share of one-off transaction costs relating to our
securitisation concluded in December 2004 amounting
to £12 million. This is more than offset by positive
experience variances, most notably expenses. 
The effect of changes in operating assumptions
includes an allowance for increased lapses and
longevity in the UK, as highlighted in December,
offset by improved persistency in our international
business and lower expenses.
Development costs represent mainly expenditure 
on our advanced electronic trading systems and 
e-commerce related activities. These costs are
expected to increase modestly in 2005 as we invest
in further service-enhancing technology and strategic
infrastructure to improve our product proposition in
preparation for a depolarised distribution environment. 
26 Friends Provident 
01 54
66
80
83
02
03
04
Contribution to proﬁts 
from life and pensions 
new business £m
01 15.7
17.5
18.6
19.1
02
03
04
Life and pensions 
new business margin %
01
02
03
04
3.5
2.6
2.8
3.2
Embedded value £bn The charge to shareholders has been offset by 
a release in the pensions mis-selling provision
amounting to £13 million. Overall, the net charge 
to shareholders for the year amounts to £14 million.
Our 51% owned asset management operation
increased its contribution to consolidated Group
operating proﬁts from £26 million in 2003 to 
£40 million in 2004, following the merger with 
F&C in October 2004. Before amortisation of
goodwill, exceptional items and the cost of the
Reinvestment Plan, F&C earnings per share
increased 16% to 14.0 pence (2003: 12.0 pence) 
and the F&C operating margin was 36% compared
with 33% in 2003. Funds under management were
£125 billion at 31 December 2004 (2003: £63 bn).
Dividend
The total dividend for 2004 of 7.55 pence per share
(including the proposed ﬁnal dividend of 5.0 pence
per share) represents a comparative increase of 2.0%
over the 2003 dividend of 7.40 pence per share. 
The proposed dividend for the year is covered 
1.5 times by operating proﬁt of £225 million (before
amortisation of goodwill and operating exceptional
items, after tax attributable to equity shareholders). 
Operating expenses
Cost control remains a key area of focus and we
continue to introduce a number of initiatives to
enhance the cost efﬁciency of the Group. 
We have restructured our Appointed Representative
business to focus on protection and mortgage related
products, which, combined with the cost savings
realised in connection with the closure of our direct
salesforce in 2003, amount to total cost savings of
£21 million p.a. 
Acquisition expenses continue to beneﬁt from the
efﬁciencies gained through the increasing volumes of
new business now being transacted online and the
new business processing facility established in India
last year. In 2004, 65% of Investment Portfolio Bond
business and virtually all of our group pensions
business was transacted online. For protection
business, this grew signiﬁcantly to 52% from 38% 
in 2003. 
The integration of ISIS and F&C is progressing well
and we continue to forecast £33 million of cost
savings by the ﬁrst half of 2006, predominantly
through reduction in headcount, reduced costs of
premises and integration/outsourcing of IT. We
expect to deliver about two thirds of this reduction 
in 2005. One-off costs of the integration are forecast
to be of the order of £50 million.
We expect to continue to maintain our UK life and
pensions operating expenses, excluding commission,
at a broadly stable level while continuing to expand
our business.
Modiﬁed statutory solvency result
Analysis of modiﬁed statutory solvency operating 
proﬁt for the year ended 31 December
2004 2003
£m £m
With Proﬁts Fund with proﬁt business 7 13
Other life business 109 68
Longer-term investment return 85 87
Asset Management operating proﬁt 40 26
Other shareholder income less charges (2) (5)
Taxation (including the tax credit 
on the long-term business technical account) 78 71
Operating proﬁt before amortisation of
goodwill, operating exceptional items and tax 317 260
Operating proﬁt on ordinary activities before tax 228 209
The contribution from pre-demutualisation with
proﬁts business (being the shareholders’ share of 
the cost of bonuses) was £7 million and is likely to
remain a modest contributor to Group proﬁts as
bonuses have continued to reduce.
The improved result in 2004 is attributable to a
number of sources of increased proﬁt, including
annual management charges on higher asset values,
increased proﬁts on a growing book of conventional
life business, an increased contribution from F&C 
and a number of one-off items. These more than
offset the adverse effect of the mortality basis
change for annuity business announced in 
December 2004. 
Other shareholder income less charges comprises
the expected return on the net pension liability 
and corporate costs. 
The balance on the long-term business technical
account is net of tax incurred and the MSS 
rules require this balance to be grossed up at 
the appropriate rate of tax, being 30%, to arrive 
at the operating proﬁt.
The endowment complaints provision was increased
to £128 million at the end of 2004 (end 2003: £64m)
with claims and costs paid in the year of £66 million
(2003: £38m). The majority of complaints relate 
to with proﬁts fund policies. Of the £130 million
charge made in 2004, £14 million relates to 
pre-demutualisation unit linked policies, in which
shareholders have a 60% interest, resulting in 
an operating exceptional charge of £8 million.
A review of some past sales by our direct salesforce
(which is now closed) is being undertaken. A provision
of £22 million, of which £19 million is attributable to
shareholders, has been established to cover the
expected costs of the review and redress payments
mainly in respect of inheritance tax planning policies.
Both this provision and the endowment complaints
provision could change as a result of future regulatory
actions that cannot be reliably estimated.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 27 Financial Review continued
Shareholders’ Funds
Pro forma embedded value 2004 2003
£bn £bn
Shareholders’ funds 3.2 2.8
Represented by Group embedded 
value, comprising:
Shareholders’ invested net assets 1.0 1.2
Value of in-force Life & Pensions business 1.6 1.3
Market value of Asset Management business 0.6 0.3
The embedded value on a pro forma basis, after
accruing for payment of the proposed ﬁnal dividend,
was up 17% compared with 31 December 2003 due
to a strong achieved proﬁt result and an increase in
the market value of F&C. 
In connection with the acquisition of F&C, the Group
raised £229 million after expenses through the issue
of 172 million new shares in July 2004 and issued 
92 million shares to Eureko B.V. in October 2004 
as part of the purchase consideration. 
At the end of 2003 we took account of the cost of
capital notionally assumed to be backing our Risk
Capital Margin (RCM). This cost arises from the 
use of lower future investment return assumptions
than the risk discount rate on the capital notionally
assumed to be backing the RCM. This cost of lock-in
has been reduced to £27 million (2003: £39m) as 
a result of improved RCM coverage from within 
the with proﬁts fund.
Over the course of 2004 the value of our in-force
business increased by £261 million to over 
£1.6 billion. Over the same period our shareholder
invested net assets, which are the best indication 
of our net cash position, reduced by £152 million 
to £1.0 billion after allowing for our dividend of 
£152 million. After allowing for the investment return
achieved in the year of £92 million, the dividend from
F&C and exceptional items, the net operating strain
was approximately £80 million (2003: £70m).
In December 2004, we completed the securitisation
of a deﬁned book of pre-demutualisation business,
raising £380 million of cash. A transfer of 60% 
of the beneﬁt will be made to shareholders’ funds 
to ﬁnance the continued growth in our business. 
This has been treated as Group borrowings on both
an achieved proﬁt and an MSS basis. Although this
has added to group borrowings, it is non-recourse
ﬁnancing and consequently has been supportive 
of our credit ratings.
The Group’s long-term borrowings net of capitalised
issue costs have increased to £1,175 million at 
31 December 2004 (2003: £797m). These
borrowings consist of: 
28 Friends Provident 
7.00 01*
7.25 02
7.40 03
7.55 04
Dividends 
pence per share
*Annualised
34 01
60 02
63 03
125 04
Funds under 
management £bn Coupon 2004 2003
% £m £m
Undated subordinated 
guaranteed bonds 9.125 215 215
Convertible bonds due 2007 5.25 290 290
Step-up Tier One Insurance 
Capital Securities 6.875 300 300
Securitisation Notes – 
A1 due 2016 3 month LIBOR + 0.20 280 –
A2 due 2019 3 month LIBOR + 0.23 100 –
Net capitalised issue costs (10) (8)
Total 1,175 797
The interest charge attributable to shareholders
amounted to £60 million, up from £41 million in 2003
following our Tier One capital issue in November 2003. 
At 31 December 2004 the shareholders’ invested 
net assets were invested broadly in a mix of 73%
equities and 27% ﬁxed income securities and cash
before allowing for the proposed dividend.
Embedded value per share on a pro forma basis at the
end of 2004 was up to 166 pence (2003: 160 pence)
after the total dividend for the year of 7.55 pence.
Financial Strength
Friends Provident remains ﬁnancially strong and our
ﬁnancial standing has been further improved in 2004.
The FSA published the Integrated Prudential
Sourcebook at the end of 2004. This is the
culmination of three years of work between the 
FSA and leading life and pensions companies. 
It includes the new regulatory reporting framework
that has been formally introduced at the end of 
2004 for with proﬁts business. 
Realistic Solvency
We continue to manage the with proﬁts business of
Friends Provident Life and Pensions Limited (FPLP)
on the basis of our realistic balance sheet (RBS). As
per the position at 31 December 2003, the FPLP with
proﬁts assets exceed the liabilities, including the cost
of guaranteed beneﬁts and options calculated on a
market consistent basis. Surplus assets increased by
£50 million to £131 million at the end of 2004.
One of the important features of the RBS is its
resilience in the event of falls or rises in investment
markets. In large measure this is due to actions we
have taken to hedge the provisions made to cover
the cost of guarantees and options. 
In addition to calculating assets and liabilities on 
a realistic basis, we are required to hold an RCM. 
The RCM is assessed by stress testing elements of
the basis. To the extent we have hedged option and
guarantee costs, this will be reﬂected in a smaller
RCM requirement. The RCM at 31 December 2004
was £279 million (£308m at 30 June 2004 and
£216m at end of 2003, using different stress tests).
The element of the RCM covered from within the
with proﬁts fund has increased to £131 million from
£81 million in 2003. It remains our intention over time
to have the major part of the RCM met from within
the with proﬁts fund.
If the RCM is compared to FPLP’s total available
capital of £1,756 million, we are covered over 6
times. Available capital consists of FPLP shareholder
assets, the surplus in the non proﬁt fund of FPLP ,
50% of the embedded value proﬁts arising in the 
non proﬁt fund of FPLP of £205 million, less the
capital requirements of the non proﬁt fund. 
Regulatory Solvency
As FPLP now reports under the realistic basis, new
regulatory valuation rules apply. These focus solely
on the adequacy of resources to meet existing
guaranteed beneﬁts. An explicit resilience capital
requirement is held in addition to test capital
adequacy in stressed investment conditions. 
The results of the regulatory and realistic basis
calculations are then compared after applying stress
tests to each and the more onerous requirement is
applied. For FPLP the more onerous requirement is
currently that calculated on a regulatory basis. 
The changes to the regulatory capital calculation in
2004 have had the effect of increasing the regulatory
free capital by about £238 million. These changes
have not impacted the MSS proﬁt but have improved
the fund for future appropriations.
We have signiﬁcantly strengthened the assumptions
that we make about future improvements in
annuitant mortality. Our valuation basis now assumes
improvements will be the average of medium cohort
and long cohort for males and 75% of this average
improvement rate for females.
We concluded the securitisation of a deﬁned book 
of pre-demutualisation business in December 2004.
As a result, we have terminated our stop loss
reinsurance agreement (2003: £300m) and reduced
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 29
“Friends Provident
remains ﬁnancially 
strong and our ﬁnancial
standing has been further
improved in 2004.” Financial Review continued
the implicit item to £110 million (2003: £400m). This
has resulted in an improvement in the quality of our
regulatory capital.
As a result of the above, the Free Asset Ratio* for
FPLP is estimated to have increased to 12.2% at the
end of 2004 (end 2003: 10.1%) and available assets
have increased by £366 million to £2,281 million. 
Group Life and Pensions Capital Position
The information at the end of this report contains 
a detailed description of the capital position for the
life and pensions business of the Group prepared
under forthcoming new accounting rules contained 
in FRS 27. This shows that the total available capital
resources at 31 December 2004 amounted to 
£2,037 million, substantially in excess of the capital
requirement of £835 million. The Group capital
position statement shows that the bulk of the
Group’s capital is held outside the with proﬁts funds
and, consequently, can be deployed around the
Group with a high degree of ﬂexibility.
Group Solvency 
The FSA has implemented the provisions of the
Insurance Groups Directive in the Integrated
Prudential Sourcebook, which came into effect in
December 2004. Our Group solvency capital
requirement at the end of 2004 was well covered by
our available Group capital resources.
Individual Capital Assessment (ICA)
Over the past two years we have developed an
economic capital model which has helped our drive
for improved capital efﬁciency. This model will form
the basis for Friends Provident to agree with the FSA
the economic capital requirement for each individual
company based on an assessment of its own risk
proﬁle (ie the ICA). At the end of 2004, we were one
of a few companies to choose to take part in the ICA
pilot exercise with the FSA. This has reinforced our
comfort with our methodology and the FSA process. 
With Proﬁts Investments
The proportion of equities and property backing the
FPLP with proﬁts fund asset shares (the Equity
Backing Ratio) is substantially unchanged at 48%
(2003: 46%). We continue to actively manage the
investment of the guarantee provisions within the
fund with a view to minimising risk to policyholders
and shareholders. The investment return achieved by
the with proﬁts fund in 2004 was 10.7%.
Credit Ratings
The ﬁnancial strength credit rating of FPLP from
Standard & Poor’s is A+ (strong) with a stable outlook
and from Moody’s is A2 (strong) with a stable outlook.
Financial Risk Reduction
Life and Pensions Business 
We have a number of ﬁnancial guarantees on with
proﬁts policies, the value of which varies depending
on the level of equity markets. We have purchased
long-term put options and sold some equity futures
to lessen the impact of equity falls and increases in
equity volatility on the cost of such guarantees. 
In respect of our guaranteed annuity options we have
entered into a number of Sterling interest rate swaps
and purchased Sterling swaptions that protect us
against falls in interest rates. 
The conventional assets that back our income
protection liabilities are closely matched but leave us
with some vulnerability to changes in interest rates 
at certain terms. In order to mitigate this, we have
invested in a series of carefully chosen interest rate
swaps whose cash ﬂows match the nature and term
of cash ﬂows arising from the liabilities more closely.
Staff Pension Fund
A high proportion of our pension liabilities are either
linked to price inﬂation or to earnings growth, which
has a strong correlation with price inﬂation. The assets
backing these liabilities do not have a signiﬁcant
inﬂation link and there is a risk that the gap between
future interest rates and future inﬂation rates
narrows. This could result in the assets becoming
insufﬁcient to meet the liabilities. We have hedged
against this risk using inﬂation swaps, which protect
us against falls in real yields.
Lombard International
On 11 January 2005 we completed the acquisition of
Lombard. The initial payment for this acquisition was
c265 million, settled principally from the issue of 
113 million new Friends Provident shares. Variable
payments are to be made in respect of each of the
trading years 2004, 2005 and 2006 (payable in April
the following year). The ﬁrst variable payment is 
due in April 2005, and this is likely to be equal 
to the maximum payment of c90 million. We 
expect to settle this payment by issuing additional 
Friends Provident shares.
30 Friends Provident 
“The Group has
continued to make
enhancements to its
risk management
approach during 2004.”
* Represented by the ratio of assets less liabilities (including actuarial reserves but before the required minimum solvency margin) expressed
as a percentage of actuarial reserves. The achieved proﬁt result highlights for Lombard 
in 2004 were as follows:
Lombard 2004 Achieved Proﬁt Highlights £m
Contribution from new business 41
New business margin 32%
Operating assumption changes (26)
Achieved operating proﬁt before tax 29
Embedded value at 31 December 2004 141
The Luxembourg GAAP statutory pre-tax proﬁt 
for 2004 was £3.5 million.
The contribution from new business was up 32% 
on the previous year as a result of strong growth in
new business. The margin reduced slightly to 32%
(2003: 33%). Future growth is likely to come mainly
from the private bank and family ofﬁce distribution
channels, leading to a continued increase in the
average size of policy sold. We expect good growth
in the overall contribution from new business. The
operating assumption change results mainly from 
a strengthening of lapse rate assumptions. 
The pro forma impacts on the Life & Pensions
business results had Lombard been acquired 
with effect from 1 January 2004 are as follows:
Lombard 2004 Pro forma impacts Pro forma Change
New business (APE) £564m 30%
Contribution from New Business £124m 49%
New Business margin 22.0% +2.9%
Life & Pensions achieved operating proﬁt £349m 9%
Contribution from new 
business/embedded value 4.3% +1.3%
Pension schemes
The Group operates one principal deﬁned beneﬁt
scheme, and various schemes operated by F&C
Asset Management. The market value of the assets
of the principal scheme at 31 December 2004 was
£700 million. The principal deﬁned beneﬁt scheme
has a negligible net deﬁcit of £4 million (2003: deﬁcit
£3m) in relation to the scheme assets after a
strengthening of longevity assumption amounting to
£26 million. Contributions recommenced from January
2004. Employer contributions were 13%, rising to
14% from January 2005 and 15% from January 2006.
Employee contributions were 1% of pensionable pay,
rising to 2% in 2005 and 3% in 2006. We continue to
use the FRS17 basis of accounting which allows for
the charge of current service pension cost. 
The F&C deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are closed to new
entrants. In addition, the Group also operates two
deﬁned contribution schemes, one operated by 
F&C Asset Management plc and the other by 
Friends Provident International.
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
The European Union requires all European listed
groups to prepare their consolidated ﬁnancial
statements in accordance with IFRS from 
1 January 2005. The Friends Provident Group 
will therefore prepare interim results for 2005 
under IFRS, rather than UK GAAP .
IFRS will not materially impact Friends Provident
achieved proﬁt results, embedded value, dividend
policy or solvency. IFRS will affect the treatment 
of investment contracts, whilst the treatment of
insurance contracts will be largely unaffected.
The main impact of IFRS on operating proﬁt arises
from changes in the new rules regarding the deferral
of acquisition costs and the calculation of actuarial
liabilities for investment products. These affect the
timing of proﬁts but have no impact on the total
amount of proﬁt recognised over the life of the
product. Some acquisition costs, which are deferrable
under UK GAAP , must be written off immediately
under IFRS. In addition, a change to the calculation 
of actuarial liabilities will also result in more proﬁt
being deferred to later periods. IFRS are therefore 
a more prudent version of the MSS basis, increasing
the reported new business strain, but without giving
new insights into the proﬁtability of products. 
We believe the achieved proﬁt basis will continue to
provide a more representative method of accounting
for long-term business, particularly as it is developed
by the European Insurers’ CFO Forum.
Management of risk 
The Group has continued to make enhancements 
to its risk management approach during 2004.
Risk vision and appetite
Friends Provident has a clear vision of risk
management – an environment where consideration
of risk is embedded into business planning, decision
making and everyday management. The Board has
deﬁned its risk appetite, setting out clearly the
amount and types of risk that it is comfortable for 
the business to take. Executive management is 
now using this risk appetite to assist them in the
setting of business and risk strategies.
Risk framework and process
We have taken further steps to develop our 
risk governance structure, which is described 
within the Corporate Governance Report of the
Report & Accounts. As explained there, our risk
processes have been enhanced to facilitate the
effective identiﬁcation, assessment and management
of risk, with appropriate risk management approaches
applied to the different sources of risk.
Strategic risks to which the Group is exposed include
actions by competitors, distributors, customers,
governments and regulators that could impact on 
our strategy. These are managed through the active
consideration of risk as part of our business planning
process and in new strategic ventures (for example,
in our investment activity and strategic partnerships).
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 31 Financial Review continued
The ﬁnancial risks to which the Group is exposed
comprise market, credit, liquidity and insurance risk
(including mortality, morbidity, expense and lapse
risks). For each of these classes of risk, we have
developed a risk policy that provides an effective
control framework for the management of ﬁnancial
risk whilst helping the business to achieve its
objectives. This risk policy reﬂects the risk appetite
deﬁned by the Board.
Operational risks include the risk of failure of people,
processes and systems, as well as external events.
During 2004, we have designed and implemented 
a new operational risk process and system which
establishes clear ownership of risk within business
operations, whilst providing an active focus on
control effectiveness and improvement, and
facilitating central analysis and reporting of risk.
Economic Capital
The Group has continued to develop and reﬁne its
economic capital model. Results from the model
continue to provide input to our business decisions
concerning the management of risk and capital
around the Group. The model will also form the basis
of our Individual Capital Assessment submission 
to the FSA. The setting of risk appetite and the
development of our economic capital model have
informed a number of ﬁnancial risk strategies which
have been undertaken to reduce risk and improve
capital efﬁciency. 
Planning and Reporting 
The overall ﬁnancial position of the Group’s businesses
is monitored through regular reports to the Group
Board from the Group Finance Director. This includes
reviewing the Group’s proﬁtability, embedded value,
cashﬂow and balance sheet position, including capital
adequacy. There is a comprehensive business planning
and monitoring process for measuring progress against
budget. The Actuarial Function Holder and With Proﬁts
Actuary report on speciﬁc actuarial matters relating to
the long-term insurance business, including reports
on regulatory valuations, bonus recommendations,
realistic balance sheet and ﬁnancial condition.
Conclusion
Our 2004 results represent a year of strong proﬁt
growth and earnings diversiﬁcation; tight expense
control; continued reduction in risk; improved cash
generation and generating capabilities; and a further
strengthening of our balance sheet. We thus remain
conﬁdent of continued growth in shareholder value.
Philip Moore
Group Finance Director 
17 March 2005
32 Friends Provident  Supplementary Information in respect of 
Financial Reporting Standard 27 on Life Assurance
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 33
Introduction
In December 2004, the Accounting Standards Board (ASB)
issued Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 27 on Life
Assurance. In summary, FRS 27, which does not apply 
until 2005, requires large with proﬁts life assurance
businesses to account for liabilities (including options and
guarantees) ‘realistically’ and to provide detailed disclosures
of the liabilities and ﬁnancial strength of the business as a
whole. At the same time as FRS 27 was issued, a
Memorandum of Understanding between 
the ABI, ASB and leading insurers, including Friends
Provident, was also issued. The Memorandum sets 
out the disclosures to be made in the 2004 ﬁnancial
statements as an interim measure. In the 2005 ﬁnancial
statements, FRS 27 will require, inter alia, the stating 
of ‘realistic’ liabilities in the balance sheet, but there will not
be any impact on proﬁtability or shareholders’ funds 
as any adjustments necessary will be accounted for in 
the Fund for Future Appropriations.
Friends Provident (FP) has two UK with proﬁts funds. 
The main UK with proﬁts fund is in Friends Provident Life
and Pensions Limited (FPLP) and the capital position of 
this fund has been determined in accordance with the
Realistic Balance Sheet (RBS) regulations prescribed 
by the FSA. There is also a small UK with proﬁts fund 
in Friends Provident Life Assurance Limited (FPLA). 
The capital position of this fund has been calculated on 
the existing regulatory basis as this fund is closed and 
is signiﬁcantly below the £500m level that the FSA has
determined should be applied for calculating liabilities 
under the realistic methodology.
The information disclosed below is provided as
supplementary information and does not form part 
of the modiﬁed statutory solvency accounts.
Realistic valuation
The amount of realistic liabilities (including options and
guarantees) for FPLP’s with proﬁts fund at 31 December 2004
amounted to £14,010m and the amount of realistic assets
amounted to £14,141m. This results in an excess of realistic
assets over realistic liabilities of £131m. Excluding the
shareholders’ share of future bonuses totalling £58m, 
as required by FRS 27, the excess amounted to £189m. 
The excess of realistic assets over realistic liabilities at 
31 December 2003 amounted to £81m (£143m excluding
the shareholders’ share of future bonuses totalling £62m). 
The main element of the realistic liabilities is the asset shares
of with proﬁts business. This represents the premiums
received to date together with the investment return earned
less expenses and charges. This is mainly calculated on an
individual policy basis using historic information and in line
with the company’s Principles and Practices of Financial
Management (PPFM). Asset shares are fully matched since
they move with the value of the underlying assets.
Policyholder liabilities (including options and guarantees) 
are then valued using a market consistent stochastic model.
Included in liabilities are provisions for speciﬁc items such
as mortgage endowment reviews and other liabilities of 
the fund. Realistic valuations also allow for future proﬁts 
of non proﬁt business written in the with proﬁts fund to 
be included as an asset.
Capital statement
The capital statement in respect of the Group’s life and
pensions business at 31 December 2004 is set out below.
This statement shows an analysis of the available capital
resources calculated on a realistic basis for the FPLP with
proﬁts fund and on a regulatory basis for all other funds. 
It also shows the regulatory capital requirements and, 
in total, the overall surplus capital over regulatory
requirements. In addition the statement provides an 
analysis of policyholders’ liabilities.
Basis of calculating available capital resources in life 
and pensions business
The available capital of the two UK with proﬁts funds has
been determined in accordance with FSA regulations and
includes the Fund For Future Appropriation (FFA). The FFA
represents the estimated surplus in the funds that has 
not been allocated and is available to meet regulatory and
other solvency requirements of the funds. Adjustments
have been made to restate all assets and liabilities onto 
a regulatory basis.
The with proﬁts fund in FPLP has available capital of 
£131m and has been calculated using realistic methodology.
In accordance with accounting rules, the RBS liabilities 
only represent amounts relating to policyholders and do 
not include the shareholders’ share of future bonuses.
However, the shareholders’ share is treated as a 
deduction from capital that is available to meet regulatory
requirements and shown as a separate adjustment in 
the capital statement. 
The available capital in the closed with proﬁts fund in 
FPLA amounts to £82m. This has been calculated under 
the Modiﬁed Statutory Solvency Basis (MSSB).
The available capital in the Group’s UK non-participating
businesses has been determined in accordance with 
FSA regulations and amounts to £1,146m. This includes 
a subordinated loan of £215m which was raised by 
FP Finance PLC and an implicit item of £110m representing
a prudent estimate of the future proﬁts of the non proﬁt
fund of FPLP. Adjustments have been made to restate 
all assets and liabilities on to a regulatory basis. The
regulatory adjustment to assets mainly consists of
eliminating deferred acquisition costs. The regulatory
adjustment to liabilities mainly represents the additional
regulatory capital arising as a result of the securitisation 
of a deﬁned book of pre-demutualisation business 
in December 2004.
The available capital in the Group’s overseas businesses
written by Friends Provident International Limited (FPIL) 
has been determined in accordance with local requirements
and amounts to £29m. This business is largely written 
in the Isle of Man. Adjustments have been made to 
restate all assets and liabilities on to a regulatory basis.
The shareholders’ funds held outside the life & pensions
funds are shown separately in the capital position
statement. It is the Group’s policy to ensure that 
each subsidiary is adequately capitalised to support 
its life businesses and to exceed regulatory capital
requirements. The amount of shareholders’ funds 
available resources is £649m.  Supplementary Information in respect of 
Financial Reporting Standard 27 on Life Assurance continued
34 Friends Provident 
Restrictions on available capital resources in life and
pensions business
The available capital is subject to certain restrictions as to its
availability to meet capital requirements elsewhere in the
Group. In particular, no transfers from long-term funds can
take place without an up to date actuarial valuation. The
other main restrictions on capital are set out below.
UK with proﬁts fund in FPLP: the available surplus held 
in the FPLP with proﬁts fund can only be applied to meet
the requirements of the fund itself or be distributed to
policyholders and shareholders. Shareholders are entitled 
to an amount not exceeding one-ninth of the amount
distributed to policyholders in the form of bonuses on
conventional policies. Non proﬁt business written in the
FPLP with proﬁts fund has been securitised and surpluses
are initially used to repay £380m of ﬂoating rate loan notes
issued by the Group and then may be distributed 40% to
FPLP’s with proﬁts fund and 60% to shareholders. Any
transfer of surplus to shareholders would give rise to a tax
charge. The FPLP non proﬁt fund has provided a contingent
loan of £50m to the FPLP with proﬁts fund. This is repayable
out of future surpluses in the with proﬁts fund subject to
certain restrictions. 
UK with proﬁts fund in FPLA: the available surplus held in
the closed with proﬁts fund of FPLA can only be distributed
to policyholders. 
UK non-participating funds: for non-participating business,
the majority of surplus can be distributed to shareholders
subject to meeting the requirements of the business. 
Any transfer of the surplus would give rise to a tax charge.
The FPLP non proﬁt fund has a liability to repay £215m 
of subordinated loan stock and has lent £180m to F&C
which is repayable in 2006.
Overseas life fund: the available surplus can be distributed
to shareholders subject to meeting the requirements of 
the business. 
Shareholders’ funds: the capital is generally available to
meet requirements anywhere in the Group. It remains the
intention of management to ensure that there is adequate
capital to exceed the regulatory requirements of the Group’s
life and pensions businesses, to meet any net new business
strain and to support the Group’s overall credit ratings. The
FPLP shareholders’ fund has lent £25m out of a facility of
£30m to F&C on a subordinated basis. This loan has no 
set repayment term. FPLP has also guaranteed the £300m
Capital statement table
UK With UK With UK Non- Overseas Life & Pensions Total
Proﬁts Proﬁts Participating Life Fund Shareholders’ Life & Pensions
(FPLP) (FPLA) Funds (FPIL) Funds Business
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Shareholders’ funds
outside fund –––– 655 655
inside fund – – 1,279 56 – 1,335
– – 1,279 56 655 1,990
Other qualifying capital
subordinated debt – – 215 – – 215
implicit items – 110 – – 110
FFA 189 82––– 271
189 82 1,604 56 655 2,586
Regulatory adjustments
assets – (2) (671) (13) (6) (692)
liabilities – 2 213 (14) – 201
shareholders’ share of future bonuses (58) –––– (58)
Total available
capital resources 131 82 1,146 29 649 2,037
Capital requirement
UK realistic basis 279–––– 279
Other regulatory bases 253 33 264 6 – 556
532 33 264 6 – 835
Overall surplus capital
over regulatory requirements 1,202
Analysis of policyholders’ liabilities
With proﬁts 13,952 277––– 14,229
Unit-linked 37 – 9,819 2,356 – 12,212
Non-participating 2,547 – 2,350 27 – 4,924
Total technical liabilities 16,536 277 12,169 2,383 – 31,365 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 35
Step-up Tier One Insurance Capital Securities (STICS) issued
in 2003 by the parent company.
Basis of calculating capital requirements for life and
pensions business
Each life assurance and pensions company has to hold
sufﬁcient capital to meet the FSA’s regulatory requirements.
For the FPLP with proﬁts fund, the Risk Capital Margin
(RCM) amounts to £279m. The RCM is calculated on set
criteria of adverse scenarios laid down by the FSA (the
market risk scenarios tested are what would happen if
property prices fall by 12.5%, equity prices fall by 20%,
corporate bonds spreads increase by 5.22%, ﬁxed interest
yields rise 0.8% and persistency increases by 32.5%). The
RCM is based on the asset mix at the year-end and takes
into account hedging strategies and the actions
management would take in the event of particular 
adverse market conditions. 
Under the realistic capital methodology, the capital
requirement is the higher of the ‘twin peaks’ test of 
the realistic peak and the regulatory peak. In FPLP , the
regulatory peak is more demanding and additional regulatory
capital of £195m is required being the difference between
the realistic peak of £148m and the regulatory peak,
including the Long Term Insurance Capital Requirement
(LTICR), of £343m as follows:
Realistic Regulatory
£m £m
Working capital 131 Surplus 488
RCM (279) LTICR (531)
Resilience capital (300)
(148) (343)
The total regulatory capital requirement for the FPLP with
proﬁts fund amounts to £532m which is made up of the
RCM of £279m, the excess of the regulatory ‘peak’ over 
the realistic ‘peak’ of £195m, the regulatory requirement 
of £52m in respect of non proﬁt business written in the
with proﬁts fund and £6m in respect of subsidiary 
solvency requirements.
The capital cover to meet the regulatory solvency
requirement of FPLP’s with proﬁts fund is provided 
from FPLP’s non proﬁt fund and shareholders’ fund.
For the FPLA closed with proﬁts fund, the capital requirement
has been calculated on a regulatory basis at £33m. 
For UK non-participating funds, the relevant capital
requirement is the minimum solvency margin determined 
in accordance with FSA regulations. This, in total, amounts
to £264m.
For overseas business, local regulatory capital requirements
are determined and these amount to £6m.
Capital and risk management for life and pensions business 
The key sensitivities and the approach to managing the risks
are set out below.
UK with proﬁts funds: for the conventional with proﬁts
business the key sensitivity is to future investment returns.
The mix of assets is kept under review taking into account
the level of capital required and the anticipated returns for
policyholders. Volatility of returns is reduced by hedging.
Derivatives also limit exposure to interest rate movements
in respect of guaranteed annuity rates. Included in liabilities
are provisions for endowment and other reviews on 
a best estimate basis. However, the ﬁnal outcome of these
provisions could be different due to the uncertainties involved. 
UK non-participating funds: the liabilities are predominately
unit linked and management’s policy is to ensure that there
is no signiﬁcant mismatching. Assets and liabilities in
respect of non unit-linked business such as PHI and
annuities are very closely matched and therefore the risks
from changes in market conditions are limited. There is the
risk of increasing liability for annuities as people live longer
and there is exposure to changes in credit spreads.
Overseas funds: the liabilities are predominately unit linked
and management’s policy is to ensure that there is no
signiﬁcant mismatching. Assets and liabilities are very
closely matched and therefore the risks from changes 
to market conditions are limited. There are no signiﬁcant
currency risks.
Other activities
Apart from capital employed in the life and pensions
business amounting to £1,990m, the Group’s other main
activity is that of asset management operated by the 
F&C Group in which Friends Provident owned 51% at 
31 December 2004. The total capital in the asset
management business amounts to £808m (including
goodwill of £945m). The capital employed in these two
activities reconciles to the Group total equity shareholders’
funds of £2,444m by way of central corporate activities 
and consolidation adjustments (mainly goodwill).
Options and guarantees
Options and guarantees are features of life assurance and
pensions contracts that confer potentially valuable beneﬁts 
to policyholders. They are not unique to with proﬁts funds
and can arise in non-participating funds. They expose 
an insurance company to two types of risk: insurance 
(such as mortality/morbidity) and ﬁnancial (such as market
prices/interest rates). The value of an option or guarantee
comprises two elements: the intrinsic value and the time
value. The intrinsic value is the amount that would be payable
if the option or guarantee was exercised immediately. The
time value is the additional value that reﬂects the possibility
of the intrinsic value increasing in future, before the expiry 
of the option or guarantee. Under FSA rules all options and
guarantees must be valued and included in policyholder
liabilities. For funds within the FSA’s realistic capital
methodology, options and guarantees are valued on a market
consistent stochastic basis. For other funds, options and
guarantees are valued on a deterministic basis. 
The majority of the Group’s life and pensions options and
guarantees are within FPLP’s with proﬁts fund. These are
valued stochastically and included in the realistic liabilities.
There are two main types of guarantees and options in 
the FPLP with proﬁts fund: maturity guarantees and
Guaranteed Annuity Options (GAOs). Maturity guarantees
are in respect of conventional with proﬁts business and
represent the sum assured and reversionary bonuses
declared to date. The cost of these guarantees has been
calculated at £533m. For certain with proﬁts pension policies Supplementary Information in respect of 
Financial Reporting Standard 27 on Life Assurance continued
issued, there are GAOs which guarantee rates at which
annuities can be purchased. The cost of these guarantees
has been calculated at £736m. 
The cost of the with proﬁts guarantees is assessed using 
a market consistent stochastic model (using the Smith
Model as the scenario generator) and is calculated using
5,000 simulations. The model has been calibrated using 
the gilt risk-free curve (assuming interest rates of between
4.4% and 4.6%) and implied volatilities in the market. 
The capital return is calibrated to the actual asset portfolio.
For equities, a capital return volatility of 16 % p.a. has been
assumed in year 7 increasing to 20% p.a. by year 14 and
23% p.a. by year 21. Volatility for property returns has been
assumed at 15% p.a. throughout. 
The cost of guarantees also depends on management
actions that would be taken under various scenarios. 
For example, the future level of the equity backing ratio
(the ratio of funds held in equities and property to total
investments) varies in each scenario depending on the 
ratio of the guarantee cost to the asset share. Similarly, the
reversionary bonus rate is set each year such that, by
maturity, guaranteed beneﬁts are targeted as a prescribed
fraction of the total asset share (based on risk-free returns)
leaving the remaining portion of the asset share to be paid
as terminal bonus. The management actions are in line with
the PPFM and are programmed into the model.
The guarantee cost in respect of GAOs is assessed using 
a market consistent stochastic model and values both the
current level of the guaranteed annuity rate beneﬁt (allowing
for future improvements in annuitant mortality) and the 
time value due to uncertainty in future interest rates. The
guarantee cost in each scenario is the value of the excess
annuity beneﬁt provided by the GAO, relative to an annuity
purchased in the open market. In estimating the future open
market annuity rate the model allows for stochastic variation
in interest rates and for future mortality improvements. 
The stochastic interest rate assumption reﬂects that implied
by current market interest rate derivative prices. Future
annuitant mortality has been derived from an analysis of
recent operating experience informed by industry studies
with allowance for annuitant mortality improvements.
Future improvements are difﬁcult to assess as there is 
no industry consensus. Short, medium and long cohort
terminology refers to commonly accepted terms of the 
rate of future improvements and the period over which
those improvements are expected to occur. In general, 
the medium cohort for realistic reporting has been adopted.
The GAO cost also depends upon other factors such as policy
discontinuance and tax-free cash take up. The factors are
based on FP’s recent experience adjusted to reﬂect industry
benchmarks and to anticipate trends in policyholder behaviour.
A summary of the other key assumptions is as follows:
Policy discontinuances: lapse rates and paid up policies vary
by policy type and period. Policy lapses for pensions are
generally in the range of 0.5% to 2% p.a. with policy lapses
for life business in the range of 3% to 9% p.a. Paid-up
policies for pensions are generally in the range of 7.5% to
11% p.a. with life policies generally in the region of 1% p.a.
Cash free option: where a guaranteed annuity option is
more valuable than the cash equivalent it is assumed that
17% of the beneﬁt is taken as tax-free. This is based on
past experience adjusted to allow for the expectation that
fewer policyholders with guaranteed annuity options will
choose to take tax-free cash in future.
There are also guarantees and options in respect of the
Group’s other life assurance business but these are not
considered to be material to the Group’s future cash ﬂows. 
In addition, they have largely been matched with suitable
assets and there is no material exposure to market or interest
rate changes. Provisions have been established using
deterministic scenarios based on prudent assumptions.
36 Friends Provident  Corporate Responsibility Report
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 37
“We encourage our
people to think
differently so that their
everyday decisions have
regard to social and
environmental issues 
as well as, for example,
cost and quality.”
Most recently, in 2004, Friends Provident became 
a member of the Dow Jones World Sustainability
Index, which represents the top 10% of companies
across 34 countries and 60 industries assessed 
for their leading position in sustainability. All these
achievements are set against the backdrop of 
Friends Provident experiencing the greatest period 
of change in its 170-year history. 
Here, we summarise our approach and some
highlights from the programme. A full report, including
objectives for 2005, can be viewed on our website:
www.friendsprovident.com/responsibility. The full 
CR Report and this summary have been written 
with reference to the Sustainability Reporting
Guidelines published by the Global Reporting
Initiative. The CR and Annual Reports together
provide a comprehensive review of our economic,
social and environmental performance. 
Vision and strategy
Our Statement of Business Principles, published 
on our website, sets out our vision for corporate
responsibility. Our vision is based on CR being part 
of good corporate governance in its broadest sense.
Our CR programme has been integrated into routine
business planning to ensure it is balanced with other
key business drivers. We encourage our people to
think differently so that their everyday decisions have
regard to social and environmental issues as well as,
for example, cost and quality. They can then pursue
opportunities to improve our social and environmental
performance at little or no extra cost. We also
carefully consider the relative materiality of our
different social and environmental impacts, focusing
our efforts where they can most make a difference.
Our areas of inﬂuence
Friends Provident is one of the leading ﬁnancial
services groups in the UK and in the FTSE100 Index
of leading UK companies. It has two core businesses,
Life and Pensions, which markets a broadly based
range of life and pensions products, and Asset
Management, which has around £125 billion of funds
under management and markets a wide range of
investment products to personal and institutional
customers. These core businesses are both in the top
10 of their respective sectors in the UK.
Following my retirement as a Director of Friends
Provident plc, I am delighted that the Group 
Chief Executive, Keith Satchell, will take over 
direct responsibility for the Group’s Corporate
Responsibility (CR) programme, reﬂecting its
importance in our organisation.
I have led our programme since it was refreshed 
and relaunched in 2000 and I am proud of the
excellent progress that has been made these last 
ﬁve years. We have:
• been members of the FTSE4Good Index since 
we listed as a plc in 2001 
• achieved a top quartile placing in the Companies
that Count list based on Business in the
Community’s CR Index 
• been voted one of the 100 Best Workplaces 
in the UK for the last four years 
• cut our CO
2
emissions by 80% 
• won the award for written CR communications 
at the inaugural IVCA Clarion Awards 
• retained our leading position in the Socially
Responsible Investment market 
• established the Friends Provident Foundation 
to start, albeit modestly, to address some of 
the social issues facing the UK today Corporate Responsibility Report continued
The life assurance industry is important from both 
an economic and social perspective, contributing to
the generation of wealth and the social wellbeing of
society. It allows consumers, for example, to transfer
risk, buy protection and save for retirement. The
industry pays out £222 million each working day 
in pensions and life assurance beneﬁts. Friends
Provident was originally founded with the aim of
alleviating the hardship of families facing misfortune.
Today, as we pay out millions of pounds every
working day, improving the quality of life of our
customers and their families remains our aim and 
our core social responsibility.
Buying long-term ﬁnancial products can be a
complicated process and we are pleased to have
been re-accredited under the Raising Standards
Quality Mark scheme, which aims to foster
consumer conﬁdence through improved disclosure
and encourage more people to make adequate
provision for their long-term ﬁnancial needs. And 
the service we provide has been rated Five Star, 
the highest rate possible in the 2004 Financial
Adviser Practiv Service Awards. We also support
pfeg (Personal Finance Education Group), which is
working to improve the ﬁnancial literacy of future
generations of customers.
In addition to assuming social responsibility towards
our customers, Friends Provident has other direct and
indirect impacts on society. Our direct impacts are:
• Environmental management:
• Emissions
• Energy efﬁciency
• Waste
• Resource use (principally paper)
• Labour practices
• Community Investment
Our indirect impacts occur through:
• Responsible investment and engagement
• Supply chain management
Friends Provident’s most signiﬁcant environmental
impact is the indirect inﬂuence it can exert through
responsible investing in its various forms. The Group
is a pioneer of responsible investing. In 1984 we
launched the UK’s ﬁrst ethical Unit Trust, the
Stewardship Unit Trust. Our Stewardship range of
products, now partly operated through our Asset
Management business, is still the market leader with
42% of the £4.3 billion screened fund market in the UK.
In 2000, the Group launched reo
®
, a state-of-the-art
management system for engaging with companies
on a range of social and environmental issues. We
believe that companies that change the way they
behave to address these issues also enhance their
long-term shareholder value.
Finally, Friends Provident fully discloses the way it
votes the shareholdings held in other companies at
those companies’ meetings – worldwide. We publish
monthly reports that list the way we have voted 
and include a brief explanation of every vote not
supporting the recommendations of the boards 
of those companies. 
Governance structure and management systems
Friends Provident has a well-developed and
integrated CR management system that includes 
the following features:
• Main Board responsibility
• A Group-wide Steering Committee which 
meets quarterly
• A CR manager
• Deﬁned roles and responsibilities across the Group
• Performance indicators for all main impact areas
• An objective and target-setting mechanism 
built into the Company’s strategic and business
planning process
• An internal communication programme
• An internal veriﬁcation process
CR risks and opportunities are routinely identiﬁed
through the Group’s risk management process. 
This process requires quarterly reports from each
business unit speciﬁcally covering CR-related risks
and opportunities, which embraces social, ethical 
and environmental issues. With regard to the ABI
Disclosure Guidelines on Socially Responsible
Investment, key CR-related risks that have been
assessed include recruitment and retention of 
key employees, reputational issues, responsible
investing, community relations, human rights, 
mis-selling issues and bribery and corruption. We will
beneﬁt, as a consequence, from the strengthening 
of our reputation and the growth of the responsible
investment market for both screened funds and
engagement services.
To establish our principles, policy framework and
performance indicators, we liaised with various
groups of people who have a ‘stake’ in our business
and developed a matrix that maps issues against
different stakeholder groups. We continue to talk
with our stakeholders and take opportunities to link
into existing research programmes to ensure this
matrix remains up-to-date. 
Environmental performance indicators
Compared with some industries, the direct impact 
on the environment from an ofﬁce-based life and
pensions or asset management company is low.
However, we can exert a signiﬁcant material impact
indirectly through responsible investing. Customers
who invest in our Stewardship range of products 
can be conﬁdent their money will only be invested 
in companies that have been screened by an
independent Committee of Reference to ensure the
selected investments have positive community and
environmental beneﬁts for the world and its people
and minimise their negative impacts.
38 Friends Provident  Through reo
®
we engage with companies on a range
of social, environmental and ethical issues. reo
®
is
applied to Friends Provident’s worldwide equity
portfolio, including its staff pension fund. Each year,
our twelve-strong team of specialists selects a
speciﬁc number of topical issues on which to engage
and target companies most exposed to the risks
associated with those issues. Quarterly reports
covering those issues and companies, as well as
case studies illustrating the engagement process, 
are published by our Asset Management business
and can be viewed on www.fandc.com.
Despite their relatively low signiﬁcance, we still 
have a structured programme of environmental
housekeeping to manage our direct impacts. Based
on DEFRA (Department for Environment, Food and
Rural Affairs) guidelines, emissions from gas and
electricity at our main ofﬁce sites amounted to
1,419 tonnes CO
2
in 2004 (2003: 1,300 tonnes).
Emissions from company cars amounted to
3,075 tonnes CO
2
(2003: 3,499 tonnes).
We used 48 million sheets of plain paper 
(2003: 53 million sheets). At main ofﬁce sites 
we used 37 litres/employee/day of water 
(2003: 37 litres/employee/day) and produced
1,121 tonnes of waste (2003: 1,070 tonnes) of 
which 32% was recycled (2003: 28%).
Our Supplier Statement outlines our progressive
programme for addressing social and environmental
issues in our supply chain. 
Social performance indicators
Workplace
Motivated employees are a key factor for the long-
term success of any business and creating the right
culture is crucial to recruiting and retaining the best
people. We have been accredited as an Investor In
People since 1999. While ensuring that the needs of
our customers come ﬁrst, we try to help our people
achieve their optimum worklife balance through
homeworking, job sharing and ﬂexible working.
We are an equal opportunities employer. Our aim 
is that our workforce should mirror the gender and
ethnic demographics of the areas in which we
operate without any form of positive discrimination.
We promote equal opportunities more generally
through our support for Business in the Community’s
‘Opportunity Now’, the Equal Pay Commission and
the Employers Forum on Disability.
We undertake regular employee surveys and overall
satisfaction remains high at 73% (2003: 76%). We
monitor employee sickness and turnover and we
publicly report on our performance through our
website. We have a strong track record on health 
and safety, with Silver and Bronze awards from the
Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents. We
recognise the trade union, Amicus, with whom we
liaise on employee-related business issues. 
Community
Our main charitable giving is channelled through 
the Friends Provident Foundation. The trustees of 
the Foundation have decided initially to focus their
efforts on addressing ﬁnancial exclusion and the 
ﬁrst grants were made in October. Full details on 
the Foundation can be found on its website:
www.friendsprovidentfoundation.org
We also facilitate and promote payroll giving as 
a simple and cost-effective way in which employees
can donate to their favourite charity. To support them
we match the ﬁrst £10 per month that employees
contribute. As well as being able to support the
charities of their choice, employees are also given
the option of using payroll giving to sponsor a child 
in a third world country through a unique link-up with
the aid agency, World Vision. Through our Volunteer
Reading Scheme, our staff are given time out of
work to visit primary schools to help young children
develop their literacy and social skills.
Connected with our sponsorship of Southampton
Football Club, the Friends Provident Fair Play Awards
are now in their sixth year and we have again linked
up with Southampton FC and Southampton City
Council to tackle the challenge of keeping racism 
out of football through the ‘Racism Just Ain’t Saintly’
initiative. We have also established a community
trust jointly with Southampton FC to develop a
football academy, Saints Play Soccer, for primary
school children.
For the Board
B W Sweetland
Director
17 March 2005
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 39
“Motivated employees
are a key factor for the
long-term success of
any business.”
Note: CR performance data relates to FPLP unless stated otherwise. F&C reports their CR performance separately. Our performance data
procedures were improved last year so some 2003 data has been restated to enable a valid comparison with 2004. Report of the Directors 
40 Friends Provident 
Directors’ Report for 2004
The directors present their report to shareholders for the
financial year from 1 January 2004 until 31 December 2004.
This report, the reports on behalf of the Board by the chairmen
of the Nomination, Audit and Compliance and Remuneration
Committees and the directors’ report on corporate governance
that follow and the financial statements will be laid before the
Annual General Meeting. 
Annual General Meeting
A separate document, the Notice of Annual General Meeting
2005, convening the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the
Company to be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference
Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London, SW1 on
Thursday 26 May 2005 at 11.00 a.m., has been sent to all
shareholders and contains an explanation of the business
before that meeting. The Notice and the above reports and
financial statements are all available on the Company’s
website: www.friendsprovident.com.
Principal activities
Friends Provident plc is the holding company of the Friends
Provident Group of companies and is a constituent of the
FTSE100 Index. The Group has two core businesses, life and
pensions and asset management, whose principal activities 
are the provision of retail financial services, chiefly long-term
insurance business and asset management. The life and
pensions business operates primarily in the UK and in selected
international markets, the latter serviced through subsidiary 
life assurance companies, Friends Provident International
Limited in the Isle of Man and a branch operation in Guernsey.
The asset management business is undertaken through 
F&C Asset Management plc (“F&C”), a 51% owned, publicly
listed Group subsidiary company. Particulars of the main
subsidiary and associated undertakings are given on 
pages 105 and 106.
Statement of going concern
After making enquiries, the directors are satisfied that the
Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue
to operate as a going concern for the foreseeable future and
have prepared the financial statements on that basis.
Results and business review
The Board seeks, through the Report & Accounts, the review
of the financial year and future developments covered in the
Chairman’s Statement, the Group Chief Executive’s Review 
and the other operating and financial reviews that precede this
report, to present a balanced and understandable assessment
of the Group’s position and prospects. The Group’s results for
the financial year are shown in the consolidated profit and loss
account on pages 60 and 61. 
Dividend
The directors are recommending a final dividend for 2004 of 
5.0 pence per share, payable on 31 May 2005 to all holders 
of ordinary shares on the register of shareholders at the 
close of business on 8 April 2005. The dividend for the year,
including the interim dividend of 2.55 pence per share paid 
on 26 November 2004, amounts to 7.55 pence per share. 
The total cost of dividends for 2004 will amount to £152
million. The intention is for interim dividends to be paid in
November and final dividends to be paid in May each year. The
interim dividend will represent approximately one third of the
anticipated total dividend.
Impact of International Financial Reporting Standards
The Group has for some two years had in place an established
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) project team
responsible for investigating the impact of applying IFRS and
managing the Group’s transition to IFRS reporting in 2005 and
thereafter. This team has been working to a project plan that has
enabled the transition to IFRS in time for reporting in 2005. 
More details are contained in the Financial Review (page 31).
Institutional Placing 
On 2 July 2004 the Company effected an institutional placing 
of 172,405,671 new ordinary shares of ten pence each in 
the capital of the Company at £1.35 per share to raise
approximately £229 million net of expenses. The amount 
raised was used to fund part of the cash consideration paid 
on 11 October 2004 for the merger of the asset management
business (below).
Merger of Asset Management Business 
At an Extraordinary General Meeting on 30 September 2004,
shareholders approved a series of transactions involving the
Company and its then 67% owned subsidiary, ISIS Asset
Management plc (“ISIS”), whereby, following completion on 
11 October 2004, the Company retained a 51% controlling
interest in its enlarged and rebranded publicly listed asset
management business, renamed as F&C Asset Management
plc (“F&C”). The transactions included the merger of ISIS 
and F&C Group (Holdings) Limited (“Holdings”) by way of
acquisition by ISIS of the entire issued share capital of
Holdings, the acquisition by the Company of 145,365,679 
new ISIS (now F&C) ordinary shares for £250 million cash paid
by the Company to Eureko B.V. (“Eureko”), the owners of
Holdings, and the allotment to F&C Asset Management
Holdings B.V. (“FCAM”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eureko,
of 92,433,278 new ordinary shares in the Company worth
approximately £133 million. 
Debt Capital
On 16 December 2004, Friends Provident Life and Pensions
Limited raised additional high quality core regulatory capital by
securitising the cash flows expected from a book of life assurance
business and borrowing £380 million at an annual interest cost
of approximately 5.5% on the security of bonds secured on the
future revenue from this book of life assurance policies.
Post Balance Sheet Event – Acquisition of Lombard
International Assurance S.A. (“Lombard”) 
On 11 January 2005 the Company completed its acquisition 
of Lombard, originally announced on 26 October 2004. The
Company made an initial payment to Lombard’s shareholders
of c265 million (£187 million), satisfied through an initial issue
to Lombard’s shareholders of 113,477,763 new ordinary shares
of ten pence each in the capital of the Company, and a further
issue to be made at a later date to a minority shareholder of
Lombard of 389,414 new ordinary shares of ten pence each 
in the capital of the Company. The acquisition arrangements
provide for further payments that are dependent on Lombard’s
performance in 2004, 2005 and 2006.
Purchase of own shares
The Company is, until the date of the next AGM, generally and
unconditionally authorised to buy back up to 10% of its issued
share capital at 1 March 2004 (172,290,911 shares). No such
purchase has been made.
Treasury Shares
The Company first created treasury shares on 9 July 2004,
having been authorised to do so at the May 2004 AGM. As 
at 17 March 2005, the Company held 44,400,474 shares in
treasury (9 July 2004: 46,537,610 shares). During the year,
919,638 treasury shares (2003: nil) were used to satisfy awards
under three of the Company’s employee share schemes and 
in 2005 up to 17 March 2005, a further 1,217,498 have been
used for these purposes.
Substantial shareholdings
At 17 March 2005, and in accordance with the provisions of
section 211 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company had Report of the Directors continued
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 41
received notification from Eureko B.V. (“Eureko”) of its 
holding in the Company’s issued share capital amounting 
to 72,133,266 shares, or 3.5%. Eureko owns all the issued 
share capital of FCAM (see Merger of Asset Management
Business above) and is an indirect controlling shareholder in
Achmea Pensionen-en Levensverzekeringen (“AP”), which,
respectively, currently own 27,220,414, or 1.32%, and
20,300,012, or 0.98%, of the Company’s issued share capital.
Achmea Association (“AA”), a Dutch mutual, is the controlling
shareholder of Eureko. Accordingly, AA and Eureko have 
an aggregate interest in 119,653,692 shares, or 5.8%, in 
the issued share capital of the Company.
Directors’ interests
Details of directors’ interests in shares under option as at 
31 December 2004 are shown in the table on page 56. 
The interests of directors in the shares of the Company and 
its subsidiaries are shown in note 38 on page 102. Of the
directors of the Company, only Howard Carter, an employee 
of F&C, holds share options and deferred shares in F&C.
Directors
Details of Board members at the date of this report are set out
on pages 22 and 23. All directors must be elected at the AGM
following their appointment and, in addition, one third of the
Board members must retire every year and, if appropriate, seek
re-election. Sufficient biographical details to enable members 
to take an informed decision about continuing directors are
contained on pages 22 and 23. The directors retiring by rotation
at the AGM are Alison Carnwath and Howard Carter and, being
eligible, offer themselves for re-election. Adrian Montague,
appointed as an independent director on 27 October 2004, 
will retire at the AGM and, being eligible, will offer himself for
election. Roger Morton and Graham Aslet resigned as directors
during 2004 and David Newbigging and Brian Sweetland will
retire at the close of the AGM. The Combined Code requires
that Lady Judge submits to annual re-election and the Notice 
of the AGM sent to all shareholders fully deals with this and
explains why the Board is recommending her re-election.
Other than their employment and service contracts, and 
related party transactions referred to in Note 39 on page 103,
there were no contracts in existence during or at the end 
of the financial year in which a director of the Company 
was interested.
Employees and equal opportunities
The Company aims to provide equal opportunities for all,
without discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, 
marital status, age, gender, sexual orientation or disability 
in all our dealings with staff. We recruit and promote those
best suited for the job. The Company respects the dignity 
of individuals and their beliefs. The Company does not 
tolerate any sexual, racial, physical or mental harassment 
of staff in the work place.
The Group has amongst its employees a number who are
disabled. It gives full and fair consideration to applications for
employment from disabled persons. In the event of employees
becoming disabled every effort is made to maintain them in
employment with appropriate retraining being arranged if
necessary. It is the Group’s policy that disabled persons should
as far as possible be given the same opportunities for training,
career development and promotion as other employees.
Employee involvement and communications
The Group is committed to its policy of encouraging employee
involvement at all levels. The primary methods by which the
two core businesses implement this policy are:
• management briefings/presentations and discussion through
the management structure; 
• the issue of a full range of employee communications 
via the Company’s Intranet or other internal publication 
of relevant information, which inform staff of current
issues/developments and progress; 
• an established and regular staff opinion survey that encourages
staff anonymously to present their views, thereby generating
workplace and business improvements; and 
• the establishment of effective working relationships 
with staff representative bodies. 
The primary aim of all these activities is to ensure staff know
the objectives and activities of the Company and the Group 
so that they can contribute fully to their continued success.
Additionally, staff are involved in each core business’s, and
through that the Group’s, performance by way of participation
in Inland Revenue approved all-employee share schemes
specific to each core business: a ShareSave Scheme (savings-
related share option scheme) and a Share Incentive Plan.
Creditor payment policy
While the Company does not follow any code or standard 
on payment practice, it is the Company’s and the Group’s
policy to adhere to the payment terms agreed with individual
suppliers and to pay in accordance with their contractual and
other legal obligations. The standard payment terms of the
Group require settlement within 30 days. The Company has 
no trade creditors.
Friends Provident Charitable Foundation
The Foundation is a registered company limited by guarantee
and is a registered charity created with the intention that it
should be the vehicle through which the Company would
contribute to charitable purposes after the demutualisation 
of Friends’ Provident Life Office (“FPLO”) on 9 July 2001.
Accordingly, the Company donated to the Foundation £250,000
annually for three years from July 2001 and on 9 July 2004
endowed the Foundation with £20 million by donating shares
to that value from shares that had not been claimed by 
former members of FPLO. In this way, having donated to 
the Foundation an endowment that should generate for the
Foundation a significant future income stream that can be
applied by the Trustees of the Foundation, the Company has
facilitated the Foundation’s grant-making intentions for the
foreseeable future. Further, the Group provides a range of
services to the Trustees free of charge.
Charitable and political donations 
Donations to charitable organisations (including Friends
Provident Charitable Foundation) paid by the Group amounted
to £20,164,948 (2003:£324,337), of which F&C donated
£85,000 (2003: £58,000). No political donations were made
(2003: nil). These figures do not include the value of services
provided free of charge by the Group to the Foundation.
Auditors
The Company’s auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has indicated its
willingness to continue in office and, on the recommendation
of the Audit and Compliance Committee, a resolution to
reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor to the Company will 
be proposed at the AGM.
For the Board
R.G. Ellis, Company Secretary
17 March 2005 Corporate Governance Report 
42 Friends Provident 
Role of the Board: The Board provides leadership of the Group
and, either directly or through the operation of committees 
of directors constituted with appropriate written terms of
reference and delegated authority, brings an independent
judgement on all issues of strategy, performance, resources
(including key appointments) and standards of conduct. The
Board sets the Group’s strategic aims, which it then implements
through its approval and regular monitoring of a business plan
and budget prepared by the executive directors. This plan
relates to the Group’s two core businesses: life and pensions
and asset management. Each core business is organised
through a group of subsidiary companies, each group having 
a principal operating company: Friends Provident Life and
Pensions Limited (“FPLP”) for the life and pensions business
and F&C Asset Management plc (“F&C”) for the asset
management business. F&C is 51% owned by the Company
and is itself listed on the London Stock Exchange. The business
plan specifies key developments towards the strategic
objectives that are to be achieved by management within 
an agreed budget. At its monthly meetings, supplied with
information that is both timely and appropriate, the Board deals
with those matters specifically reserved for its decision, and
takes all material decisions affecting the Group. These include
acquisitions, sales, capital expenditure and financing, and the
oversight and review of the operation and achievement of the
Group’s activities. The Boards of F&C and FPLP (and other
FSA-regulated subsidiaries) also meet separately and regularly
to monitor and direct the operations of those businesses.
Board Membership, Attendance and Balance: The current
membership of the Board and the significant commitments 
of the directors are stated on pages 22 and 23, which record
the names of the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and 
the Deputy Chairman, who is also the Senior Independent
Director. The names of the chairman and members of the 
Audit and Compliance, Nomination and Remuneration
Committees are stated in the reports of those Committees.
During 2004 the Board met on 12 occasions, including an 
off-site strategy meeting. Graham Aslet could not attend 
one meeting of the Board. Ray King, who joined the Board in
January 2004, had a number of pre-existing commitments that
prevented his attending two meetings. Otherwise, all directors
were present at every meeting they were eligible to attend. 
The Board considers all six non-executive directors (which
expression excludes the Chairman) to be independent in
character and judgement and is not aware of any relationships
or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear 
to affect, the judgement of any of them. The Board makes 
this assertion having considered and taken full account of the
fact that Lady Judge was first elected to the Board of Friends’
Provident Life Office in May 1994 and to the Board of the
Company in June 2001. The Board is entirely satisfied that
Lady Judge is independent in character and judgement, that
there are no relationships or circumstances that are likely to
affect, or could appear to affect, her judgement. Further, she
has the broad experience, credibility and commitment required
to be an effective independent director and makes important
contributions to governance and strategic issues that would be
difficult to replace. 
The non-executive directors’ experience covers a broad
spectrum and, coupled with the focus and experience of the
Chairman and the executive directors, the Board is able to lead
and give direction to the Group without any imbalance that may
allow any individual or group of individuals to dominate its
decision taking. Any director having a concern in this or any
other regard may raise it with the Chairman or the Senior
Independent Director. All directors also have access to the
advice and services of the Company Secretary who ensures
that Board process and leading corporate governance practice
are followed. There is also an established procedure whereby
individual directors, who consider it necessary in furtherance 
of their duties, may take independent, professional advice 
at the Company’s expense.
Performance and continual professional development: The
Board’s formal annual evaluation of its own performance and
that of its committees and individual directors was effected in
December 2004 by each director completing a questionnaire
prepared internally and based on the Combined Code and the
several guidance notes issued in July 2003 with that
publication. The replies to those questionnaires were sent in
confidence to the chairman who analysed them. The overall
outcome was discussed at the December 2004 Board meeting
and the manner of dealing with emerging issues and concerns
identified by the chairman’s analysis was addressed. The Board
has again confirmed that it will keep this process under review
to ensure that analyses of the outcome of this evaluation 
will give the Board, and the Chairman and the Nomination
Committee in particular, the information they need to continue
to fulfil the intentions underlying the requirements of the
Combined Code during 2005. Directors also individually attend
external seminars and briefings to keep up-to-date with
regulations and best practice affecting the Group’s core
businesses and report on these to the Chairman and the
Secretary. There is a full induction process in place for new
directors that recognises the complexities of the life and
pensions and asset management businesses and aims to
enable directors to make a full contribution to Board
discussions within an optimum timeframe.
Committees of the Board: All committees of the Board that
are subject to the requirements of the Combined Code are
chaired by an independent director and exclusively comprise,
or, in the case of the Nomination Committee (where the Chairman
of the Board is a member), have a majority of, independent
directors. Reports on the activities of the Audit and Compliance,
Nomination and Remuneration Committees, including
membership and attendance, are included at pages 46, 47
and 49. Details of other committees are:
Investment Committee
David Newbigging (Chairman), Howard Carter, Christopher
Jemmett, Lady Judge, Adrian Montague (since 28 October 2004),
Philip Moore, Keith Satchell, Brian Sweetland. (Graham Aslet
was a member of the Committee until 31 December 2004.)
With Profits Committees (“WPC”) of the life and pensions
operating companies
While these committees are committees of the boards of 
FPLP and its subsidiary insurance companies and not the
Company, the Board of the Company appoints the chairman 
of the WPC from amongst the independent, non-executive
directors of the Company. Alison Carnwath has fulfilled that
role since 1 April 2004. An overview of the work of the WPC 
is set out on page 48. 
Reporting to shareholders: The Company places considerable
importance on communications with shareholders and
responds to them on a wide range of issues. It has an ongoing
programme of dialogue and meetings with major institutional
shareholders, where a wide range of relevant issues including
strategy, performance, management and governance are
discussed. Further, the Chairman and the Senior Independent
Director are available to meet major shareholders and the
Chairman writes annually to the twenty largest shareholders,
emphasising his availability should they wish to meet with 
him. Twice during the year, the Chairman and the non-
executive directors met with the Company’s joint brokers,
Cazenove and Merrill Lynch, after executive presentations 
to major shareholders had been completed. This helps the 
non-executive directors to maintain an up-to-date understanding
of the views of major shareholders. Corporate Governance Report continued
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 43
At its Annual General Meeting, the Company complies with the
provisions of the Combined Code relating to the disclosure of
proxy votes, the separation of resolutions and the attendance
of directors, particularly committee chairmen. The timing of the
despatch of the formal notice of the Annual General Meeting
complies with the Combined Code. The outcome of every
general meeting of shareholders, including detailed voting
results and votes withheld, is published on the Company’s
website following the close of the meeting.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities: Company law
requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each
financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss
for that period. In preparing those financial statements, the
directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently; 
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; 
• state whether applicable accounting standards have 
been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will
continue in business. 
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act
1985. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that they have complied with 
these requirements.
In addition to being included with the Annual Report, 
the financial statements are published on the Company’s
website. The directors are responsible for the maintenance 
and integrity of the website and compliance with legislation 
in the UK concerning the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements which may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Statement of compliance with provisions of the
Combined Code
The Directors consider that, save as next mentioned, the
Company has throughout 2004 and up to the date hereof
applied the principles and met the requirements of the
Combined Code. While it remains the intention of the Directors
fully to comply with the requirements of the Combined Code
wherever such compliance is within their control, between 
20 May 2004 (when Roger Morton retired) and 27 October 2004
(when, following a recruitment process involving external
consultants, Adrian Montague was appointed), the number 
of independent, non-executive directors on the Board did not
represent at least half the Board membership, excluding the
chairman, as required by A.3.2 of the Combined Code.
Internal controls – compliance position: The Board of the
Company is ultimately responsible for the Group’s systems 
of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness. These
systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk
of failure to achieve business objectives as no business can 
be successful without taking some risk. They can thus provide
reasonable but not absolute assurance against material 
mis-statement or loss.
In accordance with guidance published in September 1999 by
the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales –
“Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined
Code” (the “Turnbull Guidance”) – the Board confirms that
there has been in place for the year under review, and up to
the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, an
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the
significant risks faced by the Group. This process is regularly
reviewed by the Board to ensure it complies with the Turnbull
Guidance and the ABI Disclosure Guidelines on Socially
Responsible Investment, which focus on Social, Ethical and
Environmental (“SEE”) risks. 
Last year’s report mentioned that formal committees had been
established from 1 October 2003 to oversee risk management
and that the structure for the management of risk would
continue to develop during 2004. That structure has operated
satisfactorily throughout 2004 and the several formal committees,
chaired by the Group Risk Officer, have met regularly in
fulfilment of their roles. As expected, the benefit of the Group’s
experience of working within that structure during 2004 has
resulted in further development of the structure of the Group’s
risk management operations. Accordingly, in November 2004,
the Board approved a revised structure that has been in
operation from 1 January 2005. 
The Board retains its responsibility for the system of internal
control. The Group Risk Committee comprises the executive
directors of the Company and the CEO of F&C, and is chaired
by the Group Chief Executive. It recommends to the Board 
the Group’s overall risk management framework and its high
level policy for managing risk, approves the risk management
frameworks within the Group’s two core businesses and
determines policy for the management of group risk. The board
of FPLP reviews risk management information within its core
business and is responsible for the identification and
assessment of risks to the achievement of group strategy
within that business. It is supported in this work by two new
committees, the Financial Risk Committee (“FRC”) and the
Operational Risk Committee (“ORC”). These comprise selected
directors from the board of FPLP and relevant senior managers
from the life and pensions business. The FRC, chaired by the
Group Finance Director, sets and oversees the implementation
of policy for the management of market, credit, insurance and
liquidity risk within the life and pensions core business. The
ORC, chaired by FPLP’s Director of Information Technology, 
has equivalent responsibilities in respect of operational risk.
Within the asset management core business, the F&C Risk
Committee sets and implements risk management policies. 
Key to the development of the Group’s risk management
framework has been the appointment, with effect from 
19 July 2004, of a new Director of Risk, who reported to the
Group Risk Officer until the end of 2004. From 1 January 2005,
the Director of Risk has assumed the role of Group Risk Officer
and reports to the Group Finance Director.
Alongside the development of the risk committee structure,
the risk management framework within the life and pensions
business has been developed, including the delivery of revised
risk reporting to the new committees, to the board of FPLP 
and to the Board of directors of the Company.
The Executive Committee of the Company comprises
executive directors of the Company and the CEO of F&C and
the Management Committee of F&C comprises the executive
directors and senior management of F&C. The appropriate risk
committee will bring to the attention of the Executive
Committee of the Company, the Management Committee 
of F&C, the Audit and Compliance Committees of both the
Company and F&C (and through them to the boards of F&C
and the Company), and to other parties, as necessary or Corporate Governance Report continued
44 Friends Provident 
appropriate, details of known, material control weaknesses 
or significant risks and agreed actions to eliminate those
weaknesses or mitigate the risks. Within F&C, its Management
Committee acts similarly to the Executive Committee.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s
systems of internal controls during the year. This review
covered all controls, including financial, operational, compliance
and risk management. This is primarily achieved by the
Company’s Audit and Compliance Committee periodically
receiving and reviewing reports from the compliance and
internal audit functions within both core businesses. On an
annual basis, the Company’s Audit and Compliance Committee
meets specifically to review annual assessments from the
compliance, internal audit and risk management functions
before recommending to the Board the adoption of the 
Internal Controls statement.
Key elements of the Group’s systems of internal controls 
are as follows: 
Control environment
The Group is committed to the highest standards of business
conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all of its
operations. The Group has in place appropriate procedures for
the reporting and resolution of activities that do not meet the
required standards of business conduct.
The Group has an appropriate organisational structure for
planning, executing, controlling and monitoring business
operations in order to achieve Group objectives. The structure
is designed to provide clear responsibilities and control for 
key areas of the Group’s business and embraces ‘whistle-
blowing’ procedures to enable staff to raise concerns in
confidence. Operational responsibility rests with the Group
CEO and is devolved through an executive structure with
clearly delegated and appropriate levels of authority. Members
of Group management are, therefore, accountable for the
operation of the systems of internal controls within the 
Group’s two core businesses.
As statements covering the system of internal controls
within F&C and its subsidiaries can be found in F&C’s
annual report and accounts, the remainder of this
statement focuses on the system of internal controls within
the Group’s core life and pensions business. Full details 
of the F&C Group, including its corporate governance, 
can be viewed and/or downloaded at www.fandc.com
Risk identification
Members of executive management are responsible for
identifying and evaluating the key risks facing their areas 
of the business. These risks, which may be associated with 
a variety of internal or external factors including regulatory
requirements, control breakdowns, disruption in information
systems, competition and natural catastrophe, are subject to
regular assessment within the business and are formally
assessed at least quarterly. Further, the operational life and
pensions subsidiary boards and the Board of the Company
receive a monthly management information pack that identifies
the risks facing the business and the mitigating actions being
taken. The Group Risk Officer reports to the Board quarterly on
the results of the review of key risks carried out by executive
management. Internal audit reports to the Audit and
Compliance Committee half yearly on the effectiveness 
of the controls that exist to manage the key risks. 
The significant strategic, financial, operational and project risks,
economic, business, legal and SEE risks facing the business
have been evaluated and, so far as possible, managed by this
process. Examples of these could include failure to manage
capital adequacy, failure to adhere to regulations of the FSA,
mis-selling, loss of key staff, failure to treat customers fairly,
failure to maintain adequate controls against money laundering,
the inappropriate handling of customer complaints, loss of
support among Independent Financial Advisers, poor
investment markets, unsatisfactory investment returns, poor
staff satisfaction and morale, particularly as a consequence of
mergers or acquisitions, and a range of significant risks that
could occur due to the business’s failure to manage its direct
and indirect environmental impacts.
The Board has reviewed and updated the process for
identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting 
the business and the policies and procedures by which 
these risks are managed. 
Information and communication
Members of executive management participate in an annual
strategic review that considers overall business direction and
its financial implications. Individual business units prepare
annual budgets and business plans that provide a basis against
which actual results can be benchmarked. Assets, liabilities,
investments and other relevant criteria are also monitored.
Progress against plans is actively monitored and supported 
by regular forecasts, which, together with actual results, 
are consolidated and presented to the Board for discussion 
on a regular basis.
Through these mechanisms, the business’s performance 
is continually monitored, risks are identified in a timely 
manner, their financial implications assessed, control
procedures re-evaluated and, where appropriate, corrective
actions agreed and implemented.
Risk management policy
The aim of the Group’s risk management policy is “To manage
responsibly and proactively the significant business, including
SEE risks, that have the potential to impact the Group’s 
current business operations, while defining and accepting an
appropriate level of risk that will allow the Group’s two core
businesses to flourish”.
The Company aims to manage risk in a manner that will
provide sustainable value by focusing on those matters 
that may impact or thwart the achievement of the Group’s
business objectives.
The Company believes that effective risk management should
be part of the Group’s behavioural culture, a state of mind
whereby all employees consider their day-to-day work
processes and identify new or existing activities that will
increase the likelihood of achieving the many long-term
business objectives at an acceptable level of risk. The process
of strategic and business planning is subject to the same
principles as day-to-day processes and adopts the concept of
risk management as part of its overall approach. To reinforce
the importance of risk management, senior managers now
have a performance requirement that relates to risk
management generally and, more particularly, to treating
customers fairly. The latter requirement has for several years
been embraced by the Company’s corporate values but has
been made specific to individual managers to reflect its
importance in the current regulatory environment. 
Control procedures
The business has implemented accounting policies, financial
reporting processes and internal control procedures designed
to safeguard policyholders’ investments and the Group’s
assets. Measures taken include physical controls, segregation
of duties and reviews by management. A process of self-
assessment and hierarchical reporting has been established
within the business that provides for a documented and
auditable trail of responsibility and accountability. Monitoring and corrective action
Group Risk monitors and reports the outcome of the 
self-assessment process to successive layers of 
management and ultimately quarterly to the Board.
The controls identified as part of the self-assessment process
are reviewed by the internal audit function for accuracy,
completeness and effectiveness. Planned corrective actions 
are independently monitored for timely completion and
reviewed by the Audit and Compliance Committee.
Independence of external auditors
The Board has in place rigorous systems for ensuring the
independence, integrity, competence and professionalism 
of the Group’s external auditors and has satisfied itself that
during the year no aspect of their work was impaired on these
grounds. In maintaining a clear perception of independence 
and balancing that with the best interests of the Company, the
Board has also considered the policy for awarding audit-related
and/or non-audit work to the Group’s external auditors.
The Company does not impose an automatic ban on any Group
company’s external auditors undertaking non-audit work. The
Group’s aim is always to have any non-audit work carried out 
in a manner that affords full value for money. The contractor
must not be in a position of conflict in respect of the work in
question and must have the skill, competence and integrity to
carry out the work in the best interests of the Company and
the Group. In particular, however, auditors of the Company 
are not permitted to:
• perform work that involves the valuation of an asset 
or liability incorporated into any of the Company’s 
financial statements;
• act as secondees to positions of influence with the Group;
• design and implement systems that have 
financial implications;
• provide internal audit services where an opinion has 
to be given on management’s assessment of accounting
controls and financial systems;
• provide litigation support services;
• provide corporate finance services (except as noted 
below*); and
• advise on senior executives’ remuneration.
* The external auditors have undertaken corporate finance
work from time to time regarding the introduction of potential
investment to funds managed by ISIS Equity Partners plc, 
a wholly owned subsidiary of F&C. The fees payable for 
this work have not been borne by a group company.
Auditors of the Company are permitted to perform audit-related
and non-audit work in areas where, in the opinion of the Audit
and Compliance Committee, it is appropriate for them to do 
so and there are no actual or perceived independence issues.
In particular, the Audit and Compliance Committee will give
careful consideration before appointing the auditors to perform
work in the areas of outsourcing and partnering, advice on tax
structuring and acquisition due diligence.
The Chairman of the Audit and Compliance Committee 
is authorised to approve the use of auditors for audit-related
and non-audit work provided that the cost does not exceed
£50,000 and the aggregate value of audit-related and non-audit
work awarded to auditors does not exceed the audit fee for 
the financial year in question. In other circumstances, the
approval of the Audit and Compliance Committee is required.
The Audit and Compliance Committee reviews annually the
performance, independence, competence and cost of auditors.
If the Committee considers it appropriate, the provision of 
audit services may be formally market-tested through a tender
process involving those audit firms judged competent to meet
the needs of the Group. The frequency of this market-testing
will depend on the needs of the Group and prevailing leading
practice. Such an exercise, carried out during 2003/4, 
resulted in a recommendation to appoint KPMG Audit Plc 
as the Company’s auditors being accepted by the Board in
January 2004 and by shareholders at the AGM that year.
Future developments 
The Board believes that the controls in place during 2004 have
been appropriate to the needs of the Group. Nevertheless, 
it continues to be committed to the highest standards of
governance and business conduct and will ensure that those
controls continue to develop in line with the requirements 
of the business, the FSA and leading practice. Any necessary
changes will be made so as to continue to ensure that the
Group’s customers are treated fairly and to continue to 
protect the interests of the Company’s shareholders.
For the Board
R.G. Ellis
Company Secretary
17 March 2005
Corporate Governance Report continued
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 45 Purpose and Terms of Reference: The Committee provides
the principal medium through which the Board receives
independent assurance on the Group’s financial reporting
process, internal controls and adherence to policies and
procedures. It is through this medium that the Board also
seeks assurance on Social, Ethical and Environmental (“SEE”)
matters. The role and responsibilities of the Committee are set
out in Section G of its detailed terms of reference which, inter
alia, include the requirements of Combined Code provisions
C.3.2 (main role and responsibilities), C.3.4 (whistleblowing),
C.3.5 (monitoring and review of internal audit), C.3.6
(appointment, reappointment and removal of the external
auditors) and C.3.7 (provision of non-audit services and auditor
objectivity and independence). The role and responsibilities 
and the work of the Committee can best be understood 
by reference to its written terms of reference, which are
published on the Company’s website and can be obtained 
on written request to the Secretary at the Company’s
registered office. 
The Committee has again reviewed its terms of reference 
and its effectiveness, the latter by reference to an externally
designed self-assessment questionnaire that focused on 
the behaviours of the Committee and its processes. The
Chairman of the Committee summarised the overall results 
and identified the key findings. The individual questionnaire
responses enabled the Chairman of the Committee to obtain
an overview of each member’s perception of the effectiveness 
of the Committee. The overall summary was then discussed 
by the Committee in January 2005, when a collective
assessment of its effectiveness was reached. That review
identified the issues requiring more work and/or focus during
the year ahead. They mainly focus around assurances to be
provided under the new risk management framework in place
from end-2004 in order to give a group perspective to the
Board of the Company.
Membership and attendance: The current members of 
the Committee, all of whom are independent non-executive
directors, are Christopher Jemmett (chairman), Alison Carnwath,
Ray King, Lord MacGregor and Adrian Montague. Roger Morton
was a member of the Committee until 20 May 2004. Ray King,
a chartered accountant, became a member of the Committee 
on 6 January 2004 and Adrian Montague joined the Committee
on 28 October 2004. The Board is satisfied that at least one
member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial
experience, a position that should continue throughout 2005.
Committee meetings are normally attended by the external
auditors, the Group CEO, who is also responsible for internal
audit in the life and pensions business, the F&C finance director
and/or company secretary, the Group finance director, and the
heads of the finance, actuarial services, risk management 
and compliance and internal audit functions. During 2004 the
Committee met formally nine times and, save for Alison
Carnwath, Ray King and Lord MacGregor being unable to
attend one meeting each, all members were present at 
every meeting they were eligible to attend.
Activities and work of the Committee: The Committee
discharges its normal responsibilities, as allocated by its terms
of reference, within a schedule of six meetings. Four of those
meetings, two at the beginning of each half-year, deal with
matters of governance (for example, compliance with the
Combined Code, the Financial Services and Markets Act, the
effectiveness of internal controls and the external auditors) and
the financial results for the half-year and full year. The latter
two meetings also deal with the new business results, leaving
the fifth and sixth of the scheduled meetings to deal with new
business results for the first and third calendar quarters. Other
meetings of the Committee dealt with ad hoc internal control
issues that emerged during the year that the Board asked the
Committee to investigate. Within this schedule, the Committee
fulfils its main role and responsibilities and, as a consequence,
can confirm that it has met all the requirements of the
Combined Code in so far as they relate to the work of audit
committees during 2004 and up to the date of this report. 
For the Board
C.M. Jemmett
Chairman, Audit and Compliance Committee
17 March 2005
The Audit and Compliance Committee
46 Friends Provident  Purpose and Terms of Reference: The Committee leads the
process, and makes recommendations to the Board, for all 
new Board appointments. It ensures the existence of a formal,
rigorous and transparent procedure, the aim of which is to
ensure that appointments are appropriate to the needs of the
Group and the balance of the Board. 
The Terms of Reference of the Committee, which explain the
purpose, delegated authority and duties of the Committee,
have been published on the Company’s website and can be
obtained on written request to the Company Secretary.
Through its agenda, the Committee effectively dealt with 
the duties delegated to it by its terms of reference. 
Membership and attendance: Throughout 2004, Lord
MacGregor, an independent director, chaired the Committee
and its other members were David Newbigging, Chairman of
the Board, and Lady Judge, Senior Independent Director. The
Group Chief Executive attended when required, by invitation.
During the year, the Committee met formally on four occasions.
However, none of the many meetings when the Committee
interviewed prospective candidates for board membership,
referred to below, was regarded as a formal meeting of the
Committee. Every member attended each meeting of the
Committee. For the entirety of 2004, and up to the date of 
this report, the Company complied with the requirements 
of the Combined Code in so far as they related to the work 
of nomination committees.
Activities and work of the Committee: During the year, 
using different external, independent search consultants, the
Committee completed two searches for independent, non-
executive directors. The result of the first search, which was
largely conducted in 2003, was reported last year when Ray
King joined the Board on 6 January 2004. That appointment
completed the balance of skills, knowledge and experience
being sought around the Board table at that time.
A successful conclusion to the second search was reached
when Adrian Montague joined the Board on 27 October 2004.
The search process involved members of the Committee
interviewing a number of candidates identified by the search 
consultants and reporting to the Board. Before undertaking 
this search, the Committee agreed with the Board the skills
and experience the successful candidate should possess. 
As the search had the potential to lead to the appointment 
of a new chairman on the retirement in May 2005 of 
David Newbigging, the Committee prepared a detailed 
briefing note that covered this prospect and received the
approval of the Board to its use by the appointed independent
search consultants.
The Committee has again reviewed the standard letter of
appointment used for the non-executive directors’ contract 
for services to ensure that it continues to meet the
requirements of the Combined Code. The standard letter 
of appointment is available on the Company’s website 
and the individual terms and conditions of appointment of 
non-executive directors can be inspected during normal
business hours at the Company’s registered office by
contacting the Company Secretary. 
The Committee has assessed whether each independent
director is fulfilling his or her duties; confirmed the time
required of non-executive directors for the fulfilment of 
their duties; and made recommendations to the Board as 
to the independence of directors and their suitability for 
re-election as directors. 
Finally, the Committee reviewed an early draft of the notice 
to shareholders relating to the 2005 AGM to ensure its
appropriateness as regards those matters to be disclosed 
that could be regarded as within the Committee’s remit, 
for example, the biographical details of directors and 
their independence.
For the Board
The Rt Hon Lord MacGregor of Pulham Market
Chairman, Nomination Committee 
17 March 2005
The Nomination Committee 
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 47 Purpose and Terms of Reference: Each of the UK life and
pensions operating companies that write with profits business
formed a With Profits Committee effective from 31 March 2004.
The purpose of these Committees is to bring some
independent judgement to (i) the assessment of each
company’s compliance with its published Principles and
Practices of Financial Management (“PPFM”), and (ii) how 
any competing or conflicting rights and interests of
policyholders and, if applicable, shareholders have been
addressed and, in both cases, without taking any responsibility
or accountability from the boards of the relevant companies.
This purpose is reflected in each WPC’s written terms of
reference which are published on the Company’s website 
and can be obtained on written request to the Secretary 
at the Company’s registered office.
Membership and attendance: Each WPC is chaired by one of
the Company’s independent non-executive directors, currently
Alison Carnwath. The other members are Peter Nowell
(independent external member) and Graham Aslet (former
Appointed Actuary). All three served from 31 March 2004. 
Each WPC met seven times during 2004, with all members
present on every occasion. 
Activities and work of the WPCs: During the year the WPCs
reviewed the operating companies’ published PPFMs (these
having been published before the WPCs’ formation), and the
main areas of discretion allowed by the PPFMs. In particular,
they reviewed the principles by which costs and benefits were
shared between shareholders and with profits policyholders,
the application of Market Value Adjusters (often called
“MVAs”), and the principles underlying the bonus declarations
made in August 2004 and February 2005.
The WPC also reviewed a number of special projects that were
completed in the year, which potentially affected the interests 
of both with profits policyholders and shareholders. The most
important of these were (i) the review of investment strategy 
to allow better matching of the guarantees in the With Profits
portfolios; (ii) the revision of the investment management
agreements prior to the asset manager’s merger with F&C
Investment Management; (iii) a review of the principles
underlying the transaction that securitised future cash 
flows in the With Profits Fund of FPLP; (iv) a review of the
changes proposed to FPLP’s Scheme of Demutualisation,
subsequently confirmed by the High Court on 29 July 2004;
and (v) a review of proposals to sell part of FPLP’s property
portfolio to a new listed investment trust in return for a
significant holding in that trust.
These and other proposals were reviewed in accordance 
with the Committee’s terms of reference, in particular to
assess and confirm that the proposals complied with the
appropriate PPFM and, more generally, ‘Treating Customers
Fairly’. Any issues arising from these reviews were debated
within the WPC and, in some cases, with other members of
senior management. The WPC has made recommendations 
to the Board that resulted in changes being made by the 
Board to the original proposals.
Alison Carnwath
Chairman, With Profits Committees
17 March 2005
The With Profits Committees (“WPC”) of the life 
and pension operating companies
48 Friends Provident  Remuneration Report of the Board
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 49
1. Purpose and Terms of Reference of the 
Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”)
The purpose of the Committee is to:
• Recommend to the Board the framework and broad policy
in respect of senior executive remuneration;
• Ensure that the levels of remuneration for the executive
directors and senior executives are sufficient to attract,
retain and motivate directors of the quality required to run
the Company successfully, judging where to position the
Company’s remuneration relative to other companies but
nevertheless avoiding paying more than is necessary for
such purpose, and structure a significant proportion of
executive directors’ remuneration so as to link rewards 
to corporate and individual performance; 
• Set the remuneration for all executive directors and the
Chairman, including pension rights and any compensation
payments; and 
• With the Group CEO and the Secretary and in consultation
with the Chairman of the Board, make recommendations on
the appropriate level of remuneration for non-executive
directors for determination by the Board as a whole. 
2. The Committee has detailed written terms of reference that
it and the Board review annually. These may be viewed on
the Company’s website, www.friendsprovident.com, or can
be obtained by writing to the Secretary at Pixham End,
Dorking, RH4 1QA.
3. Membership and Attendance: Throughout 2004 and 
up to the date hereof, Lady Judge, the deputy chairman
and senior independent director, chaired the Committee
and its other members, all independent directors, were
A. Carnwath, C.M. Jemmett and A.A. Montague (since 
28 October 2004). The Committee met 8 times in 2004
and, save for A. Carnwath, who was absent for one
meeting, all members were present at every meeting 
they were eligible to attend.
4. Advice: To assist the Committee in its deliberations, it was
provided with general research data compiled by HayGroup,
Tillinghast-Towers Perrin, Watson Wyatt and Mercer Human
Resource Consulting (“Mercers”). PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP (“PwC”) was appointed by the Remuneration
Committee to provide independent advice in relation to the
application of the rules and the operation of the Company’s
several share schemes, including all-employee share
schemes. PwC and Mercers have been appointed by the
Committee to provide independent advice on remuneration
matters as and when required. PwC also advised on non-
executive directors’ remuneration in 2004. The Committee
approves all work undertaken by these specialist
consultants and is satisfied that its advisers in respect 
of remuneration matters are independent.
5. Statement of the Company’s policy on directors’
remuneration: The Board’s remuneration policy is that
individual rewards and incentives should be aligned with 
the performance of the Company and with the interests 
of the shareholders. In order to attract, retain and motivate
executives who are expected to meet challenging
performance criteria, the total remuneration of executive
directors is set at a level to ensure that key employees are
rewarded appropriately relative to competitors. In designing
schemes of performance-related remuneration and in
preparing this report the Board and the Committee have
complied with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985,
the Combined Code issued by The Financial Reporting
Council in July 2003 (“the Combined Code”) and the Listing
Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
6. The remuneration of the executive directors of F&C Asset
Management plc (“F&C”), a separately listed, 51% owned
subsidiary company, is fully disclosed in the directors’
remuneration report of the board of F&C. H. Carter is the 
Chief Executive of, and is remunerated entirely by, F&C, in
accordance with its remuneration policy. He is also a director of
the Company. He has a rolling service contract with F&C dated
1 October 2000 that requires twelve months’ notice of
termination on either side. Accordingly, this report includes
only those disclosures required of the Company in respect
of H. Carter, as full disclosures have already been made by
F&C in its report and accounts for the calendar year 2004. It 
is the Company’s policy to allow the board of F&C and its
remuneration committee, which comprises only independent
non-executive directors of F&C, to determine the remuneration
policy and packages for the executive directors of F&C.
7. Total remuneration review: During last year the
Remuneration Committee reviewed market remuneration
data and took advice from PwC and Mercers on the level
and structure of the remuneration packages for senior
executives. Data was reviewed from a range of data
providers to ensure that a broad understanding of the
market positioning of the Company was obtained. 
A range of comparisons was considered, based on:
• FTSE100 companies of comparable market capitalisation
with the Company;
• Quoted Life Assurance Companies; and
• Financial Services companies of comparable market
capitalisation with the Company.
The Committee concluded from this review that the base
salaries and total remuneration of continuing executive
directors had fallen significantly below competitive market
practice. At the same time, the Committee decided that 
it would be appropriate to make certain alterations to the
structure of long-term incentives to align them more closely
with the current priorities of the group, and in order to
conform with current best practice.
In bringing these changes to shareholders, the Remuneration
Committee has also sought to put in place a remuneration
framework that would be durable for a reasonable period 
of time. Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee would
not envisage it being necessary in the short term to utilise
the full scope of these proposals.
The Committee is aware of concerns that simplistic
targeting of market median compensation levels can lead 
to a ratcheting effect in executive compensation levels.
Equally, however, the Committee also believes that
compensation levels at the Company cannot be entirely
divorced from market competitive levels. The Committee 
is, therefore, proposing increases to total compensation
levels through both base salary increases and through
increases to the variable potential incentive opportunity,
with the emphasis on the latter.
In applying these increases, the Committee has sought 
to ensure that the majority of any future increase in 
total compensation levels should arise from variable
remuneration elements to support alignment with the
interest of shareholders and to continue the Company’s
progress towards making an increasing proportion of the
total package performance related. 
The details of the proposed package are set out for each
package element separately under the headings below. 
In summary, however, the proposed changes are
summarised here. 50 Friends Provident 
Remuneration Report of the Board continued
Maximum grant levels
The current rules of the Executive Long Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP) (see paragraphs 14 and 16) limit grant levels to 
1 x remuneration (broadly defined as base salary plus bonus 
in a 12-month period). The Remuneration Committee is taking
this opportunity to move towards current best practice of
determining award multiples by reference to base salary only. 
In order to provide the flexibility for the Remuneration
Committee to provide market competitive long-term incentive
awards in future, the Committee is seeking approval for an
increase in this limit to 2 x base salary (it should be noted that
the current rules, with the current bonus structure, provide for 
a maximum award of 1.4 x base salary if target bonus is
achieved, and 1.8 x base salary if maximum bonus is achieved).
However, the Remuneration Committee does not intend to
exceed the grant levels allowed under the current rules in the
coming financial year, and, therefore, grants will be made at a
level significantly below 2 x base salary. However, as shareholders
are being approached in May 2005 to secure support for other
changes, the Committee is seeking approval for an increase to
this limit in order to provide a remuneration framework that
should be durable for a reasonable period of time. 
Annual bonus
The maximum annual bonus for 2005 will remain, as now, 
at 80% of salary (with 40% of salary payable for on-target
performance). However, the Remuneration Committee wishes
to reserve the flexibility to increase this to 100% of salary and
a target of 50% of salary should this be justified by reference
to market practice and company and individual performance.
Long-term incentive structure
In line with emerging best practice, the Committee is
proposing to cease option grants for senior executives 
(other than in genuinely exceptional circumstances such as
recruitment) and to deliver all long-term incentives through 
the amended LTIP.
Performance conditions
The Remuneration Committee seeks through its choice of
performance measures to strike a balance between alignment
with ultimate shareholder returns and alignment with the
underlying financial performance of the Company. To date, this
alignment has been achieved by measuring the Company’s
Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance relative to the
FTSE100 for the share options and by measuring Return 
on Embedded Value (“RoEV”) for the LTIP. The Committee
believes that RoEV has a strong correlation with creation 
of shareholder value and that this is the most appropriate
internal financial measure of performance for a company 
such as Friends Provident.
With the share option plan being replaced by the LTIP, the
Committee believes that it is important to retain this
combination of measures. Therefore, 50% of the LTIP award
will be dependent on TSR performance (which, as now, will 
be measured relative to the FTSE100) and 50% of the LTIP
award will be related to RoEV. 
Some adjustments are being proposed to the vesting scale
under the LTIP to meet best practice guidelines, in particular 
a reduction in the percentage of the award vesting for target
performance from 40% of the maximum to 25% of the
maximum under both the TSR and RoEV elements of the 
LTIP performance measures.
The Committee’s assessment of these overall changes, with 
the help of PwC, illustrate that for achievement of targeted
performance, full utilisation of the proposed grant limits would
lead to total remuneration at approximately market median levels. 
The remuneration package of the executive directors includes
the following elements:
8. Salary: The salaries of executive directors are determined
by reference to external market research data that reflect
the salary variations that exist between their respective
roles and also exist within comparator companies both
inside and, as appropriate, beyond the financial services
sectors of FTSE100 and FTSE250 companies. Salary levels
also have regard to the median level of base salaries of the
life assurance sector, recognising Friends Provident’s
position in the UK life and pensions sector marketplace,
with individual salaries being then placed at a level that
reflects the personal contribution and experience of each
executive director.
9. Performance-related annual bonus: Last year the target
level for the annual bonus scheme (ABS) for executive
directors for 2004 was increased from 25% of salary to
40% of salary and the normal maximum bonus level was
reduced from 100% of salary to 80% of salary, with up to
100% of salary payable subject to consultation with major
shareholders. Following advice from PwC that benchmarked
individual elements, and the total, of the remuneration of
the executive directors against the life assurance sector and
against FTSE100 companies of comparable size to the
Company, the Committee noted the continued developments
in FTSE100 market practice, which have now led to a median
maximum annual bonus opportunity of 100% of salary. 
The Committee believes that the target and maximum
levels of annual bonus, at 40% and 80% of salary (with
targets set with comparable toughness to previous years),
remain sufficient to meet FP’s remuneration aims for 2005.
However, the Remuneration Committee wishes to reserve
the flexibility to provide in future years a maximum bonus
level of 100% of base salary and a target of 50% of base
salary should this be justified by reference to market
practice and company and individual performance.
To support the objectives of shareholder alignment and
retention, the Committee is proposing that when the bonus
maximum is increased beyond 80% of base salary then 
the portion of any bonus award in excess of 60% of salary
would be payable in the form of deferred shares, deferred
for three years – with no matching element and forfeitable
on resignation. 
10. Awards under the ABS, which are always at the discretion
of the Committee and are not pensionable, reflect (a)
individual achievement against challenging and, so far as
possible, measurable Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”)
and (b) the performance of the business against a results
measure set annually by the Board to focus on the
changing requirements and objectives of the business. 
The results measure set for 2004 and 2005 is by reference
to those parts of the achieved operating profit (“AOP”)
result that are within executives’ control or significant
influence. This measure reflects the interests of
shareholders. The AOP performance of the business within
a pre-determined AOP range will determine the quantum of
that element of the award. At least 60% of the executive
directors’ maximum entitlement is normally attributable to
AOP. Performance against individual KPIs will account for
the balance of ABS. Individual KPIs cover such areas as
market share, service levels, risk management, efficient
use of capital, and the earnings per share of the listed asset
management subsidiary, F&C. 
The ABS payments for 2004 are included in the table 
at paragraph 29. 
11. It is the policy of the Committee not to award transaction
bonuses. The Committee may, however, award special
bonuses in excess of 100% of base salary with prior
shareholder approval. Annual Report & Accounts 2004 51
Remuneration Report of the Board continued
12. All-employee share schemes: Executive directors may
participate in two Inland Revenue approved all-employee
share schemes: the ShareSave Scheme, a savings-related
share option scheme, and the Partnership Share element 
of the Share Incentive Plan (the “SIP”), which facilitates the
investment by staff of up to £1,500 per annum in shares.
13. Share incentive schemes – future policy: With the advice
of PwC, the Committee has considered the remuneration
package of the executive directors with particular regard to
long-term share incentives. Consequently, the Committee
has agreed that the Executive Long Term Incentive Plan
(“LTIP”) should be the main long-term incentive programme
within the Company. At senior management levels, the
amended LTIP will, therefore, replace both the existing LTIP
and the Executive Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”). The
Committee believes that the move from share options to
LTIP awards reflects current best practice. Furthermore, the
Committee believes that, for a given accounting cost and
dilution cost, LTIP awards will provide greater incentive
effect, and hence value to shareholders, than options.
Awards up to 2 x base salary may be made in any one year
under the plan (measured as the face value of shares
placed under award at the date of grant).
The ESOS is to be retained primarily to assist, as
appropriate, in the recruitment of senior individuals. In 
the event that the ESOS should be used for this purpose,
the options would be subject to performance conditions
and there would be no re-testing for any options granted.
There would be an absolute cap of three times base salary
on such option grants, reduced in value proportionally for
any LTIP grants. Any such use of the ESOS would be fully
explained in the Remuneration Report of the relevant year’s
annual report and accounts.
Vesting of future LTIP grants will be determined by 
two performance measures: 
(i) Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) relative to the 
FTSE100 for 50% of the award; and 
(ii) Return on Embedded Value (“RoEV”) of the life business
relative to predefined targets for 50% of the award.
TSR is the percentage return in a given period to a
purchaser of an ordinary share in the Company where the
sum of the change in the share price and any dividend(s)
payable during the period are expressed as a percentage 
of the cost of the share. Under the TSR performance
condition, the Company’s TSR over a three-year
performance is ranked against the TSR of other members
of the FTSE100 index at the date of each grant, and 12.5% 
of the award will vest for median performance with
straight-line vesting until 50% vests for top quartile
performance. The Remuneration Committee believes that
TSR remains a crucial measure of the Company’s ultimate
delivery of shareholder returns and the use of RoEV
effectively strengthens the alignment of the performance
measure with the interest of shareholders.
RoEV is the achieved life and pensions operating profit over
a financial year divided by the embedded value at the year
start. RoEV in each year is measured relative to the risk
discount rate used to calculate the embedded value at the
year start, to determine the Company’s Excess RoEV for
the year. In essence, Excess RoEV is a measure of the
extent to which the Company’s return on capital has
exceeded its risk discount rate, thereby generating returns
to shareholders, but expressed in a form that is relevant for
a long-term life assurance business. The Excess RoEV (on
an after tax basis) is then calculated for each of the three
years (and may be negative if returns are less than the risk
discount rate) and averaged over the three years of the
performance period for the purposes of calculating the
Average Excess RoEV of the Company, which will be
measured against pre-defined targets. The calculations will
not include the return on net pension asset or market return
of F&C. The Committee will, with the aid of independent,
external actuarial advice set targets each year that are
appropriately demanding and challenging in the context 
of market expectations of the Company’s future RoEV and
in the context of the Company’s prospects and business
plans. The targets for awards to be made in 2005 have
been set so that full vesting of awards can only be achieved
for RoEV returns over three years that are significantly in
excess of shareholder expectations. For the 2005 awards,
vesting will start at 12.5% of an award if excess RoEV is 
2% per annum, with straight-line vesting until 50% vests
when excess RoEV is 4% per annum or more. It should be
noted that because the measurement basis for RoEV has
been changed to post-tax from pre-tax (to ensure greater
alignment with the way in which this performance metric 
is followed by the market) these targets are significantly
tougher than the targets previously approved by shareholders
for the LTIP at flotation. This reflects the steadily improving
performance of the Company. Based on a risk discount rate
of 7.3%, full vesting would require an average post-tax
RoEV of 11.3% per annum over the performance period.
It is proposed that the Committee retain limited discretion
to vary vesting of this element by up to 10% of the overall
award, depending on its assessment of the Company’s
performance relative to its competitors and given the
economic climate. Furthermore, the Committee will have
the discretion to adjust the targets in a fair and reasonable
manner to take account of corporate activity such as
acquisitions or regulatory impacts such as changes 
to accounting rules or reserving requirements. The
Remuneration Committee will communicate the rationale
for any such adjustments directly to shareholders.
Managers below the most senior executive levels will
continue to participate in the share option scheme for 2005.
It is, however, proposed that, to ensure alignment of
reward mechanisms throughout the Company and to
maximise the motivational value achieved from a given
accounting cost or dilution requirement, these participants
in the share option scheme will not receive options from
2006 onwards. Instead, they would be eligible to receive 
a deferred share award linked to their annual bonus
performance. The Committee believes that this structure
provides greater relevance, motivation and retention power
for individuals at this level of the organisation. For this
reason, the Committee is seeking shareholder approval 
for a new deferred bonus plan that would allow this 
policy intention to be fulfilled.
14. Share incentive schemes – past policy: Executive
directors have up to now participated each year in the
ESOS and/or the LTIP on the basis of aggregate face value
grants of options under both schemes of up to one times
annual remuneration, broadly defined as base salary plus
bonus in a twelve-month period. ESOS grants have an
exercise price equal to market value at the date of the
grant, while LTIP awards have an exercise price of a
nominal amount (10 pence per share). Awards under the
ESOS or the LTIP are normally made in March each year,
with the first awards having been made in mid-March 2002.
However, as a consequence of pending transactions,
awards could not be made to executive directors in March
2004 and were made in August 2004, all under the ESOS.
The ESOS and the LTIP were designed to ensure that a
significant element of executives’ remuneration is directly Remuneration Report of the Board continued
52 Friends Provident 
related to increases in shareholder value, with options
under either scheme becoming exercisable only if
performance criteria requiring sustained improvement over
not less than three years have been met. The Committee
does not allow re-testing for any awards under the LTIP nor
for any grants to executive directors under the ESOS.
15. For awards under the ESOS, the performance condition 
is based on the Company’s total shareholder return 
(“TSR”) over an initial three-year performance period ranked
against that of other companies who formed the FTSE100
at the date of grant. The TSR ranking at the end of the
performance period in respect of the grants made in 
March 2002 was 51st and thus none of these options vest
and there is no retesting. For option grants made in March
2003 and thereafter, no options will vest for below median
TSR performance; for TSR performance between the 
50th and 20th places options will vest on a straight-line
basis with 35% vesting for 50th place and 100% vesting 
for 20th place and above. The TSR measure reflects 
the movement in the value of shares plus any dividends
declared during the relevant period. It is, therefore, chosen
as the performance measure for the ESOS as it is directly
related to movements in shareholder value. To calculate
relative TSR performance, the TSR index, as provided by
Datastream International Limited or a similar source, is
averaged for each comparator company over twenty trading
days at the beginning and the end of the performance period. 
16. Grants under the LTIP in 2002 and 2003 are dependent on
the Group’s Average Excess RoEV, as defined in paragraph
13, except that for these historic grants RoEV is measured
on a pre-tax rather than post-tax basis, and the RoEV
measure includes the return on net pension asset and
market return on F&C. Of the options granted, 40% would
vest if the Average Excess RoEV is 2.5% per annum, with
straight-line increases in vesting until all options vest if
Average Excess RoEV is 4% per annum over the
performance period. The Average Excess RoEV under 
the 2002 LTIP, at 0.6% per annum, means that the 2002
LTIP awards disclosed in previous years are no longer
outstanding as none can vest and there is no re-testing. 
As part of the review of performance conditions undertaken
during the year the Remuneration Committee considered
the detailed definition of RoEV. As part of this review it 
was decided that for future awards under the LTIP the
detailed definition of RoEV should be amended to be
Achieved Life and Pensions Operating Profit divided by 
the year start Embedded Value of the Life and Pensions
business. In order to ensure alignment and consistency 
of incentivisation across all awards, the Remuneration
Committee intends to amend the performance condition so
that from 2005 RoEV will be measured for all outstanding
awards in the same manner as for new awards.
17. The quantum of the award can be influenced by the desired
positioning relative to the market in terms of overall
package value, the limitations of best practice on grant
levels for executive directors, the strength of the
performance conditions applied in the LTIP scheme, and
dilution limits to protect shareholder value. The dilution
limits, which apply to all-employee (ShareSave and SIP) and
discretionary (ESOS and LTIP) schemes and which have
been applied to grants made to date, meet best practice
guidelines: a dilution limit for all schemes of 10% of issued
share capital over a ten-year period and, for discretionary
schemes, of 5% of issued share capital over a ten-year
period. The plans allow for the use of newly issued shares,
treasury shares or shares purchased in the market. The
discretionary grants of ESOS and LTIP options represented
1.33% of share capital in 2003 and 0.52% in 2004. 
18. ESOS grants are not restricted to executive directors and 
in 2004 were made to some 760 staff (2003: some 800). 
As a result of a business reorganisation, some 710 staff will
be granted ESOS options in 2005. The total numbers 
of employees (with 2003 details in brackets) to whom
options were granted and the percentage of salary those
options represented were as follows:
Number of staff 
receiving ESOS Percentage
options in 2004 (2003) of salary
3 (-) 150%
14 (21) 100%
35 (49) 75%
236 (231) 50%
468 (441) 25%
6 (53) 15%
19. Benefits: In common with many financial services
organisations, the Company provides a range of benefits 
to its staff, some benefits being dependent upon seniority.
The benefits disclosed for executive directors comprise 
the taxable value of a company car, private medical care
and, for two directors, subsidised mortgage interest. 
Apart from seniority, all benefits are on the same basis 
as for other managers and staff. 
20. Remuneration and performance: The elements of
directors’ contracts that are directly performance-related 
are annual bonuses and long term incentives. Base salary 
is determined by reference to market conditions and
individual performance, and other major benefits are 
directly related to base salary. Making some reasonable
assumptions about the Company’s performance against 
the TSR performance measure for the ESOS, the directly
performance-related elements of the remuneration
packages of the executive directors for 2004 would, for 
on-target performance, represent around 75% of base
salary. The following chart shows the proportions of salary,
benefits, annual performance-related bonus earned during
2004 and the estimated value of long term incentives
granted during 2004 to individual directors. The chart 
shows that, with performance in respect of the 2004 
annual bonus being in excess of target, the aggregate of
directly performance-related elements for 2004 represents
around 100% of base salary.
21. Other senior executives: There are a number of senior
executives whose roles have a significant influence over
the ability of the Group’s life and pensions business to
meet its strategic aims. They include the executive
directors of FPLP and other staff of equivalent seniority.
The Committee has regard to the remuneration of this
group whose total remuneration including salary, bonus and
benefits excluding pension and share scheme participation
are summarised below. These numbers (which include 
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
G.K. Aslet
A.R.G. Gunn
P .W. Moore
K. Satchell
B.W. Sweetland
Salary Benefits Annual Bonus Long term incentives Annual Report & Accounts 2004 53
Remuneration Report of the Board continued
all those in this group who were employed for the full year)
can be compared directly with the figures shown in the
column headed ‘Total reported 2004’ in paragraph 29 below.
Total Remuneration 2004
£000 Number in band (2003 in brackets)
100 – 125 1 (2) 
126 – 150 3 (1) 
151 – 175 4 (6) 
176 – 200 4 (4)
201 – 225 2 (1)
22. Non-executive directors: Details of individual non-
executive directors’ contracts for services are given in the
table below. These directors are not part of any pension,
bonus or share incentive scheme of the Company or the
Group. All directors are subject to re-election at least every
three years. None of the non-executive directors has 
a service contract and none is entitled to compensation 
on leaving the Board save that, if requested to resign, 
the chairman and each non-executive director are entitled 
to prior notice or fees in lieu as in the table below.
Date of latest Required 
letter of notice
Name of director appointment from
(with age at (and date first AGM at which Next due Company
17 March 2005) elected) last elected for (re-)election (in months)
D.K. Newbigging 30 May 2001 May 2004 Not Not
(71) (25 May 1994 applicable applicable
Chairman – FPLO) (Retires on
26 May 
2005)
Lady Judge (58) 30 May 2001 May 2004 26 May 2005 3
Deputy Chairman (25 May 1994 (annual 
– FPLO) re-election)
A. Carnwath (52) 18 November May 2003 26 May 2005 3
2002 
(8 May 2003)
C.M. Jemmett 30 May 2001 May 2003 2006 AGM 3
(68) (30 April 1997 
– FPLO)
R. King (51) 6 January 2004 May 2004 2007 AGM 1
(20 May 2004)
Lord MacGregor 30 May 2001 May 2004 2007 AGM 3
(68) (26 May 1999 
– FPLO)
A.A. Montague 27 October Pending: 2008 AGM 1 (6 after
(57) 2004 26 May 26 May
Chairman Elect (Pending: 2005 2005)
26 May 2005)
23. Apart from the chairman and deputy chairman, non-executive
directors are paid a basic fee, currently £40,000 per annum,
for their role on the Board and separately remunerated for
services on Board Committees. All fees are reviewed
annually, normally from 1 July, and were last increased 
in July 2004. The chairman and deputy chairman of the
Board, who chair the Investment and Remuneration
Committees respectively, receive an annual all-inclusive 
fee only, currently £220,000 and £80,000 respectively, the
latter being exclusive of VAT. The Remuneration Committee
sets the chairman’s annual remuneration. The Board as 
a whole determines fees for non-executive directors with
advice from a committee comprising the members of 
the Remuneration Committee, the Group CEO and the
Company Secretary, following consultation with the
Chairman of the Board. Members and Chairmen of Board
Committees are normally remunerated as follows:
Member’s Chairman’s 
fee (£) fee (£)
Audit and Compliance 7,000 13,750
Nomination 3,500 7,750
Remuneration 5,000 10,000
Investment 4,500 7,000
24. Outside Appointments: It is the Company’s policy 
to permit executive directors to accept up to two 
external appointments. However, any fees received 
in respect of outside appointments must be accounted 
for to the Company.
25. Performance Graph: The graph below demonstrates the
performance of the Company based on Total Shareholder
Return (“TSR”) compared with the FTSE100 TSR index 
and the FTSE100 UK Life Assurance Sector TSR. The graph
shows performance for the Company’s first four reporting
periods since listing on the London Stock Exchange on 
9 July 2001. The FTSE100 index has been chosen for
comparison because it contains similar sized companies 
in a variety of sectors including a number of companies 
in the financial sector.
Total return indices – Friends Provident, FTSE100
and Life Assurance
During the period from 9 July 2001 to 31 December 2004,
Friends Provident’s TSR has always been close to that of
the FTSE UK Life Assurance sector and has outperformed it
by 4.8% over the whole period. For the calendar year 2004,
Friends Provident’s TSR movement was ranked 38th 
(45th in 2003) when compared with the constituents 
of the FTSE100 at the beginning of the year.
26. Executive Directors’ Service Contracts and Termination:
In line with the Group policy, all executive directors have
service contracts that expire at the normal retirement age
for all staff: age 60. The executive directors are subject to
the same redundancy provisions as all staff within the
Company’s life and pensions business. Executive directors’
rolling contracts do not otherwise include compensation for
severance as a result of change of control. Redundancy
provisions provide a lump sum that depends on service,
salary level and, to some extent, age, up to a maximum of
two years’ salary (achieved by minimum service of 28 years
and generally more) and, for those over 50, an immediate
pension calculated on service to the date of termination but
without actuarial reduction. Departing directors are required
to mitigate loss. 
50
60
70
80
90
100
Friends Provident TSR
9 Jul 01 31 Dec 01 30 Jun 02 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Jun 04 31 Dec 04 30 Jun 03
FTSE 100 TSR
FTSE Life Assurance TSR 54 Friends Provident 
Remuneration Report of the Board continued
Details of individual service contracts are given in the table
below. All executive directors are subject to re-election at
least every three years. Save for H. Carter, who is included
here for convenience only (and reference should be made
to paragraphs 6, 32, 33 and 37), except for salary, the only
differences relate to pension provision set out in paragraphs
32 and 33. 
Name of 
executive 
director (with Date of Next 
Number of 
age at service Last due for 
months’ notice
17 March 2005) contract (re-)elected (re-)election Company Director
H. Carter (53) 30 May 2002 AGM 26 May 2005 12 12
2001 
A.R.G. Gunn 25 April 2003 AGM 2006 AGM 12 6
(54) 2001
P.W. Moore 1 July 2004 2007 AGM 12 6
(45) 2003
K. Satchell (53) 25 April 2004 2007 AGM 12 6
2001
B.W. Sweetland 25 April Not 12 6
(59) 2001 applicable
(Retiring at 
close of AGM)
27. Directors’ shareholdings: Directors’ personal shareholdings
that are not related to their remuneration are disclosed in
the Notes to the Accounts, thereby complying with the
Companies Act 1985.
The executive directors are expected to build up their
shareholding in the Company over time. To support this
paragraph 9 details the proposal that annual bonus 
in excess of 60% of salary be granted in restricted stock.
Further future awards under the LTIP will be made with the
expectation that the recipient is required to retain shares 
up to the value at exercise of 75% of the net proceeds.
28. Directors seeking (re-)election: The names of those
directors proposed for election or re-election are contained
in the Directors’ Report on page 41. 
Audited Information – The information in paragraphs 29 to 37 
is subject to audit
29. Amount of each director’s emoluments and
compensation in the relevant financial year 
The remuneration of each director in 2004 
(with 2003 comparison) comprised:
Annual
Bonus Total
(2004 Directors’ Total Reported
Salary Benefits accrued) Loss Reported 2003
and fees £000 £000 of Office 2004 £000
£000 [29.1(a)] [29.1(b)] £000 £000 [29.1 (c)]
Executive
G.K. Aslet 173 19 144 235 571 304
(retired from 
the board
31.12.2004)
H. Carter 282 83 950 – 1,315 797
A.R.G. Gunn 264 21 158 – 443 466
P.W. Moore 283 15 166 – 464 259
K. Satchell 444 25 297 – 766 777
B.W. Sweetland 237 21 146 – 404 423
Non-Executive
A. Carnwath 104 – – – 104 85
C.M. Jemmett 92 – – – 92 87
Lady Judge 74 – – – 74 67
R. King (app’t 44 – – – 44 –
06.01.2004)
Lord MacGregor 51 – – – 51 47
A.A.Montague 10 – – – 10 –
(app’t 
27.10.2004)
R.F.H. Morton 24 – – – 24 58
(retired 
20.05.2004)
D.K. Newbigging 226 – – 26 252 215
29. Explanatory notes: 
29.1 The amounts above, by reference to the column
headings, include:
a) Benefits: All elements in the table represent cash
compensation apart from the figures shown in the
Benefits column (see paragraph 19). The other non-cash
benefits are in respect of pension provision (see
paragraphs 29.2, 31, 32 and 33).
b) Annual Bonus (2004 accrued): These are payments
under the ABS (see paragraphs 9 and 10) that will be
paid in March 2005. The Board regards each year’s pre-
determined targeted range of achieved operating profit
(“AOP”) as price sensitive information. AOP-related
bonus becomes payable when the minimum of the AOP
range is achieved, with the amount payable increasing
linearly to reflect individual and corporate performance.
The actual AOP for 2004 meant that 72.7% of the AOP
range was achieved, with ABS payments reflecting that,
the exercise of the Committee’s discretion to reflect
strong corporate performance in a demanding year and
individual performance against challenging KPIs. For
convenience, the deferred bonus (see paragraph 37.1)
and the annual bonus payable to H. Carter later this year
by F&C are disclosed here in this table. 
The Annual Bonus (2004 accrued) figure of £144,000
for G.K. Aslet includes an amount of £50,555 paid in
February 2005. This amount reflects the decision taken
by the Remuneration Committee to compensate two 
of the executive directors, Messrs Aslet and Sweetland,
for their exclusion from the Executive Share Option
Scheme (“ESOS”) grant made on 12 August 2004 to
the remaining executive directors, who, with Messrs
Aslet and Sweetland, were excluded from the grants
made to other staff in March 2004 because they
possessed unpublished price sensitive information. 
That delay caused Messrs Aslet and Sweetland to be
too close to their agreed retirement dates to be included in the August 2004 grants. The amount paid 
to G.K. Aslet was calculated by strict application of the
relevant ESOS TSR performance (see paragraph 15) 
to the number of share options that would have been
granted and taking account of the August 2004 grants’
exercise price. The assumed gain was based on the
share price level at the time of retirement adjusted by
application of an independent valuation using Black
Scholes methodology and a period of twelve months 
for the exercise of options. The actual amount paid 
was subject to income tax and National Insurance and
further reduced to recognise that G.K. Aslet would have
been liable to pay his employer’s National Insurance
liability had he been in a position to exercise options.
Any amount that may become similarly payable in this
respect to B.W. Sweetland after his retirement will be
reported in the 2005 financial statements.
c) Total Reported 2003 includes payments made in 
March 2004 under the Long-Term Executive Incentive
Scheme 2000 – 2003, full details of which were
disclosed in last year’s financial statements. All 
long-term cash bonus arrangements have terminated as
reported last year and thus there are no similar figures
included in the column headed Total Reported 2004.
29.2 Pension Contribution: An amount of £74,675 was paid
in respect of a Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits
Scheme for H. Carter recognising that the pension
benefits described in paragraph 32 are subject to the
statutory cap. This amount is included in the Benefits
Column above.
29.3 A. Carnwath’s fees include the following:
29.3.1 Since October 2000, she has been an independent, 
non-executive director, and chairs the investment
committee of ISIS Equity Partners plc (“ISISEP”), a
private equity business and a wholly owned subsidiary
of F&C. In 2004 she received £45,000 (2003: £40,000)
plus a further £5,000 to reflect fee increases that should
have been payable in previous years. Since July 2002,
she has been entitled to a share of the investment
returns, in excess of 8% p.a. net of costs (“the carry
arrangements”), paid to the participants in a private
equity 10-year limited partnership that commenced in
2002. She will receive 2% of the amount paid to ISISEP
under the carry arrangements. No payment is expected
to be made before 2010. The Company will disclose 
any sums paid in its financial statements. 
29.3.2 Since 1 April 2004, she has received £4,500 (2003: Nil)
for chairing the With Profits Committees of Friends
Provident’s three FSA-regulated wholly-owned life and
pensions operating companies. The current annual fee
is £7,500 per annum. 
29.4 C.M. Jemmett’s fees include £32,500 (2003: £32,500)
paid by F&C for his role as a non-executive director 
of F&C and chairman of its Audit and Compliance
Committee, the appointment to that board being the
Company’s nomination. With effect from 1 January
2005, he will receive an all-inclusive fee of £55,000 
as deputy chairman and senior independent director 
of F&C and will continue to chair F&C’s Audit and
Compliance Committee.
29.5 Non-executive directors’ remuneration includes an
amount of £73,500 (2003: £67,000) that is subject to
VAT (not included in the table above) and payable to 
BT Consulting in relation to the services of Lady Judge
as a director.
29.6 R.F.H. Morton’s fees include £7,590.74 (2003: £14,725)
paid by F&C for his role as chairman of the Stewardship
Committee of Reference until his retirement from that
committee on 30 June 2004.
29.7 D.K. Newbigging’s fees include £26,100 (2003: £47,250)
as the non-executive deputy chairman of Benchmark
Group PLC and chairman of its remuneration committee
and £26,100 compensation for loss of office, the
appointment to that board being the Company’s
nomination. All such sums were paid by Benchmark
Group PLC.
30. Share options: Details of directors’ interests in options
over ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the
Company are given in the table on page 56. The market
price of these shares at 31 December 2004 was 154p.
The highest and lowest share price during 2004 was
161.25p and 123.75p respectively. The market value 
of the shares at the time of the ESOS grants in 
March 2004 and August 2004 was 153p and 127p
respectively. The mid-market price of shares at close 
of business on 17 March 2005 was 174p per share 
(1 March 2004: 144.95p per share). None of the terms
and conditions of the options listed below varied during
the year. The price paid by each executive director for
the options under the ShareSave is identified in the
notes to the table. There was one net gain (gross
proceeds: £212,957.10; deductions of £99,277.81) 
of £113,679.29 under shares granted to G.K. Aslet in
respect of the unapproved part of the Executive Share
Option Scheme after deduction of PAYE income tax,
Employee’s and Employer’s National Insurance
Contributions and all transaction costs. 
Notes to paragraph 30 and the table on page 56:
30.1 ShareSave Scheme (“SAYE”) 2002: Options held at an
exercise price of 107.76p by saving £250 per month 
for either three years (8,815) or five years (15,358).
30.2 ShareSave Scheme (“SAYE”) 2003: Options held at an
exercise price of 108.54p by saving £250 per month 
for three years (8,499).
30.3 The performance conditions for 2002, 2003 and 2004
grants under the ESOS, which used a performance
condition based on TSR over a three-year performance
period when ranked against that of other companies
who formed the FTSE100 at the start of each
performance period, are detailed in paragraph 15 above. 
30.4 The 2002 and 2003 awards under the LTIP are
dependent on the Group’s RoEV, a key driver of
shareholder value. For details of the LTIP and RoEV,
refer to paragraph 16 above. On 17 March 2005, RoEV
results for 2004 confirmed that none of the four awards
under the 2002 LTIP vested; that a pro-rated 59.8%
(70,769 shares) of G.K. Aslet’s 2003 LTIP (118,309
shares) vested on his retirement from the board and
remain exerciseable until 31.12.2005; and that a pro-
rated 73.6% (121,815 shares) of B.W. Sweetland’s 2003
LTIP (165,494 shares) will vest and remain exerciseable
for one year from his retirement on 31 May 2005.
These events cannot be reflected in the table at
paragraph 30 as they relate to 2005, so will be shown 
in next year’s remuneration report. 
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 55
Remuneration Report of the Board continued Remuneration Report of the Board continued
56 Friends Provident 
30.5 There have been no additional share options granted since 31 December 2004.
Granted Exercise Earliest Latest 
Options at during Exercised Lapsed Options at price exercise exercise 
01.01.04 the year during year during year 31.12.04 (pence) date date
G.K. Aslet
ShareSave 2002 (30.1) 15,358 15,358 107.76 01.01.05 30.06.05
ESOS 15.03.2002 (30.3) 82,051 82,051 195.00 01.01.05 31.12.05
LTIP 15.03.2002 (30.4) 41,025 41,025 10.00 01.01.05 31.12.05
ESOS 17.03.2003 (30.3) 236,619 236,619 71.00 01.01.05 31.12.05
LTIP 17.03.2003 (30.4) 118,309 118,309 10.00 01.01.05 31.12.05
Total 493,362 493,362
A.R.G. Gunn
ShareSave 2002 (30.1) 15,358 15,358 107.76 01.10.07 01.04.08
ESOS 15.03.2002 (30.3) 116,667 116,667 195.00 14.03.05 14.03.12
LTIP 15.03.2002 (30.4) 58,333 58,333 10.00 14.03.05 14.03.12
ESOS 17.03.2003 (30.3) 368,311 368,311 71.00 17.03.06 17.03.13
LTIP 17.03.2003 (30.4) 184,155 184,155 10.00 17.03.06 17.03.13
ESOS 12.08.2004 (30.3) 311,949 311,949 127.00 12.08.07 12.08.14
Total 742,824 311,949 1,054,773
K. Satchell
ShareSave 2002 (30.1) 15,358 15,358 107.76 01.10.07 01.04.08
ESOS 15.03.2002 (30.3) 200,000 200,000 195.00 14.03.05 14.03.12
LTIP 15.03.2002 (30.4) 100,000 100,000 10.00 14.03.05 14.03.12
ESOS 17.03.2003 (30.3) 619,719 619,719 71.00 17.03.06 17.03.13
LTIP 17.03.2003 (30.4) 309,859 309,859 10.00 17.03.06 17.03.13
ESOS 12.08.2004 (30.3) 524,884 524,884 127.00 12.08.07 12.08.14
Total 1,244,936 524,884 1,769,820
B.W. Sweetland
ShareSave 2002 (30.1) 8,815 8,815 107.76 01.10.05 01.04.06
ESOS 15.03.2002 (30.3) 112,821 112,821 195.00 14.03.05 14.03.12
LTIP 15.03.2002 (30.4) 56,410 56,410 10.00 14.03.05 14.03.12
ESOS 17.03.2003 (30.3) 330,988 330,988 71.00 17.03.06 17.03.13
LTIP 17.03.2003 (30.4) 165,494 165,494 10.00 17.03.06 17.03.13
Total 674,528 674,528
P .W. Moore
ShareSave 2003 (30.2) 8,499 8,499 108.54 01.10.06 01.04.07
ESOS 06.08.2003 (30.3) 211,398 211,398 136.00 06.08.06 06.08.13
LTIP 06.08.2003 (30.4) 105,699 105,699 10.00 06.08.06 06.08.13
ESOS 12.08.2004 (30.3) 298,233 298,233 127.00 12.08.07 12.08.14
Total 325,596 298,233 623,829 Remuneration Report of the Board continued
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 57
31. Pensions All executive directors except H. Carter are
members of the Friends Provident Pension Scheme
(“FPPS”), a UK defined benefit contributory pension
plan. No element of executive directors’ remuneration
other than basic salary is pensionable. 
32. The FPPS also provides a spouse’s pension equal to
two-thirds of the member’s pension upon death after
retirement. On death in service, the FPPS provides a
spouse’s pension equal to two thirds of the member’s
prospective pension plus a lump sum death in service
benefit. For convenience, the required disclosures in
relation to H. Carter’s pension provision from F&C are
also included in the table below. The information
required to be disclosed is set out in the following table:
33. Notes to the above table:
33.1 The accumulated total accrued benefits (f) shown are
those that would be payable annually from normal
retirement date based on service to the end of the 
year. The transfer values disclosed in (a) and (g) above
represent the value of the directors’ accrued benefits 
at the beginning and end of the financial year assuming
that the directors leave active service on the respective
calculation date. The calculation bases used to calculate
the figures at each calculation date were the cash
equivalent transfer value bases then in use by the
administrators of the FPPS or, as appropriate, the 
F&C Asset Management Pension Fund. The ‘Increase 
in transfer value during the year’ column (e) above
shows the difference between columns (a) and (g). 
The factors that influence this difference are the further
accrual of benefits which will increase the transfer value
over the year, a change in the transfer value basis of 
the scheme which may result in either an increase or 
a decrease in a director’s transfer value over the year
and changes in market conditions at the respective
calculation dates which may also result in either an
increase or a decrease in a director’s transfer value over
the year (through the application of the transfer value
basis). These factors may affect the transfer values of
different directors in different ways and therefore the
movement in transfer value during the year can vary
significantly for different directors.
33.2 The accrued benefits for three directors above include
the appropriate proportion of additional service of 
1 year 4 months for G.K. Aslet, 4 years 9 months for 
K. Satchell and 9 years 1 month for B.W. Sweetland,
which has been accruing uniformly from 1 July 1991 to
their normal retirement dates. If Mr. Satchell were to
retire between the ages of 55 and 60, he is entitled to
receive a pension based on actual and accrued service
of between 35 and 40 years, as appropriate, without
actuarial reduction. The benefits for A.R.G. Gunn include
additional service of 10 years 6 months granted to him
on joining London and Manchester Group plc in 1996
and also include additional service of 8 years 9 months
that were purchased with a transfer value he brought
from a previous employer’s scheme. The transfer values
shown in the table have been calculated in accordance
with Actuarial Guidance Notes GN11 (6 April 1997)
issued by the Faculty and Institute of Actuaries. The
transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum
paid or payable to the individual director. Instead they
represent a potential liability of the appropriate fund.
33.3 The Inland Revenue earnings cap (“IR Cap”) 
on approved pension benefits affects H. Carter 
(see paragraphs 29.2 and 32), A.R.G. Gunn and
P.W. Moore as below: 
33.3.1 A.R.G. Gunn has an unfunded unapproved pension
arrangement under which, on his retirement from 
the service of the Company at age 60, he will receive
pension benefits that, when added to any pension
benefits he receives from the FPPS on that date, equate
to the pension benefits he would have received if he
were a member of the FPPS and not subject to the 
IR Cap. The figures in the table above include the 
value of the arrangement. The Board has considered
A.R.G. Gunn’s position should he retire early. It has
been agreed that if he retires on or after 30 June 2007,
he will receive his scheme and unfunded benefits based
on service to his date of early retirement and with no
actuarial reduction save for the element of his pension
purchased by funds from former employment which
would be reduced for early payment; 
33.3.2 P.W. Moore receives a monthly amount in addition 
to his basic salary of the difference between a variable
percentage of his monthly basic salary and one twelfth
of the IR Cap to give him the opportunity to make
further pension provision. The percentage, 20% 
since his appointment on 1 July 2003, is reviewed 
in each calendar year. During 2004 P.W. Moore 
received £30,250.80 in this respect and the amount 
is included with the salary figure shown in the table 
at paragraph 29. 
33.4 G.K. Aslet’s transfer value of total accrued benefits 
at 31 December 2004 at column (g) above is £534,000
higher than if he were a deferred member, as, in
accordance with standard redundancy terms, he retired
on that date with a pension that was not actuarially
reduced for early payment.
33.5 During 2004, each director apart from H. Carter, 
in common with all staff, contributed 1% of his
Transfer Increase IncreaseTransfer Value
value in accrued in accrued of accrued Accumulated Transfer value of 
of accrued benefits benefits benefits Increase in total accrued total accrued 
benefits at during year during year during year transfer value benefits at benefits at 
1 Jan 2004 before inflation after inflation after inflation during year 31 Dec 2004 31 Dec 2004 
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Name of Director (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) (g)
G.K. Aslet 1,429 4 1 23 739 103 2,168
H. Carter 142 2 2 21 49 14 191
A.R.G. Gunn 1,251 8 6 77 222 106 1,473
P.W. Moore 7 2 2 16 16 3 23
K. Satchell 2,788 11 4 59 374 239 3,162
B.W. Sweetland 2,537 8 12 69 444 156 2,981 pensionable salary to the FPPS. This percentage rose 
to 2% from end-2004 and will increase to 3% from 
end-2005. During 2006 the possibility of further
increases up to 5% will be considered. H. Carter
contributed 3% of his pensionable salary to the 
F&C Asset Management staff pension fund.
34. No excess retirement benefits have been paid 
to directors or past directors.
35. Compensation for past directors: D.M. Jackson
ceased to be a director of the Company on 
30 September 2003. The details of his financial
treatment were disclosed in last year’s remuneration
report. Accordingly, the amount paid to him in 2004 
was £131,978. D.K. Newbigging ceased to be 
non-executive deputy chairman of Benchmark Group
PLC on 30 June 2004 when the company was sold 
and he was paid £26,100 compensation for loss of
office. G.K. Aslet left through redundancy of his role 
of Appointed Actuary on 31 December 2004 and was
entitled to a lump sum of £231,896 under standard
redundancy terms and holiday pay of £3,250.
36. Sums paid to third parties in respect of directors’
services: No sums were paid to third parties in respect
of any director’s services.
37. Additional disclosures in respect of H. Carter 
37.1 H. Carter is conditionally entitled to a deferred bonus
from F&C in respect of the financial year 2004 if he is
still in the employment of F&C and has not given notice
to terminate his contract when payments are due to be
made. Should he meet these conditions, he will receive
£200,000 in April 2005.
37.2 H. Carter has been eligible to participate on the 
same basis as other eligible UK employees of F&C 
in two Inland Revenue approved all-employee share
schemes operated by F&C, a Share Incentive Plan and 
a ShareSave Scheme. The disclosures required in
respect of the ShareSave Scheme are set out in the
following table:
Options
Options at Granted Exercised Lapsed at 31 Exercise Earliest 
Calendar 1 January during duringduringDecember price exercise 
Year in year year year year in year (pence) date
2004 6,915 Nil Nil Nil 6,915114.019.03.2008
37.3 H. Carter holds options over 525,423 F&C shares 
under that company’s executive share option 
schemes as follows: 
Options
Options held at (exercised) Exercise price 
31 December 2004 Grant Date granted (pence)
194,036 09.06.1998 – 203.8
48,437 16.07.1999 – 232.5
76,580 28.04.2000 – 214.0
44,500 01.03.2001 – 455.8
161,870 19.03.2003 – 139.0
37.3.1 None of the options granted prior to 2003, under a
scheme dating back to 1995 and which have a 10-year
life, can be exercised until both (a) a period of three
years has elapsed since date of grant and (b) the
performance goal of growth in earnings per F&C share
at a rate of 2% above the rate of inflation in respect of
each year cumulatively has been met. Once both these
criteria have been achieved, up to one third of the
options can be exercised, up to two thirds after six
years from date of grant and the total or any
outstanding amount after eight years. No further 
awards will be made under the 1995 scheme.
37.3.2 The exercise of options granted in 2003 and
subsequently, being options granted under a 2002
scheme, is dependent on F&C achieving specified
thresholds of earnings per share growth (“EPS growth”)
in excess of the Retail Prices Index growth (“RPI
growth”) over a 3-year performance period commencing
on the first day of the F&C accounting period in which
each grant was made. An option will not become
exerciseable until F&C’s EPS growth over the period
exceeds RPI growth over the same period by 9%.
Where the target 9% is achieved, 50% of the related
options become exercisable. When the excess of EPS
growth over RPI growth over the period is 24%, 100%
of the related options become exercisable. The number
of ordinary shares the subject of an option grant that
will become exercisable will increase on a sliding scale
if EPS growth exceeds RPI growth in the relevant
performance period by between 9% and 24%.
37.3.3 H. Carter participates in the F&C Long-Term
Remuneration Plan (LTRP). The LTRP replaced from 
4 October 2004 all the long-term share incentive
arrangements operating across the asset management
business of the F&C Group. Ordinary shares in F&C are
awarded under the LTRP. H. Carter received an award of
750,000 shares under the LTRP during 2004 (2003: Nil).
Vesting under the LTRP is determined over three years
and depends on F&C’s TSR compared with FTSE250
companies and on Earnings Per Share (EPS) performance,
and is subject to continuing service. TSR and EPS
performance measures are each applied to 50% 
of every award. EPS performance is measured as 
in paragraph 37.3.2 above; for TSR performance, 
no options will vest for below median TSR performance;
for TSR performance between the 50th and 25th places
options will vest on a straight-line basis with 35%
vesting for 50th place and 100% vesting for 25th place
and above.
37.4 The market price of F&C shares at 31 December 2004
was 246.00p. The highest and lowest F&C share price
during 2004 was 247.25p and 173.00p respectively. 
The mid-market price of F&C shares at close of
business on 17 March 2005 was 237.00p per share.
38. Indemnity for directors and officers: The Company
provides certain protections for directors and officers of
companies within the Group against personal financial
exposure that they may incur in the course of their
professional duties.
For the Board
Lady Judge
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
17 March 2005
Remuneration Report of the Board continued
58 Friends Provident  Independent auditors’ report to the members of 
Friends Provident plc
We have audited the financial statements on pages 60 to 106.
We have also audited the information in the directors’
remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as 
a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act
1985. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might
state to the Company’s members those matters we are
required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other
purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit
work, for this report, or for the opinion we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report
and the directors’ remuneration report. As described on 
page 43, this includes responsibility for preparing the financial
statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law
and accounting standards. Our responsibilities, as independent
auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the
Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority, and by our profession’s ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial
statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report
to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with
the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you if, in our
opinion, the directors’ report is not consistent with the financial
statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting
records, if we have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified
by law regarding directors’ remuneration and transactions with
the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement on
pages 42 to 45 reflects the Company’s compliance with the
nine provisions of the 2003 FRC code specified for our review
by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not. We are not
required to consider whether the Board’s statements on
internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an
opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risks and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report,
including the corporate governance statement and the
unaudited part of the directors’ remuneration report, and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial
statements. We consider the implications for our report if we
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards
issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the
part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited. It also
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and
judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies
are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give
reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part
of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited are free
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion, we also evaluated
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the
financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration
report to be audited.
Opinion 
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 
31 December 2004 and of the profit of the Group for 
the year then ended; and
• the financial statements and the part of the directors’
remuneration report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor
London
17 March 2005
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members 
of Friends Provident plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 59 60 Friends Provident 
Consolidated Proﬁt and Loss Account
For the year ended 31 December 2004 
Long-term business technical account
2004 2003
Notes £m £m
Earned premiums, net of reinsurance
Gross premiums written 2 3,132 3,217
Outward reinsurance premiums 3 (50) (37)
3,082 3,180
Investment income 4a 1,598 1,239
Unrealised gains on investments 4a 1,438 1,964
Other technical income, net of reinsurance 5 – 1
Total technical income 6,118 6,384
Claims incurred, net of reinsurance
Claims paid
gross amount 3,081 3,052
reinsurers’ share (27) (16)
3,054 3,036
Change in the provision for claims
gross amount (3) 4
reinsurers’ share (4) (2)
3,047 3,038
Change in other technical provisions, net of reinsurance 
Long-term business provision, net of reinsurance 25a
gross amount (114) 38
reinsurers’ share (5) (1)
(119) 37
Other technical provisions, net of reinsurance
technical provisions for linked liabilities 25b 1,930 2,119
1,811 2,156
Net operating expenses 7a 500 425
Investment expenses and charges 4a 73 98
Other technical charges, net of reinsurance 6 13 21
Tax attributable to the long-term business 11a 75 20
Allocated investment return transferred to the non-technical account 4b 31 43
Transfers to the fund for future appropriations 400 454
Total technical charges 5,950 6,255
Balance on the long-term business technical account 168 129
All the amounts above are in respect of continuing operations. Annual Report & Accounts 2004 61
Consolidated Proﬁt and Loss Account continued
For the year ended 31 December 2004
Non-technical account
2004 2003
Notes £m £m
Balance on the long-term business technical account 168 129
Tax credit attributable to balance on long-term business technical account 11 72 55
Proﬁt before tax from long-term business 240 184
Investment income 4a 55 51
Unrealised gains on investments 4a 11 40
Allocated investment return transferred from the long-term business technical account 4b 31 43
Investment expenses and charges 4a (58) (33)
Other income 12 115 77
Other charges, including value adjustments 12 (138) (102)
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before tax 256 260
Tax on proﬁt on ordinary activities 11a (79) (72)
Proﬁt on ordinary activities after tax 177 188
Equity minority interests 2 4
Proﬁt after tax attributable to equity shareholders 179 192
Dividend 13 (152) (127)
Retained proﬁt for the year transferred to reserves 22 27 65
Earnings per share 14
Based on proﬁt attributable to equity shareholders – basic 9.9p 11.2p
– diluted 9.8p 11.1p
Based on operating proﬁt (based on longer-term investment return)
before amortisation of goodwill and operating exceptional items, after tax, 
attributable to equity shareholders 12.4p 10.4p
Dividend per share – interim 13 2.55p 2.50p
– ﬁnal 13 5.00p 4.90p
– total 7.55p 7.40p
All the amounts above are in respect of continuing operations.  62 Friends Provident 
Operating proﬁt (based on longer-term investment return) before amortisation of
goodwill, operating exceptional items and tax; and reconciliation to proﬁt after tax 
For the year ended 31 December 2004 
2004 2003
Notes £m £m
Life & Pensions 277 234
Asset Management 40 26
Operating proﬁt before amortisation of goodwill, operating exceptional items and tax 317 260
Operating exceptional items 8 (52) (21)
Amortisation of goodwill 16 (37) (30)
Operating proﬁt on ordinary activities before tax 228 209
Short-term ﬂuctuations in investment return 28 51
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before tax 256 260
Tax on operating proﬁt before amortisation of goodwill and operating exceptional items (81) (76)
Tax credit on items excluded from operating proﬁt before amortisation of goodwill and operating exceptional items 2 4
Equity minority interests 2 4
Proﬁt after tax attributable to equity shareholders 179 192
Operating proﬁt (based on longer-term investment return) on ordinary activities before tax 
For the year ended 31 December 2004 
2004 2003
£m £m
Life & Pensions 231 212
Asset Management (3) (3)
Operating proﬁt on ordinary activities before tax 228 209 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 63
Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses
For the year ended 31 December 2004
2004 2003
Notes £m £m
Proﬁt after tax attributable to equity shareholders 179 192
Pension scheme (losses)/gains 10 (7) 27
Deferred taxation on pension scheme (losses)/gains 2 (8)
Proﬁt on deemed disposal of share in Asset Management business 34 47 –
Foreign exchange gains and other movements 4 –
Total recognised gains arising in the year 225 211
Reconciliation of movements in consolidated shareholders’ funds
For the year ended 31 December 2004
2004 2003
Notes £m £m
Total recognised gains arising in the year 225 211
Adjustment in respect of intra-group goodwill 26 –
Issue of shares 21b 365 –
Movements in respect of unclaimed shares issued on demutualisation 21b 15 –
Dividend 13 (152) (127)
Net additions to shareholders’ funds 479 84
Shareholders’ funds at beginning of year 1,965 1,881
Shareholders’ funds at end of year 2,444 1,965 64 Friends Provident 
Consolidated Balance Sheet
At 31 December 2004
2004 2003
Assets Notes £m £m
Intangible assets
Licence 16 6 10
Goodwill 16 751 406
757 416
Investments
Land and buildings 17 1,146 1,243
Investments in participating interests 17 1 1
Other ﬁnancial investments 17 19,940 19,161
21,087 20,405
Present value of acquired in-force business 18 145 154
Assets held to cover linked liabilities 17 13,024 11,094
Reinsurers’ share of technical provisions
Long-term business provision 25a 105 100
Claims outstanding 7 3
112 103
Debtors
Debtors arising out of direct insurance operations
Policyholders 13 12
Intermediaries 27 24
Debtors arising out of reinsurance operations 1 1
Other debtors 19 196 134
237 171
Other assets
Tangible assets 20 25 24
Cash at bank and in hand 278 156
303 180
Prepayments and accrued income
Accrued interest and rent 194 206
Deferred acquisition costs 1,080 973
Other prepayments and accrued income 57 10
1,331 1,189
Total assets 36,996 33,712 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 65
Consolidated Balance Sheet continued
At 31 December 2004
2004 2003
Liabilities Notes £m £m
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 21a 199 172
Share premium account 21b 1,799 1,446
Proﬁt and loss account 22 446 347
Equity shareholders’ funds 2,444 1,965
Equity minority interests 17 44
Total capital and reserves 2,461 2,009
Subordinated liabilities 24 521 512
Fund for future appropriations 935 535
Technical provisions 
Long-term business provision 25a,26 18,532 18,646
Claims outstanding 82 85
18,614 18,731
Technical provisions for linked liabilities 25b 13,024 11,094
Provisions for other risks and charges 27 152 108
Creditors
Creditors arising out of direct insurance operations 97 59
Creditors arising out of reinsurance operations 5 3
Debenture loans 28 385 61
Convertible bonds 29 286 285
Amounts owed to credit institutions 30 46 46
Other creditors including taxation and social security 32 346 201
1,165 655
Accruals and deferred income 107 60
Total liabilities excluding net pension liability 36,979 33,704
Net pension liability 10a 17 8
Total liabilities including net pension liability 36,996 33,712 66 Friends Provident 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2004 
Cash ﬂow 
relating to 
acquisition 2004 2003
Notes £m £m £m
Operating activities
Net cash outﬂow from operating activities 33a (35) (19) (140)
Returns on investments and servicing of ﬁnance
Interest received –29 17
Interest paid – (56) (36)
Investment income –24 20
Issue costs of long-term debt – (6) (3)
Dividends paid to minority interests – (5) (5)
Net cash outﬂow from returns on investments and servicing of ﬁnance – (14) (7)
Taxation
Corporation tax (paid)/received (5) (24) 3
Capital expenditure and ﬁnancial investment
Purchase of tangible ﬁxed assets (2) (17) (15)
Sale of tangible ﬁxed assets –– 2
Loan to long-term business fund – (380) –
Net cash outﬂow from capital expenditure and ﬁnancial investment (2) (397) (13)
Acquisitions and disposals
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings from long-term business fund –– (110)
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 33e – (250) –
Expenses of acquisition – (16) –
Sale of subsidiary undertakings –– 1
Other movements on past acquisitions –2 –
Net cash acquired on purchase of subsidiary undertakings 33e – 133 –
Investment in long-term business fund – (12) –
Net cash outﬂow from acquisitions and disposals – (143) (109)
Equity dividends
Equity dividends paid – (134) (126)
Net cash outﬂow before ﬁnancing (42) (731) (392)
Financing
Issue of share capital, net of expenses – 230 1
Proceeds from issue of long-term debt 28,24 – 380 300
Cash received in respect of unclaimed demutualisation shares 21b –25 –
Net cash inﬂow from ﬁnancing activities – 635 301
Net cash outﬂow in the year (42) (96) (91)
The net cash outﬂow was applied as follows:
Net portfolio investments
Land and buildings 33d –4 2
Shares and other variable yield securities 33d – (19) (120)
Loans, debt securities and other ﬁxed income securities 33d – (119) 420
Deposits with credit institutions 33d – (59) (407)
Increase in cash holdings 33d (42) 97 14
Net application of cash ﬂows in the year (42) (96) (91)
In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 1 (Cash ﬂow statements), this statement shows only the cash ﬂows of shareholders’ funds. Annual Report & Accounts 2004 67
Parent Company Balance Sheet
At 31 December 2004
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 67
2004 2003
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments
Shares in group undertakings 17 3,754 3,324
Loans to group undertakings 17 80 90
Other ﬁnancial investments 17 163 142
3,997 3,556
Current assets
Debtors
Amounts due from group undertakings 155 155
Taxation 11 7
Prepayments and accrued income 2 2
168 164
Other investments 7 6
175 170
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed to group undertakings (235) (292)
Proposed dividend 13 (102) (84)
Other creditors including taxation and social security (2) (4)
Accruals and deferred income (2) (3)
(341) (383)
Net current liabilities (166) (213)
Total assets less current liabilities 3,831 3,343
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 
Convertible bonds 29 (286) (285)
Subordinated liabilities 24 (297) (297)
(583) (582)
Provisions for other risks and charges 27 (17) –
Total assets less liabilities 3,231 2,761
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 21a 199 172
Share premium account 21b 1,799 1,446
Revaluation reserve 23 1,029 935
Proﬁt and loss account 15,23 204 208
Equity shareholders’ funds 3,231 2,761
The ﬁnancial statements on pages 60 to 106 and the supplementary information on pages 108 to 115 were approved by the Board on 17
March 2005, and signed on its behalf by:
D. K. Newbigging K. Satchell P. W. Moore
Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Notes to the Accounts
1. Accounting Policies
Introduction
The ﬁnancial statements of Friends Provident plc (‘the
Company’) and the Friends Provident Group (‘the Group’)
conform to applicable accounting standards and have been
prepared under the historical cost convention, as modiﬁed by
the revaluation of certain investments as set out in k below.
The Group’s ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in
compliance with Section 255A of, and Schedule 9A to, 
the Companies Act 1985. 
These ﬁnancial statements conform with the Association of
British Insurers’ (‘ABI’) Statement of Recommended Practice
on Accounting for Insurance Business (‘SORP’) issued in
November 2003.
The Company’s ﬁnancial statements have been prepared 
in compliance with Section 226 of, and Schedule 4 to, the
Companies Act 1985 adopting the exemption of omitting the
proﬁt and loss account conferred by Section 230 of that Act. 
All accounting policies have been reviewed for appropriateness
in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 18 (Accounting
Policies). The following principal accounting policies have been
applied consistently in dealing with items that are considered
material in relation to the Group’s ﬁnancial statements, except
as noted in p below.
a. Basis of consolidation
The Group’s ﬁnancial statements incorporate the results and
balance sheets of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings
made up to the balance sheet date. Unless otherwise stated,
the acquisition method of accounting has been adopted. Under
this method, the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or
disposed of in the year are included in the consolidated proﬁt
and loss account from the date of acquisition or up to the date 
of disposal. On acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking, except
where the nature of the acquisition is one of group reconstruction
as deﬁned in Financial Reporting Standard 6 (Acquisitions and
Mergers), all of the assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition
are recorded at their fair values reﬂecting their condition at 
that date. 
b. Premiums
Premium income in respect of single premium business and
pensions business not subject to contractual regular premiums is
accounted for on a cash basis. For all other classes of business,
premium income is accounted for in the year in which it falls due.
Reinsurance premiums are accounted for when due for payment.
Further details relating to the classiﬁcation of new business
premiums are included in note 2.
c. Investment return
Investment return includes dividends, interest, rents, gains and
losses on the realisation of investments and unrealised gains
and losses. Such income includes any withholding tax but
excludes other taxes such as attributable tax credits. Income
from ﬁxed interest securities together with interest, rents and
associated expenses are accounted for in the period in which
they accrue. Dividends are included in the proﬁt and loss
account when the securities are listed as 
ex-dividend. Realised gains and losses on investments are
calculated as the difference between the net sales proceeds
and original cost. Unrealised gains and losses on investments
represent the difference between the valuation of investments
at the balance sheet date and their original cost, or if they have
been previously revalued, the valuation at the last balance sheet
date. The movement in unrealised gains and losses recognised
in the period also includes the reversal of unrealised gains 
and losses recognised in earlier accounting periods in respect 
of investment disposals in the current period.
Investment return relating to investments which are directly
connected with the carrying on of long-term business is initially
recorded in the long-term business technical account and,
where applicable, a transfer is made to or from the 
non-technical account to ensure that the return remaining 
in the long-term business technical account attributable 
to shareholders reﬂects the longer-term investment 
return. Other than long-term business, investment income 
and unrealised gains and losses are recorded in the 
non-technical account. 
d. Claims and surrenders
All claims and surrenders due or notiﬁed by the balance 
sheet date are charged against revenue. Claims payable 
include claims handling costs. Reinsurance recoveries are
accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
e. Bonuses
Bonuses charged to the long-term business technical account
in a given year comprise reversionary bonuses declared in
respect of that year, which are provided within the calculation
of the long-term business provision, and terminal bonuses 
paid, which are included within claims paid.
f. Deferred acquisition costs
Acquisition costs comprise all direct and indirect costs arising
from the writing of insurance contracts. Deferred acquisition
costs comprise the costs of acquiring new insurance contracts,
which are incurred during a ﬁnancial year and are deferred 
to the extent that they are recoverable out of future 
revenue margins.
The rate of amortisation of deferred acquisition costs is
proportional to the future margins emerging in respect of 
the related policies, over the full lifetime of the policies.
g. Pension costs
Pension schemes are in operation for employees of certain
subsidiary undertakings. The principal schemes, to which 
the majority of employees belong, are of the funded deﬁned
beneﬁt type with assets managed by F&C Asset Management
plc (formerly ISIS Asset Management plc), a subsidiary
undertaking. The schemes provide beneﬁts based on ﬁnal
pensionable pay. The assets of the schemes are held in
separate trustee administered funds. The pension costs
relating to the principal schemes are assessed annually by
independent qualiﬁed actuaries.
The pension liability recognised in the balance sheet is the
obligation of the employer being the present value of the
scheme’s liabilities less the value of the assets in the scheme.
The resulting liability is stated net of a credit for deferred taxation.
The pension costs for the schemes are analysed into 
(i) current service cost, (ii) past service cost, 
(iii) settlements or curtailments and (iv) net expected return on
pension asset. Current service cost is the actuarially calculated
present value of the beneﬁts earned by the active employees
in each period. Past service costs, relating to employee service
in prior periods arising in the current period as a result of the
introduction of, or improvement to, retirement beneﬁts, are
recognised in the proﬁt and loss account on a straight-line basis
over the period in which the increase in beneﬁts vest.
Settlements or curtailments are recognised in the proﬁt and
loss account to the extent that they are not allowed for in the
actuarial assumptions. Losses on settlements or curtailments 
68 Friends Provident  is capitalised in the balance sheet at cost and amortised
through the proﬁt and loss account over its expected useful
economic life. The gain or loss on subsequent disposal of 
a subsidiary or associated undertaking will take account of 
any attributable unamortised goodwill. Any amortisation or
impairment charge is recorded within ‘Other charges, including
value adjustments’. Prior to 1998, purchased goodwill of the
Friends Provident Life Ofﬁce Group (‘the FPLO Group’) was
eliminated against the Fund for Future Appropriations as a
matter of accounting policy. Amounts previously written off 
to reserves have not been reinstated as an asset but will be
charged to the proﬁt and loss account on disposal of the
business to which they relate.
Licences acquired are capitalised in the balance sheet at cost
and amortised through the proﬁt and loss account over their
expected useful economic life. Charges for amortisation and
any changes for impairment are recorded within ‘Other
technical charges’.
k. Valuation of investments
Investments are shown in the balance sheet as follows:
(i) Land and buildings are valued each year on an open market
basis by qualiﬁed Chartered Surveyors. Properties are valued by
an external valuer at least once every 5 years. Those properties
occupied by the Group are valued on an existing-use basis and
with vacant possession.
In accordance with Statement of Standard Accounting Practice
19 (Investment Properties), no depreciation is provided in
respect of freehold investment properties or amortisation 
in respect of leasehold properties with over 20 years to expire.
This is a departure from the requirements of the Companies
Act 1985, which requires all properties to be depreciated.
However, these properties are held solely for investment
purposes and the directors consider that systematic annual
depreciation would be inappropriate. Depreciation or
amortisation is only one of the factors reﬂected in the 
annual valuations of properties, and the amounts which 
might otherwise have been shown cannot reasonably be
separately identiﬁed or quantiﬁed. The accounting policy
adopted is therefore necessary for the ﬁnancial statements 
to give a true and fair view.
(ii) Interests in associated undertakings and participating
interests, which are held as part of the Group’s investment
portfolios within the long-term funds, are accounted for as
other ﬁnancial investments. Other associated undertakings 
are accounted for on the equity basis.
(iii) Participations in investment pools, which are unlisted, 
are stated at the Group’s share of the net assets of the
investment pool. 
(iv) Other unlisted investments are valued by the directors,
having regard to their likely realisable value.
(v) Listed and other quoted investments, including those in
participating interests, are carried at mid-market value at the
balance sheet date, with the exception of those held to cover
linked liabilities which are stated at market prices consistent
with the pricing basis within those funds.
(vi) OEICs are carried at market value at the balance sheet date.
(vii) Derivatives and ﬁnancial instruments are used to facilitate
efﬁcient portfolio management and to reduce investment risk.
All transactions are covered by cash or corresponding assets
and liabilities. Listed derivatives and ﬁnancial instruments are
included at market value. Unlisted derivatives and ﬁnancial
instruments are valued at the amount which would reasonably 
Notes to the Accounts continued
1. Accounting Policies continued
are measured at the date on which the employer becomes
demonstrably committed to the transaction. Gains on
settlements or curtailments are measured at the date on 
which all parties, whose consent is required, are irrevocably
committed. Net expected return on the pension asset
comprises the expected return on the pension scheme 
assets less interest on scheme liabilities.
The actuarial gains and losses which arise from any new
valuation and from updating the latest actuarial valuation to
reﬂect conditions at the balance sheet date are taken to the
statement of total recognised gains and losses for the period.
The attributable deferred taxation is shown separately in the
statement of total recognised gains and losses.
The costs of deﬁned contribution schemes are charged to the
proﬁt and loss account in the period in which they are payable.
h. Share based payment schemes
The Company and certain subsidiary undertakings offer share
based payment schemes to employees of the Group,
depending on eligibility. The amount recognised in the proﬁt
and loss account in respect of such schemes is the difference
between the market price of the shares at the date of grant
and the option exercise price, charged on a straight-line basis
over the performance period. In respect of Inland Revenue
approved Save As You Earn (SAYE) schemes, no charge is
recognised in the proﬁt and loss account as the exemption
available under Urgent Issues Task Force abstract 17 (revised
2003) has been applied.
i. Taxation
Taxation in the non-technical account and long-term business
technical account is based on proﬁts and income for the period
as determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation,
together with adjustments to provisions for prior periods.
Provision is made for deferred taxation liabilities, using the
liability method, on all material timing differences, including
revaluation gains and losses on investments recognised in 
the proﬁt and loss account, as the investments are revalued.
Deferred taxation is calculated at the rates at which it is
expected that the tax will arise and discounted to take into
account the likely timing of payments and pattern of expected
realisation of investments. Deferred tax liabilities are
discounted using the gilt yield rates appropriate to the
estimated year in which the timing difference is expected 
to reverse. Deferred taxation is recognised in the proﬁt and
loss account for the period, except to the extent that it is
attributable to a gain or loss that is recognised directly in the
statement of total recognised gains and losses. In this case 
the attributable deferred taxation is shown separately in the
statement of total recognised gains and losses. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they 
are regarded as recoverable.
The investment return allocated from or to the long-term 
business technical account to or from the non-technical
account, in order to reﬂect the longer-term rate of return, is
stated gross of attributable tax. The transfer of the balance 
on the long-term business technical account to the non-
technical account is grossed up by attributable tax, using 
the full rate of corporation tax applicable for the period.
j. Intangible assets
Goodwill arising on consolidation, representing the excess of
the fair value of the consideration given (including associated
costs) over the fair value of the separable net assets acquired,
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 69 1. Accounting Policies continued
be paid by way of consideration for closing out the contract. 
No adjustment is made to the classiﬁcation of existing
investments to reﬂect the effect of the future settlement 
of these transactions. 
(viii) All other investments have been valued at their likely
realisable value at the balance sheet date.
(ix) In the Company balance sheet, shares in and loans to group
undertakings are stated at current value. Current value is based
on market value for listed undertakings, embedded value for
life assurance and pensions undertakings and net asset value
for other undertakings.
l. Present value of acquired in-force business (‘PVIF’)
On acquisition of a portfolio of long-term insurance contracts,
either directly or through the acquisition of a subsidiary
undertaking, the net present value of the Group’s interest 
in the expected after tax cash ﬂows of the in-force business 
is capitalised in the balance sheet as an asset. That part of 
the Group’s interest, which will be recognised as proﬁt over 
the lifetime of the in-force policies, is amortised and the
discount unwound on a systematic basis over the anticipated
lives of the related contracts.
The carrying value of the asset is assessed annually using
current assumptions in order to determine whether any
impairment has arisen compared to the amortised acquired value
based on assumptions made at the time of the acquisition. Any
amortisation or impairment charge is recorded in the long-term
business technical account within ‘Other technical charges’.
m. Long-term reassurance contracts
Long-term business is ceded to reassurers under contracts 
to transfer risk. Such contracts are accounted for in the balance
sheet as ‘Reinsurers’ share of technical provisions’.
n. Tangible assets 
Tangible assets are capitalised and depreciated on a straight
line basis over their estimated useful lives, having regard for
any residual value of the assets, as follows:
Motor vehicles 3 to 4 years
Computer equipment 1 to 4 years
Fixtures, ﬁttings and ofﬁce equipment 3 to 10 years
Leased assets over the term of the lease 
o. Fund for future appropriations
The balance on this account represents funds, the allocation 
of which, either to participating policyholders or to shareholders,
has not been determined at the balance sheet date.
p. Long-term business provision
The long-term business provision is determined separately 
for each life operation following an annual investigation of the
long term fund, and is calculated initially on a statutory solvency
basis to comply with the reporting requirements under the
Integrated Prudential Sourcebook. The valuation is then adjusted
for certain items, including the adding back of deferred
acquisition costs implicit within the valuation method of certain
contracts, the removal of certain contingency reserves and 
the adjustment of certain other reserves. This adjusted basis 
is referred to as the modiﬁed statutory solvency basis.
The valuation methodology for conventional with proﬁts
business depends on the designation of the individual
companies under the Integrated Prudential Sourcebook. Friends
Provident Life and Pensions Limited is deemed a ‘realistic’
basis ﬁrm, whereas Friends Provident Life Assurance Limited
and Friends Provident Pensions Limited are deemed
‘regulatory’ basis ﬁrms.
The calculation of the long-term business provision for
conventional with proﬁts business in Friends Provident Life 
and Pensions Limited is carried out using a gross premium
valuation method and as such includes explicit allowance for
future expenses, but excludes explicit allowance for future
bonuses. This represents a change in the estimation technique
used in previous years, when the calculation used a net
premium valuation method which included explicit allowance
for future bonuses. If this methodology were to be applied in
2003 then the impact of this change would have been 
to reduce the long-term business provision by £371m.
The calculations of the long-term business provision for 
linked and income protection business also use the gross
premium methodology.
The calculations for conventional non-proﬁt business and for
conventional with proﬁts business within Friends Provident Life
Assurance Limited use the net premium valuation method and,
as such, include explicit provision for vested bonuses (including
those vesting following the current valuation). Implicit provision
is made for reversionary bonuses, but not terminal bonuses, 
by means of a reduction in the valuation rate of interest.
q. Long-term borrowings
Subordinated liabilities are included in the balance sheet 
at the value of consideration received, net of unamortised
capitalised issue costs. The ﬁnance cost is charged over the
term of the borrowings and represents a constant proportion 
of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Convertible bonds are stated separately from other liabilities.
The ﬁnance cost is calculated on the assumption that the debt
will not be converted and together with issue costs is charged
to the non-technical account over the term of the borrowings
and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital
repayments outstanding.
Loan notes are included in the balance sheet at nominal value.
The other debenture loan is included in the balance sheet at its
fair value at the date the FPLO Group acquired London and
Manchester Group plc. The resulting premium over the ﬁnal
redemption price is being amortised over the life of the loan. 
r. Leases
Assets held under ﬁnance leases are capitalised at the 
fair value of the asset at the inception of the lease with an
equivalent liability shown under creditors. Finance charges 
are allocated to accounting periods over the life of each lease.
Payments in respect of operating leases are charged to the
proﬁt and loss account in the period to which they relate.
s. Foreign currencies
The results of foreign enterprises are translated at average
exchange rates, while their assets and liabilities are translated
at year-end rates. The resulting exchange differences arising
within long-term businesses are included within the long-term
business technical account, while those arising within other
businesses are taken directly to reserves and are reported 
in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Assets and liabilities held in foreign currencies at the balance
sheet date are expressed in sterling at rates ruling on that date.
Income and expenditure denominated in foreign currencies are
translated at rates ruling at the date on which the transaction
occurs. All resulting exchange gains and losses are included
within that part of the proﬁt and loss account in which the
underlying transaction is reported.
70 Friends Provident 
Notes to the Accounts continued
70 Friends Provident  Notes to the Accounts continued
2. Segmental information
The directors consider that the Group has two material business segments, Life & Pensions and Asset Management.
a. Business Segment information
i. Turnover 
2004 2003*
Life & Pensions £m £m
Gross premiums written by type
Life
Protection 185 159
Savings and investment 1,427 1,374
Pensions
Individual pensions 480 536
Group pensions 685 772
Annuities 280 294
Total Life & Pensions 3,057 3,135
Managed pension fund business 75 82
Total 3,132 3,217
Premiums from non-participating contracts 530 517
Premiums from participating contracts 580 789
Premiums from investment linked contracts 2,022 1,911
Total 3,132 3,217
* In the 31 December 2003 annual ﬁnancial statements a tranche of business was incorrectly classiﬁed as Protection rather than Savings 
and investment. This has been corrected in the table above to enable comparison with 31 December 2004. There is no impact on total gross
premiums written.
2004 2003
Asset Management £m £m
Investment Management fees 151 110
Net proﬁt from OEIC and unit trust trading 2 1
153 111
Fees arising from the Life & Pensions segment (38) (34)
Total 115 77
Asset Management turnover from external customers is included in ‘other income’ in the non-technical account. Turnover derived from the
Life & Pensions segment of £38m (2003: £34m) is eliminated in consolidation. 
ii. New Business
Regular Premiums Single Premiums APE*
2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Gross new premiums written by type
Life
Protection 77 69 – – 77 69
Savings and investment 48 41 813 730 129 114
Pensions
Individual pensions 12 14 241 264 36 40
Group pensions 137 134 267 420 164 176
Annuities – – 280 294 28 30
Total Life & Pensions 274 258 1,601 1,708 434 429
* The new Life & Pensions APE represents gross new regular premiums plus 10% of gross new single premiums.
In classifying new business premiums the following basis of recognition is adopted:-
• Single new business premiums consist of those contracts under which there is no expectation of continuing premiums being paid 
at regular intervals;
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 71 Notes to the Accounts continued
72 Friends Provident 
2. Segmental Information continued
a. Business Segment information continued
ii. New Business continued
• Regular new business premiums consist of those contracts under which there is an expectation of continuing premiums being paid at
regular intervals, including repeated or recurrent single premiums where the level of premiums is deﬁned, or where a regular pattern 
in the receipt of premiums has been established;
• Non-contractual increments under existing group pension schemes are classiﬁed as new business premiums;
• Transfers between products where open market options are available are included as new business; and 
• Regular new business premiums are included on an annualised basis.
Net New Money
2004 2003
£m £m
Asset Management new business
Life and pensions (1,698) (2,237)
Institutional (1,534) (120)
Open ended products – third party 165 65
Investment trusts (72) 93
Venture capital trusts (19) 13
Limited partnerships (1) 7
(3,159) (2,179)
The net outﬂow of funds has partly arisen from a high proportion of insurance assets, and the high level of redemptions from some of 
these in recent years. The size of funds under management has nevertheless increased from £63bn at 31 December 2003 (£120bn based 
on pro-forma numbers representing the combination of ISIS and F&C) to £125bn at 31 December 2004. 
‘Life and pensions’ includes assets invested by the Life & Pensions business of the Group. Changes in ‘Life and pensions’ can reﬂect balance
sheet or corporate actions as well as underlying business ﬂows.
iii. Proﬁt on ordinary activities before tax
2004 2003
£m £m
Life & Pensions 264 264
Asset Management (8) (4)
256 260
iv. Net assets
2004 2003
£m £m
Life & Pensions 1,982 1,942
Asset Management 479 67
2,461 2,009
b. Geographical segmental information
i. Turnover
2004 2003
Life & Pensions gross premiums £m £m
Source
United Kingdom 2,680 2,738
Rest of World 377 397
3,057 3,135
Destination
United Kingdom 2,710 2,758
Rest of World 347 377
3,057 3,135 Notes to the Accounts continued
2. Segmental Information continued
b. Geographical segmental information continued
i. Turnover continued
2004 2003
Asset Management turnover £m £m
Source
United Kingdom 141 111
Rest of World 12 –
153 111
Destination
United Kingdom 128 109
Rest of World 25 2
153 111
The Asset Management turnover analysed above contains both turnover derived from external customers and turnover derived from the Life
& Pensions segment (see note 2a).
ii. New Business
Regular Premiums Single Premiums
2004 2003 2004 2003
Life & Pensions new business £m £m £m £m
Source
United Kingdom 229 220 1,365 1,441
Rest of World 45 38 236 267
274 258 1,601 1,708
Destination
United Kingdom 225 217 1,418 1,485
Rest of World 49 41 183 223
274 258 1,601 1,708
iii. Proﬁt on ordinary activities before tax 
2004 2003
Life & Pensions £m £m
Source
United Kingdom 227 275
Rest of World 37 (11)
264 264
Destination
United Kingdom 217 289
Rest of World 47 (25)
264 264
2004 2003
Asset Management £m £m
Source
United Kingdom (7) (4)
Rest of World (1) –
(8) (4)
Destination
United Kingdom (5) (4)
Rest of World (3) –
(8) (4)
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 73 Notes to the Accounts continued
74 Friends Provident 
2. Segmental Information continued
iv. Net Assets
The net assets supporting the Rest of World geographical segment are the same as those supporting the United Kingdom segment and
therefore have not been separated.
3. Outward reinsurance premiums 
Outward reinsurance premiums include reinsurance premium rebates, net of a provision for clawbacks, of £21m (2003: £27m). 
The result arising from the aggregate of all reinsurance balances in the long-term business technical account for the year ended 
31 December 2004 was a debit balance of £17m (2003: £16m) to the Group.
4. Investment return
a. Total investment return
Technical Non-technical
account account
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Investment income
Income from land and buildings 103 110 – –
Income from other investments 1,279 1,129 44 36
Gains on the realisation of investments 216 – 3 10
Expected return on net pension liability (note 10) – – 8 5
1,598 1,239 55 51
Unrealised gains on investments 1,438 1,964 11 40
Investment expenses and charges
Investment management expenses (47) (44) (2) (1)
Interest on other loans (26) (22) (51) (32)
Losses on the realisation of investments – (32) (5) –
(73) (98) (58) (33)
Total investment return 2,963 3,105 8 58
b. Longer-term investment return
The longer-term investment return is calculated in respect of equity, property and ﬁxed interest investments by applying the longer-term 
rate of return for each investment category to the quarterly weighted average of the corresponding assets, after adjusting for the effect 
of any short-term market movements.
The longer-term rate of return is determined by considering a number of factors including historic and predicted investment returns. 
The rate is not expected to change on an annual basis.
The directors have determined the longer-term rates of investment return to be as follows:
Longer-term rates of investment return
2004 2003
%%
Equities and properties 7.50 7.50
Government ﬁxed interest 5.00 5.00
Other ﬁxed interest 5.75 5.75
c. Sensitivity of longer-term investment return
2004 2003
£m £m
Longer-term return 85 87
After the impact of a 1% increase in the longer-term rates of investment return 97 100
After the impact of a 1% decrease in the longer-term rates of investment return 72 74 Notes to the Accounts continued
4. Investment return continued
d. Comparison of longer-term and actual investment return
9 July 2001 to
31 December 2004
£m
Actual return attributable to shareholders (48)
Less: longer-term return 319
Cumulative deﬁcit of actual returns over longer-term returns (367)
The table above reﬂects the movement from demutualisation.
5. Other technical income, net of reinsurance
2004 2003
£m £m
Newcastle Building Society – Policy loans – 1
6. Other technical charges, net of reinsurance
2004 2003
£m £m
Amortisation of present value of acquired in-force business 9 11
Impairment of present value of acquired in-force business – 4
Amortisation of licence 4 6
13 21
7. Net operating expenses and corporate costs
a. Net operating expenses in the technical account comprise:
2004 2003
£m £m
Acquisition costs 357 357
Change in deferred acquisition costs (107) (118)
Administrative expenses 250 186
500 425
2004 2003
£m £m
Commission for direct insurance (excluding payments to employees)
included within net operating expenses 243 210
Total administrative expenses include:
2004 2003
£m £m
Auditors’ remuneration – statutory audit services 1.2 0.8
Depreciation of tangible assets – owned assets 17.2 19.0
Loss on sale of ﬁxed assets 0.9 2.7
Operating lease rentals
Land and buildings 15.8 16.4
Equipment 4.0 3.1
Auditors’ remuneration in respect of the parent company was £130,000 (2003: £147,000).
Auditors’ remuneration relating to non-audit services in respect of the parent company was £145,000 (2003: £296,000).
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 75 Notes to the Accounts continued
76 Friends Provident 
7. Net operating expenses and corporate costs continued
b. Auditors’ Remuneration
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting held on 20 May 2004, shareholders approved the appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors 
to the Company and subsidiaries, excluding F&C Asset Management plc and its subsidiaries. Prior to the appointment of KPMG Audit Plc
(‘KPMG’), PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP acted as auditors to these companies. Ernst & Young LLP are auditors to F&C, and its subsidiary
companies. The tables below give an analysis of the total fees including VAT in respect of services provided to the Group by each ﬁrm.
Information concerning the auditors, appointment process is given in the corporate governance report on page 45.
2004 2003
KPMG Audit Plc and its associates £m £m
Audit services
Statutory audit services 0.7 –
Audit related regulatory reporting 0.2 –
Other audit related 0.2 –
1.1 –
Further assurance services 
Accounting advice on corporate projects 0.2 –
Tax advisory services – –
Other non-audit services
Securitisation (see note 28) 0.4 –
IFRS Conversion 0.6 –
Other 0.1 –
Total non-audit fees (i) 1.3 –
Total fees (iii) 2.4 –
Non-audit fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers for 2003 were £1.0m and audit fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers were £0.7m.
2004 2003
ERNST & YOUNG LLP £m £m
Audit services
Statutory audit services 0.5 0.2
0.5 0.2
Further assurance services 
Accounting advice on corporate projects (ii) 1.1 0.1
Other non-audit services 
Integration related – 0.3
Product reviews into past sales (see note 27) 1.1 0.3
Other 0.5 0.2
Total non-audit fees 2.7 0.9
Total fees (iii) 3.2 1.1
(i) Non-audit fees for services supplied by the Group auditors in accordance with Companies Act 1985 requirements (Statutory Instrument
1991/2128) were £0.8m in 2004. This represents all non-audit services provided to the Company and any UK subsidiary undertakings
audited by the same auditors as the Company. Included in total non-audit fees above for KPMG are fees of £0.5m for 2004 for services
supplied to F&C and its subsidiaries.
(ii) In respect of services in relation to the purchase of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited by ISIS Asset Management plc.
(iii) All work awarded to KPMG and Ernst & Young LLP has been approved by the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Company 
or F&C as appropriate.
KPMG Audit Plc is the auditor of the principal pension scheme of the Group, the Friends Provident Pension Scheme (‘FPPS’).
Fees paid to KPMG in 2004 in respect of the audit of the pension scheme FPPS amounted to £25,000. In 2003 fees of £25,000 
were paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. These fees are excluded from the above analysis. Notes to the Accounts continued
8. Operating exceptional items
Operating exceptional items borne by shareholders are: 
2004 2003
£m £m
Closure of Direct Sales operation (i) 2 14
Life & Pensions integration costs (ii) 9 9
Provision/(release of provision) for misselling/complaints (iii) 14 (14)
Asset Management integration costs (iv) 19 12
Gross up for shareholder tax 8 –
52 21
(i) The charge of £2m for 2004 represents the expenses relating to the reorganisation of the Appointed Representatives sales channel.
Expenses in 2003 relate to the closure of the direct sales operation (First Call). This has been charged to net operating expenses.
(ii) Operating exceptional costs of £9m (2003: £7m) have been incurred relating to integration activity following the acquisition of Friends
Provident International Limited in August 2002 with £3m (2003: £2m) of this shown within net operating expenses and £6m (2003: £5m)
shown within other charges. 
(iii) A total of £30m (2003: £6m) has been charged to net operating expenses in respect of the cost to shareholders of mortgage endowment
complaints and historic business reviews. This is offset by a credit of £16m (2003: £20m) in respect of the review conducted into pension
transfers and opt-outs (see note 27).
(iv) Asset Management integration costs include £18m (2003: £nil) which were incurred in integrating, rationalising and reorganising the
Asset Management business following the acquisition of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited and are included in other charges (see note 34).
2003 costs of £12m relate to the acquisition of Royal & SunAlliance Investments in 2002.
9. Particulars of staff costs and directors’ emoluments
a. The aggregate remuneration paid or payable in respect of employees, including executive directors, was as follows:
2004 2003
£m £m
Wages and salaries 167 167
Social security costs 16 15
Pension costs 22 20
205 202
b. The average number of employees, including executive directors, employed by the Group during the year was as follows:
2004 2003
No. No.
Life & Pensions 3,928 4,585
Asset Management 604 519
4,532 5,104
c. The emoluments of all directors in respect of their services to the Group were:
2004 2003
£000 £000
Executive Directors
Management salaries and beneﬁts in kind 1,792 1,830
Long-term incentive scheme payments – 330
Amounts receivable under annual bonus schemes 1,861 1,152
Pension contribution to money purchase schemes 75 65
Compensation for loss of ofﬁce 235 36
Non-Executive Directors
Fees (excl. VAT) 625 559
Compensation for loss of ofﬁce 26 –
4,614 3,972
Information concerning individual directors’ emoluments, interests and transactions is given on pages 49 to 58 and notes 38 and 39.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 77 Notes to the Accounts continued
78 Friends Provident 
10. Staff pension schemes
a. Friends Provident Pension Scheme & total schemes
i. The Group operates several deﬁned beneﬁt schemes: the Friends Provident Pension Scheme (‘FPPS’), to which the majority of the
Group’s Life & Pensions employees belong, and the various schemes operated by F&C Asset Management which are closed to new entrants,
and summary details of which are given in b. below. In addition, the Group operates two deﬁned contribution schemes: the scheme operated
by F&C Asset Management plc, and the scheme operated by Friends Provident International Limited. Contributions for the period were £4.5m
(shown within ‘Other charges’ in the non-technical account) and £0.6m (shown within net operating expenses) respectively.
FPPS is a UK deﬁned beneﬁt scheme and its assets are administered by a subsidiary undertaking of F&C Asset Management plc.
Contributions to the Scheme recommenced in January 2004. The employee contributions were 1% of pensionable salary from January 2004
rising to 2% from January 2005, and will increase to 3% from January 2006, to be reviewed thereafter for subsequent years (subject to a
maximum of 5%). Employer contributions recommenced at 13% of pensionable salaries from January 2004, increasing to 14% from January
2005 and rising to 15% from January 2006 and similarly to be reviewed thereafter for subsequent years. 
Details of the latest valuation for FPPS are given below:
Date of last valuation 30 September 2004
Method of valuation Projected Unit
Scheme Actuary Towers Perrin
Market value of assets at last valuation date £636m
Level of funding 91%
The full actuarial valuation was updated to 31 December 2004 by the Scheme Actuary and restated on a FRS17 basis. The major assumptions
used by the Actuary are best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescales covered, may not
necessarily be borne out in practice. The major assumptions are set out below:
31 Dec 2004 31 Dec 2003 31 Dec 2002
%%%
Inﬂation assumption 2.90 2.50 2.00
Rate of increase in salaries *3.50 *3.00 *3.50
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.75 2.50 2.00
Discount rate 5.50 5.50 5.50
* Plus allowance for salary scale increases. 10. Staff pension schemes continued
ii. Assets in the FPPS and the expected annual rate of return
The fair value of the scheme’s assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short term and may be subject to signiﬁcant change before
they are realised, and the present value of the scheme’s liabilities, which are derived from cash ﬂow projections over long periods and are
therefore inherently uncertain, were:
Expected annual
long-term rate of return Value
31 Dec 2004 31 Dec 2003 31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2004 31 Dec 2003 31 Dec 2002 
% % % £m £m £m
Fixed interest bonds 5.25 5.25 5.00 95 52 46
Index-linked bonds 5.00 5.00 4.75 96 36 39
Equities 7.10 7.30 7.50 415 503 424
Derivatives – –– 71 4–
Cash 4.00 4.00 4.00 23 918
Total market value of assets 700 604 527
Present value of scheme liabilities (706) (609) (547)
Deﬁcit in the scheme (6) (5) (20)
Related deferred tax asset 2 26
Net pension liability: FPPS (4) (3) (14)
F&C schemes (13) (5) (6)
Net pension liability (17) (8) (20)
iii. Analysis of the amount charged to operating proﬁt
2004 2003
£m £m
Current service cost: FPPS 16 16
F&C schemes 1 1
Total operating charge 17 17
iv. Analysis of the amount credited to investment income
2004 2003
£m £m
Expected return on pension scheme assets 41 36
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (33) (31)
Expected return on net pension liability: FPPS 8 5
F&C schemes – –
Expected return on net pension liability 8 5
The expected return on net pension scheme liability is calculated using the assumptions and the market value of pension scheme assets 
as stated in the table above for the preceding year end.
v. Analysis of the amount recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses (‘STRGL’)
2004 2003
£m £m
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 64 61
Experience losses arising on the scheme liabilities (8) (11)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities (61) (24)
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in STRGL: FPPS (5) 26
F&C schemes (2) 1
Total actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in STRGL (7) 27
Notes to the Accounts continued
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 79 Notes to the Accounts continued
80 Friends Provident 
10. Staff pension schemes continued
vi. Movement in surplus during the year
2004 2003
£m £m
Deﬁcit in schemes at beginning of the year: FPPS (5) (20)
F&C schemes (8) (8)
(13) (28)
Movement in year:
Total operating charge (17) (17)
Employers and employees contributions 12 –
Expected return on net pension liability 8 5
Deﬁcit on acquisition net of deferred tax (i) (7) –
Actuarial (loss)/gain (7) 27
(11) 15
Deﬁcit in schemes at end of the year: FPPS (6) (5)
F&C schemes (18) (8)
(24) (13)
(i) Adjustment for the fair value of scheme deﬁcits on acquisition of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited.
vii. History of experience gains and losses
2001 2002 2003 2004
FPPS Only £m £m £m £m
Difference between the expected and actual return on 
scheme assets:
Amount (187) (190) 61 64
Percentage of closing scheme assets (27)% (36)% 10% 9%
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
Amount (7) 4 (11) (8)
Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities (1)% 1% (2)% (1)%
Total amount recognised in the statement of total recognised 
gains and losses:
Amount (193) (214) 26 (5)
Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities (38)% (39)% 4% (1)%
b. The F&C Asset Management plc Pension Schemes 
Following the merger of ISIS and F&C the enlarged F&C Group operates two core deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes in the United Kingdom.
Both of these scheme are closed to new entrants. All new UK F&C employees are eligible to beneﬁt from deﬁned contribution arrangements.
The Chairman of F&C Asset Management, Mr. R.W. Jenkins, was awarded pension beneﬁts by F&C Management Limited prior to completion
of the merger between ISIS and F&C in respect of his past service to the F&C Group. This is an unfunded pensions liability and therefore the
F&C Group has made an appropriate provision in its accounts.
Employees of F&C in the Netherlands, Portugal and Ireland participate in multi-employer pension arrangements and, with the exception of
Ireland, these schemes are open to new employees. Plans are currently being initiated to set up separate deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes 
in respect of employees in the Netherlands and Ireland. These new arrangements will maintain the existing beneﬁts of current employees 
and will be funded by the transfer of assets from the current multi-employer schemes. Where F&C Asset Management is unable to separately
identify its share of assets and liabilities of overseas multi-employer deﬁned beneﬁt schemes, then these schemes are accounted for 
as deﬁned contribution arrangements. The details of the individual schemes in summary are as follows:
F&C Netherlands B.V.
Employees in the Netherlands participate in the Achmea Pension Plan. At the end of 2004 the plan had a deﬁcit of c349m. F&C Netherlands
BV contributed c0.3m to the Achmea Pension Plan for the period 11 October 2004 to 31 December 2004. 10. Staff pension schemes continued
F&C Ireland Limited
Certain staff in Ireland participate in the Friends First Retirement and Death Beneﬁts Plan. At the end of 2004 the plan had a deﬁcit 
of c4.9m. F&C Ireland Limited contributed c0.03m to the Friends First Plan for the period 11 October 2004 to 31 December 2004.
F&C Portugal S.A.
Certain staff in Portugal participate in the Fundo de Pensões do Grupo Banco Comercial Portugues/Atlantico pension scheme. At the 
end of 2004 the plan had a deﬁcit of c1.38m. F&C Portugal S.A. contributed c0.06m to this scheme for the period 11 October 2004 
to 31 December 2004.
As a result of the merger of ISIS and F&C, F&C employees in the Netherlands and Ireland will no longer be able to continue to participate in
the existing multi-employer plans. It is expected that new pension arrangements will be set up in Ireland and the Netherlands during 2005.
When these new schemes are set up there will be a greater certainty in respect of the surpluses or deﬁcits in these schemes attributable 
to the F&C Group. Under the terms of the merger of F&C and ISIS, F&C Asset Management has a contractual protection such that the
maximum pension deﬁcit it could inherit upon the set-up of the above plans is c0.5m. 
i. Summarised F&C Group Position on Deﬁned Beneﬁt Obligations
The following section provides summary analysis of all F&C deﬁned beneﬁt schemes which have been accounted for under FRS 17. 
Further details on individual schemes can be obtained from Note 28 of F&C Asset Management plc’s Report and Accounts.
The major assumptions used by the Actuaries are best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to 
the timescales covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice. The major assumptions are set out below:
31 Dec 2004 31 Dec 2003 31 Dec 2002
%%%
Inﬂation assumption 2.75 2.50 2.25
Rate of increase in salaries 4.00 4.00 4.00
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.75-3.50 2.50-3.50 2.25-3.50
Discount rate 5.30 5.40 5.50
The rate of increase of pensions in payment is contractually dependent on the terms of each individual deﬁned beneﬁt arrangement.
ii. Assets in the scheme and the expected annual rate of return
The fair value of the scheme’s assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short term and may be subject to signiﬁcant change before
they are realised, and the present value of the scheme’s liabilities, which are derived from cash ﬂow projections over long periods and thus
inherently uncertain, were:
Expected annual
long-term rate of return Value
31 Dec 2004 31 Dec 2003 31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2004 31 Dec 2003 31 Dec 2002
% % % £m £m £m
Gilts 5.00 5.00 5.00 14 32
Equities 7.00 7.00 7.00 73 23 20
Corporate bonds 5.30 5.40 5.50 5 33
Cash 4.00 4.00 4.00 3 ––
Total market value of assets 95 29 25
Present value of scheme liabilities (113) (37) (33)
Deﬁcit in the scheme (18) (8) (8)
Related deferred tax asset 5 32
Net pension liability (13) (5) (6)
Notes to the Accounts continued
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 81 Notes to the Accounts continued
82 Friends Provident 
10. Staff pension schemes continued
iii. Analysis of the amount charged to operating proﬁt
2004 2003
£m £m
Current service cost and total operating charge 1 1
iv. Analysis of the amount credited to investment income
2004 2003
£m £m
Expected return on pension scheme assets 3 2
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (3) (2)
Expected return on net pension (liability)/asset – –
The expected return on net pension scheme (liability)/asset is calculated using the assumptions and the market value of pension scheme
assets as stated in the table above for the preceding year end.
v. Analysis of the amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses (‘STRGL’)
2004 2003
£m £m
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 2 2
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities 1 –
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities (5) (1)
Total actuarial (loss)/gains recognised in STRGL (2) 1
vi. Movement in surplus during the year
2004 2003
£m £m
Deﬁcit in schemes at beginning of the year (8) (8)
Movement in year:
Total operating charge (1) (1)
Deﬁcit on acquisition net of deferred tax (i) (7) –
Actuarial (loss)/gain (2) 1
Loss at end of the year (18) (8)
(i) Adjustment for the fair value of scheme deﬁcits on acquisition of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited.
vii. History of experience gains and losses
2001 2002 2003 2004
F&C Schemes £m £m £m £m
Difference between the expected and actual return on scheme assets:
Amount (6) (9) 2 2
Percentage of opening scheme assets (18)% (37)% 7% 2%
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
Amount (1) 1 – 1
Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities (2)% 4% 0% 0%
Total amount recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Amount (5) (8) 1 (3)
Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities (16)% (24)% 2% 3% 11. Taxation
Proﬁt and loss account
United Kingdom and overseas taxation has been charged in the proﬁt and loss account on assessable proﬁts and income on the bases and
rates appropriate to the various classes of business.
a. Tax charged to the long-term business technical account and non-technical account
Technical Non-technical 
account account
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Current taxation
United Kingdom corporation tax (30%) 48 (2) 10 17
Adjustments in respect of prior years 7 5 (6) (1)
55 3 4 16
Overseas taxation 5 4 2 –
Tax credit attributable to balance on the long-term business technical account (i) (9) (13) 81 68
Total current taxation 51 (6) 87 84
Deferred taxation
Origination and reversal of timing differences 23 68 (8) (12)
Effect of discount 1 (42) – –
Total deferred taxation 24 26 (8) (12)
Total taxation 75 20 79 72
(i) For 2004, of the total tax credit on the long-term business technical account of £72m (2003: £55m) £9m has been allocated to the
technical account in so far as it relates to the £31m allocated investment return transferred to the non-technical account (2003: £43m
transferred to the non-technical account).
b. Factors affecting tax charge for year
The tax assessed for the year is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK (30%). The differences are explained below:
2004 2003
£m £m
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before tax 256 260
Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% 77 78
Effects of:
Deductions not allowable for tax purposes 13 15
Income not taxable (2) (21)
Deferred tax movements 8 12
Tax losses (utilised)/not utilised (5) 1
Overseas tax suffered 2 –
Adjustments in respect of prior years (6) (1)
Current tax charge for year 87 84
Balance Sheet
Deferred taxation £m
At 1 January 2004 15
Effect of discounting 1
Charge in year 15
Increase in the deferred tax asset on the pension scheme netted off against the pension liability on Note 10aii 2
Deferred tax asset acquired from F&C Group (Holdings) Limited (26)
Deferred tax asset brought forward reanalysed from debtors (3)
At 31 December 2004 4
Notes to the Accounts continued
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 83 Notes to the Accounts continued
84 Friends Provident 
11. Taxation continued
Deferred taxation
Details of the liability for deferred taxation are given below:
2004 2003
£m £m
Revaluation of investments 20 4
Accelerated capital allowances (30) (21)
Short-term timing differences (21) (2)
Deferred acquisition costs 97 88
Discount on deferred acquisition costs (54) (54)
Losses carried forward (8) –
Discounted provision for deferred taxation 4 15
Impact of discounting on deferred taxation 53 54
Deferred taxation on chargeable gains relating to the net unrealised appreciation of investments within linked funds, including that relating to
the deemed disposal of open ended investment companies, is taken into account in the calculation of technical provisions for linked liabilities
and is therefore excluded from the above analysis.
Factors that may affect future tax charges
The deferred tax assets which have not been recognised due to uncertainty of the recoverability in the foreseeable future comprise:
Technical account Non-technical account
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Unrealised losses on investments 1 2 – –
Realised losses on investments 9 9 2 3
Deferred acquisition expenses 28 – – –
Trading losses – – 4 –
38 11 6 3
The pension liability is recorded net of the related deferred tax in the balance sheet and details of the deferred tax are shown in note 10. 
The deferred tax asset relating to the pension liability is not included in the analysis above.
12. Other income and charges
Other income includes £115m (2003: £77m) in respect of income from investment management fees earned by the Asset Management
business (excluding those charged to the Life & Pensions business).
Other charges includes £94m (2003: £75m) in respect of Asset Management business operating expenses, and £23m operating exceptional
items relating to the integration of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited. Within Other charges is a further £3m (2003: £5m) of operating exceptional
items relating to Life & Pensions integration expenses following the acquisition of Friends Provident International Limited in August 2002. 
Other charges for 2003 also includes £12m of operating exceptional items, relating to the acquisition of Royal & SunAlliance Investments 
in July 2002.
13. Dividend
2004 2003
£m £m
Interim dividend 2.55p per share (2003: 2.5p per share) 50 43
Proposed ﬁnal dividend 5.0p per share (2003: 4.9p per share) 102 84
Total dividends 7.55p per share (2003: 7.4p per share) 152 127
The proposed ﬁnal dividend of £102m includes £6m in respect of 113m shares issued on 11 January 2005 in respect of the Lombard
transaction (see note 40). Notes to the Accounts continued
14. Earnings per share
a. Basic and operating earnings per share
Earnings per share have been calculated based on operating proﬁt before amortisation of goodwill, operating exceptional items, after tax, and
on the proﬁt after tax attributable to equity shareholders, as the directors believe the former earnings per share ﬁgure gives a better indication
of operating performance. 
2004 2003
Earnings Per share Earnings Per share
£m pence £m pence
Proﬁt after tax attributable to equity shareholders 179 9.9 192 11.2
Short-term ﬂuctuations in investment return (28) (1.5) (51) (3.0)
Amortisation of goodwill 37 2.0 30 1.7
Operating exceptional items 52 2.8 21 1.2
Tax credit on items excluded from operating proﬁt before amortisation 
of goodwill and operating exceptional items (2) (0.1) (4) (0.2)
Minority interest in operating exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and tax (13) (0.7) (9) (0.5)
Operating proﬁt before amortisation of goodwill and operating 
exceptional items, after tax, attributable to equity shareholders 225 12.4 179 10.4
Weighted average number of shares for the ﬁnancial year (millions) 1,808 1,722
b. Diluted earnings per share
2004 2003
Weighted Weighted
average number average number
Earnings of shares Per share Earnings of shares Per share
£m million pence £m million pence
Proﬁt after tax attributable to 
equity shareholders 179 1,808 9.9 192 1,722 11.2
Dilutive effect of options – 11 (0.1) – 7 (0.1)
Diluted earnings per share 179 1,819 9.8 192 1,729 11.1
15. Parent company proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year 
The proﬁt of the Company for the ﬁnancial year, before dividends, is £117m (2003: £224m). As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act
1985, the parent company’s proﬁt and loss account has not been included in these accounts. 
16. Intangible assets
Goodwill Licence
Note £m £m
Cost 
At 1 January 2004 502 18
Additions 34 415 –
Disposals (41) –
At 31 December 2004 876 18
Amortisation
At 1 January 2004 96 8
Charge for the year 37 4
Disposals (8) –
At 31 December 2004 125 12
Net book value
At 31 December 2003 406 10
At 31 December 2004 751 6
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 85 16. Intangible assets continued
Goodwill relating to the acquisition of London and Manchester Group plc is being amortised on a straight-line basis over 20 years from 
the date of acquisition of the London and Manchester Group plc by the FPLO Group. 
Goodwill associated with the retail business of Royal & SunAlliance Investments is being amortised on a straight-line basis over 20 years 
from the date of acquisition by the Group. The goodwill associated with the investment management of the insurance business of Royal &
SunAlliance Group plc is being amortised over 10 years, in line with the period of the underlying Investment Management Agreements. 
The goodwill relating to the acquisition of Royal & SunAlliance International Financial Services Limited is being amortised on a straight-line
basis over 20 years from the date of acquisition.
Goodwill relating to the acquisition of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited is being amortised on a straight-line basis over 20 years from the date 
of acquisition, except for that goodwill associated with the underlying Investment Management Agreements of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited
which is being amortised over 10 years.
The cost of goodwill is split as follows:
2004 2003
£m £m
Amortised over 10 years 267 99
Amortised over 20 years 609 403
876 502
Cumulative goodwill written off directly to the fund for future appropriations of the FPLO Group arising from acquisitions prior to 1998
amounted to £76m as at 31 December 2004.
The licence relates to an exclusive distribution agreement secured with Countrywide Assured Group plc in August 2002. The agreement 
gives a 15 year exclusive right to distribute mortgage related protection products through Countrywide’s estate agency branches and its
licensed consultants.
17. Investments
Group
Current Value Cost Current Value Cost
2004 2004 2003 2003
£m £m £m £m
Land and buildings
Owner occupied
Freehold 48 69 44 69
Long Leasehold 10 15 811
58 84 52 80
Other
Freehold 915 623 1,031 835
Long Leasehold 173 118 160 116
1,088 741 1,191 951
Total land and buildings 1,146 825 1,243 1,031
Investments in participating interests 1 1 11
Other ﬁnancial investments
Shares and other variable yield securities and shares in OEICs 5,209 4,596 4,969 4,715
Debt and other ﬁxed income securities 13,240 12,626 13,185 12,766
Participation in investment pools 262 192 291 267
Loans secured by mortgages 11 44
Other loans 33 33
Deposits with credit institutions 1,061 1,061 522 522
Other 164 140 187 168
19,940 18,619 19,161 18,445
Assets held to cover linked liabilities 13,024 11,768 11,094 10,699
Notes to the Accounts continued
86 Friends Provident  17. Investments continued
Listed investments included within the current values of other ﬁnancial investments shown above comprise:
Group
Current Value Current Value 
2004 2003
£m £m
Shares and other variable yield securities 4,566 4,798
Debt securities and other ﬁxed income securities 13,056 12,961
17,622 17,759
The current value of Group assets held to cover linked liabilities includes £812m (2003: £849m) relating to managed pension funds.
Other investments comprise derivatives contracts to hedge amounts in the long-term business provision.
During the year, all properties have been independently valued by a qualiﬁed valuer, principally DTZ Debenham Tie Leung and CB Richard Ellis,
who are both Chartered Surveyors. The valuations are prepared in accordance with RICS appraisal and valuation standards.
The movement in investments in participating interests relates to European Alliance Partners Company A.G., an associated undertaking.
The Group holds at least 20% of the nominal value of the equity share of 12 other associated undertakings, which are included within other
ﬁnancial investments. In the Group balance sheet the combined value of these holdings amounts to 0.01% of total assets. No additional
disclosures are made regarding these associated undertakings due to their immateriality relative to the Group.
The movement in investments in group undertakings is as follows:
Company
Shares in group Loans to group Other ﬁnancial 
undertakings undertakings investments
2004 2004 2004
£m £m £m
Current value
At 1 January 2004 3,324 90 142
Additions 619 5 19
Disposals (290) (15) –
Revaluations 101 – 2
At 31 December 2004 3,754 80 163
Cost
At 1 January 2004 2,389 90 143
Additions 619 5 19
Disposals (290) (15) –
At 31 December 2004 2,718 80 162
18. Present value of acquired in-force business
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2004 220
At 31 December 2004 220
Amortisation
At 1 January 2004 66
Amortisation during year 9
At 31 December 2004 75
Net book value
At 31 December 2003 154
At 31 December 2004 145
Notes to the Accounts continued
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 87 19. Other debtors
2004 2003
£m £m
Investment income receivable 19 22
Investments sold for subsequent settlement 13 43
Taxation 49 –
Deferred taxation 29 –
Other debtors 86 69
196 134
20. Tangible assets
Fixtures, ﬁttings
Computer and ofﬁce
Motor vehicles equipment equipment Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2004 12 57 8 77
Additions 114 2 17
Disposals (4) (2) (2) (8)
At 31 December 2004 969 8 86
Depreciation
At 1 January 2004 642 5 53
Charge for the year 212 1 15
Disposals (3) (2) (2) (7)
At 31 December 2004 552 4 61
Net Book Value
At 31 December 2003 615 3 24
At 31 December 2004 417 4 25
The net book value includes an amount of £0.1m (2003: £0.5m) in respect of computer equipment held under ﬁnance leases.
21. Share capital and share premium
a. The authorised and issued share capital of the Company at 31 December 2004 was:
2004 2003
£m £m
Authorised:
2,500m (2003: 2,500m) ordinary shares of 10 pence 250 250
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
1,989m (2003: 1,722m) ordinary shares of 10 pence 199 172
On 11 January 2005 113,477,763 ordinary shares were issued in respect of the acquisition of Lombard International Assurance S.A. 
(see note 40).
Notes to the Accounts continued
88 Friends Provident  21. Share capital and share premium continued
b. The table below shows the changes to share capital and share premium during the year
Treasury shares Ordinary shares Total Share Share
Number Number Number capital £m premium £m
At 1 January 2004 – 1,722,371,500 1,722,371,500 172 1,446
Movements during the year:
Share placing (i) – 172,405,671 172,405,671 17 212
Transfer in respect of demutualisation entitlements (ii) 46,537,610 (46,537,610) – – 15
Allotment on acquisition of F&C (iii) – 92,433,278 92,433,278 9 124
Employee share schemes (919,638) 2,604,857 1,685,219 1 2
45,617,972 220,906,196 266,524,168 27 353
At 31 December 2004 45,617,972 1,943,277,696 1,988,895,668 199 1,799
On 11 January 2005, the company issued 113.4m shares in respect of the acquisition of Lombard (see note 40). These shares had a fair value
of £187m resulting in a share premium of £176m. The market price at issue was £1.65.
(i) The share placing on 2 July 2004 raised net proceeds of £229m. This sum was used to fund an initial payment of £250m in respect 
of the acquisition of F&C. The shares were issued at £1.35 each, which was the market price.
(ii) Following demutualisation in 2001, share and cash entitlements that were not claimed were placed into two trusts. On 9 July 2004 the
trusts were wound up and 61.4m shares and £25m cash were transferred to the Company in exchange for it accepting liability for any
future claims in respect of demutualisation entitlements (which must be made by 9 July 2013) and a commitment to endow the Friends
Provident Foundation, a registered charity, with cash or shares to a value of £20m.
The Company has set up a provision of £10m, based on a best estimate, in respect of possible future claims from policyholders (which
will only be paid out in cash). To satisfy the commitment to the Charitable Trust, 14.9m shares with a fair value of £20m (£1.35 a share)
were transferred to the Friends Provident Foundation. The combined effect of these transactions resulted in an increase in the share
premium of £15m.
The remaining 46.5m shares were designated as Treasury shares. These shares do not carry any voting rights or entitlement to dividends
and are available for use to settle liabilities in respect of share options for employee share schemes, at which point they are redesignated
as ordinary shares. 
(iii) The allotment of 92.4m shares on 11 October 2004 represents the balance of consideration in respect of the acquisition of F&C. 
The shares had a fair value of £133m. The shares were allocated at the market price of £1.44 each.
Notes to the Accounts continued
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 89 Notes to the Accounts continued
21. Share capital and share premium continued
c. Options over 45,436,588 shares are outstanding under the Group’s option schemes at 31 December 2004 as shown below:
Option price
Number of pence per Exercise
shares share date
ShareSave 2001 (3 year) 447,179 180.00 1 Aug 2004
ShareSave 2001 (5 year) 417,314 180.00 1 Aug 2006
ShareSave 2002 (3 year) 2,608,411 107.76 1 Oct 2005
ShareSave 2002 (5 year) 3,178,683 107.76 1 Oct 2007
ShareSave 2003 (3 year) 1,008,557 108.54 1 Oct 2006
ShareSave 2003 (5 year) 542,176 108.54 1 Oct 2008
ShareSave 2004 (3 year) 1,104,193 102.47 1 Oct 2007
ShareSave 2004 (5 year) 816,601 102.47 1 Oct 2009
Executive Share Option Scheme 2002 5,486,374 195.00 14 Mar 2005
Executive Share Option Scheme 2003 18,773,145 71.00 17 Mar 2006
Executive Share Option Scheme 2003* 284,928 136.00 6 Aug 2006
Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 8,135,444 153.00 15 Mar 2007
Executive Share Option Scheme 2004* 1,494,299 127.00 12 Aug 2007
Long Term Incentive Plan 2002 255,768 10.00 14 Mar 2005
Long Term Incentive Plan 2003 777,817 10.00 17 Mar 2006
Long Term Incentive Plan 2003* 105,699 10.00 6 Aug 2006
* These options were granted to new executives after the original issue date.
A description of these schemes is contained in the Remuneration Report of the Board on pages 49 to 58.
Advantage has been taken of the exemption allowed in UITF17 (Employee share schemes) in respect of Inland Revenue approved 
SAYE schemes.
22. Proﬁt and loss account
Pension
reserve Other Total
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2004 (8) 355 347
Retained proﬁt (4) 31 27
Proﬁt on deemed disposal of share in Asset Management business – 47 47
Pension scheme loss (7) – (7)
Deferred taxation on pension scheme loss 2 – 2
Adjustment in respect of intra-group goodwill – 26 26
Exchange gains and other movements – 4 4
At 31 December 2004 (17) 463 446
90 Friends Provident  23. Parent company reserves
Revaluation Proﬁt and
reserve loss account Total
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2004 935 208 1,143
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year – 117 117
Dividend – (152) (152)
Revaluation of investments 125 – 125
Transfer between reserves (31) 31 –
At 31 December 2004 1,029 204 1,233
In accordance with the Companies Act 1985, the directors have considered the valuation of all ﬁxed assets and are satisﬁed that the
aggregate value of all assets is not less than the book value as stated in the Company’s balance sheet on page 67. Therefore, in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985 Section 275, certain losses on ﬁxed assets have been treated as unrealised losses. In order to reﬂect this, 
a transfer of £31m has been made to the proﬁt and loss account from the revaluation reserve. In 2003 a transfer of £76m was made to 
the revaluation reserve from the proﬁt and loss account.
24. Subordinated liabilities
Group Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
9.125% Undated Subordinated Guaranteed Bonds (i) 215 215 – –
6.875% Step-up Tier One Insurance Capital Securities (ii) 297 297 297 297
Other subordinated liabilities (iii) 9 – – –
521 512 297 297
(i) On 18 November 1996 FP Finance PLC issued £215m of 9.125% Undated Subordinated Guaranteed Bonds guaranteed by Friends
Provident Life Ofﬁce (‘FPLO’). Redemption is at the option of FP Finance PLC and is not generally allowable prior to 25 November 2006.
The Bonds were guaranteed on a subordinated basis by FPLO after the claims of FPLO’s senior creditors, including all policyholder
liabilities. On 9 July 2001, under the demutualisation scheme, Friends Provident Life and Pensions Limited (‘FPLP’) replaced FPLO 
as the guarantor. The market value of the bonds at 31 December 2004 was £229m (2003: £232m).
(ii) On 21 November 2003, the Company issued £300m Step-up Tier One Insurance Capital Securities (‘STICS’) which will bear interest from
21 November 2003 to 20 November 2019 at a rate of 6.875%. The STICS have no maturity date but will be redeemable at the option 
of the Company on the 21 November 2019 and thereafter on the coupon payment date falling on or nearest to the successive ﬁfth
anniversaries of this date. The STICS are perpetual securities and are not redeemable at the option of the Holders at any time.
The STICS are irrevocably guaranteed on a subordinated basis by FPLP. The guarantee is intended to provide Holders with rights against
FPLP in respect of the guaranteed payments which are as nearly as possible equivalent to those which they would have had if the STICS
had been directly issued preference shares of FPLP.
The STICS are carried at £297m being the £300m less capitalised issue costs of £3m. Interest is payable on the bonds in equal
instalments semi-annually in arrears on 21 May and 21 November in each year. The market value of the STICS at 31 December 2004
amounted to £327m (2003: £313m).
(iii) Eureko B.V. issued a £9m subordinated loan to F&C Asset Management plc on 4 October 2004. The loan bears interest at 1.05% 
above 6 month London Inter Bank Offer Rate and is due to be repaid on 11 October 2009. Interest is payable 6 monthly.
Notes to the Accounts continued
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 91 Notes to the Accounts continued
25. Policyholder liabilities
a. Long-term business provision
£m
At 1 January 2004
Gross 18,646
Reinsurance (100)
Net 18,546
Movement in year
Gross (114)
Reinsurance (5)
Net (119)
At 31 December 2004
Gross 18,532
Reinsurance (105)
Net 18,427
b. Technical provision for linked liabilities
£m
At 1 January 2004 11,094
Movements in year 1,930
At 31 December 2004 13,024
26. Long-term business provision
The long-term business provision is calculated on the basis of recognised actuarial methods with due regard to actuarial principles and best
practice. The methodology takes into account risks and uncertainties of the particular classes of long-term business written and the results 
are certiﬁed by the professionals undertaking the valuations. 
Calculations are made on an individual policy basis, however where any global provisions are made these are calculated using statistical 
or mathematical methods. These results are expected to be approximately the same as if an individual liability was calculated for each 
long-term contract.
There is inherent uncertainty in estimating all technical provisions but notably in respect of Guaranteed Annuity Options, where the option 
will only be of value to the policyholder depending on the economic and assumed future mortality experience at the time of retirement.
The key area of uncertainty is interest rates. Where these are high at the time of retirement then market annuity rates will mean the value of
the guarantee is reduced. Similarly, low interest rates will increase the value of the guarantee. Lesser areas of uncertainty relate to assumed
mortality at the time of retirement and take up rates for tax free cash. Improving mortality experience increases the value of the guarantees
while increasing take up of the tax-free cash option reduces the value of the guarantees since no cost arises in respect of those funds taken
as tax-free cash.
The provision for Guaranteed Annuity Options was estimated using a deterministic scenario based on prudent assumptions and the resulting
provision is signiﬁcantly higher than that determined for the realistic balance sheet on a stochastic basis.
The long-term business provision is sensitive to the principal assumptions in respect of interest rates and mortality, although the relative
sensitivity will vary depending on the class of long-term business.
92 Friends Provident  Notes to the Accounts continued
26. Long-term business provision continued
The principal assumptions underlying the calculation of the long-term business provision are set out below:
Valuation interest rates
31 Dec 2004 31 Dec 2003
%% 
Class of Business
Life Fund:
Conventional With Proﬁt 3.2 3.2
Unitised With Proﬁt 3.2 3.2
Unit-linked 3.1 3.3
Term assurance 3.1 3.3
Income protection 3.9 4.2
Pension business and annuity funds:
With Proﬁt deferred annuities for the self-employed 4.2 4.4
Deferred annuity under pension schemes:
With Proﬁt main series 4.0 4.1
With Proﬁt UK Provident series 4.3 4.4
Unitised With Proﬁt 4.0 4.1
Annuities in payment 4.5 4.7
Valuation interest rates have generally reduced over the year reﬂecting increased yields on underlying assets backing the liabilities. 
The changes in principal assumptions can be derived from the table above.
The long-term business provision is sensitive to the change in interest rates, falling as interest rates rise and rising as interest rates fall. The
underlying assets are similarly sensitive and so the overall impact of any change is minimised. The exception is for with proﬁt beneﬁts where
part of the underlying assets is invested in equities. These have increased in value over the year, independent of the movement in interest
rates, causing an increase in the Fund for Future Appropriations.
For Conventional With Proﬁts business reserves are calculated by carrying out cash ﬂow projections on appropriate bases. These cash ﬂow
projections include allowance for future expenses, but exclude explicit allowance for future bonuses.
The provision for linked contracts is equal to the value of units. A non-unit liability, consisting mainly of sterling reserves, calculated by carrying
out cash ﬂow projections on appropriate bases, including allowance for future expenses, is included within The long-term business provision.
The non-unit liability makes prudent allowance for the cessation of premiums where such cessation would require an increased reserve.
Accumulating With Proﬁts business (main series with proﬁts deferred annuities and unitised with proﬁts business) is valued in a similar way 
to linked business and includes an allowance for surrender values.
The total cost of regular, interim and ﬁnal bonuses attributable for the period ended 31 December 2004 was £244m (2003: £345m).
Cashable deferred annuities are valued at the greater of the value of the cash option or the annuity discounted at a rate based on the gilt
futures curve (2003: 4.5%) per annum in payment. The interest rate underlying the calculation has been determined by reference to a portfolio
of assets where the future cash ﬂows match those arising from the guaranteed annuities. Where a guaranteed annuity option is more
valuable than the cash equivalent, it is assumed that 5% to 44% (2003:15% to 23%) of the beneﬁt is taken as tax-free cash, these rates
being based on, but prudently below, recent experience.
Single premium income protection contracts have been valued as 90% of the last three years’ premiums plus an allowance for outstanding
claims in respect of earlier premiums.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 93 Notes to the Accounts continued
26. Long-term business provision continued
Allowance for future mortality and sickness has been made using standard published tables:
2004 2004 2003 2003
In deferment In payment In deferment In payment
Term assurances (i) 70% TM92/75% TF92 – 70% TM92/75% TF92 –
Other life assurances 80% AM/AF80 – 80% AM/F80 –
Unitised policies 80% AM/AF80 – 80% AM/F80 –
Individual deferred annuities 35% AM/AF80 75% RM/FV92C2002 (ii) 35% AM/F80 75% RM/FV92C2002 (ii)
Group deferred annuities 35% AM/AF80 95% RM/FA92C2002 (ii) 35% AM/F80 95% RM/FA92C2002 (ii)
Individual annuities in payment – 75% RM/FV92U2005 (iii) – 75% RM/FV92U2004 (iii)
Group annuities in payment – 95% RM/FA92U2005 (iii) – 95% RM/FA92U2004 (iii)
(i) Aggregate rates. Smokers and non-smokers are assumed to have higher and lower mortality and/or morbidity respectively.
(ii) Projected thereafter using average of CMI medium and long cohort (2003: CMI short cohort) per annum improvement factors for males
and using standard CMI92 per annum improvement factors for females.
(iii) Plus additional 0.25% per annum and 0.5% per annum for individuals and group males only respectively from the valuation date onwards.
Income protection sickness rates are based on recent experience with a 10% margin for recoveries and a 16% margin for inceptions. Rates
differentiate by smoker status. A 10% change in the inception rate changes reserves for in-force policies by the same amount. The impact
overall on the long-term business provision of a 10% change in the inception rate is 0.3%, reﬂecting the relative size of income protection
reserves to the total reserves.
27. Provisions for other risks and charges
Note Company Group
£m £m
Deferred taxation
At 1 January 2004 –15
Unwinding of discount –1
Charge in year –15
Increase in the deferred tax asset on the pension scheme netted off against the pension liability on note 10aii – 2
At 31 December 2004 –33
Vacant properties (i)
At 1 January 2004 –11
Charge in year –7
Utilised in year –(3)
At 31 December 2004 –15
Endowment complaints (ii) 37
At 1 January 2004 –50
Charge in year –80
Utilised in year –(66)
At 31 December 2004 –64
Review of past sales (iii) 37
At 1 January 2004 ––
Charge in year –22
Utilised in year ––
At 31 December 2004 –22
Other (iv)
At 1 January 2004 –32
Charge in year 17 74
Utilised in year – (88)
At 31 December 2004 17 18
Total at 1 January 2004 – 108
Total at 31 December 2004 17 152
94 Friends Provident  Notes to the Accounts continued
27. Provisions for other risks and charges continued
(i) The Group holds leases for a number of vacant and sub-let properties previously occupied by the Group. Provision has been made 
for the residual lease commitments and for other outgoings where signiﬁcant, after taking account of existing and expected sub-tenant
arrangements. The remaining terms of the leases are up to 12 years. Assumptions as to whether each leasehold property may be sub-let 
or assigned in the future have been made. The discount rate applied to expected future cash ﬂows is 5%.
(ii) Provision has been made for complaints received by the Group, together with an estimate of complaints not yet received, in respect 
of the suitability of past sales of mortgage endowment policies. The provision is based on the estimated likely cost of settling such
complaints, based on recent Group and industry experience. In addition to the accounting provision of £64m above, an actuarial reserve 
of £64m was held in the long-term business provision at 31 December 2004 in respect of endowment complaints (see note 37).
(iii) A review of some past sales by our direct sales force is being undertaken. A provision of £22m has been established to cover the
expected costs of redress, including administrative costs, arising from this review. The provision has been established mainly in respect 
of inheritance tax planning policies (see note 37).
(iv) The Company provision of £17m includes £10m in respect of expected future claims on share entitlements not claimed following
demutualisation (see note 21b). This provision also includes £7m in respect of losses in subsidiary undertakings.
28. Debenture loans
2004 2003
£m £m
Floating rate secured notes (i) 377 –
Loan notes (ii) 8 10
Other debenture loan (iii) – 51
385 61
(i) On 16 December 2004 Friends Provident Life and Pensions Limited (‘FPLP’) raised £380m of core regulatory capital in the form of Floating
Rate Secured Notes through a securitisation of the cash ﬂows expected to emerge from a book of life insurance policies. The total cost of
funds is approximately 5.5% per annum. The ﬁrst repayment of principal on the notes is due on 15 April 2006 and every year thereafter,
dependent on the surplus emerging from the book of life insurance policies. For the purposes of the securitisation, two special purpose
vehicles were established, namely Box Hill Life Finance plc and Box Hill Loan Finance Limited. Both companies have been treated as
Group companies for the purposes of the consolidated accounts.
On 16 December 2004 Box Hill Life Finance plc issued two classes of Floating Rate Secured Notes totalling £380m. These were £280m
Class A-1 Floating Rate Secured Notes due 15 April 2016 and £100m Class A-2 Floating Rate Secured Notes due 15 April 2019. The 
Notes beneﬁt from a ﬁnancial guarantee provided by Ambac Assurance UK. The Notes bear interest at a variable rate of 0.2% and 
0.23% respectively above the 3 month London Inter Bank Offer Rate (‘LIBOR’). The Floating Rate Secured Notes are carried at £377m
being the £380m less capitalised issue costs of £3m. Interest is payable quarterly in arrears on 15 January, 15 April, 15 July and 
15 October in each year.
Box Hill Life Finance plc and Box Hill Life Finance Limited have been treated as quasi-subsidiaries under Financial Reporting Standard 5. 
The combined income, expenses and cashﬂows of these companies are immaterial to the Group. The summarised combined balance
sheet at 31 December 2004 is set out below:
2004
£m
Investments 14
Current assets – amounts due from group undertakings 382
Current liabilities – amounts due to group undertakings (16)
Net current assets 366
Total assets less current liabilities 380
Creditors due after more than one year (Floating Rate Secured Note) (380)
Net assets –
Capital and reserves –
(ii) The Loan Notes issued by FP Business Holdings Limited were transferred on 13 April 2004 to Friends Provident Investment Holdings plc
(‘FPIH’). They remain fully paid and are guaranteed by FPLP. The Loan Notes are repayable at par in the year 2006 and may be redeemed
at the holders request on set dates in any year until 2006. FPIH may redeem the Loan Notes if 75% or more of the Loan Notes have been
redeemed. As at 31 December 2004 76% of the Loan Notes had been redeemed. The Loan Notes bear interest at a variable rate of 0.5%
below London Inter Bank Offer Rate (‘LIBOR’).
(iii) The Other debenture loan was repaid in November 2004.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 95 Notes to the Accounts continued
29. Convertible bonds
On 11 December 2002, the Company issued £290m 5.25% convertible bonds due 2007 which are convertible at the option of the holder to
ordinary shares at any time on or after 21 January 2003 and up to 5 December 2007. The number of ordinary shares to be issued on conversion
will be determined by dividing the principal amount of the relevant bonds by the conversion price in effect on the relevant conversion date.
The initial conversion price is £1.71 per ordinary share. Unless previously purchased and cancelled, redeemed or converted, the bonds will 
be redeemed on 11 December 2007 at their principal amount.
The Company may, at its option, redeem all (but not some) of the bonds outstanding at any time on or after 27 December 2005 and up 
to the ﬁnal maturity date of 11 December 2007 if certain conditions are met.
The Company may deliver a cash amount as an alternative to issuing ordinary shares upon either conversion or redemption.
The convertible bonds are carried at £286m being £290m less capitalised issue costs of £4m. Interest is payable on the bonds in equal
instalments semi-annually in arrears on 11 June and 11 December in each year.
The market value of the convertible bonds at 31 December 2004 amounted to £314m (2003: £302m).
30. Amounts owed to credit institutions
2004 2003
£m £m
Bank overdrafts 46 46
31. Total borrowings
Total borrowings are repayable as follows:
2004 2003
£m £m
Within one year or on demand 54 107
Between one and two years 215 –
Between two and ﬁve years 286 500
In more than 5 years 674 297
1,229 904
32. Other creditors including taxation and social security
2004 2003
£m £m
Taxation 128 25
Investments purchased for subsequent settlement – 28
Other creditors 116 64
Proposed dividend 102 84
346 201
All other creditors are repayable within a period of one year.
96 Friends Provident  Notes to the Accounts continued
33. Cash ﬂow statement 
a. Reconciliation of operating proﬁt to net cash (outﬂow)/inﬂow from operating activities
2004 2003
£m £m
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before tax 256 260
Investment income (44) (36)
Interest payable 51 32
Adjustments for non-cash items:
Shareholder realised and unrealised investment (gains)/losses (8) (50)
Amortisation of goodwill 37 30
Depreciation of tangible ﬁxed assets 17 19
Loss on sale of ﬁxed assets 1 2
Proﬁts relating to long-term business (240) (184)
Net cash (paid)/received to/from long-term business 16 (122)
Allocated investment return (31) (43)
Current service cost of pension scheme 8 17
Expected return on net pension asset (8) (5)
Movements in other assets/liabilities (74) (60)
Net cash outﬂow from operating activities (19) (140)
b. Movement in opening and closing portfolio investments, net of ﬁnancing
2004
£m
Increase in cash holdings 97
Decrease in portfolio investments (193)
Decrease in borrowings 50
Movement arising from cash ﬂows (46)
Movement arising in long-term business 513
Debt acquired with subsidiary (9)
Changes in market value and exchange rate effects 14
Other changes (2)
Total movements in portfolio investments, net of ﬁnancing 470
Portfolio investments, net of ﬁnancing at beginning of year 19,656
Portfolio investments, net of ﬁnancing at end of year 20,126
c. Portfolio investments
2004 2003
£m £m
Purchase of portfolio investments
Land and buildings 4 2
Shares and other variable yield securities 12 101
Loans, debt securities and other ﬁxed income securities 782 1,575
798 1,678
Sale of portfolio investments
Shares and other variable yield securities (31) (221)
Loans, debt securities and other ﬁxed income securities (901) (1,155)
(932) (1,376)
Net (decrease) in deposits with credit institutions (59) (407)
Movements in portfolio investments arising from cash ﬂows (193) (105)
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 97 Notes to the Accounts continued
33. Cash ﬂow statement continued
d. Movement in cash, portfolio investments and ﬁnancing
Changes in Acquired Changes to
1 January long-term with market values Other 31 December
2004 business Cash ﬂow subsidiary and currency changes 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net cash at bank and in hand 156 25 97––– 278
Portfolio Investments
Land and buildings 1,243 (99) 4 – – (2) 1,146
Shares and other variable
yield securities 4,969 250 (19) – 8 1 5,209
Loans, debt securities and other
ﬁxed income securities 13,185 169 (119) – 5 – 13,240
Participation in investment pools 291 (29) –––– 262
Loans secured by mortgages 4 (3) –––– 1
Other loans 3 – –––– 3
Deposits with credit institutions 522 598 (59) – – – 1,061
Other 187 (23) –––– 164
Financing
Debenture loans (61) (375) 50 – 1 – (385)
Convertible bonds (285) – – – – (1) (286)
Subordinated liabilities (512) – – (9) – – (521)
Amounts owed to credit institutions (46) – –––– (46)
19,656 513 (46) (9) 14 (2) 20,126
e. Analysis of cash ﬂows on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings
£m
Net cash/overdrafts acquired with subsidiary undertakings 133
Portfolio investments acquired with subsidiary undertakings –
Financing acquired with subsidiary undertakings (9)
Net pension liability (5)
Other net assets acquired (38)
81
Less minority interest of net assets acquired (40)
Goodwill arising on acquisitions 415
Issue of 92.4m ordinary shares in the Company (133)
Reduction in the Company’s holding in ISIS (55)
Estimate of further consideration to be paid by F&C (8)
Acquisition costs (10)
Satisﬁed by cash consideration 250
f. Non-cash transactions
The acquisition of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited was partly funded by the issue of shares (see note 34).
98 Friends Provident  34. Acquisition
On 11 October 2004 the Company acquired, through ISIS Asset Management plc (‘ISIS’), its principal Asset Management subsidiary, 
F&C (Group) Holdings Limited (‘F&C’) and its subsidiaries (‘F&C Group’) from Eureko B.V. for a consideration of £456m. 
The F&C Group is predominantly a European-wide asset management business. The business combination is being accounted for as 
an acquisition. On the completion date of 11 October 2004, ISIS was re-named F&C Asset Management plc.
(i) Consideration 
The consideration was satisﬁed by cash of £250m and the issue of 92.4 million shares in the Company to Eureko B.V. at a fair value of £133m.
The Company’s interest in the ordinary shares of ISIS fell from 67% to 51% following the issue of 331 million new ordinary shares by ISIS,
145 million of which were issued to the Company. The remainder of these shares were issued to Eureko B.V. and F&C management. This
gives rise to a deemed disposal of a stake in ISIS by the Company for which the consideration was £55m, calculated as the fair value of the
holding deemed to have been disposed of. A proﬁt of £47m arose on the deemed disposal. 
Under the terms of the sale and purchase agreement, F&C Asset Management plc is entitled to receive net assets of at least £66m.
However, an estimated £16m in further consideration is outstanding on the acquisition as the provisional fair value of the net assets acquired
is £81m. The consideration paid by the Company includes its share of the further consideration accrued. The ﬁnal consideration settlement
will be paid following agreement of the completion accounts.
Acquisition costs include the Company’s share of £13m of expenses incurred by ISIS in connection with the acquisition and the Company’s
own costs of £3m.
Prior to completion the Company subscribed to £0.4m of new preference shares, enabling the Company to maintain its existing proportionate
holding of the nominal share capital in ISIS following completion.
(ii) The following table summarises the assets and liabilities acquired:
Book value Accounting Provisional Provisional fair
on policy fair value value on 
acquisition alignment adjustments acquisition
£m £m £m £m
Tangible ﬁxed assets 4–– 4
Investments 1–– 1
Debtors: due within one year 60 – (3) 57
Deferred tax asset 15 2 1 18
Cash and short-term deposits 133 – – 133
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (112) 1 (1) (112)
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year (9) – – (9)
Provision for liabilities and charges (2) – – (2)
Deferred income (outwith one year) (4) – – (4)
Pension deﬁcit – (3) (2) (5)
86 – (5) 81
Minority interest (40)
Share of net assets 41
Goodwill arising on acquisition (provisional) 415
456
Discharged by:
Issue of 92.4m ordinary shares in the Company 133
Cash 250
Reduction in the Company’s holding in ISIS 55
Estimate of further consideration to be paid by F&C 8
Acquisition costs 10
Total consideration 456
The provisional goodwill arising on the acquisition has been capitalised and is being amortised over 10 and 20 years, in accordance with 
its estimated useful life.
The directors of F&C consider the fair values of the net assets to be provisional until the F&C Group completion accounts review process 
has been completed. In the meantime, the adjustments reﬂect the directors’ best estimates of fair value adjustments to the net assets 
of the acquired companies.
Notes to the Accounts continued
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 99 Notes to the Accounts continued
34. Acquisition continued
(iii) The following speciﬁc adjustments have been made to reﬂect the fair value of assets acquired on acquisition:
(a) The deﬁned beneﬁt pension liabilities of the F&C Group have been adjusted to reﬂect the market value at completion.
(b) The fair values of the deﬁned beneﬁt pension liabilities have been amended to reﬂect the FRS17 assumptions adopted by the group. 
(c) Debtors have been reduced to their estimated realisable value to reﬂect that doubt exists as to the recoverability of certain balances.
(d) The increase in creditors reﬂects obligations of the acquired entities which are considered to exist as at 11 October 2004, but which 
are not reﬂected in the completion accounts.
(e) Taxation adjustments have been made to the balances on acquisition to reﬂect the taxation effect of the non-technical 
fair value adjustments.
(iv) Since the date of acquisition, operating exceptional costs of £18m have been incurred in integrating, rationalising and reorganising 
the business.
35. Provision for pension transfers and opt-outs
In accordance with guidance issued by the Financial Services Authority (‘FSA’) and the Personal Investment Authority, FPLP, Friends Provident
Life Assurance Limited and Friends Provident Pensions Limited have reviewed the appropriateness of advice given to policyholders who
effected personal pension contracts after 1988.
These reviews have now been substantially completed. A provision of £13m (2003: £27m) remains within the long-term business provision in
respect of outstanding redress and associated costs. During 2004, £13m of the provision has been released, which together with recoveries
of £3m has been credited to operating exceptional items (see note 8iii).
36. Financial commitments
a. Capital expenditure for which provision has not been made in the ﬁnancial statements of the Group is estimated as follows
(Company: £Nil):
Property Other Property Other
2004 2004 2003 2003
£m £m £m £m
Contracted for 35.9 0.3 0.5 0.6
b. The Group had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases for which no provision had been made in the
ﬁnancial statements, as follows (Company: £Nil):
Land and Land and
buildings Other buildings Other
2004 2004 2003 2003
£m £m £m £m
Operating leases which expire:
within one year 1.7 2.6 1.1 2.5
in the second to ﬁfth years inclusive 0.9 0.3 0.7 –
after ﬁve years 13.0 – 8.2 –
15.6 2.9 10.0 2.5
c. Obligations under ﬁnance leases for the Group fall due (Company: £Nil):
2004 2003
£m £m
within one year 0.1 –
in the second to ﬁfth years inclusive – 0.5
Commitments under non-cancellable leases represent £0.1m of obligations under ﬁnance leases.
100 Friends Provident  Notes to the Accounts continued
37. Contingent liabilities
Past sales
During 2004 there has been a considerable increase in the number of complaints received by the industry in respect of endowment policies.
All such complaints received by the Group, and an estimate of complaints not yet received, have been provided for at the latest estimate 
of the likely costs of settling such complaints. In addition, a provision has been established for potential liabilities in respect of inheritance tax
planning policies. Future regulatory actions or statements could change the estimated costs. The impact of such potential future actions
cannot be estimated with reliability (see note 27).
The FSA and other regulatory bodies may wish, in future, to examine the suitability of past sales of other products which could affect 
Friends Provident and the industry in general. The directors of FPLP also conduct ongoing reviews of such products. As a result, it is 
possible that additional unprovided liabilities could arise.
Provisions for liabilities in connection with policyholder contracts are based on best estimate assumptions, using historical experience but
adjusted where there is reasonable cause to expect future experience to be different. However, actual experience may differ from that
assumed. Regulatory action, legal judgments, future economic conditions or other unforeseen events may impact ultimate settlements made.
VAT
In a current UK VAT Tribunal appeal, a UK investment trust is seeking to establish that management services to UK investment trusts should
be a VAT exempt supply, rather than a taxable supply in accordance with current UK VAT law. If this appeal were successful at the higher UK
or European courts, a number of group companies, in common with other relevant fund managers in the UK, would face claims from those
investment trusts to which they have supplied services for repayment of the VAT they have charged to them. At present, the directors of F&C
Asset Management plc are not able to judge the likelihood that the VAT Tribunal appeal will be successful, nor are they able to quantify the
claims that may be received or the extent to which such claims could be mitigated and therefore are not able to quantify the potential liability. 
F&C acquisition
In December 2000, when Eureko B.V. acquired F&C Group (Holdings) Limited, approximately 73 per cent of the ordinary issued shares of 
F&C Group Management Limited, a subsidiary company, was held in the form of two bearer share warrants which could not be located prior
to the completion of the sale. Eureko B.V. was indemniﬁed by F&C Group (Holdings) Limited against any losses suffered as a result of the
loss of the old share warrants or the issue of replacement share warrants. Since a bearer share warrant issued by a company entitles the
bearer to the shares speciﬁed in the share warrant, there is a risk that a third party holding the old share warrants may claim that it is entitled
to the speciﬁed shares in F&C Group Management Limited. If a third party were successful in establishing a claim in relation to the old 
share warrants, F&C Group (Holdings) Limited could be liable to indemnify F&C Group Management Limited under the original indemnity
arrangements, which could, as set out below, have a material adverse effect on the F&C Asset Management Group’s business, results 
of operations and/or ﬁnancial condition.
Although there is a possibility that a third party may seek to establish that it is entitled to the shares speciﬁed in the old share warrants, the
directors of F&C Asset Management plc have been informed that Eureko B.V. has been advised that the prospect of a third party succeeding
in such a claim is remote. Under the terms of the 2004 merger between ISIS and F&C, Eureko Holdings has given a speciﬁc indemnity
(guaranteed by Eureko B.V.) to F&C Asset Management plc in respect of losses arising in relation to the lost share warrants to bearer in 
F&C Group Management Limited (including in respect of the indemnity granted by F&C Group (Holdings) Limited to F&C Group Management
Limited) which is capped at approximately £432m.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 101 38. Directors’ shareholdings
The interests of directors, their spouses and children under the age of eighteen in the shares of the Company and its subsidiary, F&C Asset
Management plc, are shown below:
F&C Asset Management plc Friends Provident plc
Ordinary shares of 0.1 pence Ordinary shares of 10 pence
shares acquired after shares acquired after
31 December 2004*** 31 December 2004 1 January 2004* 31 December 2004*** 31 December 2004 1 January 2004*
Executive
G.K. Aslet** – 2,163 –80 16,203 15,137
H. Carter 153 43,364 42,850 – 24,560 24,560
A.R.G. Gunn – – – 231 37,913 36,847
P.W. Moore – 2,163 –– 1,332 1,332
K. Satchell – 14,326 10,000 231 62,668 61,602
B.W. Sweetland – 13,651 5,000 231 95,433 94,367
Non-Executive
A.J. Carnwath – 8,651 –– 10,000 –
C.M. Jemmett – 23,065 14,414 – 2,655 2,655
Lady Judge – – –– 17,865 17,865
R. King – – –– – –
Lord MacGregor – – –– 13,849 13,849
A.A. Montague – 5,781 5,781 – – –
D.K. Newbigging – 21,630 –– 100,868 100,868
* Or date of appointment if later. 
** G.K. Aslet resigned as a director on 31 December 2004. 
***Changes to directors’ interests during the period 1 January 2005 to 17 March 2005 have been reported to the Company. 
They relate to shares acquired through the Share Incentive Plans (see details on page 51).
Notes to the Accounts continued
102 Friends Provident  Annual Report & Accounts 2004 103
Notes to the Accounts continued
39. Related party transactions
In the ordinary course of business the Company and its subsidiary undertakings carry out transactions with related parties, as deﬁned 
by Financial Reporting Standard 8 (Related party transactions). Material transactions for the year are set out below.
a. Key management, which includes their close family and undertakings controlled by them, had various transactions with the Group 
during the period. Key management consists of all directors and executive management of the Group.
In aggregate these were as set out below:
2004 2003
£000 £000
Payments during the year by key management in respect of policies and investments issued or managed by the Group:
Regular payments 144 359
Single payments 170 147
Payments during the year by the Group to key management in respect of such policies and investments 120 47
All these transactions were completed on terms which were no better than those available to staff. 
Sir David Kinloch’s fees as chairman of F&C Asset Management plc for the year to 31 December 2004 amounted to £57,000 (2003: £68,000).
These fees were paid to Caledonia Investments plc.
Fees payable to B.W. Sweetland and K. Satchell for their services as non-executive directors of F&C Asset Management plc are paid to
Friends Provident Management Services Limited (‘FPMS’). During the year to 31 December 2004 £52,000 (2003: £57,000) was paid in 
total in respect of both directors.
Fees payable for the period to 30 June 2004 amounting to £13,600 (Full Year 2003: £25,000) in respect of the services of B.W. Sweetland 
as a director of Benchmark Group Plc were paid to FPMS. B.W. Sweetland resigned as a director of Benchmark Group plc on 9 July 2004. 
In addition there were other incidental transactions with key management, which are not considered material. 
b. Transactions with F&C Asset Management plc (‘F&C’) and its subsidiaries during the year are as follows:
Total invoiced and Total invoiced and 
accrued during Outstanding at accrued during Outstanding at 
the year 31 December the year 31 December
2004 2004 2003 2003
£000 £000 £000 £000
Shared service invoices billed and accrued by FPMS to F&C during the year 841 58 689 6
Administration services billed and accrued by FPMS to F&C 1,296 381 3,023 493
Management fees invoiced by subsidiaries of F&C to the Company 
and certain subsidiaries and long-term business funds during the year 35,430 534 30,248 4,197
Other recharges from F&C during the year 205 (339) 1,182 117
Other recharges to F&C during the year 58 – 1,478 –
Shared services agreement
FPMS, under a shared service agreement with F&C, has provided investment accounting, information technology and professional services 
in respect of segregated fund clients of the FP Asset Management Group. These services are charged for at an hourly rate equal to 125% 
of 150% of the relevant prevailing annual direct staff costs divided by 1,750.
FPMS also provided services reasonably required by F&C at cost. FPMS made available to F&C the use of software either owned by it or
licensed to it. F&C pay an agreed pro rata cost for the software and a system charge, together with a proportion of the initial costs of any 
new software. Fees are paid monthly in arrears. The Shared Services Agreement is terminable on six months’ written notice by either party.
Administration services agreements
FPMS, under an administration services agreement with subsidiaries of F&C, provide investment accounting, information technology,
administration and professional services for the managed pension fund. The administration service agreement with FPMS is terminable 
on six months’ written notice by either party.
Management fees
Under various management agreements, subsidiaries of F&C manage the investment of funds on behalf of the Company and certain
subsidiaries in return for fees calculated at commercial rates.
Other recharges
Other recharges includes charges made to or from the F&C group for premises, staff costs and other related expenditure. 
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 103 39. Related party transactions continued
Loans
On 30 May 2002 Friends Provident Life and Pensions Limited (‘FPLP’) granted a loan facility of £180m to F&C Treasury Limited (‘F&CT’), 
a subsidiary of F&C. The loan was drawn down on 28 June 2002. Interest on the loan is payable every six months at the 4.5 year SWAP 
rate plus 0.575% per annum. The loan is due to be repaid in full on 1 November 2006.
On 30 May 2002 Friends Provident plc granted a revolving credit facility of £50m to F&CT. The loan may be drawn down in tranches of £5m
and interest is payable quarterly at LIBOR plus 0.6% per annum. The daily undrawn and uncancelled amount of the facility has a commitment
fee payable at the rate of 0.3% per annum. The facility will terminate on 29 May 2007, or earlier if notice of termination is given by F&CT 
and the outstanding element of the loan is reduced to £Nil. The amount drawn down at 31 December 2004 was £5m (2003: £15m).
On 11 October 2004 FPLP granted a subordinated loan of £25m to F&C Asset Management plc. The loan was drawn down on that day.
Interest on the loan is payable every six months at a rate equal to LIBOR plus 1.05% per annum. The loan is due to be repaid on 
12 October 2009, but the borrower may elect to repay earlier if certain conditions are met.
c. Pension schemes
The Friends Provident Pension Scheme had investments at 31 December 2004 of £629m (2003: £600m) in funds managed by F&C. 
d. Transactions with long-term business fund
FPMS provides management services to subsidiaries of Friends Provident plc which are engaged in long-term insurance business. 
The total management charges during the year to 31 December were as follows:
2004 2003
£m £m
Friends Provident Life and Pensions Limited 165 207
Friends Provident Pensions Limited 79 91
Friends Provident Life Assurance Limited 65 4
Friends Provident International Limited 2 2
40. Post balance sheet event
The Company acquired Lombard International Assurance S.A. (‘Lombard’) on 11 January 2005. 
Consideration structure
The consideration structure comprises a c265m (£187m) initial payment, funded through a new issue of FP shares to Lombard shareholders.
Subsequent payments are variable based on Lombard’s performance (“earn-out payments”). This structure is designed to achieve an
aggregate payment which fairly reﬂects the longer term performance of Lombard, while providing an incentive for Lombard’s management
team to continue the business’ strong growth. Under a reasonable range of performance scenarios, the implied multiple of achieved operating
proﬁt after tax that FP would pay, in aggregate consideration, is approximately six times.
The earn-out payments that are payable in respect of each of 2004, 2005 and 2006 are dependent on Lombard achieving certain performance
thresholds for both new business proﬁts and underlying embedded value. Earn-out payments will be paid in cash or FP shares, at FP’s option.
The payments to be made in respect of 2004 and 2005 will be capped at c90m (£62m) and c85m (£59m) respectively with any excess
combined with the ﬁnal potential payment in respect of the 2006 year. 
The table below illustrates the schedule of payments to Lombard under two scenarios over the earn-out period: (a) average compound growth
rate (ACGR) in new business proﬁts of 5% and (b) ACGR in new business proﬁts of 25%.
(a) (b)
New business proﬁts ACGR (2003-2006) cm£m cm£m
Initial payment 265 187 265 187
2004 earn-out payment 33 23 80 55
2005 earn-out payment 15 10 74 51
2006 earn-out payment – – 71 49
Total consideration 313 220 490 342
The total consideration will be capped at the lowest of: 
(i) c600m (£414m);
(ii) 1.4 times 2006 year-end embedded value; and
(iii) the aggregate of 2006 year-end embedded value and 2.0 times 2006 new business proﬁts after tax and solvency margin.
Notes to the Accounts continued
104 Friends Provident  40. Post balance sheet event continued
All the earn-out payments will be calculated using a ﬁxed set of economic assumptions such that the consideration structure is dependent
principally on Lombard’s operating performance.
The initial payment sterling equivalent was determined from actual currency translation values. All other amounts in sterling are translated 
at euro/sterling rate of 1.45 for illustrative purposes.
Management and integration
Lombard will continue to be run by its current management team and continue to be incentivised through its own executive share incentive
plan. In addition, it will continue to operate under its own brand, reﬂecting its strong recognition among its distribution partners and clients. 
41. Principal group undertakings
Principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the Group as at 31 December 2004 are shown below. All of the subsidiaries are included 
in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
Unless otherwise stated they are undertakings incorporated in Great Britain and have only one class of issued ordinary shares. The voting
rights are equal to the percentage holdings unless otherwise stated. Other subsidiaries do not materially affect the results of the Group.
% held
Life & Pensions Business
Holding Companies
Friends Provident Investment Holdings plc (i)
Ordinary shares ‘A’ 100
Ordinary shares ‘B’ 100
FP Group Limited 100
London and Manchester Group Limited * 100
Life Assurance and Pensions
Friends Provident Life and Pensions Limited * 100
Friends Provident Life Assurance Limited 100
Friends Provident Pensions Limited 100
Friends Provident International Limited (ii) 100
Reinsurance Services
Friends Provident Reinsurance Services Limited 100
Financial Services
Friends Milestones Limited 100
Friends Provident Marketing Limited 100
Pan European Insurance
European Alliance Partners Company A.G. (associated undertaking) (iii) 14.29
Management Services
Friends Provident Management Services Limited * 100
Finance Company
FP Finance PLC 100
Trustee Company
Friends Provident Pension Scheme Trustees Limited 100
Property Company
London Capital Holdings Limited
Ordinary shares 100
Deferred shares 100
(i) Company was re-registered as a public company on 9 March 2004.
(ii) Incorporated in the Isle of Man.
(iii) Incorporated in Switzerland.
* Held directly by Friends Provident plc (all other companies are held indirectly)
Notes to the Accounts continued
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 105 Notes to the Accounts continued
41. Principal group undertakings continued 
% held
Asset Management Business
F&C Asset Management plc *
Ordinary shares 51.24
Variable rate cumulative preference shares 100
F&C Managed Pension Funds Limited 51.24
Friends’ Provident Unit Trust Managers Limited 51.24
ISIS Investment Management Limited 51.24
F&C Fund Management Limited 51.24
F&C Portugal SA (i) 51.24
F&C Ireland Limited (ii) 51.24
F&C Netherlands B.V. (iii) 51.24
F&C Management Limited 51.24
F&C Investment Services Limited 51.24
F&C Property Investment Management Limited 51.24
F&C Unit Management Limited 51.24
F&C Management (Jersey) Limited (iv) 51.24
F&C Emerging Markets Limited 51.24
F&C Property Services Limited 51.24
ISIS Investment Trusts Business Limited 51.24
ISIS Equity Partners plc 51.24
Baronsmead Ventures Limited 51.24
I&S (Japan) KK (v) 51.24
F&C Investment Manager plc 51.24
F&C Asset Managers Limited 51.24
(i) Incorporated in Portugal
(ii) Incorporated in Ireland
(iii) Incorporated in The Netherlands
(iv) Incorporated in Jersey
(v) Incorporated in Japan
* Held directly by Friends Provident plc (all other companies are held indirectly)
106 Friends Provident  Annual Report & Accounts 2004 107
Achieved Proﬁt Supplementary Information
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in relation to the achieved proﬁts supplementary information
The Guidance issued in December 2001 by The Association of British Insurers entitled ‘Supplementary reporting for long term insurance
business (the achieved proﬁts method)’ (‘the Guidance’) requires the directors to prepare supplementary information presented under the
achieved proﬁts method in accordance with the Guidance.
In preparing the achieved proﬁts supplementary information, the directors are required to:
• select suitable methodologies and then apply them consistently;
• determine assumptions on a realistic basis, having regard to past, current and expected future experience and to any relevant external
data, and then apply them consistently;
• state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed in relation to the residual assets, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the supplementary information; and
• prepare the supplementary information on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue 
in business.
Independent Auditors’ Report to Friends Provident plc on the achieved proﬁts supplementary information
Introduction
We have audited the supplementary information on pages 108 to 115 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004. The supplementary
information has been prepared in accordance with the guidance issued in December 2001 by The Association of British Insurers entitled
‘Supplementary reporting for long-term insurance business (the achieved proﬁts method)’ (‘the Guidance’) using the methodology and
assumptions set out on pages 108 to 115. The supplementary information should be read in conjunction with the primary ﬁnancial statements
which are on pages 60 to 106.
This report is made solely to the Company in accordance with the terms of our engagement. Our audit work has been undertaken so that 
we might state to the Company those matters we have been engaged to state in this report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our audit work, for this report, or for the
opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As described above, the directors’ responsibilities include preparing the supplementary information on the achieved proﬁts basis in 
accordance with the Guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers. Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, in relation 
to the supplementary information are established in the United Kingdom by the Auditing Practices Board, by our profession’s ethical 
guidance and the terms of our engagement.
Under the terms of engagement we are required to report to the Company our opinion as to whether the supplementary information has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Guidance using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 108 to 115. We also
report if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for this audit.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on 
a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the supplementary information. It also includes an assessment of the
signiﬁcant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the supplementary information, and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to 
provide us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the achieved proﬁts supplementary information is free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the
presentation of the supplementary information.
Opinion
In our opinion, the achieved proﬁts supplementary information for the year ended 31 December 2004 has been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Guidance using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 108 to 115.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
London
17 March 2005 2004 2003
Notes £m £m
Operating proﬁt
Life & Pensions achieved operating proﬁt 3 320 248
Asset Management 4 40 26
Expected return on net pension liability 8 5
Expected return on corporate net assets 5 (14) (3)
Corporate costs (10) (10)
Operating proﬁt before amortisation of goodwill, operating exceptional items and tax 344 266
Operating exceptional items 6 (52) (22)
Amortisation of Asset Management goodwill (25) (17)
Operating proﬁt on ordinary activities before tax 267 227
Investment return variances 191 137
Effect of economic assumption changes 7 (94) (82)
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before tax 364 282
Tax on operating proﬁt before amortisation of goodwill and operating exceptional items (99) (82)
Tax charge on items excluded from operating proﬁt before amortisation 
of goodwill and operating exceptional items (13) (10)
Proﬁt on ordinary activities after tax 252 190
Equity minority interests 2 4
Proﬁt after tax attributable to equity shareholders 254 194
Dividend (152) (127)
Retained proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year 102 67
Earnings per share on an achieved proﬁt basis 8
Based on proﬁt after tax attributable to equity shareholders – basic 14.0p 11.3p
– diluted 14.0p 11.2p
Based on operating proﬁt on an achieved proﬁt basis before amortisation of 
goodwill and operating exceptional items, after tax, attributable to equity shareholders 12.9p 10.4p
Dividend per share – interim 2.55p 2.50p
– ﬁnal 5.00p 4.90p
– total 7.55p 7.40p
Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses on an achieved proﬁt basis
For the year ended 31 December 2004
2004 2003
£m £m
Proﬁt after tax attributable to equity shareholders 254 194
Pension scheme (losses)/gains (7) 27
Deferred taxation on pension scheme (losses)/gains 2 (8)
Proﬁt on deemed disposal of share in Asset Management business 47 –
Foreign exchange gains and other movements 4 –
Total recognised gains arising in the year 300 213
Achieved Proﬁt Supplementary Information continued 
Summary consolidated proﬁt and loss account on an achieved proﬁt basis
For the year ended 31 December 2004
108 Friends Provident  Achieved Proﬁt Supplementary Information continued
Life & Pensions achieved proﬁt
For the year ended 31 December 2004
2004 2003
Notes £m £m
Contribution from new business 3a 83 80
Cost of solvency capital and pension service charge (21) (19)
Contribution from new business attributable to shareholders 3a 62 61
(after the cost of solvency capital and pension service charge)
Proﬁt from existing business 3b
– expected return 158 134
– experience variances 2 (23)
– operating assumption changes (9) (11)
Development costs 3c (15) (23)
Expected return on shareholders’ net assets within the Life & Pensions business 5b 122 110
Life & Pensions achieved operating proﬁt before operating exceptional items and tax 320 248
Operating exceptional items 6 (33) (10)
Life & Pensions achieved operating proﬁt before tax 287 238
Investment return variances 197 140
Effect of economic assumption changes 7 (94) (82)
Life & Pensions achieved proﬁt before tax 390 296
Attributed tax charge (117) (88)
Life & Pensions achieved proﬁt after tax 273 208
Summary balance sheet on an achieved proﬁt basis
At 31 December 2004
2003
2004 As restated (i)
£m £m
Life & Pensions – long-term funds 629 773
Life & Pensions – shareholder funds 654 662
Life & Pensions net assets (ii) 1,283 1,435
Corporate net liabilities (275) (275)
Shareholders’ invested net assets 1,008 1,160
Attributable net asset value of Asset Management business (including goodwill) (iii), (iv) 462 16
Net pension liability of FPPS (iv) (4) (3)
Shareholders’ net worth 1,466 1,173
Value of in-force Life & Pensions business 1,613 1,352
Shareholders’ net assets on an achieved proﬁt basis 3,079 2,525
Called up share capital 199 172
Share premium account 1,799 1,446
Achieved proﬁt reserves 1,081 907
Shareholders’ funds on an achieved proﬁt basis 3,079 2,525
(i) The attributable net asset value of Asset Management business as at 31 December 2003 has been restated in respect of the carrying
value of goodwill.
(ii) Unencumbered capital, which is deﬁned as Life & Pensions net assets less solvency margin requirements in respect of business 
written in non proﬁt funds less any statutory deﬁcit in the FPLP With Proﬁts Fund, amounted to £1,090m (31 December 2003: £1,291m).
(iii) The attributable net asset value of Asset Management business includes goodwill of £515m at 31 December 2004 
(31 December 2003: £126m).
(iv) The attributable net asset value of Asset Management business includes the value of the net pension liability of that business on 
a Financial Reporting Standard 17 (Retirement beneﬁts) (‘FRS 17’) basis and is net of related deferred taxation. The net pension 
liability of Friends Provident Pension Scheme (‘FPPS’) is stated on a FRS17 basis and is net of related deferred taxation.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 109 110 Friends Provident 
Achieved Proﬁt Supplementary Information continued 
Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds on an achieved proﬁt basis
For the year ended 31 December 2004
2003
2004 Restated (i)
£m £m
Consolidated recognised gains arising in the period including Life & Pensions business
on an achieved proﬁt basis 300 213
Fair value adjustment to Asset Management goodwill, net of minority interests – (6)
Adjustment in respect of intra-group goodwill 26 –
Dividend (152) (127)
Increase in achieved proﬁt reserves in the period 174 80
Issue of shares 365 –
Movements in respect of unclaimed shares issued on demutualisation 15 –
Net additions to shareholders’ funds 554 80
Shareholders’ funds at beginning of period 2,525 2,445
Shareholders’ funds at end of period 3,079 2,525
(i) Opening shareholders’ funds have been restated in respect of the carrying value of goodwill. 
Pro forma embedded value
As at 31 December 2004
Assets held outside the Life & Pensions business are reported using the MSS basis of accounting. A pro forma adjustment to include the
listed Asset Management business at market value is shown in the table below:
2003
2004 Restated (i)
Pro forma adjustment to bring listed subsidiary to market value: £m £m
Shareholders’ funds on an achieved proﬁt basis 3,079 2,525
Adjustment of the value of the listed Asset Management business to market value 147 237
Pro forma embedded value 3,226 2,762
(i) Opening shareholders’ funds have been restated in respect of the carrying value of goodwill.  Annual Report & Accounts 2004 111
Achieved Proﬁt Supplementary Information continued 
Notes to the achieved proﬁt results
1. Achieved proﬁt results
The achieved proﬁt results were approved by the Board of Directors on 17 March 2005.
2. Basis of preparation
In order to identify the value being generated by the Group’s business, the directors use the achieved proﬁt basis of reporting in respect of
the Life & Pensions business combined with the modiﬁed statutory solvency (‘MSS’) basis for the remainder of the business. The achieved
proﬁt basis of reporting is designed to recognise proﬁt as it is earned over the term of a life assurance policy. The total proﬁt recognised over
the lifetime of the policy is the same as that recognised under the MSS basis of reporting, but the timing of the recognition is different.
The achieved proﬁt results have been prepared in accordance with the methodology and disclosure requirements contained in the guidance
‘Supplementary reporting for long-term insurance business (the achieved proﬁts method)’ issued by The Association of British Insurers in
December 2001.
The guidance aims to provide an appropriate method of recognising shareholder proﬁts from long-term business. The guidance states 
that achieved proﬁt should be calculated net of tax and then grossed up at the effective rate of shareholder tax. The full standard rate 
of corporation tax has been used to gross up after tax proﬁts, as this closely resembles the effective rate.
Shareholders’ funds on an achieved proﬁt basis provides an estimate of the value of the shareholders’ interest in a life assurance business
excluding any value which may be generated from future new life and pensions business. They comprise the sum of shareholders’ net worth
and the value of existing business. The shareholders’ net worth is the net assets attributable to shareholders. The value of existing business
is the present value of the projected stream of future after tax distributable proﬁt available to shareholders from the existing business at the
valuation date, adjusted where appropriate for the cost of holding the minimum statutory solvency margin.
Shareholders’ funds on an achieved proﬁt basis for the Friends Provident Group consists of the following:
(i) Life & Pensions net assets;
(ii) the Group’s share of its investment in the Asset Management business valued on a modiﬁed statutory solvency basis;
(iii) corporate net liabilities;
(iv) the net pension liability of FPPS on an FRS17 basis (net of deferred tax); and
(v) the present value of the future proﬁts attributable to shareholders from existing policies of the Life & Pensions business.
In addition, a pro forma embedded value has been reported showing shareholders’ funds on an achieved proﬁt basis adjusted to include 
the Asset Management listed subsidiary at market value.
3. Life & Pensions achieved operating proﬁt
a. Contribution from new business
The contribution from new business for the year ended 31 December 2004 is calculated using economic assumptions at the beginning of 
the year. The contribution from new business (before the cost of solvency capital and pension service charge) using end of period economic
assumptions amounted to £84m for the year ended 31 December 2004. 
The contribution from new Life & Pensions business before tax is calculated by grossing up the contribution from new Life & Pensions
business after tax at the full standard rate of corporation tax.
In respect of stakeholder style pension business, where a regular pattern in the receipt of premiums has been established, the business 
has been treated as regular premium business.
b. Proﬁt from existing business
Proﬁt from existing Life & Pensions business comprises the expected return on the value of in-force business at the start of the period plus
the impact of any changes in the assumptions regarding future operating experience, changes in the reserving basis (other than economic
assumption changes) and proﬁts and losses caused by differences between the actual experience for the period and the assumptions used 
to calculate the embedded value at the end of the period. 
Future bonus rates have been set at levels which would fully utilise the assets supporting the in-force with proﬁts business over its lifetime,
after providing for an estimate of the cost of guaranteed beneﬁts calculated on a stochastic basis, and are consistent with the economic
assumptions and the company’s bonus policy.
The proportion of surplus allocated to shareholders on conventional with proﬁts business has been assumed to be 10%.
c. Development costs
Development costs represent investment in developing advanced electronic trading systems, e-commerce related activities, and service
automation and improvement. 112 Friends Provident 
Achieved Proﬁt Supplementary Information continued 
Notes to the achieved proﬁt results continued
4. Asset Management
Asset Management is treated as a separate business segment and thus the proﬁt on investment management fees charged to the 
Life & Pensions business, approximately £11m for the year ended 31 December 2004, is included within Asset Management operating 
proﬁt (2003: approximately £7m).
5. Expected return on shareholders’ net assets
a. Expected return on corporate net assets
The expected return on corporate net assets is the longer-term investment return on assets held by Friends Provident plc and its non-life
subsidiaries. It excludes the expected return on the net pension liability and the result of the Asset Management business which are shown
separately in the summary consolidated proﬁt and loss account.
b. Expected return on shareholders’ net assets within the Life & Pensions business
The expected return on shareholders’ net assets held within the Life & Pensions business comprises the return on the shareholders’ 
net assets held by the life assurance companies within that business, using the investment return assumptions used to calculate the
embedded value at the beginning of the period.
6. Operating exceptional items
Operating exceptional items borne by shareholders are: 
2004 2003
£m £m
Closure of Direct Sales operation (i) (v) 2 14
Life & Pensions integration costs (ii) (v) 9 9
Provision/(release of provision) for misselling/complaints (iii) (v) 14 (14)
Asset Management integration costs (iv) 19 12
Gross up for shareholder tax (v) 8 1
52 22
(i) The charge of £2m for 2004 represents the expenses relating to the reorganisation of the Appointed Representatives sales channel.
Expenses in 2003 relate to the closure of the direct sales operation (First Call). 
(ii) Operating exceptional costs of £9m (2003: £7m) have been incurred relating to integration activity following the acquisition of 
Friends Provident International Limited in August 2002.
(iii) A total of £30m (2003: £6m) has been charged in respect of the cost to shareholders of mortgage endowment complaints and historic
business reviews. This is off-set by a credit of £16m (2003: £20m) in respect of the review conducted into pension transfers and opt-outs.
(iv) Asset Management integration costs include £18m (2003: £Nil) which were incurred in integrating, rationalising and reorganising the 
Asset Management business following the acquisition of F&C Group (Holdings) Limited. 2003 costs of £12m relate to the acquisition 
of Royal & SunAlliance Investments in 2002.
(v) Included within Life & Pensions operating exceptional items totalling £33m.
7. Effect of economic assumption changes
The effect of economic assumption changes reﬂect the impact of changes in the expected level of future investment returns, asset mix,
economic reserving basis, expense inﬂation and the risk discount rate used to calculate the value of existing business. Annual Report & Accounts 2004 113
Achieved Proﬁt Supplementary Information continued 
Notes to the achieved proﬁt results continued
8. Earnings per share
a. Basic and operating earnings per share
Earnings per share have been calculated based on operating proﬁt before amortisation of goodwill and operating exceptional items, after tax,
and on the proﬁt after tax attributable to equity shareholders, as the directors believe the former earnings per share ﬁgure gives a better
indication of operating performance. 
2004 2003
Earnings Per share Earnings Per share
£m pence £m pence
Proﬁt after tax attributable to equity shareholders 254 14.0 194 11.3
Investment return variances (191) (10.6) (137) (8.0)
Effect of economic assumption changes 94 5.2 82 4.8
Amortisation of Asset Management goodwill 25 1.4 17 1.0
Operating exceptional items 52 2.8 22 1.3
Tax charge on items excluded from operating proﬁt before amortisation 
of goodwill and operating exceptional items 13 0.8 10 0.6
Minority interest in operating exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and tax (13) (0.7) (9) (0.6)
Operating proﬁt before amortisation of goodwill and operating 
exceptional items, after tax, attributable to equity shareholders 234 12.9 179 10.4
Weighted average number of shares for the ﬁnancial year (millions) 1,808 1,722
b. Diluted earnings per share
2004 2003
Weighted Weighted
average average
number Per number Per
Earnings of shares share Earnings of shares share
£m million pence £m million pence
Proﬁt after tax attributable 
to equity shareholders 254 1,808 14.0 194 1,722 11.3
Dilutive effect of options –11 – – 7 (0.1)
Diluted earnings per share 254 1,819 14.0 194 1,729 11.2
9. Sensitivity analysis
The table below shows the contribution from new Life & Pensions business, before the cost of solvency capital and the pension service
charge, before tax and the value of existing Life & Pensions business, assuming a 1% increase in the rate of investment return on equities
and properties and, separately, a 1% increase in the risk discount rate (all other assumptions remaining unchanged):
2004 2003
£m £m
Contribution from new Life & Pensions business before cost of solvency capital and pension service charge, before tax 83 80
After the impact of a 1% increase in investment returns on equities and properties 91 90
After the impact of a 1% increase in the risk discount rate 58 55
Value of existing Life & Pensions business 1,613 1,352
After the impact of a 1% increase in investment returns on equities and properties 1,651 1,394
After the impact of a 1% increase in the risk discount rate 1,488 1,233
Proﬁts are affected by any change in underlying investment returns. When interest rates change, expected future investment returns will also
change and this in turn will affect projected cash ﬂows. A change in investment assumptions may also result in a change to the risk discount
rate used to calculate the present value of the projected cash ﬂows. 114 Friends Provident 
10. Principal assumptions
The table below sets out the principal economic assumptions used in the calculation of the value of the existing business and the contribution
from new business.
31 December 31 December 31 December
2004 2003 2002
%%%
Risk discount rate 7.1 7.3 7.0
Investment returns before tax:
Fixed interest 4.1 – 5.2 4.8 – 5.5 4.5 – 5.5
Equities 7.1 7.3 7.0
Properties 7.1 7.3 7.0
Future expense inﬂation 3.9 3.9 3.3
Corporation tax rate 30 30 30
Future bonus rates have been set at levels which would fully utilise the assets supporting the in-force with proﬁts business over its lifetime,
after providing for an estimate of the cost of guaranteed beneﬁts calculated on a stochastic basis, and are consistent with the economic
assumptions and the company’s bonus policy. 
The assumed rates of mortality, morbidity, lapse, surrender, conversion to paid-up and early retirement, which are reviewed annually, have
been derived from analyses of the Group’s recent operating experience and industry studies. In particular, improvements in annuitant mortality
have been assumed to follow the medium cohort for males and 75% of this for females.
Maintenance expenses are assumed to increase in the future at a rate of 1% per annum in excess of the assumed long-term rate of retail
price inﬂation. Allowance for commission is based on the Group’s recent experience.
The value of existing business makes no allowance for the payment of future premiums on recurring single premium contracts (except for
stakeholder style pensions in which case, if a regular pattern in the receipt of premiums is established, the business is treated as regular
premium business) or for non-contractual increments on existing policies. 
11. Contingent liabilities
Past sales
During 2004 there has been a considerable increase in the number of complaints received by the industry in respect of endowment policies.
All such complaints received by the Group, and an estimate of complaints not yet received, have been provided for at the latest estimate of
the likely costs of settling such complaints. In addition, a provision has been established for potential liabilities in respect of inheritance tax
planning policies. Future regulatory actions or statements could change the estimated costs. The impact of such potential future actions
cannot be estimated with reliability.
The FSA and other regulatory bodies may wish, in future, to examine the suitability of past sales of other products which could affect 
Friends Provident and the industry in general. The directors of FPLP also conduct ongoing reviews of such products. As a result, it is 
possible that additional unprovided liabilities could arise.
Provisions for liabilities in connection with policyholder contracts are based on best estimate assumptions, using historical experience but
adjusted where there is reasonable cause to expect future experience to be different. However, actual experience may differ from that
assumed. Regulatory action, legal judgments, future economic conditions or other unforeseen events may impact ultimate settlements made.
VAT
In a current UK VAT Tribunal appeal, a UK investment trust is seeking to establish that management services to UK investment trusts 
should be a VAT exempt supply, rather than a taxable supply in accordance with current UK VAT law. If this appeal were successful at the
higher UK or European courts, a number of group companies, in common with other relevant fund managers in the UK, would face claims
from those investment trusts to which they have supplied services for repayment of the VAT they have charged to them. At present, the
directors of F&C Asset Management plc are not able to judge the likelihood that the VAT Tribunal appeal will be successful, nor are they able
to quantify the claims that may be received or the extent to which such claims could be mitigated and therefore are not able to quantify the
potential liability.
Achieved Proﬁt Supplementary Information continued 
Notes to the achieved proﬁt results continued Achieved Proﬁt Supplementary Information continued 
Notes to the achieved proﬁt results continued
11. Contingent liabilities continued
F&C acquisition
In December 2000, when Eureko B.V. acquired F&C Group (Holdings) Limited, approximately 73 per cent of the ordinary issued shares of 
F&C Group Management Limited, a subsidiary company, was held in the form of two bearer share warrants which could not be located prior
to the completion of the sale. Eureko B.V. was indemniﬁed by F&C Group (Holdings) Limited against any losses suffered as a result of the
loss of the old share warrants or the issue of replacement share warrants. Since a bearer share warrant issued by a company entitles the
bearer to the shares speciﬁed in the share warrant, there is a risk that a third party holding the old share warrants may claim that it is entitled
to the speciﬁed shares in F&C Group Management Limited. If a third party were successful in establishing a claim in relation to the old 
share warrants, F&C Group (Holdings) Limited could be liable to indemnify F&C Group Management Limited under the original indemnity
arrangements, which could, as set out below, have a material adverse effect on the F&C Asset Management Group’s business, results of
operations and/or ﬁnancial condition.
Although there is a possibility that a third party may seek to establish that it is entitled to the shares speciﬁed in the old share warrants, 
the directors of F&C Asset Management plc have been informed that Eureko B.V. has been advised that the prospect of a third party
succeeding in such a claim is remote. Under the terms of the 2004 merger between ISIS and F&C, Eureko Holdings has given a speciﬁc
indemnity (guaranteed by Eureko B.V.) to F&C Asset Management plc in respect of losses arising in relation to the lost share warrants 
to bearer in F&C Group Management Limited (including in respect of the indemnity granted by F&C Group (Holdings) Limited to 
F&C Group Management Limited) which is capped at approximately £432m.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 115 Friends Provident plc
Incorporated in England and Wales
Registered no. 4113107
Listed on the London Stock Exchange
Executive Directors
Keith Satchell, BSc, FIA
Group Chief Executive
Howard Carter, BA, MA
Chief Executive, F&C Asset Management plc
Ben Gunn, MA, FCII
Chief Executive, 
Friends Provident Life and Pensions Limited
Philip Moore, TD, MA, FIA
Group Finance Director
Brian Sweetland, LLB, Solicitor, ACol
Executive Director
Group Management
Actuarial Services
Brian Harrison, MA, FIA
Compliance & Business Assurance
Dawn Reid, LLB, FCol
Corporate Development
Vitor Ferreira, BAcc, CA(SA)
Finance
Conrad Donaldson, BSc, ARCS, FIA
Group Communications
Nick Boakes, MA
Group Taxation
Mike Chadwick, ACA, ATII
Strategic Projects
Stuart Hastings, BSc
Group Risk
James Ward, MA
Group Secretary
Gordon Ellis, MA, APMI, Solicitor
Friends Provident Life and 
Pensions Limited
Incorporated in England and Wales
Registered no. 4096141
Member of the Association 
of British Insurers
Executive Directors
Keith Satchell, BSc, FIA
Executive Chairman
Philip Moore, TD, MA, FIA
Finance Director
Ben Gunn, MA, FCII
Chief Executive
Rocco Sepe, BSc, FIA
Managing Director International
Simon Clamp, BA
Managing Director UK Sales and Marketing
Jane Stevens, BSc, FIA
Managing Director Operations
Mike Hampton, MA, FPMI
Director of Business Services
Graham Harvey, FCCA, MBA
Director of Marketing
Andy Jackson, BSc, FIA
Director of Information Technology
Jamie McIver
Director of Sales 
Paul Tunnicliffe, MSc (Mgmt)
Director of International
Lombard International 
Assurance S.A. 
David Steinegger
Chief Executive
F&C Asset Management plc
Incorporated in Scotland 
Registered no. 73508
Listed on the London Stock Exchange
Executive Directors
Howard Carter, BA, MA
Chief Executive 
Alain Grisay, LLM, MA
Deputy Chief Executive
Ian Paterson Brown, CA, MSI, ACIS
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Management
Nick Criticos, FIA, BA, Bus.Sc
Head of UK Retail and Investment Trusts
Laurence Llewellyn, BSc (Hons), FCMA,
MBA
Head of European Retail
Tony Broccardo, MA
Chief Investment Ofﬁcer
Patrick Johns, B.Eng
Head of UK, Ireland and 
US Institutional Business
Fernando Ribeiro, B.Econ, MBA 
Head of Alternative Investments
Helene Williamson, BA, MA, MBA
Head of Fixed Income
Peter Cole, MA
Head of Human Resources
W. Marrack Tonkin, FCCA
Company Secretary
Executive Management
116 Friends Provident 116 Friends Provident  Cautionary statement
Certain statements contained in this document constitute ‘forward-looking statements’. 
Such forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results,
performance or achievements of Friends Provident plc, its subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings, from time to time, or
industry results to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such
forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others, adverse changes to laws or
regulations; risks in respect of taxation; unforeseen liabilities from product reviews; asset shortfalls against product liabilities; 
changes in the general economic environment; levels and trends in mortality and morbidity; restrictions on access to product
distribution channels; increased competition; and the ability to attract and retain personnel. These forward-looking statements
are made only as at the date of this document and, save where required in order to comply with the Listing Rules, there is no
obligation on Friends Provident plc to update such forward-looking statements.
Published by Black Sun Plc
Printed by Wace
Shareholder enquiries
You should contact the Registrar if you:
• have any questions regarding your shareholding
• have any questions regarding your 
dividend payments
• have lost your Share Account Statement 
or share certiﬁcate
• have changed your name or address
• wish to transfer your shares into someone else’s
name or joint names
Registrar
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
BN99 6DA
Telephone: 0870 609 4534
(Monday to Friday 8.30am to 5.30pm)
Website: www.shareview.co.uk
To buy and sell shares
By post:
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
BN99 6DA
By telephone:
Lloyds TSB Registrars
Telephone: 0845 300 2946
(Monday to Friday 8am to 4.30pm)
(Please have your Account Number and bank
account details to hand)
By internet:
Lloyds TSB Registrars Shareview Dealing Service
www.friendsprovident.com/shareholderservices
(Please have your Account Number and bank
account details to hand)
Latest share price information
www.friendsprovident.com/shareprice
Dividend dates
Shares go ex dividend 6 April 2005
Record date 8 April 2005
Final dividend paid 31 May 2005
Annual General Meeting 26 May 2005
Shareholder Information
The Friends Provident Group is organised around a life 
and pensions business and an asset management
business. Both were developed further throughout 2004,
securing greater scale and broader scope for the Group:
Increasing our scale
The merger of ISIS and F&C nearly doubles the funds managed by the Group
Extending our reach
Our acquisition of Lombard* opens up the European market still further
Excelling in service
We are the only UK listed life and pensions company to hold 
a FIVE STAR rating** for service 
Winning with technology
Our online e-commerce facilities won seven awards in 2004
Attracting more customers
New life and pensions business in 2004 hit a record level
Establishing new distribution
Selected by many distributors for their ‘preferred provider’ panels 
Raising new capital
Successfully raised £380m new capital through an innovative securitisation
to support our ambitions for further growth 
Maintaining ethical heritage
Through our Stewardship range, we have more money invested in retail ethical funds 
than any other company
Featured on the front cover are Katy Macleod, Deven Beeharilal 
and Claire Bouldin who work in our Central London Ofﬁce 
delivering Five Star service to IFAs. 
* Completed in January 2005
**2004 Financial Adviser Practiv Service Awards
▼
A year of achievement Friends Provident plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004
Friends Provident plc
Pixham End,
Dorking, Surrey,
England RH4 1QA
Tel 0870 608 3678
www.friendsprovident.com
Friends Provident plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004
Greater scale, 
broader scope YOUR CHANCE TO
WIN
THIS SONY FLA T SCREEN TV
www.friendsprovident.com
2004 Annual Review for Shareholders
Free Prize Draw!
Register online for your chance to 
win a Sony Flat Screen Television.
See page 6 for details.
The Friends Provident Foundation
has been established to help meet
some of the serious social problems
facing the UK today. Danielle Walker
(pictured) is Director of the Foundation
and spoke at the launch of the
Foundation’s new book ‘The Right
Use of Money’ in July 2004.
Free Prize Draw! 2 The 2004 Annual Review for Shareholders
David Newbigging 
Chairman
Keith Satchell 
Group Chief Executive
Although Friends Provident plc was listed on the London
Stock Exchange only in 2001, the business dates back 
to 1832, when it was established to alleviate the hardship
of families facing misfortune. Today, Friends Provident –
your company – is one of the top 100 UK listed companies 
and continues to grow year by year. In 2004, we paid 
out over £3 billion to our customers.
The Friends Provident Group is structured around two
businesses. The life and pensions business is one of 
the top ten in the UK and has a growing international
dimension. The asset management business trades 
under the name of F&C and is one of the ﬁve largest 
UK asset management companies as well as having 
a signiﬁcant European presence.
On these pages we outline how both businesses have
developed over 2004, increasing both the scale and scope
of the Friends Provident Group. We are grateful to you, 
our shareholders, for your continued trust and support.
Friends Provident –
a new company with over
170 years of experience “Being endorsed by so 
many Financial Advisers 
is sending a real buzz 
around our organisation. ”
Chai Beh
Finance
3 The 2004 Annual Review for Shareholders
Life and pensions
Record sales in 2004 and new 
business proﬁts increase again
New business* in 2004 hit a new record 
level of £434 million. The highest growth over
2004 was in new investment business, which
increased by 13%, followed by protection
business, up by 11%. Our biggest market
remains group pensions. Combined, these
three product areas are where our focus has
been over recent years.
You can see from the chart below that new
business has increased every year since
Friends Provident was listed on the London
Stock Exchange in 2001 .
More importantly, the proﬁts earned on our
new business have increased for the third
consecutive year, up 4% over 2003, 26% 
over 2002 and 54% greater than 2001 .
Our innovative systems are 
voted the best time and again
We have developed leading-edge systems 
so that transacting life and pensions business 
is simple, both for ﬁnancial advisers and for
customers. In 2004, more than half of all 
new business was transacted online using 
our internet-based systems, which attracted 
no fewer than seven independent awards in the
year, including being voted Overall E-Commerce
Company of the Year in the inﬂuential Financial
Adviser Practiv Service Awards 2004.
Our good service and systems are helping
us secure important distribution agreements
The rules that regulate how ﬁnancial products
are sold in the UK have changed. As a result,
some of the organisations that provide ﬁnancial
advice are choosing to recommend the
products of only one life and pensions company
(known as a single-tie) or of a select few
(known as a multi-tie). We are delighted that
during 2004, a number of these ﬁrms, including
Millﬁeld Group, THINC Destiny, St James’s
Place, Bankhall, Sesame and Lighthouse,
selected Friends Provident as one of the
companies they recommend. These are known
as ‘distribution agreements’ and we have been
able to announce further such agreements this
year, and anticipate more will follow.
Beyond the UK, our International arm has
entered into similar distribution arrangements 
for certain products. All of these distribution
agreements are important as they will help to
secure future income for the Friends Provident
Group. We will continue to work hard to
demonstrate to those organisations providing
ﬁnancial advice why they can recommend
Friends Provident with conﬁdence.
Lombard International Assurance
SA joins the Friends Provident Group,
signiﬁcantly expanding our international 
cross-border operations
In January this year we completed the
purchase of Lombard International Assurance
SA, a pan-European life assurance company
operating out of Luxembourg. Lombard
specialises in providing wealth management
and estate planning solutions to very high net
worth clients. It operates primarily within the
borders of Europe but also extends further
aﬁeld, including Asia and Mexico.
This new company complements the
international company we purchased from
Royal & SunAlliance in 2002, based in the 
Isle of Man. 
Financial Highlights
£3. 1bn
£434m
£83m
£344m
£317m
£125bn
£3.2bn
7 .55p
* New business is based on the industry standard 
Annual Premium Equivalent basis, which is 100% 
regular premiums + 10% single premiums
** Stated before amortisation of goodwill, operating 
exceptional items and tax
*** On an achieved proﬁts basis
Total New Business: APE (£m)
2004
2003
2002 377
429
343
434
2001
Financial Highlights
£3. 1bn
Total gross premiums (2003: £3.2bn)
£434m
Life and pensions new business 
APE* (2003: £429m)
£83m
Contribution to proﬁts from 
new business*** (2003: £80m)
£344m
Operating proﬁt on achieved 
proﬁt basis** (2003: £266m)
£317m
Operating proﬁt on modiﬁed 
statutory solvency basis** 
(2003: £260m)
£125bn
Funds under management 
(2003: £63bn)
£3.2bn
Shareholders’ funds plus market 
value of F&C at 31/12/04*** 
(2003: £2.8bn)
7 .55p
Dividend per share 
(2003: 7 .4p) We anticipate that, from 2005 onwards, more
than one third of our total new business will be
international cross-border business. This makes
us one of the leading players in that market,
which has greater opportunities for proﬁtable
growth than can be generally found in the UK.
Lombard will continue to trade under that
name, which is a well-established and
respected name in that specialist market.
The Five Star award for service 
is achieved in 2004
Friends Provident is recognised as a provider 
of Five Star service – the highest award in 
the 2004 Financial Adviser Practiv Service
Awards, based on the views of more than 
2,000 Independent Financial Advisers. A Five
Star ranking represents excellent service and
Friends Provident is the only listed Life
Assurance company with a Five Star ranking
in this annual survey, which is the largest of 
its kind. In our industry, where products can 
be so similar, it is the service that backs them
which distinguishes one company from another, 
which is why this award is so signiﬁcant.
We are proud of the service we give and we
wholeheartedly support Treating Customers
Fairly – an initiative of the Financial Services
Authority to ensure fairness to customers is 
at the centre of decision-making.
£380 million of new capital raised 
to help ﬁnance continued growth
Companies that are getting bigger, like Friends
Provident, need capital to keep on growing
year after year. In December we successfully
raised £380 million, and because there was 
a strong demand to invest in us, we were able
to raise this money very cost effectively. These
ﬁnancial transactions are very complex but, 
in simple terms, it is like borrowing money
and paying interest to those who have lent it
to us. Meanwhile we use the loan to build 
our business, making sure it earns the
company more ‘value’ than we have to 
pay out in interest.
Asset management
Merger promotes Friends Provident’s 
asset management business up to the
premier league
In July 2004 we announced the merger of our
asset management business – then called ISIS
– with F&C. This merger was completed in
October, making the enlarged company one of
the leading asset management businesses in
the UK and with signiﬁcant business in
Continental Europe.
The enlarged company will trade under the F&C
name, which is recognised throughout Europe,
whereas the ISIS name was well known only 
in the UK. Friends Provident holds a 51%
controlling interest in F&C.
Remarkable growth
At the end of 2001 – the year Friends Provident
was listed on the London Stock Exchange – 
our asset management company managed less
than £35 billion. At the end of 2004, this had
risen to £125 billion, which is remarkable
growth over just three years and meets the
strategic objective that was set for this side 
of our business. 
Why the merger makes sense
Put simply, these two companies can achieve
more together than they could apart, by pooling
their experiences of operating in different
regions, specialising in different products and
marketing those products in different ways. 
This makes the business less reliant on any one
region or type of product and will accelerate
the potential for growing the business,
particularly outside the UK. Also we now have 
a stronger investment team, working for the
good of our customers.
When two businesses are brought together,
there are inevitably going to be areas of
overlap, and we estimate that, by the ﬁrst half
of 2006, some £33 million each year can be
saved in operating expenses by addressing
these overlaps. 
We ﬁrmly believe that this merger strengthens
the Friends Provident Group and will be good
for our shareholders as the beneﬁts of the
merger begin to ﬂow through, once the
integration of the two companies is completed.
Returns to our shareholders
Successfully increasing your 
dividend every year
Y our Board is recommending a ﬁnal dividend for
2004 of 5.0 pence per share. When combined
with the interim dividend of 2.55 pence per
share, paid to shareholders last November, the
total dividend for 2004 will amount to 7 .55 pence
per share. The company’s success has enabled
us to increase your dividend every year.
Friends Provident shares rise 17%
The value of your Friends Provident shares
increased 17% over 2004, rising from 132
pence at the beginning of the year to 154
pence at the end of 2004.
Funds under management (£bn)
2004
2003
2002 60
63
34
125
2001
Dividends (pence per share)
* Annualised
2004
2003 7.40
7.55
7.25
7.00
2002
2001
*
“We’ve been focusing on
giving great customer
service so getting 
the Five Star award 
was brilliant news. ”
Dennis Aguma
Customer Services
4 The 2004 Annual Review for Shareholders
“
The way we are reaching
out across Europe is 
really very exciting. ”
Steve Y oung
International Operations 5 The 2004 Annual Review for Shareholders
“Working for a
company that
cares about
others makes
a big difference
to me. ”
Priya Madhu
International Operations
Friends Provident Foundation 
helps to tackle ﬁnancial exclusion
In November 2004, the Friends Provident Foundation made one 
of its ﬁrst grants to Centrepoint, a large charity working with
homeless and disadvantaged young people in the UK. The grant
will enable Centrepoint to undertake research to understand 
what it is like to organise ﬁnancial matters from the perspective 
of homeless young people. The research will identify the barriers
they face and help Centrepoint identify a strategy for overcoming
these barriers. The work will also result in the development of an
accredited training programme which will be shared with other
voluntary organisations. 
20 years of Stewardship
In 2004 we celebrated the 20th anniversary of our ground-
breaking ethical Stewardship fund, the ﬁrst of its kind and still
market leading, with £1 .8 billion of retail ethical funds. Twice each
year we publish an online ‘Principles’ newsletter, which covers 
a range of topical issues about ethical investment and the
Stewardship funds – if you want an email alert when each new
edition is available, register at www.friendsprovident.com/csi
Friends Provident becomes 
a member of Dow Jones
Sustainability World Index
Following a lengthy assessment by Swiss-based company SAM
Research, Friends Provident was selected as a member of the
Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. This Index contains the
top 10% of companies across 34 countries and 60 industries,
assessed for their leading position in managing social and
environmental matters. 
IVCA award 
Friends Provident has been recognised for the way in which 
we report the management of social and environmental issues
(collectively known as Corporate Social Responsibility) by
winning the 2004 IVCA Clarion Award for printed materials. 
The Clarion Awards aim to promote excellence in the
communication of Corporate Social Responsibility and we 
were delighted to receive this recognition. 
Our Corporate
Responsibility
Our Corporate
Responsibility 6 The 2004 Annual Review for Shareholders
THANK YOU to the 3,434 of you who are reading this online, having
responded to our appeal in last year’s edition of FRIENDS
®
to opt to receive
electronic communications in future. Your action saved more than 50,000
sheets of paper being used and printed in this year’s mailing packs.
PLEASE help us save more.
If you use a PC, it only takes a couple of minutes for you to register for
online shareholder services. Simply visit www.friendsprovident.com/signup
and enter your account number (shown on the enclosed voting card) and
your postcode and email address. You will also be asked to set a password
of your choosing. It really is that simple. Thank you.
Much more than just 
electronic communications
By registering for online shareholder services, you will receive an email alert each time we publish new
shareholder documents on our website, rather than receiving them through the post. You will also get 
free access to a range of online services designed to make life easier for you. You will be able to:
Check your shareholding in 
Friends Provident and other 
UK quoted companies
See the value of your shares
Submit your voting instructions 
online for future shareholder meetings
See your dividend payment details
Amend your bank details
Change your address
Change your email address
Obtain tax vouchers online 
(available only if your dividends 
are paid direct to your bank or 
building society)
There is no cost to you for these services. They are free and are available to you on behalf of 
Friends Provident from Lloyds TSB Registrars. Register now on www.friendsprovident.com/signup
Free Prize Draw
As a further thank you, every shareholder who has already registered
to receive electronic communications, or who registers before the end
of May 2005, will be entered into a prize draw for this Sony 26” Flat
Screen Television. Prize draw rules can be accessed via
www.friendsprovident.com/shareholderservices
ThankY ou!
YOUR CHANCE TO
WIN
THIS TV The following share dealing services* are available to you 
from our Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Internet
Dealing online is real-time and you will be given a dealing
price within seconds. Simply visit www.friendsprovident.com/
shareholderservices You will need your postcode and
shareholder account number. 
T elephone
Call 0845 300 2946, Monday to Friday between 8.00am and
4.30pm to buy or sell over the phone. Dealing is real-time 
and you will be given a dealing price within seconds.
Post
A weekly postal dealing service is also available and a form,
together with terms and conditions, can be obtained by
calling the Shareholder Helpline on 0870 609 4534. Y ou can
also download these documents from the ‘download forms’
page on www.friendsprovident.com/shareholderservices
How much does it cost?
The current share dealing costs, terms and conditions 
are available on our website, www.friendsprovident.com/
shareholderservices or alternatively you can call the
Shareholder Helpline on 0870 609 4534 (Monday to 
Friday 8.30am to 5.30pm).
* Details of these services do not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell shares. 
Other services may be available.
Change of your shareholder reference number
Please note that your unique shareholder reference number
(SRN) changed in August 2004, following the appointment 
of Lloyds TSB Registrars. Your SRN has been replaced with 
a new number called the account number. You can ﬁnd your
account number on the enclosed voting card. You will
always need to have your account number to hand
when you call the Shareholder Helpline, or when
buying or selling your Friends Provident shares.
Buying or selling 
Friends Provident shares
The 2004 Annual Review for Shareholders 7
“We always try hard to bring
information to your ﬁngertips 
to save you time. ”
Adele Butterﬁeld
IT Helpdesk
Buying or selling 
Friends Provident shares Y our dividend
7 .55p
per share
The total recommended dividend for 2004 is 7 .55 pence per share. We
made an interim payment of 2.55 pence per share to shareholders last
November. The ﬁnal dividend of 5.0 pence per share (assuming it is
approved at our Annual General Meeting on 26 May 2005) will be paid
to shareholders on 31 May 2005 for each share owned on 8 April 2005.
Introduction of consolidated tax vouchers
If your dividend is paid directly into your bank or building society
account, you will receive only one tax voucher each year, rather 
than two. The new consolidated tax voucher will be sent to you 
each November and will take account of both dividend payments 
for your tax year (dividend payments are normally made each May
and November). This will help you complete your tax return. Please
be assured that this new arrangement does not affect the dividends
you receive or the tax you pay. If you prefer to continue to receive
tax vouchers with each dividend payment, please call the Shareholder
Helpline on 0870 609 4534 or write to Lloyds TSB Registrars at The
Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
T alk to FRIENDS
®
Call now on: 0800000080
*
Products mentioned above are provided by members of the Friends Provident Marketing Group
Friends Provident plc Registered and Head Ofﬁce: Pixham End, Dorking, Surrey RH4 1QA.
Incorporated company limited by shares and registered in England number 4113107 .
Published by Black Sun Plc (020) 7736 0011 . Printed by Wace. Ref. XG329 Version 2.05.
How to contact us
Ross Williams
Call Handler
• life cover
• critical illness cover
• income protection cover
• unemployment cover
• individual savings
accounts (ISAs)
• bonds and collective
investment schemes
• pensions
Products to help people Products to help people
Our products, designed to help people plan for life’s 
important milestones as well as unexpected events, include:
How to contact us
For questions about your dividend, 
your shareholding or changes to your
personal details, such as your address,
please call the Shareholder Helpline on 
0870 609 4534
(Monday to Friday 8.30am to 5.30pm).
Alternatively, email us at
friends.enquiries@lloydstsb-
registrars.co.uk
If calling from overseas, the number is 
0044 121 415 7109
For questions about Friends Provident
products and services, your usual
Independent Financial Adviser will be
able to give you expert advice on
planning your ﬁnances and will
recommend the best product for you. 
If you don’t have an Independent
Financial Adviser, you can call us on 
0800 00 00 80* quoting ‘S90’.
Alternatively, email us at
tellmemore@friendsprovident.co.uk
or visit our website at
www.friendsprovident.com/consumer
*Any advice provided will relate only to Friends
Provident pension and protection products. Only
factual information will be provided on all saving
and investment products. Lines are open 8am to
8pm Monday to Friday. For your protection all
telephone calls will be recorded and/or regularly
monitored. Please note that calls to this number are
chargeable from mobiles.
For questions about an existing Friends
Provident policy, call 
0870 607 1352 
or email
customer.services@friendsprovident.co.uk
