 Securing Y our W orld
INSIGHT 
INNOVATION  
INTEGRATION
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 SECURING YOUR WORLD
Our enduring strategic aim is to 
demonstrate the values and performance 
that make G4S the company of choice for 
customers, employees and shareholders. 
We aim to do this by delivering  
industry-leading, innovative solutions and 
outstanding service to our customers,  
by providing engaging and rewarding 
work for employees and by generating 
sustainable growth and returns for 
our shareholders.
Visit: www.g4s.com for  
more information
Introduction FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
CONTINUING BUSINESSES
Revenue
£6.8bn
+6.3%
(2015: £6.4bn) 
PBITA
£454m
+9.7%
(2015: £414m)
EPS
15.9p 
+16.5%
(2015: 13.7p)
Operating cash flow 
£638m
+61.5%
(2015: £395m)
STATUTORY RESULTS
Revenue
£7.6bn
+10.6%
(2015: £6.9bn)
Profit before tax
£296m
+279.5%
(2015: £78m)
EPS
12.8p
(2015: 0.5p)
Net cash flow from operating 
activities of continuing operations
£615m
+71.3%
(2015: £359m)
Dividend per share
9.41p
(2015: 9.41p)
See page 32 for basis of preparation and definition of continuing 
businesses and page 33 for a reconciliation to statutory results.  
The Chief Financial Officer’s review is on pages 32 to 40.
STRATEGIC REPORT
Overview
Financial highlights 1
G4S at a glance 2
Strategy & Business Review
Chief Executive’s review 4
Market growth drivers 8
Business model 10
Our strategy 12
Key performance indicators 28
CSR performance 30
Chief Financial Officer’s review 32
Regional and service line review 41
Risk management 50
GOVERNANCE REPORT
Chairman’s statement 56
Board of directors 58
Executive committee 60
Corporate governance report 62
Audit committee report 72
Directors’ remuneration report 78
Directors’ report 99
Directors’ responsibilities 102
FINANCIAL REPORT
Independent auditor’s report 103
Consolidated income statement 110
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income 111
Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity 111
Consolidated statement of 
financial position 112
Consolidated statement of  
cash flow 113
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 114
Parent company statement of 
changes in equity 177
Parent company statement of 
financial position 178
Notes to the parent company 
financial statements 179
Shareholder information 
Group financial record 186
General information 187
KPI
KPI
KPI
John Connolly, Chairman
Ashley Almanza, CEO
Corporate Governance
Ensuring that good governance is in place 
throughout G4S is vital for the delivery of 
long-term sustainable value for shareholders 
and for all the Group’s other stakeholders.
Strategy & Business Review
The strategic review is set out within the 
Strategy and Business review on pages 4  
to 55.
Read more in our Chairman’s statement 
on page 56
Read more in our CEO review on  
page 4
KPI
KPI
Financial KPI
Other financial and non-financial KPIs
Please see pages 28 to 29 for 
a description of the Group’s 
financial and non-financial KPIs 
and how they link to the 
Group’s strategic priorities
KPI
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 1
Financial highlights and contents SECURING  
YOUR WORLD
OUR BUSINESSES
G4S is the world’s leading, global, integrated security company specialising 
in the provision of security and related services across six continents. 
We offer a broad range of services on a standalone basis or in conjunction with other 
services to provide customers with valuable integrated solutions. Technology, software  
and systems accounted for 13% of the Group’s continuing business revenues in 2016  
and technology enabled security services contributed more than an additional £1.5 billion 
revenues in 2016.
SECURITY SERVICES AND 
SYSTEMS (78%)
Market 
G4S operates an integrated security 
business in more than 90 countries  
across the globe. The global security 
market is highly fragmented; there are  
few international suppliers and our 
competitors are typically smaller local  
and regional companies.
Our approach
We design, market and deliver a wide 
range of security and related services and 
our global footprint provides valuable 
access to a highly diversified customer base 
in markets around the world. We aim to 
differentiate G4S by providing industry 
leading security solutions that are 
innovative, reliable and efficient.
Our scale and focus on productivity 
supports our cost competitiveness and  
our sustained investment in professional 
staff, technology, software and systems 
enables us to provide innovative and 
reliable solutions for our customers on  
a stand-alone or integrated basis.
Market 
G4S’s Care and Justice services are 
concentrated in the UK and Australia.
The care and justice market is fairly 
consolidated with a small number of large 
providers. Larger companies are usually 
better equipped to deliver the highly 
specialised services in this sector.
Our approach
G4S will only offer custody, detention, 
rehabilitation and care services where  
we can maintain a qualified talent pool  
and where the political, legal, human rights 
and regulatory framework is consistent 
with our Group values and results in 
acceptable operational, commercial and 
reputational risk.
Market 
G4S Cash Solutions is one of a small 
number of large, global cash businesses  
and is the market leader or number  
two in 41 of its 44 markets. Each market  
is highly regulated, often by central banks, 
and the business requires significant 
infrastructure and expertise. G4S competes 
with local, national and a small number  
of international competitors. Cash usage  
in most developed markets is mature,  
with flat or gradually declining volumes at 
an aggregate market level. Cash usage 
continues to increase in emerging markets.
Our approach
We transport, process, recycle, securely 
store and manage cash and we provide 
secure international logistics for cash and 
valuables. Our strategy is designed to 
enable us to accumulate volumes through 
cost leadership and product and service 
differentiation. T o do this, we invest in 
technology and develop and sell 
proprietary cash management systems 
which combine skilled professionals with 
software, hardware and operational 
support in an integrated managed service. 
We operate around the globe, focusing on 
markets where we are able to build and 
sustain a material market share in our key 
service offerings.
CARE AND JUSTICE SERVICES 
(5%)
CASH SOLUTIONS 
SECURE SOLUTIONS (83% OF REVENUES) CASH SOLUTIONS (17% OF REVENUES)
2 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
G4S at a glance OUR STRATEGY
Our strategy addresses the positive, long-term demand for  
security and related services and our enduring strategic aim is  
to demonstrate the values and performance that make G4S the 
company of choice for customers, employees and shareholders.  
We aim to do this by delivering industry-leading, innovative 
solutions and outstanding service to our customers, by providing 
engaging and rewarding work for employees and by generating 
sustainable growth and returns for our shareholders. These aims  
are underpinned by the key programmes in our strategic plan:
Managed 
service
Integrated 
solutions
Analytics and 
Intelligence 
Manned and mobile 
security
Monitoring and 
response
Consultancy and risk 
management 
Technology and 
software
Systems: design, build 
and integration
Incremental value added
Margin
Secure transport
Electronic monitoring 
Custody, detention and 
rehabilitation
Secure health
Forensic medical and 
police support
Incremental value added
Margin
Managed 
service
Integrated 
solutions
Cash management 
software and systems
Cash in transit
Cash processing
ATM Replenishment 
and engineering
International secure 
logistics
Cash recycling
Incremental value added
Margin
Managed 
service
Integrated 
solutions
OUR VALUES AND ‘ONE G4S’
Please see page 12 for more details.
We act with...
INTEGRITY  
AND RESPECT
We are passionate about...
SAFETY, SECURITY   
AND SERVICE EXCELLENCE
We achieve this through...
INNOVATION   
AND TEAMWORK
OUR VALUES
Our people and values underpin everything we do. Our ‘One G4S’ 
model brings all areas of our business together and is designed to 
ensure that the way we go about our business is consistent across 
our global operations and is strongly aligned with our strategy and 
our values.
We believe that this approach will generate significant benefits for 
our customers, employees and shareholders.
Please see page 15 for more details.
PEOPLE AND VALUES GROWTH AND 
INNOVATION
FINANCIAL AND 
COMMERCIAL 
DISCIPLINE
CUSTOMERS AND 
SERVICE EXCELLENCE 
OPERATIONAL 
EXCELLENCE AND 
PRODUCTIVITY
Our solutions
Our solutions
Our solutions
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 3 Ashley Almanza, Group Chief Executive Officer
SECURING  
YOUR WORLD
“Since 2013, the year in which we commenced 
the transformation of G4S, the Group’s 
continuing businesses have grown revenues  
by 15% and EPS by 45% while generating 
operating cash flow of £1.9 billion.
Our investment in organic growth, innovation 
and productivity is clearly evident in the 
Group’s improving performance and financial 
position as reflected in our 2016 results.  
G4S now has much stronger foundations, 
growing competitive capabilities and an 
attractive array of market opportunities,  
which underpin our aim of delivering 
sustainable profitable growth.”
4 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Chief Executive’s review Strategy – transforming G4S:
Our strategy addresses the positive long-term demand 
for security and related services and our enduring 
strategic aim is to demonstrate the values and 
performance that make G4S the company of choice for 
customers, employees and shareholders. We aim to do 
this by delivering industry-leading, innovative solutions 
and outstanding service to our customers, by providing 
engaging and rewarding work for employees and by 
generating sustainable growth and returns for 
our shareholders.
The Group has materially improved its focus over the 
past three years and implements its strategy across two 
main business segments:
Secure Solutions, comprising:
• Security services, software, technology and systems
• Care and Justice services focused on custody, 
detention, care and rehabilitation in the UK 
and Australia
Cash Solutions comprising secure transportation, 
processing, recycling and storage of cash and valuables  
in domestic and international markets.
In 2013, we set out our strategy to transform G4S and  
I am pleased to report that in 2016 we made further, 
substantial progress in each of the key programmes in 
our strategic plan:
People and values:
Our people and values are critical to the successful 
execution of our strategy. We have been strengthening 
our organisation by investing in talent through 
recruitment, internal development, promotion and 
training. In 2015 449,000 colleagues participated in a 
global employee survey and in 2016 we used that 
information and feedback to engage actively with our 
colleagues across the Group. Since 1 January 2016, we 
have two new regions – Asia Pacific and Middle East & 
India (replacing Asia Middle East) which brought 
additional executive resource and focus to these 
important markets. 
In October 2016, Tim Weller succeeded Himanshu Raja 
as Chief Financial Officer. Tim is a highly accomplished 
executive with extensive commercial and financial 
experience in global businesses. Tim previously served  
as a non-executive director on our board and it is 
greatly to our advantage that he already has deep 
understanding of G4S and our transformation 
programme. I thank Himanshu for the contribution 
he made over the past three years. 
As a result of the very substantial investment made in 
recruitment, development and training since 2013,  
G4S today has a much stronger global leadership team. 
In turn, this places the Group in a stronger position to 
achieve our strategic goals in the coming years. During 
2016 we launched our new Group values. These clear 
values reflect the standards we set for the way in which 
we conduct our business. Through our behaviours and 
actions, we are working to embed these values in the 
culture of our organisation. I firmly believe that these 
values are vital to the long-term success of G4S. They 
are described in further detail on page 15.
Customer relationships and service excellence:
During 2016 we continued to embed a customer  
and market focussed approach to sales operations and 
customer service management. In addition to adopting  
a standard sales management system we have established 
a Net Promoter Score model across the Group to 
measure and respond to customer satisfaction scores 
(see page 20). Alongside these measures we continue  
to invest in strategic account management to ensure that 
we anticipate and serve our customers’ needs. 
Growth and Innovation:
During 2016, G4S won new contracts with an annual 
value of over £1.3 billion and total contract value of 
£2.5 billion. At the same time, we replenished our 
pipeline which now has an annual value of £6.8 billion 
and sustained average contract retention rates of 
around 90%.We expect demand for our services to 
PEOPLE AND VALUES
GROWTH AND 
INNOVATION
FINANCIAL AND 
COMMERCIAL 
DISCIPLINE
CUSTOMERS AND 
SERVICE EXCELLENCE 
OPERATIONAL 
EXCELLENCE AND 
PRODUCTIVITY 
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 5 grow by around 4% to 6% per annum over the medium 
term and we continue to see the benefit of investing  
in product and service development. Our technology, 
software and systems revenues grew strongly and  
now account for 13% of continuing business revenues. 
This included substantial progress with services such  
as Symmetry (integrated access control system) and 
secure integration, Retail Cash Solutions and Deposita 
(cash management). Further information on these 
solutions can be found on pages 21, 22 and 23. In our 
Secure Solutions business, technology-enabled services 
and solutions contributed over £1.5 billion in revenues 
in 2016.
Operational excellence and Productivity:
Our operational excellence and productivity 
programmes delivered further benefits, allowing us to 
continue to invest in product and service development 
whilst at the same time improving the Group’s profit 
before interest, tax and amortisation (PBITA). Some of 
our emerging markets businesses are at a much earlier 
stage in our transformation programme but in our 
developed markets we expect to extract greater 
efficiencies through the implementation of automated, 
lean business processes and we will be piloting this  
initiative in Ireland during 2017. 
Health & Safety:
The safety and wellbeing of our employees and those in 
our care is a key priority for the group executive team 
and the global leadership team. Our goal is zero harm 
and to achieve this we are striving to ensure that every 
G4S employee understands and complies with safe and 
secure working practices. We work in an inherently 
hazardous industry: many of our employees travel 
extensively and many are trained and deployed to 
protect our customers and their property. As a result, 
road traffic accidents and criminal attacks are inherent 
risks we face in delivering some of our services. We have 
therefore invested in considerable improvements to our 
health and safety policies, practices, training and 
resources across the Group. Whilst we have made 
progress in significantly reducing road traffic fatalities, we 
faced a sharp increase in both the number and intensity 
of armed attacks, particularly in our emerging markets 
Cash Solutions businesses. As a direct result of this 
increase, I regret to report that 47 colleagues lost their 
lives in the line of duty in 2016. We are working with 
peer companies and the police to mitigate these attacks. 
We pay tribute to the courage and service of colleagues 
who lost their lives and we remain committed to our 
goal of zero harm.
See page 10 for our  
business model 
>£1.5bn
Revenue from 
technology-
enabled services 
in continuing 
businesses in 
2016
G4S countries of operation
Security Operation Centres
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS: GLOBAL RESOURCE & CAPABILITY
6 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Chief Executive’s review continued Financial and commercial discipline:
Since 2013 we have strengthened capital investment 
processes and we are applying capital with greater 
consistency and rigour. Strengthening our working capital 
management processes was a key priority for our 
finance and line management teams in 2016 and the 
weighting of operating cash flow in our annual incentive 
plans was increased accordingly. I am pleased to report 
that we saw a significant improvement in working capital 
management and operating cash flow in 2016.
We have also strengthened contract approval  
processes, whether they require significant capital 
investment or not. 
Portfolio programme:
Our portfolio programme has materially improved  
our strategic focus. Since 2013 we have divested 29 
businesses (with annual revenues of c.£1 billion and 
PBITA of £25 million), realising proceeds of £345 million, 
and a further 27 businesses (with revenues of 
c.£445 million) are being sold or exited. In 2016 we 
closed four businesses and sold a further 12, realising 
proceeds of £82 million, including £52 million in respect 
of the UK Utilities business and reached agreement for 
the sale of G4S Israel for £88 million. The impact on our 
2015 results from continuing businesses due to 
re-presentation of portfolio businesses is provided on 
page 34.
Performance:
Continuing business performance
Supported by the continuous investment in organic sales 
and business development, revenues rose by 6.3% to 
£6.8 billion. In addition, our investment in technology 
and innovation was clearly reflected in the favourable 
change in our revenue mix, with revenues from 
technology, software and systems now accounting for 
13% of Group revenues (2015:10%).
The combination of growing revenues and improved 
productivity saw the Group’s PBITA rise by 9.7% to 
£454 million, whilst earnings per share rose by 16.5% to 
15.9 pence per share. The increase in profit and more 
effective working capital management saw operating 
cash flow rise by more than 61% to £638 million.
Statutory results
Revenue growth was 10.6% and profit before tax 
increased by 279.5%. A more detailed review of the 
statutory results can be found on page 32, with a 
reconciliation to results from continuing businesses 
provided on page 33.
Net debt and dividend:
Growth in profits and operating cash flow, together  
with disposal proceeds of £82 million helped reduce the 
Group’s net debt to EBITDA to 2.8x (2015: 3.4x). In line 
with our intention to maintain dividends until net debt 
to EBITDA is below 2.5x, the board is recommending 
that the final dividend be maintained at 5.82p per share 
(DKK 0.5029), bringing the total dividend for the full 
year to 9.41p per share – unchanged from the 
previous year.
Outlook:
During 2016, the Group made good progress with its 
transformation strategy. We now have much stronger 
foundations, growing competitive capabilities and an 
attractive array of market opportunities. We believe that 
the long-term demand for our core services remains 
positive and that the Group’s transformation strategy 
will produce further performance improvements and 
underpin our aim of delivering sustainable, profitable 
growth. Finally, I would like to thank all of our colleagues 
across the world whose expertise and dedication to our 
customers and G4S is reflected in the substantial 
progress made by the Group in 2016.
Ashley Almanza
Group Chief Executive Officer
16.6
%
Increase in 
earnings from 
continuing 
businesses in  
2016
The scale and breadth of G4S is a key strength and 
our ‘One G4S’ approach will help us to achieve 
strategic, commercial and operational alignment 
and to maximise synergies – both revenue and cost 
– across the Group. We are striving for One G4S 
through consistency in the following areas:
• Brand and marketing
• Product and service development
• Sales and operating models
• Processes for line and support functions
• Common values and culture
ONE G4S
Watch the CEO Review online 
at www.g4s.com/investors
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 7 MEETING THE DEMAND
The world continues to face a series  
of divergent and emerging threats. 
Governments and companies require 
holistic approaches to ensure the 
security of their people and assets 
both at home and abroad. 
The evolving nature of terrorism, which continues to 
threaten societies outside insurgent strongholds, has 
elevated security risks and concerns in many parts of 
the world. The key trends are featured in G4S Risk 
Consulting publications.
The rapidly changing nature of crime, social unrest 
and political uncertainty has added complexity to the 
security needs of our customers around the world.
G4S offers a comprehensive range of security 
services and solutions (see pages 2 and 3) across a 
global footprint. 
We have invested and will continue to invest in 
technology, software and systems in order to provide 
innovative, reliable and efficient security solutions 
that help our customers respond to more complex 
and dynamic security needs.
In November 2016, Security 
Magazine published some of the key 
concerns and priorities of the top 
500 chief security officers in the 
United States:
• Asset protection, theft 
and investigations
• Workplace violence
• T errorism
• Business continuity
• Budget and funding
• Training and employee 
retention, hiring
• T echnology management
• Secure executive and 
employee travel
• Global Security Operations 
Centre management
• Cyber security
SECURITY 500 TOP TRENDS
8 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Market growth drivers Global security market by region 2010-2025 ($m)
Source: Freedonia World Security Services report January 2017 excluding residential security.
Asia Pacic North America Latin America
Eastern Europe Western Europe Africa & Middle East
2010 2015 2025 2020
0
20,000
40,000
60,000
80,000
100,000
120,000
For a more detailed description of G4S products 
and services please see pages 2 to 3. For G4S’s 
business model and its customer approach 
please see page 10.
5-6
%
Expected 
market growth 
from 2015  
to 2025 per 
annum
**
4-6
%
revenue growth 
per annum  
expected for 
G4S in the  
medium term
4 3 2 1
1. G4S 91
3. Garda 28
4. Prosegur 16
2. Securitas 53
4 3 2 1
1. G4S 44
3. Loomis 22
4. Prosegur 16
2. Brinks 41
44
91
41
22
16
0
20
40
60
80
100
Global presence
(No. of countries)
53
28
16
Secure Solutions
Cash Solutions
WELL POSITIONED TO MEET DEMAND
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 9 OUR BUSINESS MODEL DELIVERING 
SUSTAINABLE VALUE
The evolving security landscape continues to pose  
greater and more divergent challenges for governments, 
organisations and individuals across the world, supporting 
projected growth of the global security market by 5% to 
6% p.a. to $270 billion in 2025. In addressing this demand, 
we aim to differentiate G4S by providing industry-leading 
solutions that are innovative, reliable and efficient and which 
protect, and add value to, our customers’ organisations.
As the world’s leading integrated security company, G4S is 
characterised by:
Global footprint
We provide a broad range of products and services across 
more than 90 countries and throughout seven major 
regions. This scope provides us with a strong understanding 
and clear visibility of how security trends are evolving 
across the world. This insight is invaluable for positioning 
our solutions at the heart of customer needs.
Deep understanding
We support our knowledge of global security trends with 
a deep understanding of our customers’ unique needs.  
We have a strong heritage of more than 100 years in the 
security industry, helping to distinguish positively the G4S 
brand in our key markets around the world. Our dedicated 
sector experts, involvement in industry bodies and 
academic institutions, strategic customer relationships and 
customer service feedback mean that we can tailor our 
solutions to offer maximum value to our diverse set 
of customers.
Security professionals and expertise 
We recruit, screen and deploy over 150,000 new people 
each year. We have over 585,000
*
 employees whose 
unique skills and shared values are focused on delivering 
high-quality service to our many thousands of customers.
T echnology (hardware and software) and 
innovation 
We continue to invest in technology to meet the growing 
demand for integrated security solutions – which combine 
consultation, technology (hardware and software), 
installation, staffing and maintenance – and to drive the 
development of innovative new solutions for clients.
Customer service 
Excellent customer service is one of our core values and 
an area in which we continue to invest significantly. In the 
past three years, we have focused in particular on our 
capability, processes and performance measures to drive 
growth, customer retention and customer satisfaction.
WHY CUSTOMERS CHOOSE G4S
2. Design
We employ our growing resource and capability  
to design a solution to meet our customers’ 
requirements, protecting and/or adding value to their 
organisation. This may involve a single service, bundled 
services (two or more services including facilities 
services in selective markets) or an integrated security 
solution from the G4S portfolio. 
1. Assess
We combine our understanding of our customers’ 
business and objectives, with our security expertise to 
assess the customers’ security risks and requirements.
4. Manage
G4S designs, builds and manages global security 
operations centres (GSOC) for customers, both on a 
standalone basis and as part of an integrated offering. 
The GSOC receives, analyses and responds to all  
the security intelligence and data for a customer. 
Customers may outsource these activities to a G4S 
GSOC in order to obtain network benefits and access 
our security expertise. Knowledge gained through 
managing GSOCs reinforces our ability to assess, 
design, build and integrate new solutions.
G4S provides comprehensive Cash Solutions services 
encompassing key elements of the cash supply chain. 
Our managed services typically combine software, 
equipment and services in an integrated solution.
3. Build and Integrate
In some markets, we are seeing a move towards 
integrated solutions where security or cash 
management services are delivered under one 
integrated solution. G4S will continue to invest in 
building its capability and breadth in many of these 
areas. 
* The Group has over 585,000 employees including 27,000 employees in portfolio businesses.
In order to grow our provision of security and 
related services, we use our unique industry and 
customer insight to deliver services that are 
innovative (see page 22), efficient, effective and 
integrated (see page 24). We do this in a stepwise 
process: 1. Assess, 2. Design, 3. Build and Integrate 
security solutions from our portfolio and 4. Manage. 
OUR CUSTOMER APPROACH
INNOVATION INSIGHT INTEGRATION 
10 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Business model Customers
Through understanding our customers’ 
needs we can offer them value-added, 
innovative, cost-effective security 
solutions and build enduring 
relationships – ensuring we have a 
sustainable business model. KPIs include 
customer and contract retention and 
customer satisfaction (see page 20).
Shareholders
Our business model seeks to deliver 
sustainable, profitable growth for 
shareholders. Since 2013 we have 
increased continuing business sales by 
15%, grown EPS by 45% and generated 
operating cash flow of £1.9 billion. 
As a service company, the majority of 
our business has a relatively low level of 
capital intensity, but when capital 
investment is required – in areas such 
as Cash Solutions, we have the financial 
discipline and processes in place to 
allocate capital in a disciplined manner. 
Employees
Our employees are critical to our 
service delivery and by engaging with 
our employees fairly and ensuring they 
have the right training and skills to 
undertake their roles, we can attract 
and retain the right people. We have a 
zero harm goal for the health and safety 
of our employees (see page 14).
Suppliers
We have a responsible procurement 
policy consistent with our business 
ethics policy (see page 24). All our 
suppliers must be respectful of human 
rights and respect established 
environmental standards.
Society
As the world’s leading security company 
we believe that our 585,000
*
 
employees help to keep society safer. 
Please see the 2016 CSR report for a 
more detailed discussion of G4S’s role 
in society.
VALUE CREATION AND 
PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT
Global security 
operations centre 
(GSOC)
ADDING VALUE THROUGH INTEGRATION 
G4S Solutions 
portfolio
Solutions design
Security and risk consulting
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 11 STRATEGY AND 
PERFORMANCE 
OVERVIEW
CUSTOMERS AND SERVICE EXCELLENCE
We build long-term customer relationships 
based upon trust and understanding of our 
customers’ business and objectives
Progress and performance
In 2016, we retained around 90% of all existing 
contracts and won new work with existing or new 
customers with a total contract value of £2.5bn.  
Most of the Group’s businesses now use a standardised 
approach to measuring customer satisfaction using Net 
Promoter Score. We continue to invest in new products 
and services and look for ways to improve 
productivity without affecting service. 
Key risks
Failure to understand customers’ changing needs or fall 
short of customer expectations.
See Principal risks: Major contracts and Growth 
strategy page 53 and 55
c.90
%
Contract 
retention in 
2016
Watch our 2016 results and 2017 outlook on-line 
at: www.g4s.com/investors
CUSTOMERS AND
SERVICE EXCELLENCE
PEOPLE AND VALUES
We recruit, develop and deploy the best 
people in our industry
Progress and performance
Our financial performance is underpinned by recruiting, 
developing and deploying the best people. T o do this we 
invest in building robust recruitment, screening, vetting 
and training processes to underpin our commitment to 
delivering consistent service excellence and high 
standards of ethical and legal compliance. Since 2015, 
over 3,000 managers have completed H&S 
training modules.
Key risks
Our trained and skilled people are hired by competitors 
or other companies or do not behave in line with the 
Group’s values.
See Principal risks: People page 53
7.1
%
Reduction in 
voluntary 
employee 
turnover in 
2016
KPI KPI Financial KPI Non-financial KPI
The following pages highlight some of the Group’s 
financial and non-financial KPIs and how they link to 
the Group’s strategic priorities. See pages 28 and 29
KPI
This section summarises how we have 
prioritised the key elements of the 
Group’s transformation, focusing our 
resources and expertise in areas 
where we can achieve the best results 
for customers and sustainable growth 
and return for investors. 
See page 14 onwards for more detail and the 
progress in our key performance indicators.
KPI
12 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Our strategy OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE AND PRODUCTIVITY
FINANCIAL AND COMMERCIAL DISCIPLINE
We have secure, safe, reliable and efficient 
operations
Progress and performance
Over the past three years we have invested in best-in-class 
operating and safety standards and subject matter experts 
for operations, security and safety. We have also invested in 
technology, IT and procurement and in business and 
process restructuring. The benefits of this investment can be 
seen in the improvements in the Group’s PBITA.
Key risks
Failure to comply with our standards results in harm, loss of 
expertise and investment fails to deliver benefit. 
See Principal risks: page 52 to 55
We manage risk effectively and ensure we have 
profitable, cash-generative services
Progress and performance
A key part of the transformation of G4S in recent years 
has been as a result of greater financial discipline 
especially in the areas of capital investment, cash 
generation and working capital management. 
Since 2013 we have been embedding a “cash matters” 
culture within the organisation (see page 26) and 
improved operating cash flow from continuing 
businesses by 61.5% in 2016. Our risk management 
programmes focus management attention on mitigating 
the critical risks within the business (see page 51).
Portfolio management is also a key part of capital 
discipline and ensures focus and performance 
management for the Group. We divested 12 businesses 
in 2016, bringing the total number of businesses sold or 
exited to 29 since 2013 with proceeds raised of over 
£345 million with agreement for a further £88 million  
in 2017. 
Key risks
Inefficient capital management and failure to comply 
with Group risk management standards.
See Principal risks : Major contracts page 53
9.7
%
Increase in 
PBITA from 
continuing 
businesses in 
2016
61.5
%
Increase in 
operating cash flow 
from continuing 
businesses in 2016
OPERATIONAL
EXCELLENCE, H&S AND PRODUCTIVITY
FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE
GROWTH AND INNOVATION
We design, market and deliver innovative, 
industry-leading solutions that protect and add 
value for our customers wherever they operate.
Progress and performance
Over the past three years through our technology centres 
of excellence we have invested in both the creation of new 
products and services and upgraded existing services. The 
benefits of this investment can be seen in increased sales of 
products and services such as Deposita, Retail Cash 
Solutions, Risk360 and Symmetry Connect.
Key risks
Failure to market or deliver our services and technology 
effectively or fail to deliver adequate value for 
our customers.
See Principal risks: Growth strategy page 55
36
%
Increase in 
systems 
revenues from 
continuing 
businesses  
in 2016
GROWTH AND INNOVATION
KPI
KPI
KPI
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 13 PEOPLE AND VALUES
Embedding new values across the Group
Following their launch early in 2016 we have started to 
develop tools to raise awareness of the new values and 
to realign our human resources (HR) processes and 
systems with them. Before doing so, we wanted to 
ensure our employees were given the opportunity to 
provide feedback on what the values mean to them in 
their daily working lives. We conducted over 50 focus 
groups in 34 countries to consult our employees face to 
face. Their feedback was both heartfelt and helpful and 
we are incorporating it in the tools we develop 
including video and on-line training for managers. 
Scenario-based exercises are also being developed using 
challenging situations that employees may face in their 
normal working day. These tools help to bring the values 
to life and help employees to understand and use 
appropriate behaviours and responses.
Health and safety
The process of building capability to improve our 
management of health and safety (H&S), eliminating fatal 
incidents and potentially fatal risks continued 
during 2016:
• Improvement programmes targeting high-priority 
countries continued, with support and oversight 
provided by both Group and the regions. 
Programmes were also introduced for specific  
risk areas, such as motorcycle safety. H&S reviews 
were conducted in seven countries.
• The Group’s core H&S standards were revised in 
2016. The implementation was supported by the 
introduction of formal guidance as well as training  
for H&S practitioners across the Group.
• A further on-line training module was introduced 
covering the minimum H&S requirements for G4S 
businesses. Since 2015 over 3,000 managers have 
completed on-line H&S training modules.
• All businesses completed H&S control self-assessments 
based on the Group’s core standards as part of the 
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) system. 
Actions were agreed to address any issues that arose.
• On-line incident management and action tracking 
was introduced in selected businesses. This programme 
will only continue in businesses where it can deliver a 
tangible improvement to H&S performance.
As a direct result of sharply higher levels and greater 
intensity of armed attacks on our employees, work-
related fatalities increased to 47 in 2016 from 46 in 
2015. This is a tragic loss for their families, friends and 
colleagues and reminds us of the importance of our 
efforts when it comes to H&S. We are working closely 
with peer companies and law enforcement agencies to 
mitigate these attacks. The number of road traffic-related 
fatalities has decreased by 20% since 2013 when the 
road safety programme was launched.
All fatal and permanently disabling incidents are 
reported, investigated and followed up through a 
standardised process, led by the managing director of 
the business concerned with oversight from Group 
Health and Safety.
LIVING OUR VALUES
Jenni Myles
Group HR Director
“With over 585,000 people, G4S is one  
of the world’s largest private employers.  
Our employees touch the lives of others every 
day, providing crucial services to keep them 
safe and secure. Our success is therefore 
underpinned by the way we lead and engage 
with our people, the way we work, and the 
way we are organised. Our values are 
embedded in the standards, policies and 
guidance which we set out to help employees 
and managers perform. T o ensure we deliver 
long-term value we continuously review the 
health of the organisation in six critical areas:
• Organise – is our organisation and 
culture effective?
• Acquire – do we have the right people in 
the right places?
• Protect – do we prioritise the safety of our 
employees and those in our care?
• Develop – do our employees have the 
capability to deliver?
• Engage – are our employees committed to 
doing a good job?
• Reward – do our incentives support 
sustainable performance?”
20
%
Reduction in 
road-related 
fatalities since 
2013 
Zero
Harm is our 
H&S goal
KPI
KPI
14 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Our strategy continued In the 2015 engagement survey in Colombia, our 
colleagues expressed concern that they didn’t have  
an efficient mechanism to raise queries about payroll 
(and other topics) and when they did raise them they 
were not receiving timely responses. T o address this, the 
HR department developed an in-house tool, where our 
colleagues, wherever they are in Colombia, can raise any 
concerns about their pay. This has led to a reduction in 
payroll queries through other channels like email, or 
through supervisors.
The concerns are answered within the following five 
working days, and on average about 160 payroll queries 
are raised through this new tool each month. 
RESPONDING TO THE 2015  
ENGAGEMENT SURVEY – COLOMBIA
Our values are the standards  
we set for ourselves and they  
are reflected in the culture  
of our organisation through  
our behaviours and actions.  
They help us to attract and  
retain employees, to win and 
keep important customers and 
to obtain appropriate long-term 
investment in the Group – all of 
which contribute to our goal of 
achieving sustainable 
profitable growth.
Integrity and Respect
Our business activities and 
relationships are built on trust, 
honesty and openness. We deliver 
on the promises we make and 
treat our colleagues, customers 
and those in our care with the 
utmost respect.
Safety, Security and Service 
Excellence
We work in a safe way and take 
great care to protect our 
colleagues and customers from 
harm. We are experts in security 
and use that knowledge to protect 
our customers’ most valuable 
assets. We are passionate about 
delivering high levels of 
customer service.
Innovation
We invest in technology and best 
practice to continually improve 
our service offering. We challenge 
ourselves to find new ways of 
helping our customers.
Teamwork
We work together as a team to 
achieve the best results for our 
customers and our business. 
Everyone has a valid opinion and 
their contribution is valued.
processes. Getting these processes right is vital to 
ensure we safeguard our customers’ assets and our 
reputation as a trusted supplier. Our screening processes 
have evolved over time. Security regulations have 
changed, new risks have emerged and access to different 
sources of screening data, such as social media have 
become available. During 2016, we reviewed our 
screening policy and practices, particularly for high-risk 
roles such as those requiring firearms or working in 
hostile environments. This will lead to the development 
of a Group-wide training programme for HR and 
recruitment practitioners. The new programme will be 
mandatory and delivered online, supplementing existing 
training related to our HR core standards, regulatory 
and customer requirements. 
Employee retention
High employee turnover is another people risk we seek 
to mitigate through the HR core standards. It impacts 
not only our ability to deliver excellent service but also 
the costs for doing so given the intensive recruitment, 
training and screening involved. The causes and potential 
solutions for high turnover in our businesses are many 
and varied. In 2016 we made it a priority for all 
businesses but focused significant efforts on a small 
number where it was clear it made a material difference. 
These businesses shared ideas and reported their 
efforts quarterly. Additionally, a toolkit for HR 
practitioners is being developed which provides 
guidance on how to analyse the root causes of 
employee turnover as well as how to address them in  
a practical way. The efforts and focus on retention have 
corresponded with a reduction in the percentage of 
voluntary turnover across the Group by 7.1% in 2016. 
The reduction was particularly noticeable in Africa,  
Latin America and the Middle East & India regions.  
No doubt the economic uncertainty in some countries 
played a part in this change, but we believe the 
relentless attention the businesses paid to attrition has 
3,000
Managers 
completed H&S 
training since 
2015
We act with...
INTEGRITY  
AND RESPECT
We are passionate about...
SAFETY, SECURITY  
AND SERVICE EXCELLENCE
We achieve this through...
INNOVATION  
AND TEAMWORK
OUR VALUES 
KPI
HR core standards
At the same time as the launch of the new values,  
the HR core standards, which every business must 
comply with, were also revised. Originally developed in 
2006, the updated standards are simpler and shorter, 
and align better with the current business and people 
risks. HR leaders across the Group have undergone 
on-line training to understand the updated standards. 
Since their re-launch every business has completed a 
self-assessment of compliance with the core standards 
using our new enterprise risk management system. The 
system provides a common platform for managing risk 
and streamlines the process for completion, monitoring 
and reporting compliance against the standards. As with 
previous years, any gaps identified are followed up via 
both regional and Group HR teams and through 
business audits. More on Risk and our ERM system  
can be found on page 51.
As well as investing time and effort in ensuring our 
existing operations are optimal, we are also developing  
a new standard IT system for our manned security 
operations, which will be piloted in Ireland in 2017 and 
will streamline our processes and significantly improve 
access to data, reporting accuracy and timeliness. 
Screening and vetting of our employees
Several of the revised HR core standards with which 
businesses have to comply relate to our screening 
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 15 been a positive factor. In 2017 we will continue our 
focus on retention but also look for ways to strengthen 
our recruitment activities using a similar toolkit and 
targeted approach.
Employee engagement
The feedback from 449,000 employees who completed 
the employee engagement survey in 2015 provided 
some ideas on how to reduce high labour turnover 
mentioned above. We believe that motivated and 
highly-engaged employees are more likely to work 
harder and stay longer so the survey is a critical 
opportunity to assess levels of engagement and to find 
out what really matters to our employees. We want to 
know what they think of G4S as an employer and what 
they feel the Group needs to do more of, less of and 
differently in order to improve their working day. During 
2016 businesses have been implementing the action 
plans in response to feedback from the last survey. 
A case study illustrating this is shown on page 15.
The next engagement survey is being prepared for 
distribution during 2017. This time the questions will be 
aligned to the new Group values as a way of further 
embedding them in our processes and gathering 
employee feedback on how well G4S lives up to these 
values and what needs to change. Access to the survey 
is being extended this year by wider use of mobile 
technology and an increase in the total number of 
languages available. We look forward to reporting the 
results in 2018.
Diversity and inclusion
Our employee diversity is a source of competitive 
advantage to G4S. We believe it helps us innovate and 
stay ahead of the competition. T o harness our great 
diversity and enable all our employees to realise their 
full potential, we encourage our businesses to create 
inclusive working environments. T ools including on-line 
cultural awareness training and cultural calendars are 
available to employees, and we encourage them to seek, 
acknowledge and value differences. Robust policies are 
in place which make it clear that we do not tolerate any 
form of discrimination. If employees believe they  
are unfairly treated we offer multiple channels for  
raising concerns, including our global reporting hotline, 
Speak Out. 
We review annually our global-diversity metrics  
(see above) and take opportunities to reach out to 
under-represented groups through our recruitment  
at all levels. While security continues to be seen as a  
less attractive career opportunity for women, we are 
making progress in other areas of diversity. For example 
we continue to receive recognition for the employment 
opportunities offered to military and law enforcement 
veterans in North America. 
Talent management
Our diversity and inclusion strategy is integral to our 
talent management. We know that to be an organisation 
that can respond, reflect and connect effectively with 
our customers, we need greater diversity in our 
leadership and management populations as well as in 
the front line. We monitor diversity in the talent pipeline 
and succession plans and review recruitment decisions 
where necessary.
In 2016 over 700 managers were included in our global 
talent review process. Through this process there has 
been a year-on-year increase in the number of people 
seen as having potential to progress to more senior 
roles, which is pleasing, as is the reduction in the 
percentage of external appointments made to senior 
roles from 31% to 24% in 2016.
We continue to invest in developing the future leaders 
identified through the talent review process. In 2016 a 
total of 115 leaders participated in the Regional 
Leadership Programme and in 2017 all regions will have 
at least one programme running. We have up-skilled our 
senior HR leaders to deliver the programme with 
support from local management, which was always an 
integral part of the programme design. We are now in 
the second phase of this programme for those who 
graduated in 2016, providing ongoing career coaching 
and measuring the positive impact they are having on 
their businesses. 
Employee gender diversity (%)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Board
70 86.9 87.8
30
13.1
12.2
Senior
management
Total 
employees
Female
Male
7.1
%
Reduction in  
voluntary  
employee  
turnover %
KPI
KPI
449,000
Employees 
responded to  
an engagement 
survey in 2015
16 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Our strategy People and values continued Employees by location as at 31 December 2016 (%)
Africa 22%
Asia Pacic 10%
Middle East & India 31%
Latin America 12%
Europe 9%
North America 10%
UK & Ireland 6%
Learning and development
We have established a learning and development centre 
of excellence, working across regions, functions and 
cultures. The centre will also ensure more sharing of 
learning resources and collaboration on new ones. In 
2016 further on-line courses on health and safety and 
firearms were added to those already available to all 
G4S employees via our Learning Management System. 
Additionally, a new portal has been made available 
which provides access to a wide range of personal 
development tools to help employees increase their 
capability in their existing roles and prepare them for 
their next career move. Plans for 2017 include extending 
the resources available on the new career development 
portal, launching an updated induction training 
programme and refreshing the current competency 
framework to reflect the new values and the 
corresponding behaviours we want displayed. 
In the UK & Ireland we are aiming to offer up to  
300 apprenticeships in 2017, which will assist our 
recruitment activities and provide development 
opportunities for existing employees. Working alongside 
a number of other similar employers, we will be  
piloting some new nationally recognised standards for 
apprenticeships, including ones in custody and detention 
and security analysis.
26
%
Employees in 
North America 
are military and 
law enforcement 
veterans
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 17
Brussels airport 
“Following the horrific terrorist attack at Brussels airport 
in March 2016, the courage, selflessness and teamwork of 
our people played a vital role in providing first responder 
aid to many victims and in getting the operations at this 
important European aviation hub back to normal.” 
G4S provides over 1,000 security officers at Brussels 
airport covering passenger screening, hold baggage 
screening and access control. Our teams also provide 
close support to hospitality and winter operations at  
the airport.
Following the terrorist attack at the airport on 
22 March 2016, G4S was the sole company at the airport 
to secure all access locations and zones that then had to 
be rebuilt or restored. With extra security measures 
required by the customer and in co-ordination with the 
police and government, G4S transferred more than 200 
additional employees from other parts of the business in 
a short period of time. 
Graham Levinsohn
Regional CEO, Europe
PEOPLE AND VALUES: TEAMWORK  Employee relations and freedom of association
With 32% of our employees covered by the terms of a 
collective agreement, unions and representative forums 
are important mechanisms for employee involvement and 
help provide the organisation with vital feedback on 
matters of importance to our employees. Such 
agreements exist at a local, European and global level and 
we work hard to maintain constructive dialogue. We 
believe our Ethical Employment Partnership with UNI 
and the GMB remains a differentiator in the market, and 
offers an additional layer of review and escalation in the 
event that serious matters come to light which cannot 
easily be resolved at a local level. In 2016 we hosted a 
successful European Works Council (EWC) meeting in 
London, with employee representatives from over 20 
European businesses. Following a review of the EWC 
Agreement we have agreed to some new principles 
about our partnership way of working, including how we 
seek to resolve disputes and to improve communication 
and consultation on transnational matters. The regular 
EWC newsletter, introduced in 2016, has been well 
received and will be repeated in 2017.
Pay and reward
We invest time and money in benchmarking our pay 
and benefits to ensure the terms and conditions offered 
remain competitive and we can attract and retain the 
best candidates. Our performance incentive schemes are 
reviewed and refreshed annually so they align with the 
business priorities and the link between performance 
and rewards is clear. 
Business ethics and anti-bribery and 
corruption
Ethical conduct is not just a solution to the challenges of 
legal compliance, but a means of doing business which 
provides customers, employees, partners and 
communities with the confidence that they are working 
with an ethical organisation. Acting with integrity across 
the world is a key element of our business strategy and 
a positive differentiator with customers.
Every year we review our business ethics policy to 
ensure it reflects the current business and political 
environment and addresses any risks which may exist. 
Implementation of the standards described in the policy 
is the responsibility of local managers. The effectiveness 
of the implementation is subject to review through our 
internal audit programmes and from investigations 
triggered by whistleblowers or colleagues raising 
concerns with their managers. Compliance statements 
are now signed by the businesses and regions on a 
quarterly basis.
300
Apprenticeships 
to be registered 
in the UK in 
2017
GROWTH AND INNOVATION: UK
Thames Tideway – integrated 
security solution to health and 
safety threats
Thames Tideway is a £4.2bn sewer 
construction project to protect the 
tidal River Thames from pollution.  
The construction will take seven years 
and under a 10 year contract, G4S has 
been fully integrated as a partner in  
the project and included in decision 
making for the security of the site.  
The integrated offering for the Thames 
Tideway T unnel includes mobile CCTV 
towers, a dedicated outsourced control 
room, biometrics, Risk 360 to manage 
incidents and H&S, high-definition 
CCTV cameras with video analytics 
and thermal cameras.
18 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Our strategy People and values continued During 2016, we completed the implementation of 
Speak Out, an upgraded global whistleblowing system 
and case management tool to enable us to capture 
information on whistleblowing cases across the Group 
and to analyse trends and issues raised on a more 
systematic basis. Our ethics steering group works to 
ensure the appropriate focus on whistleblowing and 
ethical behaviour across the Group and makes sure that 
we are constantly challenging ourselves to meet the 
highest standards.
From time to time, concerns about the conduct of our 
colleagues or our business partners are brought to our 
attention. We take all such concerns seriously and work 
with internal audit and external investigators to ensure 
all issues raised are addressed appropriately. 
Human rights
Our human rights framework supports the continued 
development of an ethical and sustainable business 
model that encourages the improvement of standards, 
job creation, community support and broader  
beneficial impacts on societies throughout the world. 
The framework has been embedded across the Group, 
including processes for assessing the Group’s human 
rights risks in many areas such as bidding for major 
contracts, entering new markets and analysing the 
environments in which we operate. These practices are 
driven by an annual assessment of human rights risks 
and a series of assessments and reviews in markets 
where risks exist.
Where risks or concerns are identified, action is taken to 
make sure that we put in place processes to mitigate or 
reduce any risk. 
In some cases, this means that a business or operation 
can be scrutinised intensely by either G4S or 
independent experts.
More detail on human rights risk assessment can be 
found in the risk management section and the 
CSR report.
Mozambique road safety, Africa
G4S Africa regional president Mel Brooks said: 
“During 2015, G4S Mozambique suffered 27 road traffic 
incidents, posing a serious risk to the safety of our employees. 
In response, and to help achieve the organisation’s objective 
of zero harm, a new road safety action plan 
was implemented.
A new driver training and evaluation programme, covering 
theoretical and practical tests, has been rolled out this year, 
which is supported by a wide range of safety awareness 
booklets, posters and videos as well as regular ‘toolbox talks’. 
The results have been positive, with a reduction of 51% in 
road traffic incidents during 2016.”
Speak 
Out
Whistleblowing 
system  
implementation  
completed in 
2016
PEOPLE AND VALUES: SAFETY, SECURITY 
AND SERVICE EXCELLENCE
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 19 CUSTOMERS AND 
SERVICE EXCELLENCE
We build long-term customer 
relationships based upon trust and 
understanding of our customers’ 
business and objectives.
Positive demand for security services
We believe that the long-term demand for our services 
remains positive and we expect to grow by around 4% 
to 6% per annum. We continue to sustain contract 
retention rates of around 90%, have won substantial new 
business and more than replenished our sales pipeline. 
Investment in sales leadership and  
account management
Over the last three and a half years we have invested 
heavily in sales leadership, sales and service training, 
customer relationships and account management. 
Increasingly, our understanding of customer 
requirements provides us with opportunities to 
deploy technology based solutions (see page 22).
New business won
Annual contract value (£bn)
0.0
0.3
0.6
0.9
1.2
1.5
2014
0.5
0.6 0.6
0.6
0.7 0.7
2015
2016
H1
H2
KPI
£2.5bn
T otal contract 
value of new 
business won in 
2016
BUILD LONG-TERM RELATIONSHIPS
Jesus Rosano
Group Strategy and Commercial Director
Net Promoter Score
“Since January 2016, most businesses across the  
Group have been using Net Promoter Score (NPS).  
NPS provides a standardised approach to measuring 
customer satisfaction and improving contract and 
customer retention.” 
We have also invested in capturing global customer 
opportunities which has delivered success with 
customers such as global banks (see page 49). Our sales 
pipeline and sales management has improved with the 
use of a mandatory sales management system, giving us 
better visibility and management of our pipeline.
We continue to build and replenish the sales pipeline 
which, after taking into account continued strong 
conversion in 2016, had an annual contract value of 
£6.8 billion at the end of the year. Importantly, we’re 
now getting better at qualifying our pipeline early, 
to ensure we focus our resources on the most 
promising opportunities. As we get better at pipeline 
qualification we aim also to improve our win rate.  
The pipeline is diversified by service, geography and 
customer segment.
With existing customers, we have embarked on a 
Group-wide Net Promoter Score (NPS) survey 
exercise, following very successful regional tests started 
in North America and Latin America in 2015. In 2016 
over 21,000 surveys were conducted successfully in 
more than 40 different languages and with a more than 
10% improvement in scores compared with the 
previous year. All of our top 10 customers were 
surveyed in 93 countries. 
The surveys provided invaluable insight identifying 
correlations between the NPS and contract retention 
and the ability to provide additional services to our 
customers. For 2017 G4S will further double the 
numbers of surveys conducted applying automated 
survey tools. The aim is that real-time responses from 
the relationship surveys allow for our teams to address 
concerns in the field within 48 hours as well as positive 
feedback to our high-performing employees.
Substantial new business won
Our investment in customers has resulted in substantial 
new business won – see chart below. 
c.90
%
Customer 
retention 
KPI
20 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Our strategy continued Claude Allain
Regional President – Middle East and India
CREATING VALUE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
Kuwait airport – an Integrated Solution
“In collaboration with G4S Risk Consulting colleagues,  
we have reviewed and updated all aspects of security at 
Kuwait airport.”
In 2016, G4S Risk Consulting was approached by 
Government of Kuwait to run a programme to review 
and update all aspects of security at Kuwait airport. G4S 
Kuwait and Risk Consulting worked together to design a 
solution embedding risk consultants, security officers, 
International Civil Aviation Organization compliance 
audits covering technical, physical and procedural security 
measures and improving training, mentoring and 
supervision. This integrated solution ensured that Kuwait 
airport became fully TSA-approved within three months 
thus expanding the number of international destinations 
it is able to service.
Large, diversied sales pipeline 
Leads and prospects (unrisked)
Bidding
£1.3bn
Negotiation
£1.1bn
£4.4bn
KPI
£6.8bn
T otal annual 
contract value
Effects-Based Security Design (EBSD) 
EBSD is a planning methodology G4S has adapted 
from Effects-Based Operations (EBO), a NATO 
tool. It is an effects-based or output approach 
which looks for the best mix of security measures 
to deliver a client’s security needs. EBSD minimises 
risk, optimises the effectiveness of limited 
resources and helps customers understand why 
resources are needed to mitigate risk and to 
achieve objectives. 
Our unique adoption differentiates G4S from 
competitors and has helped us to win contracts to 
deliver integrated solutions.
EFFECTS-BASED SECURITY DESIGN
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 21 GROWTH AND 
INNOVATION
Since its formation in 2004, G4S has 
positioned itself as an integrated security 
company providing manpower and 
technology, systems and software. Based 
on our customer relationships and 
insight, our focus in recent years has 
been on investing in the development 
and marketing of new products and 
services to strengthen our service 
offering, to support growth and improve 
margins over time.
Increasingly, our bespoke offering for customers includes 
technology in the form of systems and software. In some 
cases we own the equipment in our customers’ facilities 
but for larger customers we tend to sell direct and have 
a long-term management and maintenance contract. 
Some of our services and technology solutions which 
are gaining commercial momentum in key markets are 
highlighted here: 
Secure Solutions
In our Secure Solutions business we continue to invest 
in product and service innovation including the 
development of:
• Proprietary security systems such as Symmetry 
Connect access control systems (see case study below)
• Video and intelligent cameras
• Visitor management systems
• Global security intelligence systems such as GIS
• Software tools including incident management and 
travel advisory systems such as Risk360 and 
TravelAware (see page 45)
Following 36% growth in 2016, 13% of Group revenues 
from continuing businesses are from technology, 
software and systems.
We provide customers with a variety of options – 
purchasing individual service lines, two or more services, 
through to integrated managed services whereby  
G4S manages all the risk assessment and security 
requirements of a customer including their local security 
operation centres or global security operation centres 
(GSOCs). In our Secure Solutions business, technology-
enabled services now contribute over £1.5 billion in 
annual revenues. Read more in our business model  
description on page 10.
% of technology revenues by region
Africa 8%
Middle East & India 4%
Asia Pacic 8%
Latin America 4%
Europe 28%
North America 41%
UK & Ireland 7%
SECURITY EXPERTISE AND INTEGRITY
Symmetry solution –  
Federal T rade Commission, 
United States
In October 2016, the Federal Trade 
Commission (FTC) selected G4S 
technology solution – Symmetry 
Homeland Access Control system 
– for its 13 offices in Washington DC 
and the surrounding area. 
The Symmetry product platform 
provides access control, intrusion 
detection, video management, 
identity solutions and visitor 
management. Symmetry is installed 
in all branches of the US Department 
of Defense (DoD), along with 
numerous DoD entities. Symmetry is 
installed at all US Marine Corps bases 
in the US, Germany, South Korea, UK, 
Afghanistan and Japan. It is also 
installed at nearly 60 US Army bases, 
eight US Navy bases and facilities, 
numerous Air Force bases, US Army 
Reserves and US Marine Corps 
Reserves facilities across the US. 
Symmetry will assist the FTC in 
meeting mandatory, government-
wide standards for secure and reliable 
forms of identification issued by the 
federal government and the Federal 
Information Processing Standard 
Publication, which specifies stringent 
identification requirements for 
federal employees and contractors.
>£1.5bn
Revenue from 
technology-enabled  
solutions
KPI
22 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Our strategy continued John Kenning
Regional CEO – North America
INVESTING IN INNOVATION
Retail cash automation 
products and services
“CASH360 retail solutions has grown 
strongly since it was launched in North 
America in 2014 and total contract 
revenue value now exceeds 
$800 million.”
Benefits from Retail Solutions to both 
our bank and retail customers are 
as follows:
Reduced labour costs
The proprietary Retail Solutions 
software automates the compilation 
cash till floats and cash processing, 
thereby reducing the labour time on 
back-office activities and reducing 
cash leakage.
Improved cash flow
The retailer obtains ‘same-day’ credit 
for the cash which significantly 
improves cash flow. Our cloud-based 
cash management software platform 
‘Cash Manager’, is integrated with the 
customer’s back office, point-of-sale 
and accounting programmes.
Reduced transportation costs
A recycler allows cash to be recycled in 
the store, thereby eliminating and 
reducing cash transportation costs.
Reduced processing fees
Reduced volume of cash deposits at 
bank vaults allows banks to reduce 
overall fees to their retail clients while 
improving the margins associated with 
depositary services.
Philip Morris, Indonesia – 
customer understanding 
driving innovative solutions
During 2016, G4S Indonesia won a new 
contract – with Philip Morris, now its 
second largest. Engagement with the 
customer’s local management team 
established the need for: 
• Better reporting across the 
122 locations
• Central understanding of the 
security status of their estate
• A fast and appropriate response 
to any security-breach event, 
requiring better intelligence
• Staff optimisation with a multiple 
facility-based security programme
G4S’s integrated approach to these 
needs combines manned security, 
technology and software. Our solution 
has delivered cost savings to our 
customer and provides data-driven 
assurance through our Secure360 
technology. Secure360 is a tablet-based 
software programme developed by G4S 
and used by our security officers, 
providing live communication feeds to 
a national control room. This provides 
real time intelligence and assurance 
and enhances response and compliance.
Jon Corner
Regional President – Asia Pacific
EFFECTIVE AND EFFICIENT SOLUTIONS
Cash Solutions
For our bank and retail customers we are looking at 
innovative and efficient services. For example:
• We have seen strong growth in sales of Retail 
Solutions and Deposita cash recycling systems in USA, 
UK, Europe, Africa, Asia and the Middle East (see 
below).We also offer a lower cost option to small 
retailers for banking takings called ‘Bank to Y ou’, a 
lower-cost cash transportation service for smaller 
retailers using lighter vehicle fleets.
• Through electronic payments and internet banking, 
traditional bank branch usage has declined in some 
markets, resulting in bank branch closures. However, 
banks recognise the value of personal interaction 
with customers and so in some markets G4S is 
launching a mobile banking service utilising the skills 
and fleet of a traditional Cash in Transit business in a 
more integrated way.
Customers using G4S Retail Solutions 
have reported in store cash handling costs 
reducing by 70%, ‘shrinkage’ losses 
declining, greatly simplified operations, 
better cash flow, improved management 
information and most importantly, time 
re-allocated to front line customer-
facing services.
70
%
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 23 OPERATIONAL 
EXCELLENCE AND 
PRODUCTIVITY 
A significant portion of the gains we are 
making in being more efficient has been 
reinvested in the business to increase 
our opportunities for growth as well as 
drive further efficiency.
Our organisational-efficiency programmes include:
• Efficient organisational design
• Management de-layering
• Lean operating processes
• Efficient reporting and assurance processes
• Upgraded IT systems
• Efficient procurement
• Embedding better health and safety management
The process of building capability to improve our 
management of health and safety, eliminating fatal 
accidents and potentially fatal risks continued during 
2016. Please see page 14 for a detailed review. 
Some of the key on-going initiatives for the other 
operational efficiency programme are:
Efficient organisation design and  
management de-layering
A significant part of the Group’s development 
historically has been growth through bolt-on acquisitions. 
In many cases, these acquisitions were not completely 
integrated with the rest of the Group. With the Group 
offering a broad range of services in a large number of 
countries, this resulted in an inefficient organisational 
design with many management layers being built up over 
time – leading to inefficiency and lack of accountability. 
Our on-going organisation design work is seeking to 
develop efficient operational and management 
frameworks starting with a blank sheet of paper.
Procurement and property 
The Group procurement team has continued to 
implement a category focused, regionally deployed, 
strategic sourcing programme in all regions of G4S 
primarily focusing on our largest spend areas and 
geographies. In 2017 the procurement team was 
nominated in the Procurement Transformation category 
in the World Procurement awards.
The teams have focused on key spend areas, reducing 
and consolidating supplier numbers to simplify the 
supply chain and implementing tools that improve 
operational efficiency. Globally the team has over  
900 individual renegotiations and the results of the 
negotiations are being seen in all regions. The team has 
saved an average of 20% of the addressed spend and in 
some cases savings in excess of 50% have been 
achieved. At the same time we have ensured that 
supplier payment terms are renegotiated to align with  
our cash flow expectations.
In 2017 the focus will remain on renegotiating supplier 
contracts across all the geographies and categories.  
We are also focusing on demand management using 
newly-implemented tools for temporary and contingent 
labour and travel management, with on-line travel 
booking now utilised globally. Other focus areas will be 
in the Cash Solutions supply chain of consumables and 
machinery where we will build on the global contract 
we have entered into with a major supplier of  
cash-counting machines and CIT vehicles. 
Programme Status Progress
Safety performance • Foundation laid: building culture and performance
Route planning and telematics • Telematics installed in 4,400 vehicles since 2014
• Route scheduling covers c.9,000 vehicles
Organisation efficiency and restructuring • Operational restructuring
• De-layering and globalising functions
Procurement and property • Annualised savings of >£20m
• Reduced suppliers and demand
• Rationalising property
Direct labour efficiency • Multi-year programme pilot in Ireland in H2 2017
• Significant opportunity
IT and lean process automation • IT service management model
• Progressive, disciplined programme
PROGRAMME PROGRESS 
Procurement
15
Global deals
150
Regional deals
780
Country deals
15
%
Average savings 
delivered
KPI
KPI
24 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Our strategy continued Peter Neden
Regional President – UK & Ireland
LEAN PROCESS DESIGN
Business Process Efficiency
“A key enabler of efficient direct labour management  
is the deployment of lean ‘order to cash’ process 
management enabled by the development and 
implementation of a standard IT system for our  
manned security operations which will be piloted in 
Ireland in 2017.”
Automating our core processes will reduce the amount  
of time between doing the work for customers and billing 
for the services.
Vehicle fleet cost savings
Procurement projects in 2016 included consolidating the  
UK vehicle fleet from 15 suppliers to one, delivering a 25% 
saving, the Continental European fleet from 72 suppliers to 
two delivering a 20% saving and the North America fleet 
from three suppliers to one delivering a 13% saving. We are 
now working with these suppliers to identify further 
operational efficiencies that derive from working with a 
reduced supplier base. 
We have also renegotiated fleet contracts in Africa and the 
Middle East delivering approximately 10% cost savings.  
We have new vehicle rental agreements across Europe,  
UK, North America and Africa and are now reviewing the 
specification and supply of Cash in Transit armoured vehicles 
in all regions with a view to reducing supplier numbers  
and costs, with initial results in the UK delivering savings  
of over 20%. 
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 25 Tim W eller
Group Chief Financial Officer 
FOCUS ON OPERATING CASH FLOW
“Driving improvement in operating cash flow 
has been at the heart of our financial and risk 
management activities in 2016 resulting in 
strong performance across the Group and 
operating cash flow from continuing businesses 
increasing by more than 60%.”
FINANCIAL AND 
COMMERCIAL DISCIPLINE
Operating cash flow
Operating cash flow from continuing businesses in 2016 
was £638 million, up 61.5% from £395 million.
The operating cash flow conversion rate represented 
141% of PBITA (2015: 103%) as a result of improved 
working capital management which received relentless 
focus in 2016. There was a working capital inflow of 
£87 million in 2016 compared with a £69 million 
outflow in 2015. Receivables were held broadly flat 
despite the increased revenues. Going forward while we 
will maintain our focus on working capital management, 
we expect our cash conversion rate to revert to the 
range of 100% to 125% which we have seen in 
previous years.
Improvements implemented include:
Bid frameworks/contract management
Strengthening bid-evaluation frameworks to increase 
focus on frequency of invoicing and shorter 
payment terms.
Reducing the time from event to billing
• Improving processes and automating event billing 
information such as hours worked, milestones met, 
collections and deliveries in the Cash 
Solutions business
• Centralising collection of billing events of global and 
strategic accounts in some countries
• Invoice automation, removing the delay and resource 
requirement associated with manual invoicing
• Seeking to distribute invoices electronically, removing 
the delay and cost associated with postal distribution
Revenue by customer type in 2016 (%)
NGOs/Government/Multi-lateral agencies 14% 
Public services 6%
Financial institutions 16% 
Private energy/utilities 7% 
Transport & logistics 2% 
Ports & airports 3% 
Leisure & tourism 2%
Retail 11%
Major corporates & industrials 33%
Consumers 6%
KPI
Net debt: EBITDA
0
1
2
3
4
5
2014
3.0
3.4
2.8
2015
2016
KPI
Despite an increase in Group net debt of £110 million 
arising from foreign exchange movements, net debt: 
EBITDA improved to 2.8x (2015: 3.4x).
26 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Our strategy continued Strengthening collections performance
• Changing incentive plans at management and branch 
level with greater emphasis on cash flow
• Improved management information to increase 
accountability and drive behaviours
• Embedding weekly calls attended by finance and 
operations, to drive timely collections
Managing accounts payable
• The Group’s days payable outstanding of 35 days 
(2015: 31) is still shorter than days sales outstanding 
of 46 days (2015: 50 days), but the gap is reducing. 
This shows that despite making progress the 
opportunity remains for further improvement 
• Ensuring that supply-side contracts are back-to-back 
with customer contracts
• Negotiating improved terms through procurement 
on global and regional deals
Capital discipline
All capital investment undergoes rigorous review to 
ensure that the Group’s return on investment hurdle 
rates are met and all major capital investment projects 
are approved by the appropriate authority in line with 
delegation limits.
Changing behaviours
T o ensure the cash culture was embedded across the 
Group, 2016 incentive plans:
• Placed an even greater weighting on operating cash 
generation and incentivised cash generation on a 
monthly basis across the year
• Included challenging operating cash targets to reduce 
the level of aged debt and accrued income which 
totalled £406 million at December 2015 (net of 
allowance for doubtful debt) and reduced to 
£376 million at December 2016
Portfolio management
Portfolio management remains important for strategic 
focus, capital discipline and performance management. 
Since 2013, the Group has divested 29 businesses 
realising proceeds of £345 million (2015: £281 million) 
with agreement reached to sell G4S Israel for a further 
£88 million.
We have focused our activities and reduced the 
underlying countries of operation from around 120  
to around 95. The proceeds from these disposals have 
been re-invested in the organic growth and productivity 
programmes where we expect to see good returns  
on our investment and in reducing the Group’s 
overall leverage.
We continue to keep our portfolio under review to 
ensure that we are achieving the levels of return that  
we and our shareholders expect.
Continued portfolio management is a good capital 
discipline. It sharpens the Group’s strategic focus, 
ensuring we apply our resources to the best 
opportunities. The programme also reduces the risk 
profile of the Group because many of the businesses we 
have sold were small but required a disproportionate 
amount of management attention and exposed us to 
significant reputational or operational risk.
Based on financial, legal, 
reputational and operational risk 
criteria. Referred to the region, 
Group or board as appropriate 
for review and approval. 
BID RISK
ASSESSMENT
BID APPROVAL
GROUP INTERNAL 
AUDIT
MOBILISATION
 CONTRACT
CONTRACT
 ON-GOING
ASSURANCE
BOARD RISK
COMMITTEE
Bids’ customer value propositions, 
commercial terms and risk 
mitigation strategies are challenged. 
Expected risk weighted return is 
assessed before approval is given 
or withheld. 
Key contractual requirements and 
risk mitigation strategies, based 
on complexity and risk profile  
of mobilisation, are mapped to 
accountable contract managers.
Contracts subject to on-going 
scrutiny at regional or Group 
level based on commercial 
scale and level of risk.
Internal audit conducts audits 
of selected contracts. 
The board Risk Committee will 
undertake a review of a major 
contract at each of its meetings. 
CONTRACT RISK MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE MODEL
We have significantly strengthened the risk assessment process and systems around new contracts as detailed in the chart below: 
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 27 KPIs
Our progress in implementing our 
strategic objectives is measured  
using key performance measures  
aligned to those objectives and to  
the Group values:
FINANCIAL – CONTINUING BUSINESSES
PBITA
1
(£m)
£454m +9.7
%
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
16 15 14
6.2
6.4
6.8
0
100
200
300
400
500
16 15 14
394
414
454
Performance
Description
Link to strategic 
objectives
We have an organic growth strategy based on strong 
market positions in structural growth markets.  
We have invested in improved customer service, 
innovation and sales and business development 
capabilities. There is also great potential to sell more 
complex solutions which tend to have longer 
contract terms and higher margins. Over the medium 
term we expect to grow revenues by 4% to 6% 
per annum.
The Group has implemented a number of 
productivity programmes that are now driving 
efficiency and operational improvement across the 
Group. These include efficient organisation design, 
management de-layering, lean operating processes, 
efficient reporting and assurance processes, upgraded 
IT systems and efficient procurement.
In 2016, revenues grew 6.3% to £6.8bn (2015: £6.4bn),  
with developed markets growing 6.8%, reflecting 
strong growth in North America and more modest 
growth in Europe and the UK.
Emerging markets grew 5.4% with broad growth 
across all four regions.
In 2016, PBITA grew 9.7% to £454m (2015: £414m) 
as a result of these initiatives increasingly having 
tangible benefits. PBITA in emerging markets was up 
0.5% and in developed markets PBITA increased by 
14.6%.
KPI
Revenue
1
(£bn)
£6.8bn +6.3
%
People and values
Customers and service excellence
Growth and innovation
Operational excellence and productivity
Financial and commercial discipline
28 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Key performance indicators 1. For details of the basis of preparation of results from continuing businesses see page 32. Results from continuing businesses are 
reconciled to statutory results on page 33.
For more detail on the Group’s strategic priorities please see pages 12 to 27. For more detail on 2016 financial 
performance please see the Chief Financial Officer’s review on pages 32 to 40.
An analysis of net debt: EBITDA performance is 
provided on page 26. In addition to the financial KPIs, 
the Group has a set of performance measures aligned 
to its strategic priorities. These measures include 
employee retention, contract and customer retention, 
lost-time injuries and other H&S measures. A 
description of these performance measures and our 
progress against them is shown throughout the 
strategic report.
OTHER FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL
Operating cash flow
1 
(£m)
£638m +61.5
%
EPS
1
(pence per share)
15.9p +16.5
%
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
16 15 14
457
395
638
0
4
8
12
16
16 15 14
13.7
12.2
15.9
A key priority for the Group is to drive improved 
cash generation, through enhanced working capital 
management and capital discipline and embedding  
a “cash matters” culture throughout the Group, as 
outlined in more detail on pages 26 and 27.  
A greater emphasis has been placed on cashflow 
generation in management incentive plans 
since 2016.
G4S is looking to deliver sustainable growth in 
earnings over the long-term. EPS growth is a 
component of both the annual and long-term 
management incentive plans.
Operating cash flow was £638m (2015: £395m), up 
61.5% as a result of the increased focus on this area. 
Strong cash flow and working capital management 
performances were delivered across most of 
the Group.
Helped by revenue growth, improved PBITA margins 
and lower interest costs, earnings from continuing 
businesses increased 16.6% to £246m (2015: £211m) 
in 2016.
EPS from continuing businesses increased 16.5% to 
15.91p (2015: 13.66p).
See pages 14 to 27 for more information
KPI
PEOPLE AND VALUES GROWTH AND 
INNOVATION
FINANCIAL AND  
COMMERCIAL  
DISCIPLINE 
CUSTOMERS AND 
SERVICE EXCELLENCE 
OPERATIONAL 
EXCELLENCE AND 
PRODUCTIVITY
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 29 OUR PERFORMANCE 
IN 2016
We made good progress in a number  
of key CSR areas in 2016. In this section, 
we cover some of the key actions 
undertaken in the last year.
A more detailed discussion of our CSR approach 
can be found online in the 2016 CSR Report at 
www.g4s.com/csr2016
• Introduced a new online 
safety training module 
covering minimum health and 
safety requirements – since 
2015, over 3,000 managers 
have completed online  
health and safety modules.
• Conducted health and safety 
control self-assessments  
in all countries as part  
of the Group’s risk and 
compliance systems.
• Completed seven Group-led 
deep dive reviews of safety  
in high-priority countries.
• Introduced safety 
improvement programmes  
for specific risk areas such  
as motorcycle safety.
• Road traffic related fatalities 
have decreased by 20% since 
2013 when our road safety 
programme was launched.
HEALTH  
AND SAFETY
CSR HIGHLIGHTS
3.6
%
Reduction in 
carbon intensity 
since 2015
13
“T op Employer” 
certifications  
in countries  
across Africa
402
Cases reported 
and managed  
via our global  
whistleblowing 
system Speak Out 
during 2016
7
Deep dive reviews 
of safety in 
high-priority  
countries
4
Human rights  
risk assessments  
of major business  
opportunities
3,000
Managers have 
completed online 
health and safety 
training modules
30 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
CSR performance • Conducted a global human 
rights assessment.
• Completed human rights 
self-assessments of  
businesses operating in  
high-risk environments.
• Undertook four human rights 
risk assessments relating to new 
business opportunities under 
review by the Group 
Investment Committee.
• Business units across the Group 
have undertaken local human 
rights risk assessments.
• Improved awareness of the 
Speak Out whistleblowing 
system, resulting in a marked 
increase in the number  
of issues raised.
• 402 cases reported and 
managed via Speak Out 
during 2016.
Our Group strategy and 
sustainability performance are 
underpinned by our people and 
values. In 2016 we achieved a 
number of important milestones:
• Refreshed our human 
resources core standards and 
delivered training to regional 
and country-level HR managers 
to ensure their understanding 
of the Group’s requirements.
• Completed review of  
the Group’s anti-bribery  
and corruption policies.
ANTI-BRIBERY  
AND CORRUPTION
HUMAN RIGHTS
PEOPLE & VALUES
• Completed a review of our 
Group values, resulting in the 
development of a core set of 
values which are more closely 
aligned to our strategy and 
business model.
• Launched the new values across 
the Group with an internal 
communications campaign 
highlighting our key values 
and behaviours.
• Commenced the development 
of values training and awareness 
materials for new colleagues 
joining the Group.
• Achieved certification as a  
“T op Employer” in 13 countries 
across Africa by the T op 
Employer Institute.
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 31 Financial highlights – continuing businesses:
• Revenue up 6.3% to £6,823m (2015: £6,419m)
• PBITA up 9.7% to £454m (2015: £414m)
• Earnings up 16.6% to £246m (2015: £211m)
• Operating cash flow up 61.5% to £638m (2015: £395m)
Financial highlights – statutory results:
• Revenue up 10.6% to £7,590m (2015: £6,863m)
• Profit before tax up 279.5% to £296m (2015: £78m)
• Earnings of £198m (2015: £8m)
• Net debt: EBITDA 2.8x (2015: 3.4x)
• Final dividend maintained at 5.82p (2015: 5.82p) resulting in a 
total dividend of 9.41p (2015: 9.41p)
Basis of preparation
The following discussion and analysis on pages 32 to 40 is based 
on, and should be read in conjunction with, the consolidated 
financial statements, including the related notes, that form part  
of this annual report. The consolidated financial statements have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. 
The Group applies the basis of preparation for its statutory results 
shown on page 114. As explained below, the Group makes use  
of Alternative Performance Measures (APMs) in the management 
of its operations and as a key component of its internal and 
external reporting. 
G4S uses profit before interest, tax and amortisation (“PBITA”)  
as a consistent measure of the Group’s performance, excluding 
amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets and specific 
and other separately disclosed items which the Company believes 
should be disclosed separately by virtue of their size, nature or 
incidence. Further details regarding these items can be found in 
note 8 on page 126. 
Revenue, PBITA, operating cash flow and EPS for continuing (core) 
businesses and net debt to EBITDA are the financial Key 
Performance Indicators used by the Group in measuring progress 
against strategic objectives. PBITA and operating cash flow also 
form a significant element of performance measurement used in 
the determination of performance-related employee incentives. 
These APMs are not necessarily comparable with those used by 
other companies. 
From 2016, the Group has reported its results across three 
distinct components, in line with its strategy for managing  
the business: 
• Continuing (core) businesses, which comprise the Group’s 
on-going activities;
• Onerous contracts, which are being managed effectively to 
completion; and
• Portfolio businesses, which are being managed for sale or 
closure, as part of the portfolio rationalisation programme 
announced by the Group in November 2013. 
Taken together, these three components constitute continuing 
operations under IFRS or GAAP , as distinct from discontinued 
operations which, in accordance with IFRS 5, represent areas of 
the business which are being managed for sale or closure but 
which represent material business segments or entities. The Group 
now has minimal operations that meet the IFRS 5 definition of 
discontinued operations. The main APMs used by the Group for 
each component are reconciled with the Group’s statutory 
results below.
In the following review, to aid comparability, 2015 prior year 
results are presented on a constant currency basis by applying 
2016 average exchange rates, unless otherwise stated. 
FOCUSED ON 
LONG-TERM 
DELIVERY
“We made good progress with our 
transformation strategy in 2016 and 
our continuing businesses delivered 
revenue growth of 6.3% and earnings 
growth of 16.6%. ”
32 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Chief Financial Officer’s review Summary Group results
Year ended 31 December 2016 (at 2016 average exchange rates) 
£m 
Continuing 
businesses
Onerous 
contracts
Portfolio  
businesses
a
Restructuring 
Acquisition-related 
amortisation and other
d
Statutory
Revenue 6,823 181 586   7,590 
PBITA 454 – 7   461 
Profit before tax 352 – 3 (12) (47) 296
Profit after tax 268 – 1 (10) (39) 220
Earnings 246 – – (10) (38) 198
Operating cash flow
c
638 (16) 11 (18) 615 
Year ended 31 December 2015 (at 2016 average exchange rates) 
£m 
Continuing 
businesses
Onerous 
contracts
Portfolio 
businesses
a
Restructuring 
Acquisition-related 
amortisation and other
d
Adjusted 
statutory
b
Revenue 6,419 196 760 7,375 
PBITA 414 1 8 423 
Profit before tax 309 1 4 (47) (172) 95
Profit after tax 235 (1) (4) (38) (150) 42
Earnings 211 (1) (4) (38) (149) 19 
Operating cash flow
c
395 (18) 28 (46) 359 
Year ended 31 December 2015 (at 2015 average exchange rates)
£m 
Continuing 
businesses
Onerous 
contracts
Portfolio 
businesses
a
Restructuring
Acquisition-related 
amortisation and other
d
Statutory 
Revenue 5,958 189 716 6,863 
PBITA 382 1 8 391 
Profit before tax 280 1 5 (44) (164) 78
Profit after tax 213 1 (2) (35) (149) 28
Earnings 191 1 (1) (35) (148) 8 
Operating cash flow
c
395 (18) 28 (46) 359 
a. Portfolio businesses that remain part of the Group and have not yet been sold or closed contributed £431m revenue (2015: £470m) and £3m PBITA (2015: £1m).
b. The ‘adjusted statutory’ figures represent the comparative 2015 statutory amounts had they been translated at 2016 average rates (other than for operating 
cash flow) but should not be considered as or used in place of the Group’s statutory results.
c. Operating cash flow is stated after pension deficit contributions of £39m (2015: £44m), and for the year ended 31 December 2015 is presented at 2015 actual 
exchange rates.
d. Other includes goodwill impairment, net specific items, net profit on disposal/closure of subsidiaries, the results of discontinued operations and the associated 
tax impacts, see page 36. The Group’s accounting policy for pre-tax specific items is disclosed in note 3 (b) on page 114. For tax items, adjustments to prior 
period tax positions are treated as specific (and are therefore excluded from profit after tax from continuing businesses) to the extent that they relate to 
transactions or events that were treated as specific items in prior years in order to ensure consistency of presentation. The amounts presented above in respect 
of profit before tax and profit after tax for “Restructuring” were presented within “Acquisition-related amortisation and other” within the Preliminary results 
announcement. These amounts have now been presented separately to provide a more meaningful analysis of their impact.
Results from continuing businesses
At 2016 average exchange rates
2016  
£m
2015 
£m Y oY%
Revenue 6,823 6,419 6.3%
Profit before interest, tax and amortisation (PBITA) 454 414 9.7%
PBITA margin 6.7% 6.4% +30b.p.
Interest (102) (105) (2.9)%
Profit before tax 352 309 13.9%
Tax (84) (74) 13.5%
Profit after tax 268 235 14.0%
Non-controlling interests (22) (24) (8.3)%
Earnings (profit attributable to equity holders of the parent) 246 211 16.6%
EPS 15.91p 13.66p 16.5%
Operating cash flow 638 395 61.5%
Emerging markets grew 5.4% compared with the prior year, with revenues of £2.6bn, representing 38% of Group revenue (2015: 38%). 
Developed markets revenues were 6.8% higher than the prior year with strong growth in North America of 12.4% and good growth in 
Europe of 4.6%, while the UK & Ireland grew by a more modest 1.5%. Revenue from Cash Solutions was up 18.8% on 2015 and from 
Secure Solutions was up 4.1% on 2015.
PBITA of continuing businesses of £454m (2015: £414m) was up 9.7%. This growth reflects the strong performance of the Group in 
developed markets, improved product mix and the results of our on-going productivity programmes.
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 33 Reconciliation of previously reported underlying results to re-presented results from continuing businesses
a
The table below reconciles underlying revenue and PBITA as reported previously to the re-presented prior year revenue and PBITA 
from continuing businesses.
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Underlying as 
previously 
reported 
£m
Onerous 
contracts 
£m
Businesses 
re-classified to 
portfolio
b
 
£m
Businesses 
re-classified 
from portfolio
c
 
£m
Continuing 
businesses at 
2015 exchange 
rates 
£m
Exchange rate 
movements 
£m
Continuing 
businesses at 
2016 exchange 
rates 
£m
Revenue
Africa 391 – (10) 12 393 2 395 
Asia Pacific 610 (6) (20) 20 604 62 666 
Latin America 549 – (2) 22 569 10 579 
Middle East & India 716 – (6) 6 716 77 793 
Emerging markets 2,266 (6) (38) 60 2,282 151 2,433 
Europe 1,159 (48) (133) 66 1,044 126 1,170 
North America 1,518 – (75) – 1,443 173 1,616 
UK & Ireland 1,490 (135) (166) – 1,189 11 1,200 
Developed markets 4,167 (183) (374) 66 3,676 310 3,986 
T otal revenue 6,433 (189) (412) 126 5,958 461 6,419 
PBITA       
Africa 40 – – – 40 – 40 
Asia Pacific 45 – (1) – 44 5 49 
Latin America 29 – (1) (5) 23 – 23 
Middle East & India 76 – (1) 1 76 9 85 
Emerging markets 190 – (3) (4) 183 14 197 
Europe 77 (1) (11) (1) 64 8 72 
North America 94 – (6) – 88 10 98 
UK & Ireland 116 – (19) – 97 – 97 
Developed markets 287 (1) (36) (1) 249 18 267 
T otal PBITA before corporate costs 477 (1) (39) (5) 432 32 464 
Corporate costs (50) – – – (50) – (50)
T otal PBITA 427 (1) (39) (5) 382 32 414 
Earnings 227 (1) (27) (8) 191 20 211
Operating cash flow
d
416 18 (41) 2 395 – 395
a. See basis of preparation on page 32.
b. During 2016 we determined that we would exit a further 10 of our businesses, including G4S Israel, UK Utility Services, US Y outh Services and UK Children’s 
Services. We have therefore reported the results of these businesses in portfolio businesses in 2016 and have restated the 2015 results accordingly.
c. During 2016, for 14 of the businesses previously reported as portfolio businesses, management focus and changing market conditions have resulted in improved 
performance and we have formally concluded that we will retain these businesses. We have therefore reported the results of these businesses in continuing 
businesses in 2016 and have restated the 2015 results accordingly.
d. Operating cash flow is stated after pension deficit contributions of £44m and is shown at actual 2015 exchange rates.
Interest
Net interest payable on net debt from continuing businesses was £92m (2015: £93m). The pension interest charge was £10m 
(2015: £12m) resulting in a total interest cost of £102m (2015: £105m). 
34 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Chief Financial Officer’s review continued Tax 
A tax charge of £84m (2015: £74m) was incurred on the profits of continuing businesses of £352m (2015: £309m) which represents an 
effective tax rate of 24% (2015: 24%). The effective tax rate for continuing businesses is a function of a variety of factors, with the most 
significant being (i) the geographic mix of its taxable profits and the respective country tax rates, (ii) the recognition of, and changes in 
the value of, deferred tax assets, (iii) permanent differences such as expenses disallowable for tax purposes and (iv) irrecoverable 
withholding taxes. 
During the year, the Group recognised additional deferred tax assets of £72m (of which £40m arose through the tax charge on 
continuing businesses), relating to previously unrecognised brought forward tax losses. The timing of recognition of the tax losses as 
additional deferred tax assets in 2016 is supported by the improved taxable profit profile of the relevant Group companies, which itself 
is underpinned by the continuing progress of the Group’s transformation strategy to generate future sustainable, profitable growth.
At any point in time, the Group is typically subject to tax audits in a number of different countries. In situations where a difference of 
opinion arises between the Group and a local tax authority in respect of its tax filings, the Group will debate the contentious areas and, 
where necessary, resolve them through negotiation or litigation. The Group relies upon advice and opinions from the Group tax 
department, local finance teams and external advisors to ensure that appropriate judgments are arrived at in establishing the 
appropriate accounting provisions in relation to such disputes.
In December 2016, as part of its response to the OECD’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting recommendations, the UK Government 
released draft legislation in respect of new rules to: (i) restrict the deductibility of net interest costs to a percentage of EBITDA and (ii) 
restrict the amount of taxable profits available to offset against carried forward tax losses to 50% of the available profits. Both of these 
proposals will take effect from 1 April 2017. Management is monitoring the progress of this draft legislation and assessing its possible 
impacts on the Group, which may result in a modest increase in the effective tax rate on future profits of continuing businesses. 
Non-controlling interests 
Profit from continuing businesses attributable to non-controlling interests was £22m in 2016, a decrease from £24m for 2015, reflecting 
a lower level of profitability of certain businesses in the Middle East & India region resulting in a decrease in the share of profit accruing 
to non-controlling partners. 
Profit for the year – continuing businesses
The Group produced profit from continuing businesses attributable to equity holders (“continuing earnings”) of £246m (2015: £211m), 
an increase of 16.6% for the year ended 31 December 2016. 
Earnings per share – continuing businesses
Earnings per share from continuing businesses increased to 15.9p (2015: 13.7p), based on the weighted average of 1,546m 
(2015: 1,545m) shares in issue. A reconciliation of profit for the year from continuing businesses to EPS is provided below:
Earnings per share – continuing businesses
2016 
£m
2015 at  
constant 
exchange  
rates  
£m
2015 at  
actual  
exchange 
rates 
£m
Profit for the year from continuing businesses 268 235 213
Non-controlling interests (22) (24) (22)
Profit attributable to shareholders (earnings) 246 211 191
Average number of shares (m) 1,546 1,545 1,545
EPS (p) 15.9 13.7 12.4p
Onerous contracts
The Group’s onerous contracts had revenues of £181m (2015: £196m). In December 2016 the UK Compass asylum seeker contract 
with the Home Office was extended by two years to August 2019. Supplementary onerous contract provisions of a net £4m, primarily 
in respect of the Compass asylum seekers contract, were booked during 2016.
Portfolio operations
The Group made further progress with its portfolio management programme and since 2013 has sold or is exiting 60 businesses with 
annualised revenues of c.£1.5bn and PBITA of £16m, based on the last full year when each of these businesses formed part of the 
Group. This programme has greatly improved the Group’s strategic focus and has also generated £345m in disposal proceeds in relation 
to the 29 businesses sold to date. This includes the sale of 12 businesses this year in Finland, Kazakhstan, Brunei, Uzbekistan, Honduras, 
Thailand, Costa Rica and the UK, generating proceeds of £82m. The Group also reached agreement for the sale of G4S Israel for £88m 
which is expected to complete in the next few months.
Restructuring costs
The Group invested £12m (2015: £47m) in restructuring programmes during the year, relating to the multi-year strategic productivity 
programme which is being implemented across the Group. In addition, the Group incurred non-strategic reorganisation costs of £9m 
(2015: £10m) which are included within PBITA of continuing businesses.
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 35 Acquisition-related amortisation and other
2016  
£m
2015 at  
constant 
exchange  
rates 
£m
2015 at  
actual  
exchange  
rates 
£m
Acquisition-related amortisation and expenses 32 41 40
Goodwill impairment 9 71 66
Net specific items 13 73 70
Net profit on disposal/closure of subsidiaries (7) (13) (12)
Tax effect of above (8) (22) (15)
Loss from discontinued operations 3 2 2
Non-controlling interests’ share of specific items (4)  (3) (3)
T otal acquisition-related amortisation and other  38 149 148
Acquisition-related amortisation and expenses
Acquisition-related amortisation and expenses of £32m (2015: £41m) are lower than the prior year as certain intangible assets 
recognised on a number of historical acquisitions became fully amortised in 2015.
Net specific items
Specific items of a net £13m (2015: £73m) included a £10m charge due to the revision of estimates relating to legacy acquisitions and 
labour claims in Latin America, £7m relating to commercial restructuring in Middle East & India, and a net £4m supplementary onerous 
contract provision primarily in respect of the Compass asylum seekers contract, all offset by an £8m credit mainly relating to the 
recovery of a legal claim in Europe and of certain disputed debtor balances in the UK. 
Profit on disposal and closure of subsidiaries and goodwill impairment
As part of the on-going portfolio programme, the Group realised a net profit on disposal/closure of subsidiaries of £7m (2015: £13m) 
relating to the disposal of a number of the Group’s operations including the Cash Solutions business in Thailand, the businesses in 
Finland, Brunei and Kazakhstan and the Utilities Services and ATM engineering businesses in the UK, together with a loss arising on 
closure of a systems business in Latin America. The Group recorded a goodwill impairment charge of £9m (2015: £71m) in relation to 
businesses that are to be sold or closed.
Non-controlling interests’ share of acquisition-related intangibles and other
Statutory profit includes the non-controlling interests’ share of acquisition-related intangible and other charges of £4m (2015: £3m). 
Including these items, statutory profit attributable to non-controlling interests was £19m in 2016 (2015: £18m).
Profit for the year – statutory at actual historical exchange rates
The Group reported statutory earnings of £198m (2015: £8m) mainly driven by improved operating profit and lower charges for 
specific items, restructuring and goodwill impairment.
Earnings per share – statutory at actual historical exchange rates
Statutory earnings per share increased to 12.8p (2015: 0.5p), based on the weighted average of 1,546m (2015: 1,545m) shares in issue. 
A reconciliation of the Group’s statutory profit for the year to EPS is provided below:
Earnings per share 
2016 
£m
2015 at  
constant 
exchange  
rates  
£m
2015 at  
actual  
exchange  
rates  
£m
Profit for the year 217 40 26
Non-controlling interests (19) (21) (18)
Profit attributable to shareholders (earnings) 198 19 8
Average number of shares (m) 1,546 1,545 1,545
Statutory earnings per share (p) 12.8p 1.2p 0.5p
36 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Chief Financial Officer’s review continued Cash flow 
A reconciliation of operating profit as presented in the Group’s Consolidated income statement to movement in net debt is presented 
below with 2016 presented at actual rates for the year and the prior year presented at 2015 exchange rates. The definition of cash flow 
from continuing operations, as presented below, has been changed to include the Group’s pension deficit repair payments, which were 
added back and treated as other uses of funds in prior reported results. The revised treatment more closely aligns the reconciliation with 
the Consolidated statement of cash flow contained within the statutory accounts on page 113.
2016  
£m
2015  
£m
Operating profit 402 183 
Adjustments for non-cash and other items (see page 113) 126 245 
Net working capital movement 87 (69)
Net cash flow from operating activities of continuing operations (page 113) 615 359 
Adjustments for:
Restructuring spend 18 46 
Cash flow from continuing operations 633 405
Analysed between:
Continuing businesses 638 395
Portfolio businesses 11 28 
Onerous contracts (16) (18)
Investment in the business
Purchase of fixed assets, net of disposals (107) (104)
Restructuring investment (18) (46)
Disposal proceeds 82 14 
Acquisition of businesses (1) (17)
Net debt in disposed/acquired entities (15) (3)
New finance leases (7) (27)
Net investment in the business (66) (183)
Net cash flow after investing in the business 567 222
Other (users)/sources of funds
Net interest paid (96) (91)
Tax paid (84) (102)
Dividends paid (162) (174)
Cash (used by)/from discontinued operations (9) 26 
Other 6 12 
Other net uses of funds (345) (329)
Net cash flow after investment, financing, tax, dividends and pensions 222 (107)
Net debt at the beginning of the year (1,782) (1,639)
Effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations (110) (36)
Net debt at the end of the year (1,670) (1,782)
Cash flow from continuing operations before restructuring spend was £633m (2015: £405m). Cash flow from portfolio businesses 
held for sale or closure was £11m (2015: £28m), and cash outflows from onerous contracts were £16m (2015: £18m), both of which 
are excluded from operating cash flows for continuing businesses. Operating cash flow from continuing businesses increased to £638m 
(2015: £395m), reflecting higher operating profits and enhanced working capital management.
The Group invested £107m (2015: £104m) in net capital expenditure and received proceeds of £82m (2015: £14m) from the disposal 
of businesses. The Group made no significant acquisitions during the year.
Net cash inflow after investing in the business and proceeds from portfolio rationalisation was £567m (2015: £222m). The Group’s net 
cash inflow after investing in the business, financing, tax, dividends and pensions was £222m (2015: outflow of £107m).
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 37 Net debt 
The Group’s net debt as at 31 December 2016 was £1,670m (December 2015: £1,782m). The Group’s net debt to EBITDA ratio was 
2.8x (2015: 3.4x). The movement in net debt during the year included an increase of £110m (2015: £36m) arising from foreign exchange 
translation differences relating to the Group’s debt held in foreign currencies, mainly US dollars and euros, in particular as a result of the 
exchange rate movements since June 2016.
The Group’s business plan and current performance support a net debt/EBITDA of 2.5x or lower by the end of 2017.
Net debt maturity 
In August 2016 the Group’s credit rating was affirmed by Standard & Poor’s as BBB- (negative). As of 31 December 2016 the Group had 
liquidity of £1,692m including cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts of £692m and unutilised but committed facilities of £1bn. 
In August 2016 the Group put in place a new €600m bank facility to provide additional liquidity but this facility was subsequently 
cancelled following the successful issue of a new €500m Eurobond in November 2016. The bond matures in January 2023 and pays an 
annual coupon of 1.5%.
The next debt maturities are $200m of US Private Placement debt maturing March 2017 and a €600m Eurobond maturing in May 2017. 
The Group has good access to capital markets and a diverse range of finance providers. Borrowings are principally in pounds sterling,  
US dollars and euros, reflecting the geographies of significant operational assets and earnings.
The Group’s main sources of finance and their applicable rates as of 31 December 2016 are set out below:
Debt instrument / Y ear of issue
Nominal 
amount
a
Issued 
interest  
rate
Post 
hedging 
avg  
interest 
rate
Y ear of redemption and amounts (£m)
b
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 T otal
US PP 2008 £44m 7.56% 6.59% 44 44
US PP 2007 US$450m 5.86% - 6.06% 1.86% 162 117 85 364
Public Bond May 2012 €600m 2.875% 3.12% 501 501
US PP 2008 US$298.5m 6.78% - 6.88% 6.90% 166 60 226
Public Bond Dec 2012 €500m 2.625% 2.65% 412 412
Public Bond 2009 £350m 7.75% 6.82% 350 350
Eurobond 2016 €500m 1.5% 2.25% 440 440
Revolving Credit Facility 2015 £1bn (multi curr) undrawn – –
663 622 467 60 – 85 440 2,337
a. Nominal debt amount. For fair value carrying amount see note 31.
b. Exchange rates at 31 December 2016 or hedged exchange rates where applicable.
£964m of the original £1bn multi-currency revolving credit facility matures in January 2022 with the remainder maturing in  
January 2021. As at 31 December 2016 there were no drawings from the facility. 
The Group’s average cost of gross borrowings in 2016, net of interest hedging, was 3.9% (2015: 4.0%).
Financing and treasury activities
The Group’s treasury function is responsible for ensuring the availability of cost-effective finance and for managing the Group’s financial 
risk arising from currency and interest rate volatility and counterparty credit. Group Treasury is not a profit centre and it is not 
permitted to speculate in financial instruments. The treasury department’s policies are set by the board. Treasury is subject to the 
controls appropriate to the risks it manages. These risks are discussed in note 31 on pages 144 to 148.
T o assist the efficient management of the Group’s interest costs, the Group operates a multi-currency notional pooling cash management 
system with a wholly-owned subsidiary of an A-rated bank. During the year the Group applied the new IFRIC interpretation on cash 
offsetting and as a result now presents cash and overdrafts within the pooling system gross in the statement of financial position.
38 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Chief Financial Officer’s review continued Significant exchange rates applicable to the Group
The Group derives a significant portion of its revenue and profits in the currencies shown below, together with their respective closing 
and average rates:
As at  
31 December  
2016 
At 2016  
average  
rates
At 2015  
average  
rates
£/US$ 1.2345 1.3558 1.5282
£/€ 1.1705 1.2265 1.3795
£/South Africa Rand 16.9500 19.8742 19.5175
£/India Rupee 83.8670 91.0371 97.9690
£/Israel Shekel 4.7483 5.1912 5.9441
£/Brazil Real 4.0165 4.7252 5.1054
If December 2016 closing rates were applied to the results for the year to 31 December 2016, revenue from continuing businesses 
would have increased by 6.5% to £7,268m (for the year ended 31 December 2015: by 6.6% to £6,842m) and PBITA from continuing 
businesses would have increased by 6.6% to £484m (for the year ended 31 December 2015: by 7.5% to £445m).
Dividend 
In assessing the dividend, the board considers:
• the future investment requirements of the continuing businesses;
• net debt to EBITDA;
• satisfying the Group’s pension obligations;
• the availability of distributable reserves in the parent company; and
• reward to shareholders.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 5.82p (DKK 0.5029) per share (2015: 5.82p per share; DKK 0.5615). The interim dividend 
was 3.59p (DKK 0.3143) per share and the total dividend, if approved, will be 9.41p (DKK 0.8172) per share, consistent with 2015 
(2015, the interim dividend 3.59p; DKK 0.3793 and the total dividend 9.41p; DKK 0.9408).
The proposed dividend cover is 1.7x (2015: 1.5x) on earnings from continuing businesses. Whilst the board’s intention is that dividends 
will increase broadly in line with those earnings over the medium term, at present dividends are being maintained at the same level 
year-on-year pending achievement of the Group’s leverage reduction targets.
Other information 
Pensions 
As at 31 December 2016 the net defined benefit pension obligation in the Consolidated statement of financial position was £437m 
(2015: £279m) or £368m net of tax (2015: £234m) of which £341m (2015: £205m) related to material funded defined benefit schemes. 
The most significant of the Group’s pension schemes is in the UK and accounts for over 73% (2015: 68%) of the total material scheme 
obligations. The scheme has approximately 30,000 members and further details of the make-up of the scheme are given in note 32 on 
page 150. 
Defined benefit obligation – UK scheme
2016  
£m
2015  
£m
Scheme assets 2,339 2,029
Obligations (2,659) (2,218)
T otal UK obligations (320) (189)
The movement in the UK scheme obligation was a result of an increase of £310m in the value of scheme assets principally arising from 
an increase in underlying asset values, as well as an increase in the scheme obligations of £441m. The increase in the obligations is mainly 
a result of the discount rate used for valuation purposes decreasing to 2.5% (2015: 3.8%) and of the projected pension inflation rates 
increasing to 3.3% (2015: 3.1%). 
The Group made additional pension contributions of £39m (2015: £44m) into the scheme during the year. Following strong investment 
performance in the G4S pension scheme at the end of the latest triennial valuation process, the trustees of G4S’s UK pension schemes 
agreed during the year a reduced annual pension deficit payment of £39m in 2016, with a 3% per annum increase until the next funding 
valuation due in 2018.
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 39 Interest-rate risk and interest-rate swaps 
The Group’s investments and borrowings at 31 December 2016 were a mix of fixed rates of interest and floating rates of interest linked 
to LIBOR and EURIBOR. 
The private placement notes in March 2007 and July 2008 and the public notes in May 2009, May 2012, December 2012 and November 
2017 were all issued at fixed rates, whilst the Group’s investments and bank borrowings were all at variable rates of interest linked to 
LIBOR and EURIBOR. 
The Group’s interest risk policy requires Treasury to fix a proportion of its interest exposure on a sliding scale in US dollars, sterling and 
euro, using the natural mix of fixed and floating interest rates emanating from the bond and bank markets and by utilising interest rate 
and cross-currency swaps. Part of the proceeds of the private placement and public notes have been swapped to floating interest rates 
and accounted for as fair-value hedges, with a net gain at 31 December 2016 of £27m (2015: net gain £40m). The market value of the 
pay-fixed receive-variable swaps and the pay-fixed receive-fixed cross-currency swaps outstanding at 31 December 2016, accounted for 
as cash-flow hedges, was a net asset of £31m (2015: net liability of £36m).
Foreign currency 
The Group has many overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures, denominated in various different currencies. Treasury policy is to manage 
significant translation risks in respect of net operating assets and its consolidated net debt/EBITDA ratio by holding foreign currency 
denominated loans, where possible. On occasion, the Group uses foreign exchange contracts to hedge the residual portion of net assets 
not hedged by way of loans. 
At 31 December 2016, the Group’s US dollar and Euro net assets were approximately 80% and 93% respectively, hedged by foreign 
currency loans. As at 31 December 2016, net debt held in US dollar and Euro and in those currencies officially pegged to these two 
currencies, equated broadly to a ratio of 2.2x EBITDA generated from these currencies (2015: 2.5x EBITDA). 
Tax policy
The Group’s policy in relation to tax is as follows:
• we manage our tax affairs responsibly and transparently; 
• we only undertake tax planning which aligns with our commercial and economic activity;
• we endeavour to involve fully our tax team in all significant business developments so that we can assess fully any potential tax 
consequences of our actions in advance;
• we utilise tax incentives, reliefs and exemptions in line with tax legislation;
• in international matters, we follow the terms of the relevant Double Tax Treaties and OECD guidelines in dealing with such issues as 
transfer pricing and establishing tax presence;
• we actively seek open dialogue with Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (HMRC) and other tax authorities, in pursuit of a 
professional relationship of constructive compliance, with the aim of achieving early agreement on disputed items and obtaining 
certainty where possible;
• we provide all relevant information when requested to do so by HMRC or other tax authorities;
• if we discover errors in tax returns or correspondence with tax authorities, we disclose and correct them promptly; and
• we take an active role in contributing to the UK and international tax policy-making process, where relevant, including taking part in 
formal and informal consultations.
The Group operates in a large number of countries and is typically subject to tax in those jurisdictions. The Group employs an in-house 
team of tax professionals who interface with the regional and country business and finance teams to manage the Group’s tax risks in a 
controlled and proactive manner. The complex international tax environment means that there is always an element of tax risk and 
uncertainty inherent within the Group’s operations. Group companies are routinely subject to tax audits which can take a considerable 
period of time to conclude. As and when appropriate, the Group obtains advice from external professional firms to support 
its positions.
As a high-profile provider of public services, the Group considers it is important that we increase the public’s understanding of tax 
matters and their trust in larger corporate groups by being transparent about our tax affairs and co-operating with the tax authorities.
By managing responsibly the Group’s tax affairs in line with our tax policy, the Group is also adhering fully to the Confederation of British 
Industry’s seven tax principles.
Corporate governance 
The Group’s policies regarding risk management and corporate governance are set out in the Risk management section on pages 50  
to 55 and in the Corporate governance report on pages 62 to 77. 
Tim W eller
Chief Financial Officer
40 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Chief Financial Officer’s review continued 2016 REGIONAL AND SEGMENTAL REVIEW – CONTINUING BUSINESSES
At constant exchange rates 
Revenue 
£m
Organic 
growth*
PBITA 
£m
2016 2015 Y oY % 2016 2015 Y oY %
Africa 422 395 6.8% 6.5% 42 40 5.0%
Asia Pacific 679 666 2.0% 1.8% 57 49 16.3%
Latin America 621 579 7.3% 7.3% 23 23 0%
Middle East & India 842 793 6.2% 1.7% 76 85 (10.6)%
Emerging Markets 2,564 2,433 5.4% 3.8% 198 197 0.5%
Europe 1,224 1,170 4.6% 4.4% 85 72 18.1%
North America 1,817 1,616 12.4% 12.4% 111 98 13.3%
UK & Ireland 1,218 1,200 1.5% 1.4% 110 97 13.4%
Developed Markets 4,259 3,986 6.8% 6.8% 306 267 14.6%
T otal Group before corporate costs 6,823 6,419 6.3% 5.6% 504 464 8.6%
Corporate costs (50) (50) 0%
T otal Group 6,823 6,419 6.3% 5.6% 454 414 9.7%
* Organic growth is calculated based on revenue growth at 2016 average exchange rates, adjusted to exclude the impact of any acquisitions or disposals during 
the current or prior year. During 2015 we increased our economic control and interest in certain joint ventures at no additional cost and these are excluded 
from organic growth.
Regional and service line  
financial performance 
The analysis of the Group’s business performance 
reflects internal management reporting lines which are 
based on geographic regions. The Group’s segmental 
results for continuing businesses are presented above, 
excluding onerous contracts and operations identified 
for portfolio rationalisation. Prior year results are 
presented on the same basis, but at constant currency.  
A reconciliation between results from continuing 
businesses and statutory results can be found on page 
33. All commentary, results and tables on pages 41 to 49 
are presented on this basis, unless stated otherwise.
Regional summary 
(see pages 43 to 49)
During 2016, Group revenues grew 6.3% to £6.8bn, with 
strong growth in North America (up 12.4%), helped by 
Retail Cash Solutions, broad growth in emerging markets 
(up 5.4%) and in Europe (4.6%), and a return to growth in 
the UK & Ireland region at 1.5%. Profit before interest, tax 
and amortisation (PBITA) increased 9.7% to £454m, with 
the PBITA margin increasing from 6.4% to 6.7% helped by 
revenue growth and productivity improvements.
9.7
%
Increase in  
PBITA from 
continuing 
businesses
Revenue (%) PBITA (%) 
Asia Pacic 10%
Middle East & India 12%
Europe 18%
North America 27%
Latin America 9%
Africa 6%
UK & Ireland 18%
 11%
 15%
 17%
 22%
 5%
 8%
 22%
2016 REVENUE AND PBITA BY REGION – CONTINUING BUSINESSES
The statutory segmental analysis as presented in note 6 of the 
financial statements includes revenue from onerous contracts and 
businesses that are being sold or closed and for the prior year 
also includes the impact of foreign exchange by region as follows 
– Africa £79m (2015: £75m); Asia Pacific £35m (2015: £18m); 
Latin America £39m (2015: £47m); Middle East & India £17m 
(2015:£(56)m); Europe £217m (2015: £134m); North America 
£87m (2015: £(93)m) and UK & Ireland £293m (2015: £319m).
Operating profit in note 6 of the financial statements includes the 
trading results from onerous contracts and businesses that are 
being sold or closed, interest and tax from joint ventures and for 
the prior year also includes the impact of foreign exchange by 
region as follows – Africa £7m (2015: £10m); Asia Pacific £1m 
(2015: £6m); Latin America £8m (2015: £8m); Middle East & India 
£nil (2015: £11m); Europe profit of £10m (2015: £2m); North 
America profit of £4m (2015: loss of £8m) and UK & Ireland 
profit of £9m (2015: £18m). 
A full report on the Group’s financial performance in 2016 can 
be found in the chief financial officer’s review on pages 32 to 40: 
The Group’s key performance indicators can be found on pages 
28 and 29.
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 41
Regional and service line review SERVICE LINE OPERATING REVIEW – CONTINUING BUSINESSES
Our services range from entry level offerings to highly sophisticated, integrated systems and 
solutions. We have increased our investment in resources which enable us to innovate and 
apply technology in the design and delivery of integrated solutions for our customers and this 
is reflected in the increasing share of revenue from these solutions.
Overall, the Secure Solutions businesses delivered 4.1% growth in revenue and 5.6% growth 
in PBITA.
PBITA growth in both emerging and developed markets reflected on-going delivery of the 
benefits of earlier restructuring programmes and productivity initiatives.
At constant exchange rates
Revenue
£m
PBITA
£m
2016 2015 Y oY % 2016 2015 Y oY %
Emerging Markets 2,166 2,028 6.8% 142 133 6.8%
Developed Markets 3,509 3,425 2.5% 216 206 4.9%
T otal 5,675 5,453 4.1% 358 339 5.6%
Overall, Cash Solutions grew 18.8% in revenues and PBITA rose by 16.8%.
The overall growth in revenue and profit was driven by increased volume particularly in 
North America with a strong performance from Retail Solutions and solid growth across the 
other developed cash solutions markets. The strong growth in PBITA in our developed 
markets reflected improvements in productivity and the systematic restructuring and 
productivity programmes which have been implemented over the past three years.
In our emerging markets, revenues declined by 1.7% as a result of the curtailment of certain 
contracts in the Middle East. The new services and productivity programmes which are 
delivering positive results in developed markets are now being rolled out in our principal 
emerging markets and we expect them to improve emerging markets performance over 
time. However in 2016 the cost of this investment together with inflationary wage increases 
in excess of customer price increases led to PBITA falling by 12.5%.
At constant exchange rates
Revenue
£m
PBITA
£m
2016 2015 Y oY % 2016 2015 Y oY %
Emerging Markets 398 405 (1.7)% 56 64 (12.5)%
Developed Markets 750 561 33.7% 90 61 47.5%
T otal 1,148 966 18.8% 146 125 16.8%
SECURE SOLUTIONS
CASH SOLUTIONS
5.6
%
Growth in Secure Solutions PBITA
16.8
%
Growth in Cash Solutions PBITA
42 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Regional and service line review continued AFRICA
Mel Brookes
Regional President – Africa
Key customer sectors – mining, oil and gas, 
retail, energy, agriculture and financial services
G4S is the largest provider of integrated 
security solutions in the region, with 
operations in 23 African countries. The region’s 
largest countries by revenue are South Africa 
and Kenya.
Against a background of continued weakness in 
commodity prices, revenue growth in the Africa region 
was 6.8%, with growth across most markets and in both 
Secure Solutions and Cash Solutions. 
We improved customer retention, whilst also growing 
new business. The economic environment in Africa has 
been challenging but represents an opportunity to offer 
more efficient solutions to customers through the 
increased sale of appropriate technology to enhance our 
manned security offering. The financial and retail sectors 
remain buoyant and we are well positioned in Cash 
Solutions, including Deposita, which uses technology and 
software to service retailers. 
T o ensure we have the right platform, we continue to 
invest in strengthening the capability and competitiveness 
of our businesses in Africa through programmes that 
address service innovation and delivery alongside 
operational productivity and efficiency. PBITA increased 
by 5.0% despite operating costs, reflecting the 
investment in these programmes, growing at a faster 
rate than revenues. New and renewed contracts won 
across the region include security, systems, manned 
security and risk management services work for 
governments, multi-lateral agencies, NGOs, mining 
companies and the Canadian embassy in Kenya. 
The sales pipeline in Africa has diverse contract 
opportunities in areas such as aviation, banking, retail, 
government and NGO security and risk 
management services.
2016 HIGHLIGHTS – CONTINUING BUSINESSES
+6.5
%
Organic growth
$8bn
Africa security  
market in 2015*
122,000
Employees
5.0
%
PBITA growth
Revenue
£m
PBITA
£m
2016 2015 Y oY % 2016 2015 Y oY %
422 395 6.8% 42 40 5.0%
* Freedonia World Security Services Report January 2017.
Integrated security solution for the Canadian 
Embassy – Kenya
In January 2016, G4S Kenya was awarded a new contract  
to provide an integrated security solution for the Canadian 
High Commission based on its strong security and service 
reputation at a time of heightened risk from terrorist 
attacks. The contract covers approximately 400 specially 
trained staff, alarm monitoring and is managed from  
an on-site management office and state of the art  
control room. 
400
Specially trained 
staff
Emerging market
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 43 ASIA PACIFIC
Jon Corner
Regional President – Asia Pacific
Key customer sectors – banking, retail, 
government, manufacturing and energy
G4S is the leading security provider in the Asia 
Pacific region with operations in 21 countries. 
Our largest countries by revenue are Malaysia, 
Hong Kong and Australia.
Revenue growth in Asia Pacific was 2.0% and PBITA 
increased 16.3%, reflecting the benefits of successful 
restructuring programmes coupled with a favourable 
revenue mix with an increasing proportion of revenues 
from Care and Justice services in Australia and security 
systems across the region.
We secured new and renewed contracts across a broad 
range of sectors including financial services (including 
cash recycling solutions), consumer products, 
government, and the US embassy in Thailand.
The sales pipeline is diversified by geographic market 
and customer segment focused on Care and Justice, 
Secure Solutions and cash management services.
2016 HIGHLIGHTS – CONTINUING BUSINESSES
+1.8
%
Organic growth
$42bn
Asia Pacific security 
market in 2015*
54,000
Employees
16.3
%
PBITA growth
Revenue
£m
PBITA
£m
2016 2015 Y oY % 2016 2015 Y oY %
679 666 +2.0% 57 49 16.3%
* Freedonia World Security Services Report January 2017.
Malaysia – Retail Cash Solutions – growth 
through customer partnership and innovation
Building on an existing strong cash solutions relationship 
with a leading commercial bank in Malaysia, G4S intends to 
deploy 1,400 Deposita retail solutions machines across 
Malaysia in 2017, with significant potential for more. Where 
appropriate, the bank provides same-day credit for 
customer funds and the cash is returned directly to the 
G4S cash processing centre. The solution provides mutual 
growth opportunities, reduces bank costs and improves the 
efficiency and security of customer cash handling processes.
Emerging market
1,400
Deposita 
machines to be 
installed in 2017
44 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Regional and service line review continued LATIN AMERICA
Martin Alvarez
Regional President – Latin America
Key customer sectors – financial services, 
extractive, retail, embassies and manufacturing
G4S is a leading integrated Cash Solutions and 
Secure Solutions provider for commercial and 
government customers across 17 countries in 
Latin America, with Brazil, Colombia and 
Argentina being our largest markets in the 
region by revenue.
Despite weak or negative GDP growth in a number  
of large markets, our revenue growth was 7.3%. Our 
businesses continued to post good revenue growth in 
Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay.
Notwithstanding improved performance across most 
countries in the region, PBITA was unchanged on the 
prior year, reflecting the challenging economic 
environment in Brazil which has made it difficult to 
recover wage inflation and other employee benefit costs 
in customer pricing, coupled with the effect of our 
decision to bid on only a select number of government 
tenders. We are adjusting our cost base across the 
region, whilst retaining the capacity to respond to any 
recovery in the main Latin America markets. 
During the year, we won new contracts in facilities 
management, systems and secure solutions contracts in 
the banking, communications, oil and gas, transportation 
and utility sectors. We also won the contract to provide 
security for one of the largest banks in Brazil. 
Our sales pipeline for the Latin America region 
continues to develop well, with a number of multi-year 
manned security and facilities management 
opportunities for oil and gas, healthcare, aviation and 
financial institution sectors in Colombia, Argentina 
and Peru.
2016 HIGHLIGHTS – CONTINUING BUSINESSES
+7.3
%
Organic growth
$14bn
T otal security 
market in 2015*
69,000
Employees
0
%
PBITA growth
Revenue
£m
PBITA
£m
2016 2015 Y oY % 2016 2015 Y oY %
621 579 7.3% 23 23 0%
* Freedonia World Security Services Report January 2017.
Argentina – Unilever SecureTrip
Building on a 10-year relationship, G4S provides Unilever 
Argentina with SecureTrip technology which integrates 
with Unilever’s warehouse management system and allows 
a G4S team at the customer’s control room to remotely 
track over 5,000 journeys per month. We can advise drivers 
on best routes, streamlining fleet operations and delivery 
processes, and respond to criminal activity through our 
patrols. According to the customer this has saved over 2% 
of the customer’s annual transportation cost and we are 
looking to expand the solution to other countries and 
other customers.
5,000
Journeys per 
month
Emerging market
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 45 MIDDLE EAST & INDIA
Claude Allain
Regional President – Middle East & India
Key customer sectors – oil & gas, retail, energy, 
banking and agriculture
G4S is the leading security provider in the 
Middle East & India region with operations in 
19 countries. Our largest countries by revenue 
are India, Saudi Arabia and UAE.
Revenues in Middle East & India grew 6.2% with good 
growth in our Secure Solutions business in India and in 
security systems across the region offsetting the impact 
of weaker trading in Cash Solutions businesses which 
are at an earlier stage of transformation and which felt 
the indirect effect of sustained low oil and gas prices in 
the Middle East. 
We continued to strengthen our management team in 
the region and to invest in service innovation, customer 
service and operational excellence. These programmes 
are at a relatively early stage and operating costs, 
including these investments and the impact of increased 
employment costs in India, rose faster than revenues.  
As a result PBITA across the region reduced by 10.6%. 
New contracts won across the region include facilities 
management, risk consulting and security in the aviation 
and engineering sectors for commercial and government 
agencies. 
The sales pipeline in the Middle East remains diversified 
with a large number of facilities management, Cash 
Solutions, security and systems opportunities in the 
government, industrial, healthcare, education, financial, 
construction and oil and gas sectors. 
2016 HIGHLIGHTS – CONTINUING BUSINESSES
+1.7
%
Organic growth
$8bn
Middle East & India 
security market  
in 2015*
177,000
Employees
-10.6
%
PBITA growth
Revenue
£m
PBITA
£m
2016 2015 Y oY % 2016 2015 Y oY %
842 793 +6.2% 76 85 -10.6%
* Freedonia World Security Services Report January 2017.
Basra Gas, Iraq – adding customer value safely
Basra Gas is the largest gas project in Iraq’s history and the 
world’s largest gas flares reduction project. Since January 
2016, G4S Risk Management has been providing security 
services comprising 30 teams operating out of four main 
bases across Southern Iraq and with a fleet of over 120 
vehicles. From the start of the project in September 2015 
to date, G4S has achieved all its key performance indicator 
targets and remained Lost Time Injury-free, driving over 
3,800,000km and successfully moving over 
46,000 customers.
30
G4S teams 
operating across 
four main bases
Emerging market
46 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Regional and service line review continued EUROPE
Graham Levinsohn
Regional CEO – Europe
Key customer sectors – automotive, energy, 
financial services, aerospace, defence, chemicals, 
biotechnology, food, aviation and retail
G4S Europe has activities in 21 countries in 
Scandinavia, Benelux, Southern Europe and 
Eastern Europe. It has strong market positions 
in Cash Solutions and around 20% of the 
region’s revenues are security systems-related.
In Europe, revenues rose by 4.6% driven by growth in 
both Secure Solutions and Cash Solutions with a 
particularly strong performance in Belgium, Romania and 
the Netherlands from new contracts and a temporary 
step up in secure solutions activity in Belgium following 
the terrorist attacks in March. PBITA rose by 18.1%, 
reflecting the combined effect of revenue growth, 
disciplined price increases and the benefits of our 
restructuring and productivity programmes. 
We succeeded in winning new security contracts for 
aviation and retail customers, systems security for 
infrastructure and in cash management.
Our European pipeline has a large number of 
opportunities in the aviation, infrastructure, consumer 
and banking sectors.
2016 HIGHLIGHTS – CONTINUING BUSINESSES
+4.4
%
Organic growth
$37bn
Europe security 
market in 2015*
45,000
Employees
18.1
%
PBITA growth
Revenue
£m
PBITA
£m
2016 2015 Y oY % 2016 2015 Y oY %
1,224 1,170 4.6% 85 72 18.1%
* Freedonia World Security Services Report January 2017.
Developed market
Europe – Kuhne & Nagel integrated solutions 
in Belgium and Luxembourg
Kuhne and Nagel, the global Swiss transportation and 
logistics company, were looking to synchronise security 
services to their five largest facilities. They wanted to 
improve cost efficiency and compliance with new standards 
and technology, standardise and improve service levels and 
reduce the number of suppliers. The G4S solution was to 
manage all sites with CCTV solutions and make significant 
double-digit cost savings for the customer whilst growing 
the G4S contract revenues by around 40%.
40
%
contract 
revenue growth
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 47 NORTH AMERICA
John Kenning
Regional CEO – North America
G4S North America is predominantly an 
integrated Secure Solutions business for 
commercial customers, with some government 
contracts including border protection.  
The Group’s innovative cash management 
solution for retail customers (see page 23)  
saw significant increased revenue and profit 
growth in 2016.
In North America, our revenues grew by 12.4%, and  
our pipeline indicates the potential for further growth. 
Cash Solutions revenues grew by a factor of more than 
40 helped by Retail Solutions momentum. Revenues 
from our technology, software and systems businesses 
grew by 17% excluding retail Cash Solutions. Manned 
security revenues grew marginally with new customer 
contracts and growth in existing contracts being offset 
by lower temporary and short-term work than in 2015 
and a reduction in demand in Canada due to the impact 
of lower oil prices on the economy. 
PBITA increased by 13.3%, helped by a favourable sales 
mix and efficiency gains, partially offset by investing in 
organisational capacity to manage our rapidly growing 
integrated systems business and Retail Solutions. 
Key contract wins include the renewal of an aviation 
contract in Canada for a further five years and 
expansion of the Retail Solutions contract portfolio. 
We have a strong contract pipeline with opportunities 
across diverse sectors including energy, retail, finance, 
healthcare and data centres. 
2016 HIGHLIGHTS – CONTINUING BUSINESSES
+12.4
%
Organic growth
$46bn
North America security  
market in 2015
*
57,000
Employees
+13.3
%
PBITA growth
Revenue
£m
PBITA
£m
2016 2015 Y oY % 2016 2015 Y oY %
1,817 1,616 12.4% 111 98 13.3%
* Freedonia World Security Services Report January. 2017
North America – integrated offering
Following detailed risk and threat assessment, G4S will 
be providing a unified security offering including access 
control, systems integration, monitoring (fire, video, 
intrusion), Risk360, design and management of the 
security and operating centre and manned security 
officers in one of the largest redevelopment 
programmes in North America.
Developed market
48 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Regional and service line review continued UK & IRELAND
Peter Neden
Regional President – UK & Ireland
G4S is the leading provider of Cash and Secure 
Solutions in the region with a broad range of 
expertise covering specialist event security, 
government outsourcing including Care and 
Justice services, and Cash Solutions.
As expected, revenue in the UK & Ireland grew by 1.5% 
due mainly to a new global security contract for a major 
bank and new facilities management services in Ireland. 
PBITA was 13.4% higher reflecting the benefit of our 
on-going productivity programmes and the growth in 
our facilities management and secure 
transportation services.
New contracts won include facilities management and 
integrated security solutions contracts in healthcare, and 
we renewed all major rebid Cash Solutions contracts 
awarded during 2016. 
The UK & Ireland bidding pipeline is broad-based and 
has grown in the areas of facilities management, Care 
and Justice, secure transportation and cash outsourcing.
2016 HIGHLIGHTS – CONTINUING BUSINESSES
1.5
%
Organic growth
$6bn
T otal security 
market in 2015*
34,000
Employees
13.4
%
PBITA growth
Revenue
£m
PBITA
£m
2016 2015 Y oY % 2016 2015 Y oY %
1,218 1,200 1.5% 110 97 13.4%
* Freedonia World Security Services Report January 2017.
Developed market
Major bank – Global footprint and security 
insight and know-how
In 2016, as part of a new global security contract, 
we started a new manned guarding security contract for a 
major financial institution in May 2016. The contract covers 
manned security in 13 locations and is for five years. 
13
Locations for 
five years
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 49 AN INTEGRAL PART OF DAY-TO-DAY MANAGEMENT
Our aim is to identify the principal risks we face and to focus management 
attention on effective mitigation of the most critical risks to achieve our 
strategic objectives and safeguard our reputation.
How the risk landscape has evolved
Events during 2016 have continued to highlight the dynamic 
nature of the global landscape in which G4S operates. Geopolitical 
shifts, changes in political leadership, volatility in commodity 
markets, terrorist events, weak economic recovery, migration in 
Europe and on-going instability in the Middle East have created 
increased risks and uncertainty and also opportunities for the 
security industry. G4S also continues to face operational and 
health and safety risks which are particular to the security business, 
along with the financial and commercial risks common to all 
multinational companies.
Our assessment is that the risk to G4S arising directly from the 
vote for the UK to leave the EU is not significant. We mainly 
operate within national boundaries and are subject to national 
security licensing regulations, and are relatively well positioned 
with around 82% of revenues outside the UK and minimal 
cross-border trading. However, depending on the terms of the 
UK’s exit from the EU there might be a range of business factors 
that could affect our business including the availability of labour, 
regulations and taxation. It is also possible that continuing 
uncertainty during the negotiation period lowers economic 
growth in the UK and Europe which could affect both our 
customers and our competitors. We continue to monitor 
developments through our risk and governance framework.
What we did in 2016 
During 2016, progress has been made to ensure that accountability 
for risk management rests with country operational business 
management. The Group’s mandated control standards have been 
updated to ensure they address key risks and were simplified to 
facilitate compliance. These were launched Group-wide and now 
form part of the updated control self-assessment mechanism. 
Quarterly Regional Audit Committees focus on financial judgements 
and address internal and external audit findings, which has driven  
an improvement in financial control awareness and compliance.  
We have further embedded the enterprise risk management 
governance model, as detailed on page 51, across the Group.
What we will do in 2017 
We will further embed the mandated control standards to ensure 
they operate effectively throughout the Group. Functional teams 
will use the results of the control self-assessment to assist 
countries with training and guidance as well as challenging 
countries to ensure controls are operating in line with their 
self-assessment. In addition, internal audits will test the operational 
effectiveness of these controls. Regional Audit Committees will 
continue to review, challenge and direct improvements in the 
performance of all control standards, financial judgements and 
reporting. Through continued engagement and review by country, 
region and Group management we will enhance the quality and 
timeliness of the identification of risks and the delivery of 
mitigating actions. During the year we will reassess the Group’s 
risk appetite and improve the reporting of risks and use metrics to 
assist with risk identification.
What are the key risks faced by G4S?
As in prior years we have undertaken a bottom-up review, with 
countries completing a review of their risks and recording them in 
our Governance Risk and Control (GRC) tool together with 
mitigating actions as appropriate. This is combined with a 
top-down review from the board and Group functional leaders to 
ensure that the risks captured are complete and appropriately 
assessed. The risks are then summarised and presented to the Risk 
Committee for their consideration and approval. The resulting 
principal residual risks and the mitigating actions are outlined in 
the following pages. In general the level of residual risks is similar 
to the prior year. Any identified changes are reflected in the 
individual principal risks described on pages 52 to 55. For 2016 we 
removed the principal risk of Brand and Reputation as the risks 
described in that category largely duplicate risks discussed in 
several other principal risks. We have also removed the risk of 
Delivery of Core Service Lines as the key elements in that risk are 
more reflective of our risk of not delivering our Growth Strategy 
and are included in that risk for 2016.
G4S operates in high risk areas of business in which our core 
competence and value-add to customers is managing those risks 
effectively. We have a higher risk appetite for growing and 
transforming the business when we have the expertise to deliver 
and achieve a good commercial return for the risk we are 
accepting. In delivering our agenda of change and growth we need 
to manage effectively the risks we accept:
• By assessing the risks of major contracts thoroughly; applying 
the best resources and expertise; and hence putting in place 
mitigation strategies which will control the risks to a 
commercially acceptable level;
• By applying commercial and financial discipline and controls to 
manage our growth opportunities; and
• By applying effective programme and project management to 
our change agenda.
50 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Risk management ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE MODEL
2
ND
 LINE: CONTROL AND OVERSIGHT FUNCTIONS
The second line consists of oversight functions at both 
regional and Group level including: risk, finance, legal, 
human resources, operations, information technology, 
commercial and CSR. 
Result: Provides support to business managers.
RISK COMMITTEE
The Risk Committee meets four times per year and 
reviews the Group’s risk appetite, assesses the 
Group’s principal residual risks and assesses the 
overall enterprise risk management process. 
GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
The Group Executive Committee considers the 
Group’s principal residual risks and the progress of 
mitigating actions.
3
RD
 LINE: INTERNAL INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE
The third line comprises the internal audit function.  
As part of its annual programme of work, internal 
audit conducts regular reviews of risk management 
processes and gives advice and recommendations on 
how to improve the control environment. 
Result: Provides independent assurance over the 
design and operation of controls.
EXTERNAL AUDIT
Financial reporting risks are considered as part of the external audit. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee meets four times per year and 
ensures the Group’s control framework is operating 
effectively. 
BOARD
The board has ultimate responsibility for assuring risk management processes by reviewing the most critical risks 
and controls.
REGIONAL AUDIT COMMITTEES
The committees meet four times a year and are also 
attended by the external auditor and review:
1. The progress of closing internal and external audit 
findings; and
2. Reports on status of financial controls and 
significant accounting judgements
Responsibility for the first line sits with the managers 
of our businesses, whether line management or 
support. The senior management team within each 
business is responsible for implementing and 
maintaining appropriate controls across their business. 
Result: Ensures standards expected by the Group, our 
customers and other stakeholders are met.
1
ST
 LINE: BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
OPERATING COMPANIES AND SHARED SERVICE FUNCTIONS
Our operating companies and shared service functions 
identify and assess the risks to their business objectives 
and plan appropriate mitigating actions. These are 
recorded in our Group-wide risk management tool.  
A thorough review is conducted as part of the annual 
planning process with updates made in senior 
management team meetings and trading reviews 
formally twice a year. Control self-assessments against 
Group control standards are completed annually 
(bi-annually for financial control standards).
GROUP AND REGIONAL ETHICS COMMITTEES
The committees are responsible for whistleblowing and investigations across the regions.
Operating 
companies
We employ 
three lines  
of defence  
to control  
and manage 
risks across 
the Group.
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 51 Risk description 
G4S provides security for people, premises and valuable assets.  
The Care and Justice services businesses provide services to 
detainees, victims of crime, people needing state assistance, and 
other members of the public. We operate in many different 
countries around the world with a diversity of local and national 
cultures. Having a strong set of corporate values that unite the 
organisation deeply embedded in our culture, is very important.  
If we fail to behave in accordance with the high standards that  
we set ourselves there is a risk that we will not deliver on our 
commitment to our colleagues, customers and other stakeholders 
and may fail to comply with legislation and international standards.
Risk mitigation
The Group has a strong set of corporate values which are 
embedded in a range of employment practices including 
recruitment, induction training, Group policies and performance 
contracts. They are communicated to employees through posters, 
intranet, values events, training programmes and other methods 
across our different markets. Our corporate values are detailed on 
page 3. In everything we do, no matter how challenging the 
circumstances, we require our people to live these values and to 
be prepared to Speak Out if others disregard them. Ethics steering 
committees at a Group level and in each region oversee the 
whistleblowing investigation process and provide guidance to 
countries on ethical matters. In the UK & Ireland we focused on 
building awareness of the importance of our corporate values and 
whistleblowing, particularly in prisons and other secure care 
environments. Members of our Group Executive Committee have 
undertaken a programme of visits to these locations to help 
ensure this is embedded successfully.
Mitigation priorities for 2017
T o ensure widespread understanding and awareness of 
our revised corporate values, we have recently launched a  
new communications toolkit and identified a global network of 
values ambassadors who are responsible for communicating the 
values across all businesses. In addition, we are embedding the 
values in our processes for selecting, hiring, on-boarding, training 
and development of colleagues around the world. We are 
launching a scheme to recognise colleagues who are living the 
values and will share best practice case studies across the Group. 
This includes a new video for induction training which makes the 
values relevant to our day to day activities, a revised competency 
framework for managers so that expected behaviours and 
assessment of their performance is aligned to the new values, as 
well as on-line management training. Every opportunity will be 
taken to promote Speak Out in these materials so colleagues can 
report any concerns with behaviour that appears contrary to 
our values.
CULTURE AND VALUES
Risk description
The provision of security services to protect valuable assets, often 
in hostile or dangerous circumstances, presents health and safety 
challenges. The business operates a large vehicle fleet in a number 
of countries with poor road infrastructures, increasing the risk of 
road traffic incidents. In 2016, 47 (2015: 46) employees lost their 
lives in work-related incidents. 
Risk mitigation
The protection of our staff, people in our care or custody, and 
third parties including the public, is of utmost importance. We 
believe that accidents are preventable and that ‘zero fatalities’ is an 
appropriate goal. The Group has mandatory H&S controls which 
all companies are required to comply with. These controls cover 
the core requirements for businesses’ management systems and 
are supplemented by on-line training for managers and business 
leaders. Formal processes, which are continuously reinforced, are 
in place to report, investigate, close out and share the lessons 
learned from serious incidents. A road safety policy applies to all 
businesses, a number of which also run local programmes on 
topics such as speed management, GPS tracking and motorcycle 
safety. A series of ‘Golden Rules’ which reflect some of the most 
common H&S risks are widely publicised, included in mandatory 
training, and failure to adhere to them is linked to our disciplinary 
procedures. As part of embedding best practice H&S standards 
and behaviour we have completed assessments of H&S practices 
in high-risk countries and provided further guidance to mitigate 
H&S risks. Good practice and progress in delivering H&S 
improvements are recognised and rewarded, while poor practice 
and insufficient progress lead to close executive scrutiny, formal 
performance management processes and reductions in 
performance related pay for business leaders as appropriate.
Mitigation priorities for 2017
We will continue to monitor compliance with the H&S controls 
through the annual self-assessment process and through on site 
reviews from local, regional and Group teams to check compliance 
with these controls. We will enhance the process for reporting 
H&S performance and introduce the tracking of high potential 
incidents with the aim of proactive prevention of incidents leading 
to injuries and fatalities.
Having recently developed a number of training programmes 
aimed at managers and business leaders, we will focus our 
attention on the content of H&S training given to front line 
employees and make changes as appropriate to ensure the 
messages about the importance of health and safety and 
responsibilities are consistent at all levels. We will refresh the 
‘Golden Rules’ to ensure they remain aligned to the key H&S risks 
and awareness of them is reinforced. We will continue to provide 
guidance and intervene to support selected businesses in 
delivering improved health and safety performance.
HEALTH AND SAFETY (H&S)
Link to strategy Principal risk
People and values
Customers and service excellence
Growth and innovation
Operational excellence and productivity
Financial and commercial discipline
52 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Principal risks PEOPLE
Risk description 
In a global and diverse security business such as ours, employing 
over 585,000 people across around 100 countries, there are risks 
associated with recruiting, supervising, motivating and training 
employees on such a large scale, as well as rewarding 
appropriately and retaining critical talent to ensure effective 
succession in management roles. Screening is also a particular 
challenge in some territories which lack supporting infrastructure 
from the relevant authorities. While our controls are robust we 
still face the risk of a rogue employee not complying with 
our values.
Risk mitigation 
The Group has mandatory human resources controls which all 
countries are required to comply with. These HR core standards 
were reviewed and re-launched during the year with appropriate 
training and support and are assessed through a control self-
assessment process within our GRC tool. This provides visibility of 
compliance and monitoring of action plans to mitigate any 
non-compliance. In those territories where local circumstances 
make it impossible to comply fully with the screening and vetting 
elements, we identify alternative measures, approved by Group 
human resources, to mitigate the risk as much as possible.
We review in detail the performance and potential of 
approximately 3,000 managers across the Group to help identify 
development needs and build succession plans. We also run a 
regional leadership programme to nurture talented individuals 
early in their careers and develop them into more senior roles as 
they move through the organisation.
We monitor staff turnover monthly to ensure that our employee 
engagement initiatives are achieving desired results of improved 
employee loyalty and retention. During the year voluntary staff 
turnover reduced by 7.1%, for more details see page 15.
Mitigation priorities for 2017
We will undertake our fifth global employee engagement survey. 
The questions will be aligned to the revised corporate values to 
help businesses identify whether our employees believe the 
company is living up to them. The results will guide further 
enhancements to policies and incentive mechanisms to improve 
productivity, customer satisfaction, personal development and 
engagement. Self-assessments against the HR core standards are 
completed annually so progress in closing any gaps identified in 
the 2016 assessments and any new ones will be followed up.
Risk description 
The Group has a number of long-term, complex, high-value 
contracts with multinational, government or other strategic 
customers. For such contracts there are risks to accepting onerous 
contractual terms; poor mobilisation of contracts; not transitioning 
effectively from mobilisation to on-going contract management; 
not delivering contractual requirements; inaccurate billing for 
complex contracts; ineffective contract change management; and 
not managing sub-contractors appropriately. 
Risk mitigation 
We have strict thresholds for the approval of major bids involving 
both detailed legal review and senior management oversight. 
These are embedded into our SalesForce opportunity 
management tool. For our most significant contracts in the UK, we 
perform 360° reviews of all aspects of contract management and 
MAJOR CONTRACTS
performance. We also perform a quarterly financial review of the 
top 25 and low margin contracts in each region. For our large 
multinational customers we have account managers who oversee 
performance of these contracts across relevant countries and have 
regular updates with these customers to ensure we deliver to 
contract terms. We believe the improvements made to controls in 
this area over the last three years have significantly reduced the 
risk of entering into new contracts which will become 
materially onerous.
Mitigation priorities for 2017
We will continue to enhance the review and approval process  
to mitigate further the risk of poor contracts and ensure lessons 
learned from underperforming contracts and those we have 
turned around lead to better performance and the identified 
issues are part of future approvals for all contracts.
Link to strategy Principal risk
Risk description 
G4S operates in many jurisdictions globally, with complex and 
diverse regulatory frameworks. An additional complexity arises 
from the extraterritorial reach of some of the legislation to which 
the Group is subject.
Risks include increasing litigation and class actions; bribery and 
corruption; obtaining operating licences; complying with local tax 
regulations; changes to employment legislation; complying with 
human rights legislation; and new or changed restrictions on foreign 
ownership. Risk also arises from new or changing regulations which 
require modification of our processes and staff training. These can 
lead to higher costs from claims and litigation; inability to operate in 
certain jurisdictions, either through direct ownership or joint 
ventures; loss of management control; damage to our reputation; 
and loss of customer confidence.
Risk mitigation
Our policies and procedures clearly set out the requirement for  
all local management to comply with local laws and regulations. 
Group and regional leadership together with our Ethics 
Committees at Group and regional level provide oversight and 
support compliance with these policies and procedures to mitigate 
the risks. Group legal and regional leadership closely monitor 
changes in foreign ownership laws and make appropriate plans to 
respond. G4S continues to liaise with relevant governments and 
authorities to influence positively the regulatory environments in 
which we work.
Mitigation priorities for 2017
We will continue through Group and regional leadership to 
monitor for changes in laws and regulations and ensure that 
compliance with them is maintained in all countries. In addition  
we will continue to liaise constructively with governments and 
relevant authorities.
LAWS AND REGULATIONS
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 53 Link to strategy Principal risk
People and values
Customers and service excellence
Growth and innovation
Operational excellence and productivity
Financial and commercial discipline
Risk description 
We operate in many countries across the world, with wide-
ranging government and political systems, different cultures and 
varying degrees of rule of law and compliance with human rights 
within conflict and post-conflict zones. The risk factors include 
political volatility, revolution, terrorism, military intervention and 
insurgency. The geopolitical risks we face impact us in many ways: 
the health and safety of our staff and customers; the continued 
operation of our businesses; and the ability to secure our assets 
and recover our profits.
Risk mitigation 
We have developed a global process for assessing geopolitical risks 
of different countries which determines the types of customers 
we will serve and the types of service we will provide. We also 
have a great deal of experience of operating in a wide range of 
GEOPOLITICAL
difficult territories. We collaborate with our local partners; 
conduct early risk assessments before and during security 
assignments; have robust operating procedures; and work closely 
with our local and global customers in managing the risks of 
operating in such environments including compliance with human 
rights. Our G4S Risk Management business has particular 
expertise in providing secure solutions in very high risk, low 
infrastructure environments. 
Mitigation priorities for 2017
We will continue to assess and monitor geopolitical risks, including 
exposure to potential human rights abuses, across the high risk 
countries in which we operate.
Risk description
The customers, staff, suppliers and partners of G4S which entrust 
their sensitive and confidential business information into our  
care rightly expect that we will take all reasonable steps to  
protect it. We are at risk of cyber and physical attack by criminal 
organisations and individual hackers which could result in censure 
and fines by national governments; loss of confidence in the G4S 
brand and specific loss of trust by customers, especially those in 
government and financial sectors.
Additionally, we face the risk of disruption to service delivery from 
system failures, incomplete backup routines, inadequate business 
continuity plans and disaster recovery.
Risk mitigation 
We have “defence-in-depth” technologies (i.e. multiple layers of 
defence) in key systems to protect business information entrusted 
to us. We have mandatory policies and best practice guidance for 
application by operating businesses across the Group. Our 
Minimum Information Security Controls are continually refined 
and updated in line with our assessment of threats. Compliance 
with the controls is measured through self-assessment and 
independently audited by group internal audit.
In 2016, G4S migrated successfully all its businesses to one unified 
office productivity suite, Google Cloud, covering around 65,000 
employees. This further improves our control and security of email 
and corporate documents. 
Mitigation priorities for 2017
Group IT will refine policies into standards and will continue to 
provide direct technical and hardware solutions to improve 
performance of IT systems, backup routines and resilience across 
the world. We will deploy appropriate IT security controls to 
ensure that we have the right levels of monitoring, reporting and 
protection of our business information.
INFORMATION SECURITY
Risk description 
There are risks in our cash business from external attacks, internal 
theft and poor cash reconciliation as we transport and safeguard 
high value cash and valuables including international shipments.  
We provide a wide range of cash management services including 
cash processing, sorting of notes for ATMs, holding funds on behalf 
of customers, secure storage, and a range of ATM services. Loss of 
cash or valuables could lead to loss of profit, increased cost of 
insurance and health and safety considerations for our staff and 
the public.
Risk mitigation 
We have clearly defined standards for reconciliation and 
operational cash controls and have developed an e-learning 
‘academy’ for cash reconciliation and controls to facilitate quick 
deployment and continued effective operation of these controls 
across our cash businesses. Group and regional teams monitor 
compliance with the reconciliation and control standards and 
support our cash businesses to improve them. 
We also have clearly defined standards for physical cash security 
for our employees, vehicles and processing centres. The Group cash 
security function is responsible for monitoring compliance with 
these; for monitoring attacks and other cash losses; and for 
communicating lessons learned. Innovative security defence 
products are in use, cash box tracking, vehicle protection foam and 
protective boxes. 
Mitigation priorities for 2017
We will continue to drive improvement in cash reconciliation and 
physical cash security across our cash businesses through both 
Group and regional teams.
CASH LOSSES
54 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Principal risks continued Link to strategy Principal risk
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, 
the directors have assessed the viability of 
the Group over a three-year period, 
aligned with that of the Group’s rolling 
planning cycle, taking into account the 
Group’s current position and the potential 
impact of the principal risks documented 
on pages 52 to 55. 
Planning beyond three years is seen by the 
Group as being of limited value due to:
• The majority of the Group’s contracts 
being less than three years in duration;
• The correlation of demand for security 
services with the very volatile global 
economy; and
• The impact of the Group’s on-going 
transformation programme. 
The Group’s prospects are assessed 
primarily through its bottom-up strategic 
planning process. The overall strategy for 
the Group was refreshed comprehensively 
in November 2013 and the board has 
monitored progress closely against this 
strategy as well as the risks to its success. 
The 2016 process commenced in June 
with each country and business unit 
updating its rolling three-year strategic plan 
and considering the risks to achievement 
of that plan. These plans were reviewed 
and refined by regional management and 
then by the Group Executive Committee 
before being reviewed by the board in 
October 2016. The key assumptions in the 
financial forecasts, reflecting the overall 
strategy, include:
• A continued demand for security 
services, as set out on page 8 of the 
strategic report;
• An ability to continue to drive through 
our productivity programmes and to 
flex the cost base, as set out on pages 
24 to 25; and
• Continuing to improve the operating 
cash flow performance of the Group 
as set out on pages 26 to 27. 
The output of this plan is used as the 
baseline for stress-testing covenant and 
headroom analysis. This analysis includes 
sensitivity analysis to changes in trading 
conditions affecting profit growth and the 
capital needs of the business, as well as 
the principal residual risks. 
The vast majority of the Group’s risks 
exist at an individual country level and  
are individually immaterial. The principal 
residual risks described on pages 52  
to 55 are an aggregate view of the 
approximately 1,500 individual risks 
captured in country, region and Group 
functional risk registers. These wide-
ranging risks are highly unlikely to 
crystallise simultaneously and it is 
therefore unlikely that such risks would 
have a material impact on the Group’s 
financial position. Nevertheless, the Group 
has sensitised its three-year financial 
projections for the following risks: a) 
potential loss of certain of the Group’s 
top customers; b) potential adverse 
changes in foreign ownership legislation 
resulting in cessation of material business 
lines; and c) potential claims from major 
contracts resulting in material settlement 
payments. The directors consider that this 
stress-test assessment of the Group’s 
prospects is reasonable in the 
circumstances. Based on this assessment, 
the directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able 
to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due over the three 
financial years to 31 December 2019.
VIABILITY STATEMENT
GROWTH STRATEGY
Risk description 
Our growth strategy is to leverage our expertise to drive innovation 
in our core service lines to improve service for our customers and 
so increase the value of long-term customer relationships. 
There are risks that we will fail to create higher value solutions 
that differentiate us from local commoditised competitors; that we 
fail to deliver our core services effectively and consistently; that we 
lose contracts or growth opportunities through price competition 
and market changes; that we fail to enter target markets 
successfully; that we become over-reliant on large customers; and 
that government legislation changes could impact on our growth 
potential or force exit from markets and territories.
Risk mitigation 
We have best practice service delivery guidelines for both secure 
solutions and cash service lines and are developing a global 
information system supporting the end to end order to cash 
process in our secure solutions service lines, including finance, 
human resources and operational delivery.
Our development of new service offerings, particularly in 
electronic security and cash solutions, is focused on those  
centres of excellence where we have the strongest capability.  
We leverage our global network to offer integrated solutions 
internationally. In particular, our global accounts programme 
supports and promotes our multinational accounts and focuses  
selling our more specialist services such as investigations and 
secure logistics. 
Our ‘outbound’ programme works with Chinese and North 
American multinational customers to provide services to them  
on a global scale. We are able to mitigate local reduction  
in growth opportunities through the diversity of industries and 
markets we serve and by leveraging our portfolio of products to 
offer alternative cost efficient solutions.
We also have a consistent approach across all countries to assess 
customer satisfaction and ensure we deliver our service 
commitments, key performance indicators and thus improve 
retention of customers.
Mitigation priorities for 2017
We will continue to invest in our business development 
capabilities in both people and systems. The results of 
understanding our customers’ levels of satisfaction in how we 
deliver our services will be used to improve further customer 
satisfaction and guide how we deliver integrated solutions to 
existing and potential customers across all businesses.
The global information system is planned to be piloted in our  
UK & Ireland businesses, and then rolled out globally over a 
number of years. Further enhancements will be made to our 
business resilience mechanisms to enhance business continuity  
and thus mitigate the risk of interruption of service to customers.
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 55 GOOD GOVERNANCE IN SUPPORT  
OF SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
development and board succession planning. We place 
an ever stronger focus on risk management. Good risk 
management is fundamental to us delivering our strategy 
and it is therefore central to our decision making process. 
In 2013, we established a Risk Committee designed to 
ensure adequate focus was given to defining and 
embedding a new risk management framework within 
the organisation. In 2016, the need for this committee, 
which is separate from the Audit Committee, was 
reviewed. We concluded that the scale of the on-going 
transformation of the Group warrants the additional 
focus that a stand-alone committee devoted to risk 
provides. Of equal importance is good communication 
with our shareholders and to this end we hold various 
events throughout the year. Further information on the 
engagements that took place during 2016 is set out on 
page 68. The Company’s policy on remuneration of 
directors is set out on pages 80 to 88 of this report and 
a separate resolution to approve this policy will be put 
to shareholders at the annual general meeting on 
25 May 2017. No material changes have been made 
since the policy was last approved in 2014. We look 
forward to receiving shareholders’ support once again 
this year. 
Changes to the board
Effective boards need directors who bring the right 
balance of skills, experience and knowledge and are 
drawn from a range of diverse backgrounds. The work 
associated with changes to the board and succession 
planning were important elements of the Nomination 
Committee’s activity during the year under review.  
The work of the Nomination Committee during the 
year is described on page 69. 
As announced previously, Mark Elliott and Adam Crozier 
retired from the board at the conclusion of the AGM on 
26 May 2016. Mark Elliott, who had been a non-
executive director since 2006 and Senior Independent 
IN THIS SECTION
Board of directors 58
Executive committee 60
Corporate governance report 62
Audit Committee report 72
Directors’ remuneration report 78
Directors’ report 99
Directors’ responsibilities 102
John Connolly, Chairman
In his introduction to the Strategic 
Report, our chief executive officer, 
Ashley Almanza, outlined the substantial 
progress made during 2016 in 
implementing our strategy. Having been 
chairman for nearly five years, I am 
pleased to see that the transformation 
programme initiated by Ashley and his 
team in 2013 is delivering tangible results 
and has created a solid platform for the 
Group to continue to develop further. 
Our governance
Our governance structure, described in this report,  
is designed to enable the board to discharge its 
responsibilities. In leading the board I am keen to foster 
an environment conducive to rigorous challenge and 
open debate amongst board members on strategy, 
performance, risk, corporate accountability and 
sustainability. Our board performance, both collective  
and individual, is reviewed every year and this exercise 
allows particular focus on any area identified for further 
56 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Chairman’s statement Director for nine years, handed over his role as 
chairman of the Remuneration Committee to John Daly. 
Himanshu Raja stepped down as Group CFO in 
October and was succeeded by Tim Weller - a former 
non-executive director of the G4S board and an 
experienced FTSE Chief Financial Officer. The board is 
grateful to Mark, Adam and Himanshu for their 
contributions during their tenure and delighted that Tim 
has moved into his new executive role within the Group. 
Over the last twelve months, two new directors - Steve 
Mogford and Barbara Thoralfsson - joined the board. 
Steve Mogford, who was appointed on 27 May, took on 
the role of Senior Independent Director. Barbara 
Thoralfsson joined the board on 1 July. In December we 
announced that Ian Springett, a serving FTSE CFO with 
extensive international experience, would join the board 
from 1 January 2017 and take on the role of chair of the 
Audit Committee. Unfortunately, due to the onset of a 
medical condition, Ian was not able to take on the role 
of Audit Committee chair, although he remains on the 
board and we look forward to his return as soon as 
possible. Paul Spence, who was already a member of the 
Audit Committee and had chaired the December Audit 
Committee meeting, was appointed as interim chair with 
effect from 20 January 2017. Paul, who also chairs the 
Risk Committee, has strong leadership skills and 
extensive experience of the complexities faced by 
businesses with an international footprint. 
The diversity of skills and experience brought by the 
new board members is already proving very valuable. 
Steve Mogford, a serving CEO and Barbara Thoralfsson 
both bring extensive technology and international 
business experience to the board. These appointments 
have undoubtedly added to the diversity of skills and 
backgrounds of the board. Succession planning and 
ensuring we have the skills required to enable the board 
to provide effective challenge and oversight in support 
of the continuing transformation of the Group is kept 
under constant review. 
Results
It is pleasing to be able to report on good progress in 
2016 with the management team working well together. 
As reported by our chief executive on page 4, 2016  
saw further substantial progress in implementing the 
Group’s strategy. 
Continuing business performance saw a 6.3% increase  
in revenue, which rose to £6.8 billion. It is worth noting 
the increased contribution of technology, software and 
systems, which represented 13% of Group revenues in 
2016 (10% in 2015). This increase reflects our  
continued investment in technology and innovation.  
The combination of growing revenues and better 
productivity generated a 9.7% increase in the Group’s 
PBITA to £454 million. Improved profit and more 
effective working capital management saw operating 
cash flow rise by more than 61% to £638 million. 
Earnings per share rose by 16.5% to 15.9 pence 
per share.
Growth in profits and operating cash flow, together  
with disposal proceeds of £82 million helped reduce  
the Group’s net debt to 2.8x (2015: 3.4x) and we 
remain on track to meet the target of 2.5x in the next 
12 to18 months.
The board is confident in the Group’s outlook and 
proposes a final dividend of 5.82p (DKK 0.5029)  
per share, payable on 9 June 2017. With an interim 
dividend of 3.59p (DKK 0.3143) paid on 14 October,  
this will bring the total dividend for the year to 9.41p 
per share (DKK 0.8172). 
Values
We recognise the value of a healthy corporate culture, 
which supports our strategic objectives and is not only 
an enabler and a differentiator (i.e. a source of 
competitive advantage), but also protects and generates 
value. It is important that our corporate culture is clear 
in its content and effective at all levels within our 
organisation. With this in mind, we embarked on an 
exercise to refresh our corporate values during 2016. 
The CSR Committee oversaw the process, reviewing 
progress and providing input at each of its meetings.  
This thorough exercise resulted in simpler values, that sit 
within a framework, which enables all employees across 
the Group readily to understand their relevance to our 
business and how they work together. 
The values are being embedded in our human resources 
processes from recruitment through to evaluation.  
Our 2017 global senior management and employee 
surveys will also be aligned to the new values. During 
the year, the board will have a number of opportunities 
to engage with employees across the Group and these 
meetings will give directors useful insight into how  
the values are embedding in the business. Further 
information on our values can be found on page 15  
and in our CSR Report 2016. 
People
With operations in around 100 countries and over 
585,000 employees, we are acutely aware that G4S is 
well placed to contribute positively to societies across 
the world. Our employees play an important role in this 
respect. On behalf of the board, I wish to thank the 
employees of G4S whose hard work and dedication in 
delivering services to customers in sometimes difficult 
and challenging environments is truly inspiring. 
John Connolly
Chairman
BOARD CULTURE
Creating and maintaining an effective 
board culture is vital to ensuring good 
decision making, healthy debate and 
challenge and also to set the tone for the 
rest of the organisation. A key element of 
the selection process for each new board 
member is to assess whether a particular 
candidate will bring the right level 
of challenge, independence and openness. 
The result is a board where members are 
both challenging but also supportive of 
each other. 
Culture features implicitly or explicitly in 
all discussions and interactions. We 
recognise that strong governance is an 
essential component of a healthy culture 
and that the board should set the tone 
for the entire organisation.
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 57 6 5
7 8
9
4 3
1
10
Key to committee 
membership
Nomination
CSR
Risk
Audit
Remuneration
Committee chairman
1. John Connolly
Non-executive director/ 
Chairman of the board
Appointed June 2012
John Connolly has extensive experience 
working in a global business environment 
and in sectors with strategic relevance to 
the Group.
A chartered accountant, John spent his 
career until May 2011 with global 
professional services firm Deloitte, was 
Global Chairman between 2007 and 2011 
and, prior to that, Global Managing Director 
between 2003 and 2007. He was Senior 
Partner and CEO of the UK Partnership 
from 1999 until his retirement from 
the firm.
Current external commitments: Chairman of 
Amec Foster Wheeler plc and director of a 
number of private companies. 
Beyond commercial business roles, he is the 
chairman of the Great Ormond Street 
Hospital Charity board of trustees.
2. Ashley Almanza
Chief executive officer
Appointed May 2013
Ashley Almanza has extensive board and 
executive management experience in 
complex international businesses. He held a 
number of senior executive roles at BG 
Group from 1993 to 2012, including CFO 
from 2002 to 2011 and Executive Vice 
President from 2009 to 2012. As Executive 
Vice President he was accountable for BG 
Group’s UK, European and Central Asian 
businesses. He was a non executive director 
of Schroder plc 2011 to 2016.
He holds an MBA from London 
Business School.
Current external commitments: Non-
executive director of Noble Corporation. 
Board member of the Ligue Internationale 
des Sociétés de Surveillance. 
3. John Daly
Non-executive director
Appointed June 2015
John Daly has significant executive 
management experience in major 
international businesses with extensive 
knowledge of Asia and the Middle East. 
After an early career in sales and marketing 
with Schering-Plough, Pennwalt Corporation, 
Bristol-Myers Pharmaceuticals and Johnson 
& Johnson, he joined British American 
T obacco (BAT) in 1994. He held various 
executive leadership positions at BAT over 
the course of 20 years in Europe, the 
Middle East and Asia. Most recent positions 
2
58 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Board of directors at BAT were chief operating officer (from 
2010 to 2014) and Regional Director for 
Asia Pacific, based in Hong Kong (from 
2004 to 2010).
Current external commitments: Non-
executive director of Britvic plc and 
Wolseley plc.
4.Winnie Kin Wah Fok
Non-executive director
Appointed October 2010
Winnie Fok has extensive international 
board and senior management experience 
with extensive knowledge of Asian markets 
and strong involvement in Scandinavia.
An auditor by training, was involved in 
management positions in finance, audit and 
corporate advisory work and a wide range 
of roles in asset management firms investing 
with a focus in Asia. Senior partner of EQT 
and CEO of EQT Partners Asia Limited; 
managing director of CEF New Asia 
Partners Limited.
Current external commitments: Senior  
advisor to Wallenberg Foundations AB; 
non-executive director of Volvo Car 
Corporation; SEB AB and an investment 
committee member for the HOPU 
Investment Fund.
5. Steve Mogford
Non-executive director/Senior 
independent director
Appointed May 2016
Steve Mogford has extensive experience of 
delivery of complex programmes in the 
defence, infrastructure and utilities market. 
Serving FTSE100 CEO.
After graduating in astrophysics, maths and 
physics, served a 30-year career with British 
Aerospace, later BAE Systems, during which 
time he held several senior management 
positions before being appointed chief 
operating officer, with particular 
responsibility for programmes, major 
projects and customer support, and a 
member of the BAE Systems plc board. He 
was chief executive of SELEX Galileo, the 
defence electronics company owned by 
Italian aerospace and defence organisation 
Finmeccanica for four years prior to joining 
United Utilities Group plc (a UK based 
water and wastewater service company) in 
2011 as CEO.
Current external commitments: CEO of 
United Utilities Group PLC.
6. Paul Spence
Non-executive director
Appointed January 2013
Paul Spence has in-depth knowledge of 
outsourcing in both the public and private 
sectors and extensive international 
experience in key developing countries such 
as India, China and Brazil. 
A graduate of the Wharton School at the 
University of Pennsylvania with a degree in 
economics and decision sciences; served a 
30-year career with Capgemini and its 
predecessors. Having started in the US and 
become managing partner of mid-Atlantic 
information and technology for Ernst & 
Y oung, he went on to gain significant 
international experience for 16 years as 
managing partner of Ernst & Y oung 
Consulting Australia, CEO of Capgemini 
Ernst & Y oung in Asia and CEO Capgemini 
Ernst & Y oung UK. He then spent eight years 
serving on Capgemini’s executive 
management committee during which time 
his roles included deputy group CEO and 
CEO of Capgemini Global 
Outsourcing Services.
Current external commitments: Non-
executive director of Actual Experience plc.
7. Clare Spottiswoode
Non-executive director
Appointed June 2010
Clare Spottiswoode has considerable 
experience in the public sector, the energy 
markets and the financial services sector.
A mathematician and economist by training, 
worked for the UK Treasury, director 
general of Ofgas, the UK gas regulator; 
policyholder advocate for Norwich Union’s 
with-profits policyholders at Aviva and a 
member of the Independent Commission 
on Banking and the Future of 
Banking Commission.
Current external commitments: Chairman of 
Flow Group plc; non-executive director of 
Ilika plc, Partnership Assurance Group plc, 
BW Offshore Limited and JRP Group plc as 
well as being a director of a number of 
private companies. 
8. Ian Springett
Non-executive director 
Appointed January 2017
Ian Springett has extensive international and 
financial experience in the petroleum 
industry. Serving FTSE 250 CFO.
A chartered accountant, having qualified 
with Coopers & Lybrand in London. Prior 
to joining Tullow Oil, Ian worked at BP for 
23 years where he gained extensive 
international experience and held a number 
of senior positions, including vice-president 
of BP Finance, CFO for the United States 
and he also served as a business unit leader 
in Alaska.
Current external commitments: Chief Financial 
Officer of Tullow Oil plc.
9. Barbara Thoralfsson
Non-executive director
Appointed July 2016
Barbara Thoralfsson has international 
executive and senior management 
experience and strong knowledge of  
North America, Latin America, Scandinavia 
and Asia.
After an early career in marketing, held 
senior management roles in the consumer 
goods and telecommunications sectors 
including CEO of NetCom ASA, Norway’s 
second largest mobile network operator 
between 2001 and 2005. She holds an MBA 
in marketing and finance from Columbia 
University in New Y ork and a BA in 
psychology from Duke University in  
North Carolina. 
Current external commitments: Non-
executive chair of ColArt Holdings Limited 
and Norfolier Greentec AS, non-executive 
director of Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget 
SCA (publ) and Hilti AG. 
10. Tim W eller
Chief financial officer
Appointed April 2013 as a non-executive 
director and chief financial officer since 
October 2016.
Tim Weller brings significant experience  
of the energy and utilities sectors. An 
accountant by training, he joined KPMG  
in 1985, rising to partnership in 1997  
before joining Granada plc as director of 
financial control. 
Between 2002 and 2010, he gained 
significant further experience in the energy 
and utilities sectors holding CFO positions 
with Innogy (one of the UK’s leading 
integrated energy companies at the time), 
RWE Thames Water (the world’s third 
largest water and wastewater service 
company) and United Utilities Group PLC 
(a UK-based water and wastewater service 
company). He was CFO of Cable & 
Wireless Worldwide plc between 2010 and 
2011 and CFO of Petrofac Limited (the 
international oil and gas service provider) 
between 2011 and October 2016.
Current external commitments: Non-
executive director of the Carbon Trust.
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 59 Ashley Almanza
Chief Executive Officer
See page 58 for full biography
Martin Alvarez
Regional President, Latin America 
& Caribbean
Martin joined G4S as Regional President 
Latam in 2013.
Martin has extensive experience working and 
living throughout Latin America. Martin joined 
G4S from Dell, where he served eight years 
in regional roles, finishing as executive 
director of multi-country Latin America 
(MCLA), responsible for 38 countries, more 
than US $1 billion in revenue Prior to Dell, 
Martin spent 10 years with DHL holding 
various management and leadership roles 
including Sr. Vice President, DHL Mexico and 
Global Accounts Director .
Martin has an MBA from IESE in Barcelona 
and a bachelor’s degree in International Trade 
and Finance from Louisiana State University.
Mel Brooks
Regional President, Africa
Mel was appointed Regional President, 
Africa in May 2015.
Mel’s previous roles within G4S where as 
Group Strategy & Commercial Director  
and CEO for G4S India, where he led the 
transformation of the business, improving 
operations, customer service and sales.
Prior to joining G4S, Mel held a number of 
senior line and functional roles in the 
defence and technology industries where he 
was responsible for service line and 
commercial strategies, technology 
development and leadership of a number of 
business unit turnaround programmes.
John Kenning
Regional CEO, North America
John joined G4S in November 2014 as 
Regional CEO North America. 
Prior to joining G4S, John was executive vice 
president and president, commercial 
business for OfficeMax where he led the 
global, business-to-business division. John 
was formerly president, North America 
Commercial for ADT/Tyco Security 
Services, where he led the transformation 
of the business to a technology services 
leader and the separation of the residential 
and commercial security businesses in 
North America.
John is a board member for Miami 
University Advisory Athletic Board and past 
board member of the Make-a-Wish 
Foundation. John holds a bachelor’s degree 
in business from Miami University.
Claude Allain
Regional President, Middle East & India
Claude joined G4S as Regional President 
Middle East & India in January 2016.
Prior to joining G4S he was vice president 
and general manager for Johnson Controls 
Middle-East & Africa and he had several 
general management positions in Southern 
Europe, Eastern-Europe and North America  
and Middle-East.
Claude brings a wealth of experience in 
service and technology industries, having 
previously held senior business development 
and general management roles in 
Honeywell, Emerson and Invensys.
Claude holds a bachelor’s degree in 
Chemical and Physic Science from 
University of Rennes, a Master in Finance 
from ICG and also graduated from INSEAD.
Jon Corner
Regional President, Asia Pacific
Jon has extensive leadership experience  
in both line and commercial functional  
roles across emerging market countries  
and regions. 
Jon was appointed Regional President, Asia 
Pacific in October 2015. Jon joined G4S in 
November 2012 as Regional Sales Director, 
and prior to taking on his current role, led 
the transformation of the commercial 
function across the Asia Middle East Region. 
Prior to joining G4S, Jon was the executive 
vice president for Inchcape Shipping 
Services, a maritime services company with 
offices in 65 countries. Jon held senior line 
and functional roles with Inchcape Shipping 
Services over a 13 year period.
Tim W eller
Chief Financial Officer
See page 59 for full biography
60 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Executive Committee Peter Neden
Regional President, UK & Ireland
Peter became Regional President of UK & 
Ireland in May 2014. Peter was previously 
Regional managing director of G4S 
Outsourcing Services for the UK & 
Ireland region.
Previous roles included responsibility for the 
business development programme within 
G4S in the UK and Africa regions, as well as 
a number of senior positions in both the 
commercial and government businesses 
across the Group.
Prior to the merger between Group 4 Falck 
and Securicor, Peter was Securicor’s 
development director, having joined the 
company in 2001. Peter’s early career 
included a number of sales, marketing and 
general management roles within Centrica.
Peter has a degree in economics from the 
University of Nottingham.
Debbie Walker
Group Corporate Affairs Director
Debbie is Group Corporate Affairs Director, 
heading the corporate communications 
team which focuses on the Group’s key 
audiences – media, government, employees 
and customers. Debbie is also responsible 
for the Group’s CSR and human 
rights strategies.
Prior to the merger between Group 4 Falck 
and Securicor, Debbie held a number of 
senior marketing and communications roles 
within the Securicor group from 1993 
to 2004.
Jenni Myles
Group HR Director
Jenni became Group HR Director in 2015 
and has extensive experience in employee 
engagement, talent management and 
organisational development.
Jenni joined G4S in 1998 and has held 
several senior HR roles at both a Group 
and regional level. As Director of Employee 
Engagement & HR, Jenni led the Group’s 
employee engagement and labour relations 
strategy and held general HR responsibility 
for Africa, Asia, Middle East & Latin America. 
As Chief HR Officer for the Americas 
region Jenni led the people and organisation 
strategy across 30 countries and over 
100,000 employees.
Prior to joining G4S, Jenni held HR positions 
in a variety of business sectors such as 
automotive, FMCG and consulting. Jenni is a 
Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Personnel & Development (FCIPD).
Graham Levinsohn
Regional CEO, Europe
Graham became Regional CEO of Europe 
in November 2013. Graham has more than 
20 years’ experience in the security industry, 
having joined Securicor Cash Services in 
1994 as general manager, marketing. 
Since then, Graham has held a number of 
commercial and line management positions 
in both the cash and security lines of the 
business. Graham was responsible for the 
creation of the UK cash centres outsourcing 
business in 2001 and divisional managing 
director for G4S Cash Services UK. He 
became Group strategy and development 
director in 2008 and joined the executive 
committee in 2010. 
Graham is a fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Marketing and a director of 
COESS and a member of the Ligue 
Internationale des Sociétés de Surveillance.
Søren Lundsberg-Nielsen
Group General Counsel
Søren began his career as a lawyer in 
Denmark and since 1984 he has had a wide 
range of legal experience as general counsel 
for international groups in Denmark, 
Belgium and the US before joining Group 4 
Falck in 2001 as Group General Counsel.
Søren has been involved in a wide range of 
successful mergers and acquisitions during 
his career, including the acquisition of 
Wackenhut and the Group 4 Falck merger 
with Securicor.
Søren has overall responsibility for all internal 
and external legal services for G4S as well as 
the Group’s insurance programme.
Søren is non-executive director of Basico 
A/S, a member of the Danish Bar and Law 
Society, a member of the advisory board of 
the Danish UK Chamber of Commerce and 
author of the book Executive Management 
Contracts, published in Denmark.
Jesus Rosano
Group Strategy and Commercial Director
Jesus joined G4S in March 2014 as Regional 
Business Development SVP .
In 2015 his responsibilities expanded to 
chief operations officer Latin America and 
he was appointed Group Strategy and 
Commercial Director in January 2016.
Jesus joined G4S from DHL, where he held 
senior line, functional and regional roles in a 
number of markets in Latin America and 
North America over an 11 year period. 
Before DHL, Jesus worked in strategy 
consulting and investment banking. Jesus 
holds a bachelor’s degree in Engineering and 
Administration from ITESM 
University, Mexico.
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 61 OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
The board oversees the Group’s overall governance framework, 
reviews and approves the strategy, monitors managements’ 
performance against agreed targets and ensures appropriate  
controls are in place and operating effectively.
BOARD
Role and responsibilities
• Review and approves the 
company’s strategy
• Monitor management’s 
performance against agreed targets
• Review, approve and promote 
companys’ values and standards
• Review its own performance  
on a yearly basis
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE
Role and responsibilities
• Review, agree and establish the company’s CSR strategy and 
recommend policies to ensure these remain an integral part 
of the Group’s strategy
• Monitor compliance with CSR policies throughout the Group 
and the integration of CSR processes within the Group’s risk 
management and approval processes
See page 70
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Role and responsibilities
• Advise the board on Group’s overall risk appetite and tolerance
• Oversee the company’s risk management framework and 
review its effectiveness
• Review major contracts and projects
See page 71
RISK COMMITTEE
Role and responsibilities
• Oversee the financial reporting process and ensure the 
integrity of the company’s financial statements
• Monitor internal audit
• Approve external audit scope and fee, review and monitor 
external auditor’s independence
See page 72
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Role and responsibilities
• Approve remuneration of chairman of the board, the 
executive directors, other members of the executive 
committee and the company secretary of the board
• Monitor level and structure of remuneration of other senior 
management of the Group
See page 78
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Role and responsibilities
• Review board composition
• Lead the process for new board and committee appointments
• Review succession planning processes
See page 69
GROUP RISK  
AND INTERNAL 
AUDIT 
FUNCTION
62 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance report KEY ROLES IN GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
Chairman of the board
• Responsible for promoting good 
corporate governance and ensuring 
board compliance with regulatory 
requirements 
• Ensures board effectiveness
• Promotes a culture of challenge, 
debate, openness and support
• Ensures NEDs receive a 
comprehensive induction and 
on-going training to support the 
performance of their duties
• Maintains regular contact with major 
shareholders and conveys their views 
to the board
Senior Independent Director 
• Acts as a sounding board for the 
chairman and as intermediary for the 
other directors when needed
• Maintains a balanced understanding of 
the views of major shareholders
• Maintains regular and effective 
communication with other directors
• Leads the yearly appraisal of the 
chairman’s performance
• Chairs the Nomination Committee 
when it is considering issues directly 
affecting the chairman
Chief Executive Officer
• Responsible for developing and 
implementing the Group’s strategy 
and plans
• Responsible for the overall 
management and promotion of  
the Group
• Manages the Group’s risk profile in 
accordance with the risk appetite set 
by the board
• Ensures effective communication 
between the board and the business
Independent non-executive 
directors (NEDs)
• Challenge constructively
• Monitor managements’ performance 
against agreed targets
• Satisfy themselves on the integrity of 
financial information and that financial 
controls and systems of risk 
management are effective
• Determine appropriate levels of 
remuneration of executive directors
• Prime role in appointing directors 
and in board succession planning
Chief Financial Officer
• Manages financial risks in accordance 
with the risk appetite set by the board 
and implements effective internal 
financial control processes across  
the Group
• Responsible for financial planning  
to support the Company’s  
strategic objectives
• Leads the Group’s finance, internal 
audit, procurement, information 
technology, tax and treasury functions
• Provides regular financial reporting to 
the board
Company Secretary 
• Secretary to the board and  
its committees
• Responsible for advising the board 
through the chairman on all governance, 
regulatory and legislative matters
• Ensures all directors have access to 
the advice and services of the 
company secretariat
• Responsible for ensuring compliance 
with board procedures and processes
• Supports the chairman and chief 
executive officer in preparing and 
organising induction programmes  
for NEDs
These fall within 12 categories:
• Strategy and management
• Structure and capital
• Financial reporting and controls
• Risk and internal controls
• Contracts
• Communication
• Board membership and 
other appointments
• Remuneration
• Delegation of authority
• Corporate governance matters
• Policies
• Other matters – such as settling 
material litigation
The board fulfils a number of its  
most important functions through its 
committees. The work of these committees 
is described below in this report.  
The terms of reference of each of the 
committees are available on the 
Company’s website at www.g4s.com/
investors.
Management decisions, development and 
implementation of strategy are delegated 
to management.
There is a detailed schedule of matters reserved to the board.
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 63 Board balance
Non-
Executive 
directors
80
%
Executive 
directors 20
%
Gender
Male
70
%
Female
30
%
Industry 
experience
Business services
Energy/Utilities
Finance
FMCG
Logistics
Manufacturing/
operations
Technology
Geographical 
experience
Africa
Asia Pacific
Europe
Latin America
Middle East & India
North America
UK & Ireland
Board tenure 2016
2 years  
or less 30
%
> 2 yrs  
< 4 yrs 20
%
> 4yrs  
< 6 yrs 30
%
6 yrs  
< 8 yrs 20
%
Board composition
As at the date of this report, the board 
comprises 10 members: the non-executive 
chairman (John Connolly), seven other 
non-executive directors and two executive 
directors. The board considers all the 
non-executive directors to be independent.
The names of the directors serving as at 
31 December 2016 and their biographical 
details are set out on pages 58 and 59. All 
these directors served throughout the year 
under review, apart from Steve Mogford, a 
non-executive director and the Senior 
Independent Director who was appointed 
on 27 May 2016 and Barbara Thoralfsson, a 
non-executive director, who was appointed 
on 1 July 2016. Adam Crozier and Mark 
Elliott, two non-executive directors, both 
retired from the board at the conclusion of 
the Company’s annual general meeting, on 
26 May 2016. Himanshu Raja, an executive 
director, stepped down from the board on 
1 October 2016. Ian Springett, whose 
biographical details also appear on page 59, 
was appointed to the board on 
1 January 2017.
Induction, information and 
professional development
A tailored induction is provided to new 
directors joining the board. In the case of 
non-executive directors, this includes 
spending time with the executive directors 
and other senior executives to understand 
the business, its structure and people, as 
well as the Company’s strategy and 
financial performance. Induction also 
provides details of the Group’s governance 
policies and values as well as its structure 
and risk management framework.  
The induction programme is designed to 
ensure directors joining the board have the 
necessary understanding of their role and 
how they can maximise their effectiveness.
T o build on the induction programme, 
directors receive further briefings both to 
help in their own development and also to 
enhance their awareness of the different 
elements of the business. Briefings are 
provided to board members on legal, 
governance, compliance and reporting 
developments and to members of  
board committees from time to time  
on matters relevant to their work on 
those committees.
In addition, non-executive directors learn 
about the Group’s business and meet 
employees and management through site 
visits. Information about the interactions 
between members of the board, in particular 
non-executive directors, and the business 
during the year are set out on page 68. 
Board performance review
In 2016, Lintstock Limited assisted the 
board with its performance review. The 
review involved detailed self-assessment 
questionnaires being completed by board 
members and regular board committee 
attendees. The results of the questionnaires 
were used as the basis for reports 
produced by Lintstock which analysed the 
performance of not only the board, but 
also each board committee and director. 
These reports were considered by the 
board and each of the board’s committees 
when reviewing their performance and 
informed the planning for the board’s 
priorities in 2017.
As part of this review process, Lintstock 
also reported on the performance of each 
of the directors and separately on that of 
the chairman. The individual director 
reviews were used as the basis for the 
chairman’s individual discussion with each 
of the directors about their performance 
and any training and development needs.
The report on the chairman was used  
to inform the discussion amongst the 
non-executive directors about the 
chairman which was conducted by the 
senior independent director without the 
chairman being present.
Lintstock has no connection with the 
Company other than evaluating the board 
and its committees’ performance.
BOARD BALANCE
As part of their induction programme, in 
September, Steve Mogford and Barbara 
Thoralfsson attended a session designed 
to develop further their understanding 
of the Company’s business, markets and 
main relationships. Over a day, they met 
with and received in-depth presentations 
from members of the group executive 
team and senior managers. Areas 
covered included strategy and investor 
relations, finance and information 
technology, governance and corporate 
social responsibility as well as legal, 
human resources and health and safety.
INDUCTION PROGRAMME – 
FOCUSED SESSION
64 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance report continued BOARD MEETINGS
Seven scheduled board meetings and a 
number of additional meetings and calls 
were held during the year ended 
31 December 2016. Each year, one of 
these meetings is an extended two-day 
meeting at which, in addition to normal 
board business, the board and executive 
committee review the Group strategy.
Prior to each board meeting, 
comprehensive papers are circulated to 
the directors addressing not only the 
regular agenda items on which the 
executives will report, but also details of 
any matters requiring approval or 
decisions, such as significant transactions.
At each meeting, the board receives 
regular reports and in-depth 
presentations from line and functional 
executives and the board makes visits to 
business sites from time to time. After 
meetings of the board committees, the 
respective chairmen report to the board 
on the matters considered by 
each committee.
After each board meeting the chairman 
holds a meeting attended solely by the 
non-executive directors.
There are seven board meetings 
scheduled for 2017 including a two-day 
board and strategy meeting.
Diversity
Diversity is one of the Group’s 
organisational strengths, which helps it 
operate successfully across a wide range  
of countries and complex environments. 
The Group’s workforce reflects that 
diversity in terms of its mix of gender,  
age, race, religion, nationality, language, 
background and experience. 
For the board, diversity of thinking and 
experience is seen as vital to ensure the 
Group can seize the right opportunities in 
each market to grow and consider fully the 
risks of doing so. As well as being diverse in 
terms of gender and nationality, the board 
also includes members with diverse skills, 
personal attributes and experience. Some 
members have international assignment 
experience and others bring extensive 
experience of a variety of industries. In 
addition, the board has a mix of both 
long-serving and new members. These 
differences greatly enrich debate in the 
boardroom, bring fresh perspectives and 
new market and customer understanding. 
Whilst recruitment of any new members 
to the board is always based on merit, 
diversity is a key consideration. In recent 
appointments, assistance has been sought 
from executive search agencies which are 
signatories of the Voluntary Code of 
Conduct to help ensure the most diverse 
talent pools are reached and an approach 
in line with best practice is adopted.
Meeting attendance in 2016
meetings 
attended 
Executive directors
Ashley Almanza (CEO) 10/10
Himanshu Raja (CFO)
1 6
6/8
Tim Weller (CFO)
2 6
8/10
Non-executive directors
John Connolly (chairman) 10/10
Adam Crozier
3
4/4
John Daly
5
9/10
Mark Elliott
3
 (senior independent director) 4/4
Winnie Fok 10/10
Steve Mogford
4
 (senior independent director) 6/6
Paul Spence 10/10
Clare Spottiswoode 10/10
Barbara Thoralfsson 5/5
1. Mr Raja stepped down from his role of chief financial officer and from the board on 1 October 2016.
2. Mr Weller was a non-executive director until 24 October 2016 when he became chief financial officer.
3. Messrs Elliott and Crozier retired from the board on 26 May 2016. 
4. Mr Mogford took on the role of senior independent director on 27 May 2016 and 
Ms Thoralfsson joined the board on 1 July 2016.
5. Mr Daly was unable to attend one meeting due to a commitment made prior to his appointment to 
the board.
6. In relation to one additional meeting, apologies were received from Messrs Raja and Weller who had a 
conflicting engagement. In relation to another additional meeting called to discuss the position of the 
chief financial officer, Messrs Raja and Weller who had both been invited to attend the meeting each 
decided not to do so given that they would have a conflict of interest and be unable to take part in 
almost the entirety of the meeting.
Board activities (%)
Performance monitoring 30%
Group strategy 21%
Governance and risk 19%
Understanding the business 12%
Board and committee composition 9%
Specic issues 9%
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 65 RISK MANAGEMENT AND  
INTERNAL CONTROL
The board has carried out a robust 
assessment of the principal risks facing  
the Company and of how those risks  
might affect the prospects of the Company. 
The principal risks and their possible 
impact on the Company and the 
mitigations taken are set out on pages 52 
to 55. 
The directors acknowledge their 
responsibility for the Group’s system of  
risk management and internal control and 
for reviewing its effectiveness each year. 
Through the Audit Committee, the board 
conducted a review of the effectiveness of 
the systems of internal control during the 
year. The systems are designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives and can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement 
or loss.
The enterprise risk management 
governance model described on page 51 
sets out some of the key features of the 
Group’s risk management process, which 
was in place throughout the year under 
review. The key elements are:
• Country and regional management 
teams are required to identify and 
manage risks in their business.
• Significant risks and mitigating actions 
are recorded in the Group’s governance 
risk and control tool.
• In addition to this bottom-up review 
members of the group executive 
committee provide input to the risk 
identification process and address 
identified gaps in mitigating actions 
through updates in key controls that 
countries must use to mitigate many of 
their risks.
• The risk profiles ensure that internal 
audit reviews of the adequacy, 
application and effectiveness of risk 
management and internal controls are 
targeted on the key risks.
Both the Regional Audit Committees  
and members of the group executive 
committee receive internal audit reports 
that cover key risks. 
The chief executive officer, chief financial 
officer and group director of risk and audit 
report on risks and planned mitigations  
to the Risk Committee of the board. The 
process outlined above is reviewed regularly 
by the board through its Risk Committee to 
ensure its robustness and suitability to meet 
the Group’s needs. Further information 
about the Risk Committee, its remit, work 
during 2016 and its plans for 2017 can be 
found on page 71.
During 2017 the risk management 
improvement plan will continue to focus 
on: early identification and mitigation of 
emerging risks; progressing mitigation 
action plans; and enhancing the relevance 
and accuracy of information being 
provided to the business.
The internal control system includes clearly 
defined reporting lines and authorisation 
procedures, a comprehensive budgeting 
and monthly reporting system and written 
policies and control standards.
In addition to a wide range of internal 
audit reports, senior management also 
receives assurance from other sources 
including security inspections, third party 
reviews, external audit reports, summaries 
of whistleblowing activity, fraud reports and 
self-assessments by country management 
teams of their effective operation of key 
control standards. 
The Group has in place appropriate 
internal control and risk management 
systems for financial reporting. The Group 
has a single global consolidation system 
which is used for both internal 
management reporting, budgeting and 
planning as well as external reporting.
Director re-election
The Company’s articles of association 
require that all continuing directors are 
subject to election by shareholders at the 
next annual general meeting following their 
appointment and that they submit 
themselves for re-election at least every 
three years and that at least one-third of 
the directors not standing for election for 
the first time stand for re-election at each 
annual general meeting. However, in 
accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code provision on re-election 
of directors, all continuing directors stand 
for re-election every year.
Conflicts authorisation
Each of the directors has disclosed to the 
board any situations which apply to them 
as a result of which they have or may have 
an interest which conflicts or may conflict 
with the interests of the Company. In 
accordance with the company’s articles of 
association, the board has authorised such 
matters. The affected directors did not 
vote when their own interests were 
considered. Where the board deemed it 
appropriate, such authorisation was given 
subject to certain conditions. The board 
reviews such matters on a regular basis.
SITE TRIP TO BRUSSELS
In December 2016, board and 
committee meetings were held in 
Brussels. In addition to receiving an 
in-depth business presentation and 
meeting with strategic customers, board 
members visited business operations in 
Zaventem airport and at the G4S office 
located in close proximity to Maelbeek 
metro station in central Brussels. 
Board members met employees who 
were affected by the horrific attacks of 
22 March 2016, including some G4S 
colleagues who were injured in the 
attacks at the airport. At our central 
Brussels office, members of the board 
met employees who, having turned 
their office into a temporary first aid 
centre, used their medical and 
organisational skills to provide support 
to victims of the attacks on the metro. 
The board commended their dedication 
and bravery in these extremely 
difficult circumstances.
66 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance report continued In accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the board has given 
consideration to whether the Integrated 
Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is 
fair, balanced and understandable. The 
preparation of the annual report and 
accounts is coordinated by the finance, 
investor relations and company secretariat 
teams with Group-wide support and input 
from other areas of the business. 
Comprehensive reviews were undertaken 
at regular intervals throughout the process 
by management and other contributing 
personnel within the Group. The process 
was reviewed by the Audit Committee and 
the board has reviewed a paper setting out 
the governance relating to the preparation 
of the report prepared by management. 
The board has separately considered the 
disclosures in the Integrated Report and 
Accounts and has concluded that they are 
fair, balanced and understandable. The 
statement required to be given by the 
directors by Code provision C.1.1 can be 
found on page 102.
FAIR, BALANCED AND  
UNDERSTANDABLE ASSESSMENT
The Group has a comprehensive budgeting 
process with the budget being approved 
by the board. Forecasts for the year are 
reported quarterly. Actual results at 
business unit, region and Group level are 
reported monthly and variances are 
reviewed. A programme of balance sheet 
reviews was included in the work of Group 
internal audit during 2016.
The Audit Committee undertakes a 
high-level review of risk management and 
internal control each year. As well as the 
above processes and sources of assurance, 
the Audit Committee also considers the 
following year-end reporting in conducting 
this review:
• Summary of internal audit work 
including update on all open audits with 
a deficient rating, analysis of results by 
region, common audit findings and 
areas identified for improvement in 
internal controls
• Summary of exceptions on compliance 
statements from each country reported 
through their regional executives. These 
cover a broad range of matters 
including: accuracy of financial reporting 
and that all significant accounting 
judgements have been discussed with 
group finance team; core controls have 
operated effectively; risk reporting and 
mitigation is up to date; Speak Out is 
operated in accordance with 
Group policies
The board’s statement on the Company’s 
corporate governance performance is 
based on the September 2014 edition  
of the UK Corporate Governance  
Code, which is available on the  
Financial Reporting Council’s website 
(https://www.frc.org.uk).
The Company complied throughout the 
year under review with the provisions of 
the Code, except during the last four 
months of the year under review in 
relation to the composition of the Audit 
Committee. This matter is addressed on 
page 72. The Corporate governance 
report, together with the Audit 
committee report, the Risk committee 
report and the Directors’ remuneration 
report, describe how the board has 
applied these provisions.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE
• A broad overview of the general risk 
management and internal control 
systems in place during the year
• External audit year-end reporting on 
financial controls and accounting
Further information about the Audit 
Committee, its remit, work during 2016 
and its plans for 2017 can be found on 
pages 72 to 77.
Whilst good improvement has been made 
in the quality of internal controls during the 
year, given the number of countries in 
which the Group operates and the variety 
of systems used across the Group there is 
still opportunity for improvement in the 
operational effectiveness of mandated 
controls and this will continue to be a 
focus during 2017. The Audit Committee 
has confirmed that it is satisfied that the 
Group’s risk management and internal 
control processes are appropriate. The 
board has reviewed the Group’s risk 
management and internal control system 
for the year to 31 December 2016 by 
considering reports from the Audit 
Committee and the Risk Committee and 
has taken account of events since 
31 December 2016.
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 67 Each year, following consideration  
of Lintstock’s report on the board’s 
performance the board formally adopts 
a plan setting out the key areas of focus.  
In 2017, our plan will again include:
• Annual review of Group strategy 
and execution of the strategy
• Induction and integration of new 
board members
• Board and management 
succession planning
• Monitoring business performance
• Increasing understanding of the 
Group’s businesses and 
management teams
• Maintaining emphasis on risk 
management and efficient structures
2017 SUMMARY BOARD PLAN BOARD CONNECTIONS 2016
• The board conducted a visit to two 
sites in one of the Group’s largest 
markets in Europe. Further details of 
the board’s trip to Brussels are set 
out on page 66
• The chairman’s three-day visit to 
meet the business and senior 
management team in India in June 
and two-day visit to the UAE in 
October during which he visited 
various business sites and met with 
senior management
• Board members attended the 
Global Leadership Trade Fair in 
London in March
• Paul Spence attended meetings of 
the Regional Audit Committees for 
both the North America and Latin 
America regions
• Throughout the year, the board 
received presentations from 
members of the Group Executive 
team and also had the opportunity 
to meet members of senior 
management at events organised 
from time to time
The Company actively seeks to engage 
with shareholders and during 2016,  
the chief executive officer and the  
chief financial officer had contact via 
one-on-one meetings, group meetings  
and telephone conference calls with 
shareholders and analysts. The shareholders 
covered represented over 80% of the 
share register and over 220 institutions.
In January and February 2017 the 
chairman met with major shareholders  
as part of an annual round of governance 
meetings. The chairman reported on 
those meetings to the board. The chair of 
the CSR Committee, Clare Spottiswoode, 
and relevant senior executives met with  
a group of Socially Responsible Investors 
in September 2016, updating them on  
the Group’s corporate responsibility 
programme. On the same day, senior 
management hosted a visit to two prisons 
by a NSRI investor and adviser (please see 
page 15 and the 2016 CSR report for 
more details). In addition, Clare had a 
number of ad hoc meetings 
with investors.
It is intended that all the directors  
(other than Clare Spottiswoode who  
has a conflicting engagement) will attend 
and be available to answer questions at 
the Company’s annual general meeting, 
which is an important opportunity for 
communication between the board  
and shareholders, particularly private 
shareholders. At the annual general 
meeting, the meeting is informed of the 
number of proxy votes cast and the final 
results of votes on the resolutions are 
published subsequently on the 
company’s website.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
68 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance report continued “In what was a busy year for the Nomination Committee, I am 
pleased to report that the new appointments made during the 
year, and described in the report below, have resulted in a strong 
increase in the mix of skills and competence on the board. In 
addition, succession planning remains an area of strong focus.”
Committee membership and attendance during 2016
Meetings  
attended 
John Connolly (Chairman) 4 of 4
Adam Crozier
1
2 of 2 
Mark Elliott
1
2 of 2
Steve Mogford
2
2 of 2
Barbara Thoralfsson
3
2 of 2
1. Mark Elliott and Adam Crozier retired from the board and the 
Nomination Committee after the conclusion of the company’s annual 
general meeting on 26 May 2016.
2. Steve Mogford was appointed to the board, the Audit Committee and 
the Nomination Committee on 27 May 2016.
3. Barbara Thoralfsson was appointed to the board, the Remuneration 
Committee and the Nomination Committee on 1 July 2016. 
Responsibilities
The Nomination Committee is responsible for making 
recommendations to the board on appointments and on 
maintaining a balance of skills and experience on the board and its 
committees. Succession planning for the board is a matter which is 
devolved primarily to the Nomination Committee, although the 
committee’s deliberations are reported to and debated by the full 
board. The board itself also reviews more general succession 
planning for the senior management of the Group.
The committee’s terms of reference are available at  
www.g4s.com/investors.
Refreshing the board
Mark Elliott and Adam Crozier retired from the board in 2016. 
Mark fulfilled several roles (Senior Independent Director, 
Remuneration Committee chairman and member of the 
Nomination Committee) and Adam sat on the Audit and 
Nomination Committees. The Nomination Committee gave 
consideration to how these roles would be filled as well as to the 
balance of expertise and experience available to the board after 
their departures. John Daly took on the Remuneration Committee 
chairmanship on 27 May 2016. JCA Partners LLP (JCA) was 
appointed to assist the Nomination Committee with the 
recruitment of two more non-executive directors, and Steve 
Mogford and Barbara Thoralfsson were appointed on 27 May and  
1 July respectively. Steve and Barbara joined me on this committee. 
Steve also joined the Audit committee and Barbara also joined the 
Remuneration Committee. We announced on 15 August 2016 that 
Tim Weller would succeed Himanshu Raja as chief financial officer. As 
a result, Tim stood down as chairman (and as a member) of the Audit 
Committee. He became chief financial officer on 24 October 2016. 
The Zygos Partnership (Zygos) was appointed to assist with the 
search for a new non-executive director qualified to act as the 
chairman of the Audit Committee. On 1 January 2017, Ian Springett 
was appointed to the board. Each of JCA and Zygos was provided 
with a brief setting out the requirements for the roles to be filled and 
preferred attributes of potential candidates. In selecting candidates, 
consideration was given to the skills and competence required to fill 
the role, the need to maintain and enhance diversity of relevant skills 
and experience on the board as well as corporate culture and fit. 
Shortlisted candidates were then interviewed by the chairman, the 
members of the committee and the CEO. Neither Zygos nor JCA 
has any connection with the Company other than as provider of 
recruitment consultancy services to the Nomination Committee, 
save that JCA has in the past also provided a benchmarking service 
for a senior management role.
The term of appointment of Mr Connolly, Ms Spottiswoode, 
Ms Fok and Mr Spence expired during 2016 and after consideration 
of their independence, commitment to the role, their other 
commitments and the experience and qualities they bring to the 
board, the committee recommended to the board that their 
appointment be extended. Mr Connolly did not participate in the 
committee’s deliberations regarding his term of appointment.
Succession planning
The entire board has considered succession planning for the 
senior management of the Group during 2016 and in addition,  
the Nomination Committee gave further consideration to board 
succession plans.
Diversity
The board’s approach to diversity is set out on page 65.
Committee performance
The performance of the Nomination Committee was reviewed as 
part of the process undertaken by each of the board committees 
with assistance from Lintstock. The Nomination Committee’s 
performance was determined to have been satisfactory, but areas 
of increased focus were identified and have been included as 
priorities for the committee’s work in 2017.
In 2017, the committee will continue to ensure that it has 
appropriate plans for board and executive succession.
THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Main activities of the Nomination Committee during the 
year (%)
Recruitment of NEDs (65%)
Extending terms of 
appointments for NEDs  (10%)
Succession planning (15%)
Reviewing board 
committee membership  (10%)
John Connolly
Nomination Committee Chairman
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 69 “Good CSR practice underpinned by strong corporate culture 
and values, is at the heart of how we do business. In 2016, our 
values were updated to ensure better alignment with the Group 
strategy and vision and launched to the senior management 
population. We look forward to sharing the results of this 
initiative with the entire organisation and our stakeholders 
during 2017.
Our continued focus on health and safety will remain a key part 
of the committee’s activity during 2017.”
Committee membership and attendance during 2016
Meetings  
attended 
Clare Spottiswoode (Chair) 3 of 3
Winnie Kin Wah Fok
1
2 of 3
Paul Spence 3 of 3
1. Winnie Fok was unable to attend one meeting following the 
cancellation of her flight due to typhoon conditions.
Other regular attendees include, the regional president for the 
UK and Ireland region, the group corporate affairs director and 
the group human resources director. From 2017, the regional 
president for the Africa region, will also be a regular attendee.
The CSR Committee receives regular updates on current issues 
from the human resources and CSR teams. The results of the 
materiality exercise completed towards the end of 2015 informed 
the Group’s CSR strategy and CSR reporting in 2016. As part of 
the CSR Committee’s focus on health and safety during the year, 
the committee oversaw the revision and re-issue of the health and 
safety management system and standards to health and safety 
professionals across the Group. This initiative was supported by 
the provision of additional guidance and training. 
As part of its normal cycle of work, the committee received 
regular health and safety reports including the results of seven 
critical country reviews (CCRs) carried out during the year.  
CCRs remain an important and effective tool to support those 
businesses where fatalities have occurred in assessing their  
health and safety management, raising awareness and ensuring 
improvements and appropriate mitigations are put into place. 
Unfortunately the number of fatalities across the Group in 2016 
has not reduced from the previous year. This is very disappointing. 
Trend data showed that the number of fatalities resulting from 
road traffic accidents had decreased significantly, but unfortunately 
the effect of this improvement was negated by a rise in the level of 
attack-related fatalities. In 2017, the committee will oversee renewed 
efforts deployed to reinforce training of front-line employees. 
Committee performance
The assessment of the committee’s performance, conducted as 
part of the overall board review process with assistance from 
Lintstock, concluded that the committee continued to perform 
well in monitoring compliance with CSR policies and in seeking to 
embed them within the Group’s business processes. Following the 
performance review, the committee has concluded that it should 
continue to focus on a small set of topics that are relevant globally 
and provide strong oversight on improving them, as well as 
ensuring that health and safety and compliance continues to be a 
major focus.
Work also includes the committee overseeing the implementation 
of the culture and values initiative across the Group and reviewing 
the integration of CSR processes with the Group’s broader 
business risk management. 
Main activities of the CSR Committee during the year (%)
Current issues (35%)
Health and Safety  (25%)
CSR reporting (20%)
Culture, Business 
ethics, anti-corruption, 
human rights  (20%)
THE CSR COMMITTEE
Clare Spottiswoode
CSR Committee Chair
Responsibilities
The CSR Committee reviews and monitors the Group’s CSR 
strategy, which includes developing policies on various CSR-related 
matters for consideration by the board and reviewing the activities 
of the executives who have responsibility for CSR matters. The 
CSR Committee also reviews and monitors how the Group 
performs against relevant policies. 
The committee oversees reporting on CSR matters and the 
company’s separate CSR Report for 2016, which provides more 
details on the Group’s CSR strategy and progress made during  
the year, is available at www.g4s.com. Further details of the 
committee’s responsibilities can be found in the committee’s terms 
of reference which are available at www.g4s.com/investors.
70 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Corporate governance report continued “In 2016, the Risk Committee continued to oversee 
managements’ ongoing work to improve the quality of risk 
management across the Group. 
These changes included placing more accountability for risk 
management where it is most effective, i.e. at operating unit  
level, by improving the understanding of and compliance with 
those controls which have the most material impact on the 
management of our key risks. We also monitored management’s 
initiative to simplify and improve minimum financial controls and 
legal and human resources policies.”
Committee membership and attendance during 2016
Meetings 
 attended 
Paul Spence (Chairman) 7 of 7
Ashley Almanza 7 of 7
John Connolly 7 of 7
Himanshu Raja
1
6 of 6
Tim Weller 7 of 7
1. Himanshu Raja retired from the Risk Committee in October 2016.
Other regular attendees include the group director of risk and 
internal audit.
Four scheduled committee meetings and a number of 
additional meetings and calls were held during the year ended 
31 December 2016.
Responsibilities
The Risk Committee advises the board on the Group’s overall  
risk appetite, reviews and approves the Group’s risk management 
strategy, advises the Audit Committee and the board on risk 
exposures and reviews the level of risk within the Group and 
assesses the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
systems. The committee’s composition ensures that a broad set of 
skills and experience comes together to look at how the Group 
manages risk in the business. The Risk Committee also considers 
certain major contracts which require board approval due to their 
size or level of risk. Further details can be found in the committee’s 
terms of reference available at www.g4s.com/investors.
Main activities of the Risk Committee during the year (%)
Large contract/bid 
approval  (25%)
In depth review of 
specic high risk 
contracts/projects   (30%)
Risk governance/
Internal controls (25%)
Contract, risk 
management  (20%)
Paul Spence
Risk Committee Chairman
THE RISK COMMITTEE
Risk governance remained a strong area of focus during 2016 with 
the Risk Committee receiving regular reports on the continuing 
process of embedding enterprise risk management standards 
further and cascading accountability for risk management to 
country and operational business management. The committee 
also monitored the initiative to streamline risk management 
processes and simplify minimum controls applicable to various 
functions including finance, legal, human resources, firearms, 
screening and health and safety across the Group. The review and 
update of contract approval processes was also the subject of two 
presentations at the March and December meetings. 
During the year, the Risk Committee received regular updates on 
significant residual risks and carried out detailed reviews including 
delivery of core service lines and major contracts. Further details 
of the significant risks and uncertainties facing the business are set 
out on pages 52 to 55. 
Contract risk management remains a key area of focus for the 
committee which undertakes a review of a major contract at each 
of its meetings. The Risk Committee also considered proposed 
bids for certain contracts that required board approval between 
scheduled board dates. 
Committee performance
The result of the assessment of the committee’s performance  
in 2016, carried out with Lintstock’s assistance, was again positive. 
The committee’s work had been particularly effective in ensuring 
the company’s risk management policies were aligned with  
its strategy.
In 2017, we will review major contracts, selected areas of principal 
risk and the Group’s risk management accountability matrix.
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 71 “In 2016, the Audit Committee’s work focused on monitoring 
progress made on the implementation of an updated financial 
controls framework, designed to improve the effectiveness of 
the Group’s internal risk management and control environment. 
We reviewed how these new controls are being embedded in a 
sustainable way in the business and the progress made in the 
culture change that is required along with the change in controls.
We also continued our focus on ensuring that matters of 
judgement were subject to rigorous review, and supported the 
board with the analysis of the viability statement and with an 
assessment on the preparation of the annual report on a fair, 
balanced and understandable basis, particularly considering the 
guidance on alternative performance measures issued during 
2016 by the European Securities and Markets Authority 
(“ESMA”) and the Financial Reporting Council (“FRC”).
We have also welcomed three new members onto the 
committee, two of them as a result of directors stepping down 
from the committee and one to strengthen further the 
committee’s experience. Looking forward to the 2017 financial 
year , the committee will remain focused on the Group’s control 
environment and on monitoring how the changes instigated in 
2016 are working in practice. ”
Committee membership and attendance during 2016
Meetings 
attended
Paul Spence
1
 (Chairman) 4 of 4
John Daly 3 of 4
Adam Crozier
2
2 of 2
Steve Mogford
3
2 of 2
Tim Weller
1
 (Chairman) 3 of 3
1. Tim Weller stepped down as chair and as a member of the Audit 
Committee on 15 August 2016. Paul Spence was nominated to chair 
the meeting of the committee in December 2016.
2. Adam Crozier retired from the board and the Audit Committee after 
the AGM on 26 May 2016.
3. Steve Mogford became a member on 27 May 2016.
4. Other regular attendees include the chief financial officer, the Group 
financial controller, the company secretary, the Group director of risk 
and internal audit and representatives of the Group’s external auditor. 
The chairman of the board, a chartered accountant who spent his 
executive career with Deloitte, also attends most meetings. In addition 
the chief executive also attends meetings from time to time when 
invited by the chairman.
Committee Membership
The membership of the committee changed substantially in the 
year, with Adam Crozier stepping down from the board after the 
AGM in May 2016, and Steve Mogford joining the committee 
following his appointment to the board on 27 May. Tim Weller 
stepped down from his role as chairman of the committee in 
August 2016 prior to his appointment as the Group’s chief 
financial officer in October 2016.
During the search for a new non-executive director qualified to 
act as the chairman of the committee, Paul Spence was nominated 
by his fellow committee members to chair the December meeting. 
The Company applied all of the principles and provisions of the 
Code relevant to the committee throughout the year under 
review, except that during the period following Tim Weller having 
stepped down from his role as chairman, the Audit Committee did 
not have a member with recent and relevant financial experience 
for the remainder of the year. Only one meeting took place during 
that period and no financial results were considered at that 
meeting. The board remains satisfied therefore that formal and 
transparent arrangements for considering how the corporate 
reporting and risk management and internal control principles 
should be applied and for maintaining an appropriate relationship 
with the company’s auditor were in place at all times. 
As reported previously, Ian Springett was appointed to the board 
and as chair of the Audit Committee with effect from 
1 January 2017. Unfortunately, in January Ian had to take an 
extended leave of absence in order to undergo treatment for a 
medical condition. Accordingly with effect from 20 January 2017, 
Paul Spence was appointed interim chairman of the Audit 
Committee and Winnie Fok became a member. Mr Spence was 
already a member of the committee. Ms Fok brings an accounting 
and audit background and both Mr Spence and Ms Fok together 
with the other members of the committee bring significant and 
relevant experience gained at senior management level. Their skills 
and experience are set out on page 59. In order to ensure 
continued compliance with main principle C.1 of the Code, until 
Mr Springett is able to take up his role, certain additional steps are 
being taken. These include the provision of further support and 
additional training to the interim chair, as well as the promotion of 
greater interaction between Mr Spence and the company’s 
external auditor. The chairman engages with the external auditors 
on a regular and in depth basis.
At the end of each meeting, a private session is held by the Audit 
Committee with representatives of the Group’s external auditor 
or with the group director of risk and internal audit without 
members of the executive management team being present.
After each meeting, the chairman of the committee reports to the 
board on the matters which have been discussed.
Responsibilities
The committee ensures that there is effective governance of the 
Group’s financial reporting and internal controls to safeguard the 
integrity of its financial statements and the adequacy of related 
disclosures, and assists the board in relation to its consideration  
of whether or not the annual report of the Group is fair, balanced 
and understandable. The committee also has oversight of  
the performance of both the internal audit function and the 
external auditor.
During the year, the terms of reference of the Audit Committee 
were updated, to reflect the requirements of the EU Audit 
Regulation and Directive, the CMA’s Statutory Audit Services 
Order and the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016  
(“New Code”). While the New Code required the members  
of the committee as a whole to have competence relevant  
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
Paul Spence
Audit Committee Chairman
72 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Audit Committee report to the sectors in which the Company operates, other changes 
include the requirement for the committee to approve the  
fee for the external audit and the provision of advice to the  
board at its request in relation to the viability statement and any 
assumptions underpinning it.
Main activities of the Audit Committee during the year (%)
Effectiveness of nancial 
controls and risk management 
procedures (35%)
External audit and 
non-audit services  (15%)
Financial reporting (25%)
Whistleblowing / 
fraud allegations (5%)
Internal audit (20%)
ONEROUS CONTRACT PROVISIONS
Description
The Group delivers certain long-term outsourcing services that 
are complex in nature. Some of those contracts may evolve to 
become loss-making and lead to a position where future net 
unavoidable losses over their life are expected. This requires 
determining the net present value of future estimated losses in 
order to calculate an onerous contract provision. The identification 
and measurement of such provisions requires significant 
judgement, given the often extended time periods involved and 
the number of variables that are not all within 
management’s control.
During the year, management operated the enhanced processes 
and controls introduced in 2014, including a review by the chief 
financial officer on a quarterly basis of the top 25 contracts and 
those with low profitability for each region.
Details of the outcome of the assessment of contract provisions 
are set out in the Chief Financial Officer’s Review on page 35.
Action taken
The committee reviewed in respect of each onerous contract, the 
critical assumptions provided by management and enquired about 
the judgements made, the robustness of the assumptions, the 
sensitivities to changes in the assumptions and the disclosure 
provided in relation to the key material judgements. The 
committee also considered the implications of the extension of 
the Compass contract to August 2019 announced in December 
2016 and the related sub-contractor dispute.
Conclusion
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the level of provisions and 
the related disclosures as at 31 December 2016 were appropriate.
Significant judgements and issues considered by the Audit Committee
The primary judgements and issues considered by the committee in the 2016 financial statements, and how these were addressed, were:
Further details can be found in the committee’s terms of 
reference available at www.g4s.com/investors
The committee has an annual agenda, which includes standing 
items that the committee considers regularly, as well as specific 
matters that require the committee’s attention.
In addition, in 2016, the committee reviewed and approved 
management’s draft responses to queries raised by the FRC in 
respect of the 2014 Annual Report. Subsequent to the issue of 
the 2015 Annual Report the FRC confirmed that their enquiries 
into the 2014 Annual Report were closed. 
Changes reflected in the 2015 Annual Report following resolution 
of the FRC’s queries largely comprised enhancements to 
disclosures, particularly in respect of revenue recognition, taxation, 
and specific and other separately disclosed items.
Description
The Group has continued to make progress in the portfolio 
rationalisation programme announced in 2013, identifying 
operations in a further 10 businesses or countries to be sold or 
closed. Given that the size of the operations in these businesses or 
countries is individually not significant for the Group, they do not 
meet the definition under IFRS 5 to be classified as discontinued 
operations. Management presents them separately in the adjusted 
performance measures in the preliminary results announcement 
and in the Chief Executive Officer’s Review and provides a 
detailed reconciliation to the statutory financial statements. 
Management classifies these entities within assets held for sale 
when it is expected that the carrying amount of these entities will 
be recovered principally through a sale transaction in the next 
12 months. 
During 2016, for 14 of the businesses previously reported as 
portfolio businesses, management focus and changing market 
conditions have resulted in improved performance and we have 
formally concluded that we will retain these businesses. We have 
PORTFOLIO RATIONALISATION PROGRAMME
therefore reported the results of these businesses in continuing 
businesses in 2016 and have restated the 2015 results accordingly.
During 2016 16 businesses related to the portfolio rationalisation 
programme were sold or closed.
Action taken
The committee reviewed progress made on the portfolio 
rationalisation programme against the Group’s strategy announced 
in November 2013, checked that the businesses that management 
had identified for sale or closure were in line with that strategy 
and reviewed the related accounting and disclosure judgements.
Conclusion
The committee was satisfied with the progress made, that the 
adjusted performance measures in respect of the programme 
were presented in a balanced way, and that the information 
provided to enable stakeholders to reconcile adjusted 
performance measures to statutory results was appropriate.
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 73 Description
The Group operates in around 100 countries and is therefore 
subject to numerous reviews by individual tax authorities in the 
ordinary course of business. In some instances, these may result in 
claims being raised by those tax authorities. Any claims are 
handled by the local legal entity in the first instance. More 
complex cases are reviewed by the Group tax function and 
provisions, where necessary, are made based on the best estimate 
of the likely outcome.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets in respect of temporary 
timing differences, mainly in relation to pension arrangements, 
fixed assets and carried forward losses. At 31 December 2016, 
total deferred tax assets were £285m (2015: £187m). Recognising 
such assets requires an assessment of their likely recovery through 
utilisation, which includes an assessment of the taxable profits 
expected to be made in each of the relevant jurisdictions in 
the future.
Action taken
The Audit Committee reviewed the Group’s approach to taxation 
and confirmed that the Group operates under the tax policy 
approved by the committee in 2015, which complies with the UK 
Confederation of British Industry seven tax principles.
TAXATION
The committee also reviewed information prepared by 
management in relation to existing or potential tax exposures, the 
adequacy of the provisions recorded, their treatment and 
disclosure in the financial statements and emerging risks arising 
from the OECD’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting framework.
The committee reviewed information prepared by management 
supporting the recoverability of deferred tax assets, considered 
the period of time under which these would be recovered and 
made enquiries of the external auditor on the appropriateness of 
the Group’s tax position.
The committee considered the Group’s enhanced disclosures, 
recognising that the FRC has undertaken a thematic review in this 
area during the year.
Conclusion
The committee was satisfied with the Group’s approach to tax, 
with the recoverability of deferred tax assets and with the 
accounting treatment and disclosure of tax exposures.
Description
The total value of the Group’s goodwill as at 31 December 2016 
was £2.0bn, a significant proportion of which was generated by 
the merger of the security services businesses of Group 4 Falck 
and Securicor in 2004, which was accounted for as an acquisition 
of Securicor by Group 4 Falck.
The estimation of the recoverable amount of goodwill supported 
by the Group’s cash generating units requires significant 
judgement, primarily in relation to the achievability of long-term 
business plans and future cash flows. Such achievability is 
dependent on circumstances both within and outside 
management’s control, in relation to the discount rates adjusted to 
reflect risks specific to individual assets used, and in relation to the 
macro-economic assumptions and related modelling assumptions 
underlying the valuation process.
As a result of the annual review of the carrying value of goodwill, 
£9m of goodwill was impaired, relating to a business closure and 
the balance remaining at the 2016 financial year end was £1,990m 
(see notes 4 and 18 to the consolidated financial statements). 
Details of the Group’s goodwill, impairment test and related 
disclosures are provided in note 18.
GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT TESTING
Action taken
The Audit Committee reviewed the methodology and results of 
the impairment test prepared by management.
The Audit Committee reviewed the assumptions used in relation 
to long-term growth, resulting headroom and sensitivities applied 
by management. In addition, these results were considered against 
alternative valuation bases such as reference to transactions for 
similar assets in similar locations, both within the Group and 
external to the Group.
For those businesses that are expected to be sold as part of the 
strategic portfolio management programme, the Audit Committee 
reviewed the recoverable value on the basis of expected sale 
price less costs to sell, whereas for those portfolio businesses that 
are expected to be closed, goodwill was impaired fully and the 
recoverable value of the assets was considered.
Finally, the Audit Committee considered the adequacy of the 
disclosures provided, particularly in respect of cash generating 
units where changes in key assumptions could give rise to 
an impairment.
Conclusion
The committee was satisfied with the carrying value of goodwill 
and related disclosures as at 31 December 2016. 
74 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Audit Committee report continued Description
The Group operates in around 100 countries and has around 650 
legal entities, with a significant number of local financial systems 
and processes. This leads to an inherently diverse set of processes 
and controls that rely on local capabilities for implementation and 
execution of the controls. As set out on page 51, the Group has 
adopted a three lines of defence model to control and manage 
risks across the Group.
Over the course of the last three years the Group has made 
significant investment in strengthening capability in finance, internal 
audit and risk and introduced additional internal controls and 
enhanced Group oversight to mitigate these risks. These include 
monthly reviews of the quality of earnings, a comprehensive 
internal audit plan and a regular cycle of reviews of local business 
unit or country balance sheets and controls.
Action taken
The committee reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 
the year as well as the updated financial controls framework rolled 
out in 2016. The committee received regular updates on the 
Description
The Group has net debt of £1,670 million. The board has set a 
goal of net debt to EBITDA ratio of <2.5 times over the 
medium term.
The Group has financial covenants related to its committed bank 
facilities, and the private loan notes, all of which are subject to one 
financial covenant based on net debt to EBITDA ratio, measured 
in accordance with the respective agreements, where net debt to 
EBITDA should be lower than 3.5 times. Non-compliance with 
covenants could lead to an acceleration of maturities.
Consideration of whether the Group is a going concern is a 
fundamental responsibility of the board and the Audit Committee 
has given this matter its full attention. The going concern assertion 
has a significant impact on the financial statements in terms of 
both the valuation of assets and liabilities held and the 
presentation of assets and liabilities as non-current. The Audit 
Committee has given due consideration to the guidance issued by 
the FRC ‘Going Concern and Liquidity Risk – guidance for 
RISK OF ACCOUNTING ERRORS AND MANAGEMENT OVERRIDE OF INTERNAL CONTROLS
GOING CONCERN AND LIQUIDITY RISK
SPECIFIC ITEMS
overall control environment of the Group, including progress 
made on the implementation of the updated financial controls, 
results of internal audits, training and up-skilling of capabilities 
across the Group, as well as the regular reports from the external 
auditor and the output of the whistleblowing process.
The committee confirmed in particular that controls had been 
strengthened to minimise the risk of re-occurrence of control 
failures that required the restatement of the 2014 annual results 
and balance sheet in the 2015 annual report and considered 
progress made to reduce reliance on manual controls, by 
developing and integrating financial and operational systems across 
the Group, covered in further detail by the board.
Conclusion
The committee acknowledged the progress made in relation to 
the strengthening of controls and the plans in place to reduce the 
number of systems and reliance on manual controls across the 
group, but noted that, although good progress has been made to 
date, significant work remains to be done over the next 12 to 
24 months.
Directors of UK Companies 2009’ and its Guidance on Risk 
Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business 
Reporting published in September 2014.
Action taken
The committee reviewed the Group’s projections of cash flow 
and net debt, taking into account reasonable risk sensitivities, as 
well as the financing facilities and funds available to the Group.
The committee also reviewed compliance with covenants, the 
availability of headroom in relation to those covenants, reasonable 
downside scenarios considering the risk profile of the Group, as 
well as the going concern assumptions in the context of the 
three-year viability statement included on page 55.
Conclusion
The committee was satisfied that the Group should adopt the 
going concern basis of accounting in the financial statements and 
recommended the same to the board. 
Description
The Audit Committee reviewed the treatment of items 
considered as specific items and therefore requiring separate 
disclosure to assist the reader in understanding the results of the 
Group. Management prepared documentation to support these 
items and the disclosure proposed in the financial statements.
Action taken
The Audit Committee reviewed and challenged, in light of the 
guidance issued by the FRC in December 2013 and October 
2016, the disclosures prepared by management in relation to 
specific items, considered whether the nature of these items was 
consistent with the Group’s accounting policies that were being 
applied consistently from year to year and confirmed that these 
items included both debits and credits as appropriate.
The committee also reviewed information from management to 
satisfy itself that changes in estimates related to items that were 
classified as specific items were treated equally and consistently as 
specific items, in particular for both top-up and reversal of 
provisions. The committee noted that the volume of specific items 
was reduced significantly in 2016 following its establishment of a 
threshold amount below which onerous contracts and other 
transactions would no longer be considered for classifications as 
specific items.
Conclusion
The committee was satisfied that the Group’s accounting policy 
on specific and other separately disclosed items had been applied 
correctly and that the designation of specific items was subject to 
objective and balanced criteria, with clear disclosure and 
explanation of non-recurring items, and was appropriate to give a 
meaningful and balanced view of the continuing operations of 
the Group.
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 75 Viability statement
As mentioned earlier, the committee’s terms of reference were 
updated during the year to clarify that the committee would 
provide advice to the board at its request in relation to the 
viability statement. At the March 2017 meeting, the committee 
reviewed a paper prepared by management which examined the 
longer term solvency and viability of the Group. The committee 
tested the underlying assumptions and analysis performed by 
management, reviewed assurance work carried out and 
considered the appropriateness of the timeframe of the 
assessment. The committee was satisfied that the three-year 
period covered by the viability statement remains appropriate in 
that it aligns with the Group’s regular business planning period, 
over which management has a reasonable level of confidence in its 
projections reflecting the life cycle of the majority of the Group’s 
contracts, and takes account of the limited visibility on material 
bidding opportunities in the pipeline beyond that period. The 
committee also reviewed and challenged the outcome of the 
stress-testing of projections by management.
The committee recommended to the board that the directors 
confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group 
will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they 
fall due over the three-year period of the assessment, as set out 
on page 55.
Fair, balanced and understandable
One of the key compliance requirements of a group’s financial 
statements is for the annual report, taken as a whole, to be fair, 
balanced and understandable. Guidelines on Alternative 
Performance Measures (APMs) were issued by the European 
Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) and have been 
applicable since July 2016. In addition, the FRC issued a “Frequently 
Asked Questions” guidance document and published the results of 
its thematic review on this matter. The committee considered each 
of the above in assessing whether the Group’s annual report was 
fair, balanced and understandable.
The committee reviewed a paper setting out the approach taken 
by management in the preparation of the annual report to ensure 
it met the requirements of the FRC’s Code and the ESMA 
guidance, including the reasons for and clear explanation of the 
non-GAAP measures used by the Group in reporting its results 
for the year. The paper described the process and procedures 
followed and detailed the steps taken in each of the sections of 
the annual report to ensure that the information presented was 
complete and accurate. This paper also described the review 
processes carried out internally to ensure that the annual report is 
fair, balanced and understandable. In addition, an external 
verification exercise was carried out to confirm that the 
information contained in the annual report is supported by factual 
evidence or confirmation from management where such 
information is a statement of belief or intent.
The committee was satisfied with the work performed and 
advised the board that the annual report, taken as a whole, 
presents a fair, balanced and understandable view of the business 
and its performance for the year under review.
Internal control
Since 2013, the Group has had a heightened focus on improving 
systems of internal control and risk management for financial 
reporting. The main features of these control systems include 
clearly defined reporting lines and authorisation procedures, a 
comprehensive budgeting and monthly reporting system, written 
policies and procedures and the use of a single global 
consolidation system for both internal management reporting, 
budgeting and planning as well as for external reporting.
The system is designed to ensure the integrity of financial 
reporting and the committee’s responsibility is to ensure that 
these internal controls remain effective. The committee does this 
primarily through receiving reports from management, from the 
internal audit function and from the external auditor.
The committee reviewed progress on the strengthening of 
internal controls, and on plans to continue progress, which 
included a targeted audit plan for 2016 from Group Internal Audit 
for those areas where issues have been identified, such as fair 
value adjustments in respect of legacy acquisitions in Brazil, and a 
review of the Group’s financial control framework with a view to 
simplifying it to cover key essential controls to ensure that these 
are met, along with training programmes and up-skilling capabilities.
The committee also considered the plans being implemented by 
management to reduce reliance on manual controls, through the 
gradual implementation and integration of new financial systems.
Further details on internal controls are set out on page 51. The 
Audit Committee confirmed to the board that it is satisfied that 
the Group’s risk management and internal control processes and 
procedures are appropriate and effective.
Internal audit
During 2016, the internal audit function spent a significant amount 
of time reviewing the operational effectiveness and providing 
training and advice to business units on minimum financial controls 
in order to prevent recurrence of previous control failures. This 
included the roll-out of an updated financial controls framework, 
the completion by business units of self-assessments against these 
controls based on their local control environment, with review and 
oversight of progress provided through the Regional Audit 
Committees. This enabled the identification of areas for 
improvement and where further training would be useful. 
Additional follow-up reviews of businesses and areas where 
improvement was considered to be necessary were carried out.
In 2017 the internal audit team will focus on assessing the 
effectiveness of a broader set of mandated controls with the goal 
of focusing local management on the most material control issues 
specific to their local environment, again with the support of the 
Regional Audit Committees to assist in driving improvements 
where appropriate.
76 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Audit Committee report continued External auditor
Following an audit tender process during 2014 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) was appointed the Group’s 
new external auditor for the 2015 financial year. PwC was 
subsequently re-appointed at the 2016 AGM to hold office until 
the next AGM. Richard Hughes has been lead audit partner since 
the beginning of 2015.
During the year, the committee reviewed PwC’s Group audit plan 
and the scope to be undertaken, reviewed their reports on 
external audit findings with particular focus on the areas set out 
above, had private sessions with the external auditor both during 
the year and at the Audit Committee, and approved the fee for 
the external audit. The committee also considered and approved 
the representation letter to be issued to the auditor.
Non-audit services
T o ensure that the independence of the audit is not compromised, 
the committee has put a policy in place covering the non-audit 
services that can be provided by the external auditor, the relevant 
approval process for certain services, and detailing those services 
which the auditor is prohibited from providing. In essence, the 
external auditor is prohibited from providing services that could 
create a conflict of interest, result in the audit firm auditing its own 
work, or result in the performance of management functions. 
Examples of non-permitted services are actuarial services, 
book-keeping services, internal audit outsourcing services and 
legal services.
The committee has pre-approved certain services which can be 
provided by the auditor subject to specified fee limits, above which 
further approval is required. All other services would require prior 
approval by the committee. Every year, the Audit Committee 
reviews its policy on the provision of non-audit services by the 
external auditor.
During 2016, amendments were made to the non-audit services 
policy to take account of the FRC’s revised Ethical Standard  
issued in June, which prohibited certain services previously 
permitted (including the majority of tax services) and limited the 
pre-approval of other services at a level of fees which would be 
clearly trivial with effect from 1 January 2017. The auditor, PwC, 
has written to the Audit Committee confirming that, in its opinion, 
it was independent for the period through to 28 March 2017.
Details of the fees paid for audit services, audit-related services 
and non-audit services can be found in note 10 to the 
consolidated financial statements. 
Effectiveness of the external auditor
A combination of formal and informal processes is used in the 
assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process.  
A formal questionnaire is completed at the end of the audit  
by members of the Audit Committee, by the group finance 
department and by the finance directors of significant operations 
across the Group, and the results of those questionnaires are 
reviewed by the Audit Committee. The assessment of the external 
audit for 2016 concluded that it remained effective and that the 
external auditor is independent.
Regulator’s review of our external audit
During the year, the Audit Quality Review (AQR) team from the 
FRC reviewed the quality of the 2015 audit performed by PwC. 
The committee discussed the results of that review, which were 
satisfactory, corroborating the results of the committee’s own 
independent evaluation of PwC which concluded that the external 
auditor was effective. The committee received a report from PwC 
detailing how the 2016 audit would address the one finding 
identified by the AQR team and was satisfied with PwC’s 
planned response.
CMA Order Compliance
The G4S Group audit was put out to tender in 2014, following 
which PwC were appointed with effect from 2015. The committee 
thereby confirms that the company has complied with the Audit 
Services for Large Companies (Mandatory Use of Competitive 
Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities) 
Order 2004.
Committee performance
The assessment of the committee’s performance, conducted with 
assistance from Lintstock, concluded that the committee remained 
effective, in particular in reviewing the quality of the Group’s 
financial reporting. In 2017, we will review the committee’s annual 
cycle of work to ensure appropriate alignment with the board’s 
agenda and the board’s induction for new members. We will also 
review management’s plans to sustainably embed controls across 
the business.
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 77 “Having succeeded Mark Elliott as chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee in May, I would like to express my thanks to him for 
his excellent work whilst chairman of the committee. I am very 
keen to continue the work and focus of the committee in 
ensuring the alignment of our remuneration structure with the 
Company’s strategy, to drive total focus from our executive 
team on the delivery of sustainable shareholder value.”
Committee membership and attendance during 2016
Meetings  
attended 
John Daly (Chairman)
1
5 of 5
Mark Elliott
2
2 of 2
Winnie Fok
3
4 of 5
Clare Spottiswoode 5 of 5
Barbara Thoralfsson
4
3 of 3
1. John Daly succeeded Mark Elliott as chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee in May 2016.
2. Mark Elliott retired from the board and the committee in May 2016.
3. Winnie Fok was unable to attend one meeting following the 
cancellation of her flight due to typhoon conditions.
4. Barbara Thoralfsson joined the board and the committee in July 2016.
There were three scheduled meetings and two additional meetings were 
held during the year ended 31 December 2016.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
John Daly
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Business context and performance
In a year of rising geo-political risk and increased political 
uncertainty, and against a slow economic recovery in developed 
countries and reduced growth in developing countries, 
management made substantial progress in delivering the Group’s 
strategy. They produced tangible results, with continuing business 
revenue growth of 6.3%, PBITA increase of 9.7% to £454m and 
operating cash flow increase of 61.5% to £638m. Further details 
are set out in the chief executive officer’s introduction to the 
Strategic Review on pages 4 to 7. 
2016 Remuneration outcomes 
As reported last year, the CEO’s and CFO’s salaries were 
increased by 1% with effect from 1 January 2016. 
Annual bonus – Against the backdrop of strong financial 
performance, annual bonus outcomes for the executive directors 
resulted in payouts of 146% of salary for the CEO and 136% for 
the CFO, representing stretch performance. 
Long term incentive plan – given the very strong business 
performance in the year, as described above, awards that were 
granted in 2014 vested based on performance over the three year 
period to the end of 2016 at a level of 70%. While stretch 
performance was achieved based on the measurement of average 
operating cash flow and average annual growth in EPS, 30% of the 
award which was measured against relative total shareholder 
return did not meet the required threshold. 
Further information on the levels of executive remuneration 
earned in 2016, including performance against the relevant targets, 
are given on pages 89 to 96.
Key areas of focus in 2016
Committee membership
At the 2016 AGM, Mark Elliott retired from the board and I took 
over from him as chairman of the committee. I would like to thank 
Mark for his insightful contributions to the work of the committee. 
On 1 July, Barbara Thoralfsson joined the board of G4S plc and the 
committee. Barbara’s experience of executive and senior 
management remuneration structures in other markets is a useful 
addition to the committee’s broad knowledge base. 
Management changes
Tim Weller succeeded Himanshu Raja as chief financial officer  
of the Company after Mr Raja stepped down from the board on 
1 October 2016. The committee discussed and approved the 
arrangements associated with Mr Raja’s departure, details of which 
were published on our website www.g4s.com/investors on 
15 August 2016 and which can also be found on page 95.  
The committee also approved Mr Weller’s remuneration taking 
into consideration relevant market factors and the skills and 
experience that Tim brings to the role. Further details  
can be found on page 59.
Our remuneration policy
As announced last year, in anticipation of the Company’s 
remuneration policy requiring shareholder approval in 2017, the 
committee undertook an extensive review of the existing 
Director’s Remuneration Policy (“Current Policy”) during 2016. In 
doing so, the committee was mindful of the overall approach and 
structure of employee reward across the Group, developments in 
remuneration for executives in the global market as well as views 
of the investor community. 
The review sought to assess whether the Current Policy remained 
suitably aligned to the Company’s strategy and provided effective 
incentives to the executives and senior management team. 
Particular attention was paid to the variable components of 
remuneration and their operation. The Remuneration Committee 
also received the assistance of its adviser, who aided the 
development of remuneration proposals by providing information 
on remuneration arrangements at similar businesses operating on 
a global scale and evolving market practices.
Main activities of the Remuneration Committee during the year 
(%)
Reporting and governance 25%
Incentives 30%
Executives’ base pay 3%
Management changes 27%
Chairman’s fee 5%
Below board level 10%
78 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ remuneration report A particular area of focus was our choice of performance 
measures. The performance measures in the Long Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP) approved by shareholders in 2014 consist of growth in 
earnings per share, relative total shareholder return and average 
operating cash flow. The Remuneration Committee considers that 
performance in all these critical areas is achieved by delivering the 
Group strategy and the areas with the most direct correlation 
between strategic priorities and performance are 
highlighted below.
Earnings per share growth is directly and immediately impacted 
by improvements in productivity and operational excellence for 
example through IT investment, global procurement initiatives and 
operational efficiency programmes which help build momentum in 
profit performance.
Operating cash flow improvements have been driven by greater 
financial discipline across the Group as new behaviours and better 
controls are embedded in the finance function and in the broader 
management team and this stronger cash flow performance is 
sustained through delivery of consistent, excellent service to 
our customers.
T otal shareholder return is strongly influenced by our ability to 
differentiate our service through innovation, leading to revenue 
growth in new sectors as well as increased market share. Our 
continued focus on health and safety also correlates to sustainable 
performance by embedding strong values at all levels in 
the organisation.
Having concluded its review, the committee found that the 
Current Policy operates effectively and continues to align the 
executives with the longer-term performance of the business. 
Minor amendments were made to remove certain terms no 
longer required following the retirement of Grahame Gibson, the 
former chief operating officer, from the board in 2015. I wrote to 
shareholders representing 60% of our shareholders base in March 
2017 to advise them of the Remuneration Committee’s decision 
concerning remuneration policy. 
The policy is set for a period of three years. However, we will 
continue to review the position to ensure the policy is aligned to 
the Company’s evolving business needs as we continue the 
transformation of G4S across the Group. 
Implementation of remuneration in 2017 
Pay review
For 2017, the CEO’s base pay has been increased by 1.5% and 
that for the new CFO remains unchanged. This pay review took 
account of market salary trends as well as salary increases 
elsewhere in the Group. The increase awarded to the CEO was 
lower than the average percentage increase applicable to Group 
employees based in the UK. 
Incentives
The bonus opportunity and LTIP award levels remain unchanged 
in 2017.
In relation to bonus, the committee seeks to set targets that 
support the overarching strategy, reflect the business context for 
the relevant period. Targets are also intended to be stretching 
whilst remaining achievable and are compatible with the Group’s 
risk appetite. The committee is confident that the targets set meet 
these criteria, based on the range of assumptions in the 
Company’s budget. 
The long-term incentive plan introduced in 2014 had 
overwhelming support from shareholders and will continue to 
operate unchanged in 2017. 
UK Code compliance
The committee had in place malus and clawback before their 
introduction became a feature of the revised UK Corporate 
Governance Code. These arrangements are explained on page 84. 
The committee is also conscious of the Code’s requirement that 
executive directors’ remuneration should be designed to promote 
the long-term success of the Company – and that performance-
related elements of remuneration should be transparent, 
stretching and applied rigorously. This aligns with the Remuneration 
Committee’s own philosophy.
The committee’s performance 
The committee’s formal performance review carried out at the 
end of 2016 concluded that the committee continues to be 
effective and to perform well. As the transformation of the Group 
gains momentum and results in evolving organisational structures, 
the committee will continue to review and analyse the reward 
strategy for the senior management population to ensure strong 
alignment with the Company’s strategy. In doing so, the committee 
will take account of remuneration practices in those markets 
where it seeks to recruit, develop and retain key talent from a 
highly international and mobile population. 
Voting on remuneration
The Company’s current remuneration policy for directors was 
approved by shareholders at the Company’s annual general 
meeting held on 5 June 2014 with 98.38% of all votes cast in 
favour. It came into effect on 6 June 2014 and continued to apply 
for up to three years. In accordance with the Large and Medium-
sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013, a new remuneration policy will 
be submitted to shareholders for approval at the AGM on 
25 May 2017, which will apply for up to three years.  
The committee believes that the Current Policy is adequate to 
motivate and retain our executive team whilst supporting the 
delivery of sustainable returns to shareholders, we are therefore 
proposing to make no substantive changes to the policy from that 
approved in 2014. 
In addition, the annual report on remuneration will be put to an 
advisory vote at this year’s annual general meeting, and we look 
forward to receiving shareholders’ support on both resolutions 
once again this year.
I will be available to answer questions and listen to the views of 
our shareholders at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
John Daly
Remuneration Committee Chairman 
28 March 2017
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 79 annual bonuses and benefits under long-term incentive plans and 
assesses performance against the objectives of those plans.
The committee’s terms of reference are available on the 
Company’s website at www.g4s.com/investors.
Our remuneration approach
We seek to attract and retain the best people whilst ensuring that 
the remuneration policy and practice drive behaviours that are in 
the long-term interests of the Company and its shareholders. 
Fixed pay
• base pay 
• retirement benefits
• other benefits
Short-term incentives
• annual bonus plan (one year) with deferred element 
(three years)
Long-term incentives
• long term incentive plan (three years)
Responsibilities
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for all elements of 
the remuneration of the executive directors, other members of 
the group executive committee and the chairman of the board.
It also agrees with the board the framework and policy for the 
remuneration of other senior managers of the Group and reviews 
and recommends to the board the remuneration of the 
company secretary.
In determining remuneration policy, the committee takes into 
account a variety of legal and regulatory requirements and the 
relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The committee also determines policy on the duration, notice 
period and termination payments under the contracts with the 
executive directors, with a view to recognising service to the 
Company whilst ensuring that failure is not rewarded and that the 
duty to mitigate loss is recognised.
The committee approves the design and determines the target 
measures and formulae for performance-related pay schemes 
operated by the Company. It approves the eligibility of executive 
directors and other group executive committee members for 
BASE PAY
Purpose and link to strategy
Base pay is set at competitive levels in order to recruit and retain 
high calibre executives with the skills required in order to manage 
a company of the size and global footprint of G4S.
The level of pay will reflect a number of factors including individual 
experience, expertise and role.
Operation
Reviewed annually and fixed for 12 months commencing  
1 January. Interim salary reviews may be carried out following 
significant changes in role, scope or responsibility or at any other 
time at the committee’s discretion.
The final salary decision may also be influenced by role, 
experience, individual and company performance, internal 
relativities and increases for Group employees.
Maximum opportunity
Actual base pay for each executive director is disclosed each year 
in the Directors’ remuneration report.
In determining salary increases, the committee considers market 
salary levels including those of appropriate comparator companies.
Ordinarily, annual salary increases would be no more than the 
average annual increase across the Group. However, in exceptional 
circumstances a higher level of increase may be awarded, 
for example:
• following a significant change to the nature or scale of 
the business;
• following a significant change to the nature or scope of the 
role; or
• for a new appointment, where the base pay may initially be set 
below the market level and increased over time, as experience 
develops and with reference to the individual’s performance in 
the first few years in the role.
Where exceptional increases are made we will fully disclose and 
explain the rationale for such increases.
Performance measures and clawback
None, although individual performance may have a bearing on 
salary increases.
Directors’ remuneration policy 
This section sets out the Directors’ remuneration policy, which is subject to a binding vote of the shareholders’ at the Company’s 
next annual general meeting on 25 May 2017. Subject to its approval, this remuneration policy will be effective from that date. The 
Current Policy, which can be found in the annual report and accounts 2013, is available on the Company’s website at www.g4s.com/
investors and will continue to apply until the policy set out below is approved. As explained in the introduction to this report, minor 
amendments were made to remove certain terms no longer required following the retirement of the former chief operating officer 
from the board in October 2015. 
Directors’ remuneration policy
Remuneration policy for executive directors
80 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued BENEFITS
Purpose and link to strategy
As with base salary, a suitable range of benefits is made available in 
order to recruit and retain high calibre executives.
Operation
Executives are entitled to a number of benefits comprising paid 
holiday, healthcare for themselves and their family and life 
insurance of up to four times base salary, car allowance, business 
related transport, limited financial advice from time to time and 
expatriate benefits where relevant. A relocation allowance 
reflecting reasonable costs actually incurred will be paid.
Other benefits may be granted at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Reasonable business expenses in line with G4S’ expenses policy 
(e.g. travel, accommodation and subsistence) will be reimbursed 
and in some instances the associated tax will be borne by 
the Company.
Maximum opportunity
Maximum benefits per director per annum:
• holidays – 30 days
• car allowance – £20,000
• business related local transport – £40,000
• for financial advice, expatriate benefits and relocation expenses, 
the expense will reflect the cost of the provision of benefits 
from time to time but will be kept under review by 
the committee
• other benefits granted at the discretion of the committee up 
to 3% of base pay per annum per director
• reasonable business expenses are not subject to a maximum, 
since these are not a benefit to the director
Any allowance in relation to relocation will provide for the 
reimbursement of reasonable costs incurred.
Performance measures and clawback
None.
ANNUAL BONUS
Purpose and link to strategy
Rewards the achievement of annual financial and strategic business 
targets and delivery of personal objectives.
Deferred element encourages long-term shareholding and 
discourages excessive risk taking.
Operation
Awarded annually based on performance in the year. Targets are 
set annually and relate to the Group and/or the business managed 
by the executive.
Bonus outcome is determined by the committee after the year 
end, based on annual performance against targets.
Bonuses are paid in cash, but executives are required to defer any 
bonus payable in excess of 50% of their maximum bonus 
entitlement into shares. Deferral is for a minimum period of three 
years. Dividends or equivalents accrue during the deferral period 
on deferred shares. 
Bonuses are not pensionable.
Maximum opportunity
Maximum opportunity of 150% of base pay per annum for the 
CEO and the CFO. 
125% of base pay per annum for any other executive director.
Performance measures and clawback
Typically, executive directors’ bonus measures are weighted so that:
• between 70% and 85% of the bonus is based on achievement 
of challenging financial performance measures (e.g. profit 
before tax and amortisation, organic growth, cash-flow 
measures, etc.), with each measure operating independently of 
the others; and
• the remainder is linked to personal and/or non-financial 
measures, which are strategic or operational in nature.
Each year, the committee may use its discretion to vary the exact 
number of measures, as well as their relative weightings, and this 
will be disclosed in the annual remuneration report.
As a result of the number of factors taken into account in 
determining bonus, there is no minimum pay-out level.
For illustrative purposes, in the event that only threshold has been 
achieved, pay-out would be 35% of maximum, rising to full pay-out 
should achievement of a stretch performance level be achieved 
for all measures assuming the non-financial performance measures 
were satisfied.
The deferred element of the bonus is not subject to any further 
performance measures but is subject to clawback in certain 
circumstances. The non-deferred part of the bonus, which is 
settled in cash, is also subject to clawback (see separate section  
on page 84).
Remuneration policy for executive directors
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 81 LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
Purpose and link to strategy
Incentivises executives to achieve the Company’s long-term 
financial goals, as well as focus on value creation, whilst aligning the 
interests of executives with those of shareholders.
Operation
Executive directors are granted awards on an annual basis, which 
vest over a period of at least three years subject to continued 
service and the achievement of a number of key 
performance measures.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the quantum of awards to 
be made to each executive each year to ensure that they 
remain appropriate.
Dividends or equivalents accrue during the vesting period on 
awards that vest.
The award is settled by the transfer of market-purchased shares 
to the executive directors.
All the released shares (after tax) must be retained until the 
minimum shareholder requirement is met. Currently, the minimum 
shareholding requirement is 200% of base salary for the CEO and 
150% for the other executive directors.
Maximum opportunity
Maximum opportunity of 250% of base pay per annum for 
the CEO.
Maximum opportunity of 200% of base pay per annum for other 
executive directors.
Performance measures and clawback
Awards vest based on performance over a period of at least three 
financial years commencing with the financial year in which the 
award is made.
Performance will be measured based on a combination of 
earnings per share growth, total shareholder return against a 
comparator group and average operating cash flow. For awards 
made in 2017, these were in the proportion of 40%, 30% and 30% 
respectively. However, the committee retains the flexibility to 
amend these proportions, provided that no single measure will be 
a significantly greater proportion than the others.
At threshold, 25% of the relevant portion vests. This increases on a 
straight-line basis up to 100% for performance in line with 
maximum. Targets are set out on page 97.
Awards are subject to clawback in certain circumstances (see 
below on page 84).
RETIREMENT BENEFITS
Purpose and link to strategy
As with base salary and other benefits, making available a suitable 
retirement benefits package aids the recruitment and retention of 
high calibre executives, allowing such executives to provide for 
their retirement.
Operation
G4S operates a defined contribution Group-wide personal 
pension plan in the UK in which executives may participate. 
Alternatively, G4S may provide a cash allowance in lieu of a 
contribution into such plan.
The current executive directors receive cash allowances. The CEO 
receives 25% of base pay as a cash allowance; the CFO and other 
executive directors receive 20% of base pay.
The level of award is kept under review by the committee and is 
intended to be broadly market comparable for the roles.
Maximum opportunity and clawback
Maximum opportunity of up to 25% of base pay for the CEO and 
20% for other executive directors.
Performance measures
None.
Directors’ remuneration policy continued
Remuneration policy for executive directors continued
82 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued CHAIRMAN’S FEE
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ FEES (EXCLUDING THE CHAIRMAN)
Purpose
T o attract and retain a high calibre chairman by offering a 
market-competitive fee, which also reflects the responsibilities and 
time commitment. There are no performance-related elements.
Operation
The chairman’s fee is disclosed each year in the Directors’ 
remuneration report. The fees are reviewed annually by the 
committee. The annual fee is an all-inclusive consolidated amount. 
The committee retains the discretion to review the chairman’s fee 
at any other time if appropriate. The chairman’s fee is reviewed 
against other companies of a similar size.
Purpose
T o attract and retain high calibre non-executive directors (NEDs) 
by offering market-competitive fees which should reflect the 
responsibilities and time commitment. There are no performance-
related elements.
Operation
NED fees including any additional fee for any additional role listed 
below are disclosed each year in the Directors’ 
remuneration report.
With the exception of the chairman, the fees for NEDs are 
structured by composition build-up consisting of:
• a base fee
• an additional fee for chairing a committee
• an additional fee for the role of senior independent director.
Maximum opportunity
Ordinarily, any increase in the chairman’s fee would be in line with 
other increases for similar roles in other companies.
Fees payable to the chairman and other non-executive directors in 
aggregate per annum shall not exceed the maximum specified in 
the Company’s articles of association for the relevant year.
The NED fees are reviewed annually by the executive directors. 
The board retains the discretion to review the NED fees at other 
times, as appropriate, to reflect any changes in responsibilities 
or commitment.
The basic fee covers committee membership and each NED is 
expected to participate in one or more board committees. All the 
fees are reviewed against other companies of a similar size.
Maximum opportunity
Ordinarily, any increase in the NEDs’ fees would be in line with 
other increases for similar roles in other companies.
Fees payable to non-executive directors (including the chairman) 
in aggregate per annum shall not exceed the maximum specified 
in the Company’s articles of association for the relevant year.
Remuneration policy for non-executive directors
BENEFITS
Purpose
Benefits may be provided from time to time in connection with 
the chairman and other NEDs performing their roles, such as 
business travel, subsistence and entertainment, accommodation 
and professional fees for tax and social security compliance, and 
other ancillary benefits.
Operation
Reasonable business expenses in line with G4S expenses policy 
(e.g. travel, accommodation and subsistence) will be reimbursed 
and in some instances the associated tax will be borne by 
the Company.
Maximum opportunity
Reasonable business expenses are not subject to a maximum, 
since these are not a benefit to the director.
Benefits and expenses will reflect the actual cost of provision.
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 83 Notes to the directors’ remuneration policy 
1. Performance measures
Annual Bonus Plan – The actual performance measures and 
targets are set by the Remuneration Committee at the beginning 
of each year. The performance measures used for our annual 
bonus plan have been selected to reflect the Group’s key 
performance indicators. The committee aims to ensure that the 
measures appropriately encourage the executive directors to 
focus on the Company’s strategic annual priorities, whilst the 
targets are set to be stretching but achievable.
The aim is to strike an appropriate balance between incentivising 
annual financial and strategic business targets, and each executive 
director’s key role-specific objectives for the year.
Long T erm Incentive Plan – In choosing the performance 
measures for the Long Term Incentive Plan, the committee aims to 
find a balance of measures which reflect the Company’s long-term 
financial goals as well as incentivise executives to create 
sustainable, long-term value for shareholders.
Legacy plans – The committee reserves the right to make any 
remuneration payments and/or payments for loss of office 
(including exercising any discretions available to it in connection 
with such payments) notwithstanding that they are not in line with 
the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were 
agreed (i) before 5 June 2014 (the date the company’s first 
shareholder-approved directors’ remuneration policy came into 
effect); (ii) before the policy set out above came into effect, 
provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the 
shareholder-approved directors’ remuneration policy in force at 
the time they were agreed; or (iii) at a time when the relevant 
individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion 
of the committee, the payment was not in consideration for the 
individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes, payments may include the committee 
satisfying awards of variable remuneration. In cases where all or 
part of the variable remuneration award was in the form of shares, 
the payment terms are those agreed at the time the award 
was granted.
Details of the vesting of the awards will be published in the annual 
remuneration report each year.
The non-executive directors do not participate in any incentive 
schemes nor do they receive any benefits other than those 
referred to in the above table.
2. Malus and claw-back mechanisms
Since 2010, any cash and/or shares awarded under the annual 
bonus plans and the previous Performance Share Plan may be 
subject to clawback. The Long Term Incentive Plan and the annual 
bonus plan may be subject to malus or clawback from the 
executive director concerned if the Remuneration Committee so 
determines and, in the case of misstatement of accounts, where 
the Audit Committee concurs. The time period in which the 
clawback can be operated depends on the reason for the 
overpayment as set out in the table below.
The amount to be clawed back directly from the executive 
director will be the overpaid amount, but the Remuneration 
Committee retains the discretion to claw back the “net” (i.e. 
post-tax) amount of the award received by the executive director.
Malus and claw-back
Annual Bonus Plan  
(including deferred elements) Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
Since 2015 plan PSP (previous) Current LTIP
Material misstatement of  
Group financial accounts
up to 2 years after the  
payment of the cash element
up to 2 years after vesting 
(except where due to fraud  
or reckless behaviour when it 
shall be 6 years after vesting)
up to 2 years after vesting
Misconduct up to 6 years after the  
payment of the cash element
up to 6 years after vesting
Fraud unlimited unlimited
Principles and approach to recruitment and internal 
promotion of directors
When hiring a new executive director, or promoting to the board 
from within the Group, the committee will offer a package that is 
sufficient to retain and motivate and, if relevant, attract the right 
talent whilst at all times aiming to pay no more than is necessary. 
Ordinarily, remuneration for a new executive director will be in 
line with the policy set out in the table summarised above. 
However, discretion may be required for exceptional 
circumstances such as dealing with remuneration relinquished in a 
previous job.
The maximum level of on-going variable pay that may be awarded 
to new executive directors on recruitment or on promotion to 
the board shall be limited to 400% of base salary as set out in the 
policy above (calculated at the date of grant, excluding any 
buy-out awards – see below). Remuneration and any buy-out 
arrangements will be announced as far as possible at the time a 
new executive director or chairman is appointed, or in the 
following Directors’ remuneration report.
When determining the remuneration of a newly-appointed 
executive director, the Remuneration Committee will apply the 
following principles:
• The on-going remuneration package to be designed in 
accordance with the policy above.
• New executive directors will participate in the annual bonus 
scheme and Long Term Incentive Plan on the same basis as 
existing executive directors.
• The Remuneration Committee has discretion to grant one-off 
cash or share-based awards to executive directors where it 
determines that such an award is necessary to secure the 
recruitment of that executive director and where it is in the 
best interests of the company to do so. Such awards would 
only be made as compensation for remuneration relinquished 
under a previous employment (i.e. buy-out arrangements) and 
would be intended to mirror forfeited awards as far as possible 
by reflecting the value, nature, time horizons and performance 
measures attached. In such circumstances, the Company will 
disclose a full explanation of the detail and rationale for such 
one-off awards.
• In certain circumstances, it may be necessary to buy out long 
notice periods of previous employment.
84 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued • With regard to internal promotions, any commitments made 
before promotion and unconnected with the individual’s 
promotion may continue to be honoured even if they would 
not otherwise be consistent with the policy prevailing when 
the commitment is fulfilled.
• For external and internal appointments, the Remuneration 
Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain 
relocation expenses (including legal fees), as set out in 
the policy.
• In determining the approach for all relevant elements, the 
Remuneration Committee will consider a number of factors, 
including (but not limited to) external market practice, current 
arrangements for existing executive directors and other 
internal relativities.
Service contracts
Shareholders are entitled to inspect a copy of executive directors’ 
service contracts at the company’s head office and at the AGM.
Executive directors’ service contracts all have the 
following features:
• Contracts are drafted in line with best practice at the time the 
executive directors were appointed.
• Terminable on 12 months’ notice by either party. 
Specific provisions for Ashley Almanza and Tim Weller’s contracts 
(dated 2013 and 2016 respectively) include:
• Upon his appointment, following board approval, Ashley 
Almanza was allowed to hold two external non-executive 
appointments and retain the fees paid to him for the 
appointments. Following Ashley Almanza stepping down from 
the board of Schroders plc in April 2016, he remains a 
non-executive director of Noble Corporation. Mr Almanza’s 
contract of employment was subsequently amended to reflect 
this reduction in the number of non-executive directorships he 
holds. Tim Weller is allowed to hold one external non-executive 
appointment and retain any fees paid directly to him for the 
appointment. He is currently non-executive director of the 
Carbon T rust. 
• Mitigation obligations on termination payments are explicitly 
included in the executive directors’ contracts. Notice payments 
for Ashley Almanza and Tim Weller are payable monthly.
Non-executive directors’ letters of appointment:
• Appointment is subject to the provisions of the articles of 
association of the Company, as amended from time to time 
regarding appointment, retirement, fees, expenses, 
disqualification and removal of directors.
• All continuing non-executive directors are required to stand 
for re-election by the shareholders at least once every three 
years, although they have agreed to submit themselves for 
re-election annually in accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
• Initial period of appointment is two years.
• All reasonably-incurred expenses will be met.
Fees are normally reviewed annually.
Loss-of-office payment
The duration of the notice period in the executive directors’ 
contracts is 12 months.
The Remuneration Committee would consider the application of 
mitigation obligations in relation to any termination payments.
The contracts do not provide for the payment of a guaranteed 
bonus in the event of termination. Neither Ashley Almanza nor 
Tim Weller will be eligible for bonus accrual during any period of 
garden leave. 
In relation to Mr Almanza, the value of the termination payment 
would cover the balance of any salary and associated benefits 
payments due to be paid for the remaining notice period, the 
value of which will be determined by the Remuneration 
Committee. In relation to Mr Weller, the value of the termination 
payment would amount to the balance of any salary due to be 
paid for the remaining notice period multiplied by 1.25 to reflect 
the value of contractual benefits during such period. The 
Remuneration Committee would also retain the discretion to 
make appropriate payments necessary to finalise any settlement 
agreement, but in exercising such discretion the Remuneration 
Committee would remain mindful to ensure that there was no 
reward for failure.
The fees for outplacement services and reasonable legal fees in 
connection with advice on a settlement agreement may be met by 
the Company.
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 85 The table below illustrates how each component of pay would be calculated under different circumstances:
Plan Automatic “good leaver” categories Treatment for “good leavers” Treatment for other leavers
Annual bonus 
(cash element)
All leavers other than voluntary 
resignation and summary dismissal.
Executive directors may receive a 
bonus to be paid on the normal 
payment date and in accordance  
with the agreed performance measures 
but reduced pro-rata to reflect the 
time employed.
Bonus opportunity will lapse.
Annual bonus 
(deferred share 
element)
• Injury, disability or ill health
• Redundancy
• Retirement
• Death
• Termination without cause
• Change of control or sale  
of employing company  
or business
• Any other circumstances  
at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee 
Deferred shares may be released if the 
executive director ceases employment 
prior to the third anniversary as a result 
of one of the good leaver reasons.
Deferred share awards will lapse.
Long T erm 
Incentive Plan
• Injury, disability or ill health 
• Redundancy
• Retirement
• Death 
• Change of control or sale  
of employing company  
or business
• Any other circumstances  
at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee
Awards will vest on the relevant vesting 
date on a time-apportioned basis, 
unless the Remuneration Committee 
determines otherwise, and subject to 
the achievement of performance 
measures at the relevant vesting date. 
The vesting date for such awards will 
normally be the original vesting date, 
unless otherwise determined by the 
Remuneration Committee.
Awards will lapse.
As directors may leave employment for a wide range of reasons, the committee retains discretion to approve payments where the 
reason for leaving does not fall precisely within the prescribed “good leaver” category. The committee will take account of the director’s 
performance in office and the circumstances of their exit. The committee will seek to balance the interests of shareholders, the 
departing director and the remaining directors. Any awards subject to performance conditions would be assessed at the end of the 
relevant period and be subject to time apportionment. 
Corporate Action
If the Company is subject to a change in control, the Long Term Incentive Plan provides that awards will vest subject to the performance 
targets having been satisfied up to the date of the change of control and, unless the committee determines otherwise, time pro-rating. 
On a variation of share capital, other reorganisation of the Company, or a demerger of a substantial part of the Group’s business, the 
committee may make such adjustment to awards as it may determine to be appropriate. 
86 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued Illustrations of application of remuneration policy
Ashley Almanza, Chief Executive Ofcer (£000)
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
Minimum 
100%
£1,297
£2,730
£5,056
47.5% 26%
31%
21.5% 28%
46%
On-target 
performance
Maximum 
performance
Fixed pay
Annual bonus
LTIP
Tim Weller, Chief Financial Ofcer (£000)
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
Minimum 
100% 48% 27%
33%
19%
31%
42%
On-target 
performance
Maximum 
performance
Fixed pay
Annual bonus
LTIP
£833
£1,734
£3,087
2017 CEO CFO
Base pay £939,755 £643,750
Benefits £122,000 £60,000
Pension £234,939 £128,750
T otal Fixed Pay £1,296,694 £832,500
The benefits figures include taxable business expenses and associated tax and NIC payable by the Company.
The bar charts above set out the effect of the executive directors’ remuneration policy as it will apply in 2017 and based on the 
assumptions set out below:
Minimum Threshold Maximum
Fixed pay Consists of total fixed pay including base salary, benefits and retirement benefits
• Base salary – salary effective as at 1 January 2017
• Benefits – amount received by Group CEO in 2016 including business expenses classified 
by HMRC as benefits but which the company does not consider to be benefits in the 
ordinary sense. The figure is an estimate for the Group CFO
• Retirement benefits –25% of salary for Ashley Almanza, 20% of salary for Tim Weller
Annual bonus No payout 35% of the maximum payout 
(i.e. 52.5% of salary for Ashley 
Almanza and Tim W eller)
100% of the maximum payout 
(i.e. 150% of salary for Ashley 
Almanza and Tim W eller)
Long-term incentives No vesting 25% vesting under the LTIP 
(i.e. 62.5% of salary for Ashley 
Almanza and 50% of salary 
for Tim W eller)
100% of the maximum payout 
(i.e. 250% of salary for Ashley 
Almanza and 200% of salary 
for Tim W eller)
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 87 Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group
The structure of the executive directors’ pay policy is generally in line with the policy for remuneration of the senior management within the 
Group, although the levels of award will be different. The performance measures that apply in the variable element of the remuneration will 
reflect the relevant areas of responsibilities. There may be one-off awards for retaining scarce and critical individuals below board level. 
Remuneration of employees globally will depend on local regulation and practice, taking any collective bargaining agreements into 
account, where they exist.
Elements of remuneration Availability
Fixed Pay Available to all employees worldwide
Pensions Available to most employees in developed markets
Variable Annual bonus Available to all senior managers worldwide
Long term incentive plan Available to some senior managers worldwide
Benefits Car or car allowance Available to all senior managers worldwide
Life/Income protection insurance Available to most employees in developed markets
Private Healthcare Available to all senior managers in markets where it is 
commonly provided
Across the Group the Company seeks to pay competitively, taking into account external benchmarking and internal moderation at each 
level to ensure that remuneration is in line with market practice. When determining base salary increases for executive directors, the 
Remuneration Committee pays particular attention to the data at senior manager level. 
At G4S, the committee does not normally consult directly with employees as part of the process of determining the remuneration 
policy and pay decisions for executive directors and has not therefore done so in setting this remuneration policy. However, employee 
surveys are carried out biennially which help determine employees’ views of their own pay and benefits, as well as those of colleagues 
in general.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views
We are committed to on-going engagement on key remuneration issues and seek our major shareholders’ views prior to proposing any 
major change in policy. This provides us with valuable feedback and we take into consideration these views and seek to reflect them in 
our policy. 
The chairman of the Remuneration Committee will be available to answer any questions and listen to the views of our shareholders at 
the forthcoming annual general meeting. 
88 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION (AUDITED INFORMATION)
Executive directors
The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2016 financial year for each 
executive director, together with the comparative figures for 2015. Aggregate executive directors’ emoluments are shown in the final 
column of the table. 
£ Base pay Benefits Annual Bonus LTIP – PSP Pension related benefits T otal
2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
Ashley Almanza 925,867 916,700 109,985 193,588 1,347,136 956,670 2,175,179 441,710 231,467 229,175 4,789,634 2,737,843
Tim Weller 122,145 n/a 6,019 n/a 166,945 n/a n/a n/a 24,429 n/a 319,538 n/a
Himanshu Raja 482,812 643,750 85,590 108,232 637,312 623,528 1,018,339 197,739 96,563 128,750 2,320,616 1,701,999
Notes:
1. In relation to Himanshu Raja and Tim Weller, the information relates to the part years during which they have served as executive directors. 
a. For Himanshu Raja, this includes the period when he was an executive director to 1 October 2016. Payments made after that date, including any payment of 
loss of office, are shown on page 95. 
b. For Tim Weller, this was from his appointment date as an executive director on 24 October 2016. Prior to this date, Mr Weller was a non-executive director of 
the Company, and fees relating to his non-executive directorship of the Company are found on page 90.
2. Benefits include car allowance, business-related travel, healthcare, disability and life assurance. Benefit values include the cost of certain travel, overnight 
accommodation, meals and memberships which HMRC treats as a taxable benefit and on which the Company has paid, or will in due course pay, tax as it does 
not consider such expenses to be benefits in the ordinary sense. The grossed-up amounts for 2016 are £22,422 for Ashley Almanza and £15,435 for Himanshu 
Raja. Benefit values also include local travel costs of £17,384 and £32,274 for Ashley Almanza and Himanshu Raja respectively who bear the tax themselves, and 
contain other business costs which HMRC deems to be benefits. 
3. The 2015 benefits values also include taxes met by the Company in respect of certain expenses which were incurred in the prior year. 2015 benefit values for 
Ashley Almanza also include the grossed-up costs of security measures, as well as the installation of a security system at his home, of £71,529.
4. Any bonus due above 50% of the individual’s maximum bonus entitlement is awarded as deferred shares, which vest after a period of three years unless the 
individual ceases employment prior to the third anniversary and qualifies as a good leaver, in which case release of such deferred shares occurs shortly after 
termination of employment. Mr Almanza received £652,735 of his bonus in the form of 221,116 shares deferred for three years. Further information regarding 
2016 bonus performance and resulting pay-outs is set out on page 91.
5. In addition, for 2016, Ashley Almanza received £37,618 from Schroders plc, and a fee of $95,000 as well as shares, valued at $316,674 from Noble Corporation 
from his non-executive directorships referred to on page 85, and retained such remuneration. For 2015, the equivalent sums were £115,000, $82,500 and 
$56,531 respectively.
6. In addition, since becoming an executive director of G4S plc on 24 October 2016, Mr Weller received and retained £3,214 from the Carbon Trust for his 
non-executive directorship for the remainder of the year under review. Mr Weller’s annual fee in relation to this appointment is £17,000 per annum. 
7. In relation to the LTIP-PSP column, vesting of awards in 2015 relates to the PSP , whereas vesting of awards in 2016 relates to the long term incentive plan 
approved by the shareholders in 2014. Further information regarding performance and vesting of the 2014 LTIP is set out on page 93.
8. In relation to Mr Almanza, the PSP figure for 2015 has been updated to include the vesting of a PSP award he received in May 2013 upon becoming CEO, 
which vested in May 2016. Mr Almanza retained 57,969 shares after tax and NI contributions were met. The deemed value of these shares was £1.869 
per share.
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 89 Non-executive directors
The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2016 financial year for each 
non-executive director, together with the comparative figures for 2015. Aggregate non-executive directors’ emoluments are shown in 
the last column of the table.
£ Base fee SID
Chair of  
Committee
Deputy  
Chair Benefits T otal T otal
2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
John Connolly 370,000 365,000 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 99,279 2,857 469,279 367,857
Adam Crozier 25,095 60,875 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 4,817 1,173 29,912 62,048
John Daly 61,750 35,028 n/a n/a 11,005 n/a n/a n/a 3,025 1,530 75,780 36,558
Mark Elliott 25,095 60,875 6,096 13,000 7,518 18,250 n/a n/a 23,618 10,995 62,327 103,120
Winnie Fok 61,750 60,875 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 8,698 11,416 70,448 72,291
Steve Mogford 36,733 n/a 8,923 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 285 n/a 45,941 n/a
Paul Spence 61,750 60,875 n/a n/a 18,500 n/a n/a n/a 8,721 10,606 88,971 71,481
Clare 
Spottiswoode 61,750 60,875 n/a n/a 18,500 18,250 n/a n/a 1,399 2,341 81,649 81,466
Barbara 
Thoralfsson 30,875 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 1,158 n/a 32,033 n/a
Tim Weller 50,034 60,875 n/a n/a 11,814 18,500 n/a n/a – 1,008 61,848 80,383
Notes:
The above fees were pro-rated where the appointments or retirements were part way through the year.
1. John Connolly’s fee was increased to £375,000 per annum with effect from 1 July 2016.
2. For 2016, benefit values for Mr Connolly include the grossed-up costs for security measures, as well as the installation of a security system at his home,  
of £97,506.
3. Mark Elliott stepped down as chair of the Remuneration Committee and retired as a non-executive director on 26 May 2016.
4. Adam Crozier retired as a non-executive director on 26 May 2016.
5. Tim Weller stepped down as chair of the Audit Committee on 15 August 2016 and as a non-executive director on 23 October 2016.
6. John Daly took over as chair of the Remuneration Committee on 27 May 2016.
7. Steve Mogford was appointed as a non-executive director on 27 May 2016 and is the Senior Independent Director.
8. Barbara Thoralfsson was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 July 2016.
9. Benefit values include the cost of overnight accommodation, travel and meals, which HMRC treats as taxable benefits and on which the company has paid,  
or will in due course pay, tax as it does not consider such expenses to be benefits in the ordinary sense.
Further notes to the single total figure of remuneration tables (audited information)
New executive director’s remuneration
As mentioned previously, Tim Weller joined the board in April 2013 as a non-executive director and became an executive director of 
the Company when he took on the role of chief financial officer on 24 October 2016. The various components of his remuneration, as 
approved by the committee in line with the directors’ remuneration policy, are as follows: 
• Base pay of £643,750 per annum for 2016. 
• Benefits include a car allowance of £18,000 per annum, 25 days holiday, private health care and life insurance. 
• Participation in the annual bonus scheme with a maximum opportunity of 150% of base pay. Under this scheme, any bonus payable 
in excess of 50% of maximum entitlement is required to be deferred as shares with a deferral period of three years.
• Participation in the Company’s 2016 LTIP – an award of 544,736 conditional shares of G4S plc under the Company’s LTIP was 
granted on a pro-rata basis, relative to his start date as CFO and the vesting period of 36 months, with a deemed date of grant of 
March 2016. The vesting of such award will be subject to the achievement of performance conditions measured over a three-year 
period beginning in the deemed year of grant. Further information is set out on page 94. 
• Cash allowance of 20% of base pay per annum in lieu of pension. 
• Compensation for the amounts Mr Weller forfeited in relation to variable remuneration arrangements in place with his previous 
employer relating to 2014 and 2015 performance share plans. The Remuneration Committee agreed the grant of an award of 
100,000 shares on equivalent terms to the Company’s 2015 LTIP and a further award of 250,000 shares on equivalent terms to the 
Company’s 2016 LTIP . These conditional awards were granted on 8 November 2016, with deemed dates of grant of March 2015 and 
March 2016 respectively. Further information is set out on page 94. 
• In addition, Mr Weller may be entitled to receive compensation for the forfeiture of his 2016 bonus from his previous employer,  
Such compensation would consist of a conditional award of up to a maximum of 100,000 shares on equivalent terms to the 
Company’s 2016 LTIP , which is subject to performance and employment conditions. 
90 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued 2016 Annual bonus
During the financial year ending 31 December 2016, the performance measures relating to the annual bonus scheme rules were 
consistent with the current Policy, with 85% of the bonus for Ashley Almanza and 70% for Messrs Raja and Weller being based on 
achievement of challenging financial performance measures. The financial performance measures were based on budgeted group 
earnings (excluding specific and other separately disclosed items) and budgeted Group operating cash flow before capital expenditure 
and pension deficit repayment. On-target performance would result in a payment of 60% of maximum entitlement, with 100% only 
being earned in the event of achievement of a stretch performance significantly in excess of budget. The element of bonus determined 
for each financial performance measure is calculated by interpolating actual achievement against the range between the minimum i.e. 
entry threshold and the maximum target to achieve maximum performance. 
The remaining 15% of the bonus for Mr Almanza and 30% for Messrs Raja and Weller was linked to objectives relating to non-financial 
performance, which consisted of personal objectives or relate to the organisation and which were linked to specific elements of the 
Group’s strategy for which the directors concerned had responsibility. 
The maximum bonus potential remained unchanged from 2015. It was 150% of base pay for Messrs Almanza, Raja and Weller. Bonuses 
are paid in cash up to 50% of maximum entitlement. Where the bonus amount is in excess of 50% of the maximum bonus potential, the 
amount which exceeds 50% will be delivered in the form of a deferred share award which vests after a period of three years.
The tables below show how pay was linked to performance in 2016 and set out details of each of the financial measures, the targets in 
respect of these measures and the actual outcomes:
2016 annual bonus – Performance conditions and outcomes 
Ashley Almanza 
Financial measures
Weighting  
(% of maximum 
bonus)
Threshold to 
earn bonus Target
T o achieve  
full vesting Achievement
Score achieved 
(% of total for 
each measure)
Group Earnings 50% £223.2m £230.1m £237.1m £246m 100%
Group OCF 35% £563.5m £580.9m £599.2m £663m 100%
T otal 85% n/a n/a n/a n/a 100%
Personal objectives
Mr Almanza was able to earn up to 15% of the maximum bonus potential for achieving personal objectives. These were designed to 
align with the strategic priorities for 2016 (see pages 12 to 13) and were set out in the 2015 Remuneration report. Mr Almanza’s 2016 
personal objectives were:
• Embed a stronger health and safety culture 
• Improve efficiency and effectiveness of the organisation, people and culture
• Implement market and product specific strategies 
• Strengthen contract controls and take-on processes
Significant progress was made in delivering all these areas, including implementation of organisation restructures, launch of the new values 
and the expansion of technology and innovative service offerings to new markets. Health and safety processes have improved and there 
has been a material reduction in road-related fatalities, however safety remains an area where further improvement is required. Therefore 
Mr Almanza’s performance in relation to his personal objectives was assessed at 80% of the maximum potential. 
Himanshu Raja 
Financial measures
Weighting (% of 
maximum 
bonus)
Threshold to 
earn bonus Target
T o achieve  
full vesting Achievement
Score achieved 
(% of total for 
each measure)
Group Earnings 35% £223.2m £230.1m £237.1m £246m 100%
Group OCF 35% £563.5m £580.9m £599.2m £663m 100%
T otal 70% n/a n/a n/a n/a 100%
Following his retirement from the board of G4S plc on 1 October 2016, Mr Raja remained eligible for an annual bonus in respect of the 
year under review subject to the applicable performance conditions being met. The 2016 annual bonus was determined (on a pro-rata 
basis for the number of whole months worked in the bonus year) at the normal time for the payment of annual bonuses. 30% of  
Mr Raja’s bonus potential was allocated to non-financial measures. The Remuneration Committee recognised that Mr Raja had put in 
place strong foundations for the transformation of the finance, risk management and procurement functions. His 2016 objectives 
focused specifically on organisational efficiency, including procurement savings, integrated IT systems development and implementation, 
cash flow and capital expenditure management as well as fiscal efficiency, and in aggregate his performance was assessed as on target 
across these areas. 70% of Mr Raja’s bonus potential was based on achievement of financial performance targets, namely Group Earnings 
of £230.1m and Group OCF of £580.9m. Following stretch financial performance being met and the achievement of on-target personal 
objectives, Mr Raja’s total bonus entitlement was £637,312.
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 91 Tim W eller 
Financial measures
Weighting (% of 
maximum 
bonus)
Threshold to 
earn bonus Target
T o achieve  
full vesting Achievement
Score achieved 
(% of total for 
each measure)
Group Earnings 35% £223.2m £230.1m £237.1m £246m 100%
Group OCF 35% £563.5m £580.9m £599.2m £663m 100%
T otal 70% n/a n/a n/a n/a 100%
Personal objectives
Mr Weller, who became an executive director in October 2016 was able to earn up to 30% of the maximum bonus potential for 
achieving personal objectives. The personal objectives for the CFO role were set at the beginning of the year to align with the strategic 
priorities for 2016. These were set out in the 2016 Remuneration report and were as follows:
• Organisational efficiency including procurement savings 
• Integrated IT systems development and implementation 
• Cash flow and capital expenditure management 
• Fiscal efficiency
The strong performance in procurement savings achieved, and in cash flow and capital expenditure management in particular have 
resulted in a level of achievement for his non-financial objectives of 21 out of 30, or 70%.
Mr Weller’s bonus entitlement was pro-rated over the period in 2016, from 24 October 2016, when he became chief financial officer.
The table below sets out the annual bonus awards which were made to executive directors in respect of the financial year ended 
31 December 2016, based on the performance described above:
2016 annual bonus
2016 annual bonus  
(% of salary)
2016 annual  
bonus deferred  
(% of salary)
Ashley Almanza £1,347,136 146% 70.5%
Himanshu Raja £637,312 132% n/a
Tim Weller £166,945
136% of salary earned in  
the period from 24 October n/a
Any bonus due above 50% of the individual’s maximum bonus entitlement is awarded as deferred shares which vest after a period of 
three years.
Cash Deferred shares
Ashley Almanza £694,400 £652,736
Himanshu Raja £637,312 £0
Tim Weller £166,945 £0
Mr Weller’s bonus was paid fully in cash. In coming to this decision, the Remuneration Committee, having taken account of the fact that 
any compensation for the forfeiture of Mr Weller’s bonus from his previous employer would consist of an award under the Company’s 
LTIP , subject to both employment and performance conditions, concluded that the deferral element of the Company’s deferred bonus 
had been satisfied.
92 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
The 2016 values shown in the fourth column of the single-figure table relate to the LTIP awards made in July 2014, with a deemed 
award date of March 2014. 2015 values shown in that column of the single-figure table relate to the PSP awards made in March and 
May 2013. The performance measures and targets of these awards are set out below:
Performance measures and targets for PSP 2013 award
Half of each award  Half of each award 
Average annual growth  
in EPS period ending on 
31 December in the third year 
Proportion of 
allocation vesting 
Ranking against the bespoke 
comparator group by  
reference to TSR
Proportion of  
allocation vesting
Less than global  
CPI + 4% pa
Nil Below median Nil
Global CPI + 4% pa  
(11% over 3 years)
25% Median 25%
Global CPI + 4  
to 11% pa
Pro-rata between  
25% and 100%
Between median  
and upper quartile
Pro-rata between  
25% and 100%
Greater than global CPI +  
11% pa (33% over 3 years)
100% Upper quartile 100%
Performance measures and targets for the 2014 LTIP awards
40% of each award granted 30% of each award granted 30% of each award granted
Average annual  
growth in EPS  
period ending on  
31 December  
in the third year
Proportion  
of allocation  
vesting
Ranking against  
the bespoke  
comparator group  
by reference to TSR
Proportion  
of allocation  
vesting
Average  
operating  
cash flow
Proportion  
of allocation  
vesting
Less than 5% pa Nil Below median Nil <105% Nil
5% pa (15%  
over 3 years)
25% Median 25% 105% 25%
+ 5 to 12% pa Pro-rata  
between 25%  
and 100%
Between  
median and  
upper quartile
Pro-rata  
between  
25% and 100%
Between  
105% and  
125%
Pro-rata  
between 25%  
and 100%
Greater than  
+ 12% pa (36% 
over 3 years)
100% Upper quartile 100% 125% 100%
The table below illustrates the Company’s performance against the 2013 PSP award targets and the resulting payout as shown in the 
2015 column of the single figure table:
Measure Performance Vesting (% of element)
Average annual growth in EPS Increase of 8.1% pa 53%
Relative TSR Ranked between 14
th
 and 15
th
 in peer group 0%
T otal vesting 26.5% of maximum
The table below illustrates the company’s performance against the 2014 LTIP award targets and the resulting payout as shown in the 
2016 values in the fourth column of the single figure table:
Measure Performance Vesting (% of element)
Average annual growth in EPS Increase of 15.3% pa 40%
Relative TSR Ranked between 43
rd
 and 44
th
 in peer group 0%
Average OCF 129% 30%
T otal vesting 70% of maximum
Vesting under the 2014 LTIP was 70% of maximum as a result of both maximum performance being achieved, both on an adjusted and 
non-adjusted basis for both annual growth in EPS and average OCF elements. Relative TSR performance was impacted by fluctuations to 
the share price in the performance period and did not result in any pay-out for this measure of the 2014 LTIP . In the same period, 
dividend payments to shareholders were maintained throughout the relevant period and dividends totalling £428m were distributed to 
shareholders. The Company’s credit rating at ‘BBB-’ long-term and ‘A-3’ short-term with a Negative outlook was maintained.
T otal pension entitlements (audited information)
None of the executive directors is a member of the Group’s pension plan, which is a defined contribution group personal pension plan 
available to all UK employees. Instead the CEO and CFO receive cash allowances of 25% and 20% of their base pay, respectively.
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 93 SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR (AUDITED INFORMATION)
Awards under the LTIP approved by the shareholders at the Company’s AGM in June 2014 were made in March 2016 consistent with 
the Company’s normal grant policy. Details of the awards made to the executive directors are summarised in the table below and 
further details are given in the table on directors’ shareholdings and interests below:
Director Award type
Number  
of shares
Face  
value (£) Performance condition 
EPS,TSR and AOCF  
Performance period
% vesting at  
threshold
Ashley Almanza Conditional shares 1,259,114 2,314,668 40% EPS/30% TSR/30% AOCF 01/01/2016 – 31/12/2018 25%
Himanshu Raja Conditional shares 700,363 1,287,500 40% EPS/30% TSR/30% AOCF 01/01/2016 – 31/12/2018 25%
Tim Weller Conditional shares 794,736 1,460,963 40% EPS/30% TSR/30% AOCF 01/01/2016 – 31/12/2018 25%
Tim Weller  Conditional shares 100,000 290,600 40% EPS/30%TSR/30%AOCF 01/01/2015 – 31/12/2017  25% 
Notes:
1. The face-value calculation for all awards deemed granted in March 2016 was based on a share price of £1.8383 which represents the average closing share 
price during the three business days following the announcement of the Company’s 2015 financial results. The face-value calculation for the 100,000 share 
award to Mr Weller, deemed granted in March 2015, was based on a share price of £2.906 which represents the average closing share price during the three 
business days following the announcement of the Company’s 2014 financial results. 
2. Further details on performance conditions are set out in the table below.
3. Any vesting of Mr Raja’s award will be pro-rated to 1 October 2016.
4. Tim Weller was granted 350,000 conditional shares by deed of grant on 8 November 2016, 100,000 of which were deemed granted in March 2015 and 
250,000 of which were deemed granted in March 2016. Tim Weller was also granted 544,736 conditional shares by deed of grant on 22 November 2016.  
The conditional award is deemed for the purposes of the Plan, including the performance conditions, as having been granted on the original grant date of 
15 March 2016.
Performance measures for long-term incentives awarded in 2016
40% of each award granted 30% of each award granted 30% of each award granted
Average annual growth  
in EPS period ending  
on 31 December in  
the third year
Proportion  
of allocation  
vesting
Ranking against the 
bespoke comparator 
group by reference to 
TSR
Proportion  
of allocation  
vesting
Average  
operating  
cash flow
Proportion  
of allocation  
vesting
Less than 5% pa Nil Below median Nil <105% Nil
5% pa (15% over 3 years) 25% Median 25% 105% 25%
+ 5 to 12% pa Pro-rata between 
25% and 100% 
Between median 
and upper quartile
Pro-rata between  
25% and 100%
Between 105% and  
125%
Pro-rata between 
25% and 100%
Greater than + 12% pa 
(36% over 3 years)
100% Upper quartile 100% 125% 100%
The bespoke comparator group consists of companies constituent of the FTSE 100 index corrected to exclude financial institutions and 
companies in the extractive sector, and include competitor companies which are outside that index.
The Company’s Current Policy is to use market-purchased shares to satisfy LTIP awards. Participants in the LTIP will receive a further 
share award with a value equivalent to the dividends which would have been paid in respect of LTIP awards vesting at the end of the 
performance period.
The Company calculates whether the EPS performance target has been achieved by reference to the Group’s audited accounts, which 
provide an accessible and objective measure of the Group’s earnings per share. The average OCF performance target is calculated by 
reference to the relevant definition set out in the LTIP rules approved by shareholders. The committee may alter the terms of the EPS 
measure if it feels that it is no longer a fair measure and is no longer incentivising. TSR ranking will be verified externally.
Statement of directors’ shareholdings and share interest (audited information)
The executive directors are required to build up a minimum shareholding in G4S, as explained in the remuneration policy. Shares are 
valued for these purposes at the year-end price, which was 235p per share at 31 December 2016.
2016 2015
Share ownership 
requirements  
(% of salary)
Shareholding 
requirements 
achieved at 
31/12/16
Number of 
Deferred shares 
held as at 31/12/16
Further shares 
acquired or 
deferred since 
31/12/2016
T otal shares under 
LTIP awards subject 
to performance 
at 31/12/16
Ashley Almanza 466,777 150,000 200% 118.4% 452,559 611,117 3,010,111
Himanshu Raja n/a 100,000 150% n/a n/a n/a 788,798
Tim Weller 37,570 n/a 150% 13.7% n/a n/a 894,736
Notes:
1. Deferred share awards and PSP or LTIP awards do not include the further shares with a value equivalent to the dividends which are paid in respect of shares 
received. The number of shares is gross and will be subject to tax when they are released.
2. In addition to the above, each of the directors has a deemed interest in the total number of shares held by the Company’s employee benefit trust. As at 
31 December 2016, the trustees of the employee benefit trust held 4,844,243 shares (2015 – 6,320,144 shares).
3. Includes any shares owned by persons closely associated with the directors.
4. Since 31 December 2016, Mr Almanza received 221,116 deferred shares on 14 March 2017 relating to the deferred element of the 2016 annual bonus and a 
further 390,001 shares on 20 March upon the vesting of the 2014 LTIP . 
5. The total shares under LTIP awards subject to performance for Mr Raja takes into account the pro-rated forfeitures following his departure.
6. Details of share awards granted to Mr Weller under the Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan are set out in the above scheme interests awarded during the 
financial year table.
94 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued The shareholdings for non-executive directors are shown below.
As at 31.12.2016 As at 31.12.2015
John Connolly 309,642 209,642
Adam Crozier n/a 2,000
John Daly 30,000 n/a
Mark Elliott n/a 25,000
Winnie Fok 20,000 20,000
Steve Mogford
1
0 n/a
Paul Spence 20,000 20,000
Clare Spottiswoode 4,681 4,681
Barbara Thoralfson 0 n/a
Tim Weller
2
n/a 37,570
1. Since 31 December 2016, Mr Mogford acquired 10,000 shares on 
13 March 2017.
2. Mr Weller was a non-executive director of the Company until 
24 October 2016 when he became an executive director (chief financial 
officer). Details of his current shareholdings are set out in the table on 
page 94.
There are no requirements for the non-executive directors to 
hold shares nor for any former directors to hold shares once they 
have left the Company.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS (AUDITED INFORMATION)
Grahame Gibson
Grahame Gibson, who stepped down as a director of the 
Company on 4 June 2015, ceased to be an employee on 
20 October 2015. Details of payments for loss of office in prior 
years are set out on page 87 of the Company’s integrated report 
and accounts 2015 available at www.g4s.com. 
Mr Gibson’s unvested awards made in 2014 and 2015 under the 
LTIP remained subject to performance and were pro-rated to 
20 October 2015. Performance is to be tested at the normal 
vesting dates. The PSP award made in 2013 vested in March 2016 
when Mr Gibson received 96,175 shares. The award made in 2014 
has vested and Mr Gibson received 187,092 of shares on 
20 March 2017.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE (AUDITED INFORMATION)
Himanshu Raja
In accordance with the Company’s announcement dated 
15 August 2016, Mr Raja stepped down from the board of the 
Company and his role as chief financial officer on 1 October 2016. 
On the same day, in accordance with section 430(2B) of the 
Companies Act 2006, details of remuneration arrangements 
relating thereto were published on the Company’s website  
www.g4s.com. In accordance with Section 16 of the Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013, details of Mr Raja’s remuneration 
arrangement are provided below. Mr Raja entered into a 
settlement agreement with the Company which provides for the 
payments and benefits set out below. All remuneration payments 
made so far or remaining to be made to Mr Raja are in 
accordance with the terms of his service agreement with the 
Company and the terms of the Company’s Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy. 
Salary and contractual benefits 
Mr Raja continued to receive salary and benefits in respect of the 
period up to and including 1 October 2016 in the usual way. 
Thereafter, he received a payment in lieu of his 12 month notice 
period (PILON) of £698,644 representing base salary and 
contractual benefits, calculated and paid in two instalments 
as follows:
• the sum of £349,322 paid in October 2016 (comprising 
£281,641 in respect of base salary, £56,328 in respect of 
pension allowance, £7,875 in respect of car allowance and 
£3,478 being the value of contractual benefits);
• the sum of £23,518 in respect of holiday pay was also paid in 
October 2016; and
• a further £349,322, calculated on the same basis, payable in 
April 2017, six months after the termination of employment, 
subject to reduction under his service agreement for any 
expected income from alternative employment. 
Past annual deferred bonus plans 
• The balance of past annual bonuses deferred to shares 
awarded in March 2014, 2015 and 2016, totalling 272,411 
shares, plus 17,440 additional shares due to dividends accrued 
up to and including June 2016, minus such shares sold on 
behalf of Mr Raja as necessary to reimburse the Company for 
the amount of income tax and national insurance contributions 
arising as a result of the transfer, were released to Mr Raja 
shortly after the termination of his employment.
Long T erm Incentive Plans
Taking account of Mr Raja having put into place strong foundations 
for the transformation of the finance, risk and procurement 
functions, the committee exercised its discretion to determine  
that Mr Raja’s LTIP awards would not lapse and would vest at  
the normal vesting date (pro-rated to the date of cessation  
of employment). 
The LTIP award made in 2014 vested on 20 March 2017 when 
Mr Raja received 344,499 shares. Details relating to Mr Raja’s 
remaining award of shares, pro-rated accordingly, are set out in  
the table below:
Date of award Vesting date Shares awarded Pro-rated
18/03/14 18/03/2017 540,657 450,547
20/03/15 20/03/2018 443,048 221,524
15/03/16 15/03/2019 700,363 116,727
T otal shares 1,684,068 788,798
Legal and adviser expenses
The Company covered legal fees incurred by Mr Raja in connection 
with the settlement agreement in an amount of £5,000 plus VAT, 
and outplacement fees (if any) in connection with career transition 
in an amount of £30,000 plus VAT. Payments were made directly 
to Mr Raja’s advisers. 
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 95 PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND TABLE
The line graph shows the eight-year annual T otal Shareholder Return (TSR) performance against the FTSE 100 index. The directors 
believe this to be an appropriate form of broad equity market index against which to base a comparison, given the size and geographic 
coverage of the Company.
G4S FTSE 100 index
0
50
100
150
200
250
17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 09
2009 – 2016 T otal Shareholder Return
CEO’s pay in last ten financial years
Y ear 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2013 2014 2015 2016
Incumbent
Nick 
Buckles
Nick 
Buckles
Nick 
Buckles
Nick 
Buckles
Nick 
Buckles
Nick 
Buckles
Nick 
Buckles
Ashley 
Almanza
Ashley 
Almanza
Ashley 
Almanza
Ashley 
Almanza
CEO’s total single figure of  
annual remuneration (£’000) 2,269 2,376 3,248 2,823 1,542 1,186 514 1,459 2,521 2,738 4,790
Bonus % of maximum awarded 95% 83% 74% 53% 0% 0% 0% 72% 98% 70% 97%
PSP % of maximum vesting 75% 100% 100% 58% 14% 0% 0% n/a n/a 27% 70%
Notes:
1. Nick Buckles stepped down as CEO on 31 May 2013 and Ashley Almanza took over as CEO from 1 June 2013.
2. After July 2011, the CEO’s total single figure of annual remuneration included payment in lieu of pension. This was 40% of base pay for Nick Buckles and is 25% 
of base pay for Ashley Almanza. Prior to July 2011, a notional sum equal to 40% of relevant base pay has been included. 
The value of shares that vested in the relevant year under the PSP (or a notional value in the case of shares vested but unexercised) has been included in the 
prior year’s CEO’s total figures, since that is the most relevant year for measurement of performance.
3. The figures before 2013 did not include taxable expenses
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CEO’S REMUNERATION
The table below shows how the percentage change in the CEO’s salary, benefits and bonus between 2015 and 2016 compares with the 
percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for UK-based G4S employees. The Remuneration Committee has 
chosen all employees in the UK who were in employment during the two-year period – 2015 and 2016 – as the Group which should 
provide the most appropriate comparator, as the Group CEO is based in the UK.
Percentage change in remuneration between 2015 and 2016
Salary Benefits Bonus
CEO 1.0% (42.3%) 40.8%
Average change for all other UK employees 4.0% See note below See note below
Notes:
1. Mr Almanza’s benefit values for 2015 include a one-off cost, details of which are set out in the notes to the table on page 89.
1. The above inflation increase in salary for UK employees reflects the alignment of pay practices with the new National Living Wage.
2. The core benefit composition and the underlying employee entitlements remain unchanged over the two-year period, with changes linked to increases in 
premium rates and costs of procurement.
3. Information on bonuses is not readily available for all other UK employees.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY
The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay compared with other disbursements from profit.
2016 2015 Change
Dividends paid £145m £145m –
T otal employee costs £5,240m £4,792m +9.3%
There were no share buy-backs effected in either year.
96 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION 
POLICY IN 2017
Decisions were taken on the basis of the directors’ remuneration 
policy approved in 2014 and will be implemented in accordance 
with that policy, and in accordance with the directors’ 
remuneration policy after the Company’s 2017 AGM, if approved.
Our remuneration policy for directors as set out on pages 80 to 
88 will, if approved, take effect following the Company’s 2017 
AGM and will then be implemented as set out below. 
Executive directors’ remuneration 
Base pay
For 2017, at the annual pay review, it was decided to increase  
Mr Almanza’s base pay by 1.5% from £925,867 to £939,755. No 
change was made to Mr Weller’s base pay.
Annual Bonus Scheme
The annual bonus for the 2017 financial year will operate on the 
same basis as that for 2016 and will be consistent with the existing 
and proposed remuneration policy. The maximum bonus 
opportunity remains at 150% of base pay for both Ashley Almanza 
and Tim Weller. The financial measures are group earnings and 
operating cash flow. These have been selected as they support the 
Company’s key strategic objectives. As for last year, the financial 
measures are allocated weightings of 85% and 70% for Ashley 
Almanza and Tim Weller respectively. The non-financial measures 
will therefore account for up to 15% and 30% of their maximum 
bonus opportunity for Messrs Almanza and Weller respectively.
These non-financial measures are based on the Group’s strategy 
and core values and include the following key areas:
Ashley Almanza
• Improve health and safety performance
• Update growth and innovation strategy
• Continue to strengthen Global leadership team
• Substantially complete portfolio programme
Tim W eller
• Organisational efficiency of finance functions 
• Delivery of integrated IT systems 
• Procurement efficiency
Details of the performance measures and targets are deemed to 
be commercially sensitive since they relate to the 2017 financial 
year. T o the extent that they are no longer commercially sensitive, 
targets and performance levels against them will be disclosed in 
the Company’s 2017 annual report and accounts. The proposed 
target levels for 2017 have been set to be challenging and align 
with the Group’s strategic priorities and business plan. In reviewing 
the targets, the committee took into account a number of factors, 
including for example the fact that in relation to group earnings, 
the minimum target that needs to be met in order for any bonus 
to be payable must be at least equal to the earnings in 2016. The 
committee considered the proposed targets relating to non-
financial measures and concluded that these were also demanding.
Long T erm Incentive Plan
The level of awards due to be granted in the 2017 financial year 
under the LTIP approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM will 
be consistent with the existing and proposed remuneration policy. 
As for 2016, the committee considers that a combination of 
earnings per share growth, total shareholder return and average 
cash flow targets are the most appropriate performance measures 
for the 2017 awards, as they provide a robust method of assessing 
the Company’s performance, both in terms of underlying financial 
performance and returns to shareholders.
Awards granted under the LTIP during the 2017 financial year are 
subject to the performance conditions listed in the table below:
Performance measures for long-term incentives awarded in 2017
40% of each award granted 30% of each award granted 30% of each award granted
Average annual  
growth in EPS  
period ending on  
31 December  
in the third year
Proportion  
of allocation  
vesting
Ranking against  
the bespoke  
comparator group  
by reference to TSR
Proportion  
of allocation  
vesting
Average  
operating  
cash flow
Proportion  
of allocation  
vesting
Less than 5% pa Nil Below median Nil <105% Nil
5% pa (15% over  
3 years)
25% Median 25% 105% 25%
+ 5 to 12% pa Pro-rata  
between 25%  
and 100%
Between median 
and upper quartile
Pro-rata between 
25% and 100%
Between 105% and 
125%
Pro-rata between 
25% and 100%
Greater than  
+ 12% pa (36% 
over 3 years)
100% Upper quartile 100% 125% 100%
The Company’s current policy is to use market-purchased shares to satisfy LTIP awards.
Participants in the LTIP will receive a further share award with a value equivalent to the dividends which would have been paid in 
respect of LTIP awards vesting at the end of the performance period.
The Company calculates whether the EPS performance targets have been achieved by reference to the Group’s audited accounts, which 
provide an accessible and objective measure of the Group’s earnings per share.
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 97 Adjustments to EPS will be made in respect of:
• Constant exchange rates – in line with previous years, these 
will be normalised to the rates in the base year
• Acquisitions – earnings will be added to the EPS base at the 
level used in the acquisition business case
• Disposals – earnings will be removed from the EPS base at the 
business plan rate
• Share buy-back – the Company will only execute buy-backs if 
the investment is economically accretive and it is in the interest 
of the Company. The adjusted EPS for the purposes of 
calculating performance against the LTIP target shall be further 
adjusted by:
(a) increasing the average number of shares in issue during the 
performance year by the number of shares bought back during 
the past three years
(b) decreasing the net interest cost in the performance year in 
respect of the interest charge on the cash cost of any share 
buy-backs during the past three years. Interest will be 
calculated at the Group’s average costs of funds for the year.
The Remuneration Committee will apply discretion in the event  
of impairment. If the impairment is not a result of management 
failure, then it will not impact the payout.
The Remuneration Committee may alter the terms of the EPS 
measure if it feels that it is no longer a fair measure and is no 
longer incentivising.
Operating cash flow is a measure taken before capital expenditure 
and investments – to ensure that management is not incentivised 
to under-invest in growth opportunities – and before pension 
deficit repayment. Operating cash flow is expressed as EBITDA 
+/- working capital and provisions movement as a percentage  
of EBITDA. Average operating cash flow is the average over  
three years. 
TSR ranking will be verified externally.
Non-executive directors’ remuneration
The fees payable to the non-executive directors other than the 
chairman are set by the executive directors and the chairman.  
The fees payable to the non-executive chairman are set by the 
Remuneration Committee. In both cases, fees are reviewed 
mid-year.
ADVISORS TO THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Deloitte was appointed as the Remuneration Committee’s advisor in 2014 and such appointment was reviewed and confirmed in 
August 2016. The committee received advice from Deloitte on executive and senior management remuneration matters throughout the 
year under review. The committee has satisfied itself as to the independence of Deloitte. Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration 
Consultants Group and operates voluntarily under its code of conduct in the UK.
Advisor Appointment Services provided to Remuneration Committee Fees for services to Rem Co Other services provided to Company
Deloitte 2014 Advice on executive remuneration £49,440 Advice on controls, tax advice 
on expatriate and share plans, 
and other consulting services. 
These services were provided 
by different parts of Deloitte.
Fees for services to the Remuneration Committee are at an agreed rate based on time involved and paid as incurred
Herbert Smith Freehills LLP provided legal advice to the Company, 
including in relation to Mr Raja’s remuneration arrangements and 
the operation of the Company’s incentive arrangements. This advice 
was available to be considered by the Remuneration Committee.
The group chief executive, Ashley Almanza, provided guidance to 
the committee on remuneration packages for senior executives 
within the group. Further guidance was received from the Group’s 
HR director, Jenni Myles, and the director of compensation and 
benefits, Sok Wah Lee. Neither the group chief executive nor the 
group HR director participated in discussions regarding their 
own remuneration.
The committee is satisfied that the advice it received during the 
year was objective and independent based on the experience of 
its members generally.
Information about who are the members of the Remuneration 
Committee and their attendance at meetings of the committee 
during the year under review can be found on page 78.
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT GENERAL MEETING
A resolution to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy as  
set out in the Company’s annual report for the year ended 
31 December 2013 was passed at the Company’s annual general 
meeting held on 5 June 2014. At the Company’s annual general 
meeting held on 26 May 2016, a resolution was passed to approve 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report (other than the part 
containing the summary of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy) 
for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The results of the votes on these resolutions are set out in the 
table below:
Resolution For Against Withheld
Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy – 2014 AGM 98.38% 1.62% 787,216
Directors’ Remuneration 
Report – 2016 AGM 98% 2% 236,880
John Daly
Remuneration Committee Chairman
28 March 2017
98 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued This is the report of the directors of the board of G4S plc for the 
year ended 31 December 2016.
1 The company
G4S plc is a parent company incorporated in England and Wales 
with company number 4992207. It trades primarily through its 
subsidiaries and joint ventures in numerous jurisdictions. A list of 
those subsidiaries and joint ventures is set out on pages 162 
to 176.
G4S plc has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and 
a secondary listing on the NASDAQ OMX exchange in Copenhagen.
2 Reporting obligations
In compliance with relevant listing rules and also DTR4.1.5.R and 
DTR4.1.8R, the annual report contains the consolidated results for 
the year, shown in the Consolidated income statement on page 
110, a management statement contained in the strategic report 
and in the Directors’ report and responsibility statements on 
pages 99 to 102.
Details of the development and performance of the Group’s 
business during the year, its position at the year end, future 
developments, principal risks and uncertainties and prospects of 
the Group and other information which fulfil the requirements of 
a management report are contained on pages 4 to 55 of the 
strategic report and are incorporated by reference in this 
Directors’ report. The Corporate governance report, the Audit 
Committee report and the Directors’ remuneration report set 
out on pages 56 to 98 and the Chief Financial Officer’s review on 
pages 32 to 40 are also incorporated in this report by reference. 
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies in 
relation to its use of financial instruments and its exposure to 
price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk, to the extent material, are 
set out in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements on 
pages 144 to 148 which is also incorporated by reference in this 
Directors’ report.
None of the matters required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.4C R 
apply to the Company other than shareholder waiver of dividends 
which is referred to in section 4 of this Directors’ report.
3 Dividends
The directors propose the following dividend for the year:
• Interim dividend of 3.59p (DKK 0.3143 ) per share paid on  
14 October 2016
• Final dividend of 5.82p (DKK 0.5029) per share payable on 
9 June 2017
Shareholders on the Danish VP register will receive their dividends 
in Danish kroner. Shareholders who hold their shares through 
CREST or in certificated form will receive their dividends in 
sterling unless they prefer to receive Danish kroner by way of a 
cheque payable in the UK, in which case they should apply in 
writing to the Registrars by no later than 27 April 2017.
4 Capital
The issued share capital of G4S plc at 31 December 2016 is as set 
out on page 157 (note 35 to the consolidated financial 
statements) and consisted of 1,551,594,436 ordinary shares of 25 
pence each. The number of shares in issue as at 28 March 2017 
remains unchanged.
In general there are no restrictions on the holder’s ability to 
transfer their shares or exercise their voting rights, other than in 
situations where the Company is legally entitled to impose such 
restrictions (usually where amounts remain unpaid on the shares 
after request, or the holder is otherwise in default of an obligation 
to the Company).
The Company is not aware of any agreements between its 
shareholders that may restrict the transfer of their shares or the 
exercise of the voting rights attaching to them except in relation 
to the G4S Employee Benefit Trust (“the Trust”) which has been 
established to facilitate certain employee share plans.
Resolutions granting the directors power, subject to certain 
conditions, to allot and make market purchases of the Company’s 
shares will be proposed at the Company’s annual general meeting. 
At 31 December 2016 the directors had authority in accordance 
with a resolution passed at the Company’s annual general meeting 
held on 26 May 2016 to make market purchases of up to 
155,159,000 of the Company’s shares.
The Company does not hold any treasury shares as such. 
However, the 4,844,243 shares held within the Trust and referred 
to on page 157 (note 36 to the consolidated financial statement) 
are accounted for as treasury shares. The Trust has waived its right 
to receive dividends in respect of the Company’s shares which it 
held during the period under review.
5 Significant agreements – change of control
The Company is party to a £1,000,000,000 multi-currency 
revolving credit facility agreement which requires prompt 
notification of a change of control event following which funds 
committed but unutilised could be cancelled and repayment of 
outstanding funds utilised would need to be made within 45 days.
The Company entered into two US Private Placement Note 
Purchase Agreements (the “USPP Agreements”), on 1 March 2007 
and 15 July 2008 respectively. The first USPP Agreement is for 
$550,000,000 and series B-D senior notes representing 
$450,000,000 remain outstanding and mature between 
1 March 2017 and 1 March 2022. The second USPP Agreement is 
for $513,500,000 and £69,000,000 and series D-F senior notes 
representing $298,500,000 and £44,000,000 remain outstanding 
and mature between 15 July 2018 and 15 July 2020. Under the 
terms of both USPP Agreements, the Company is required to 
offer the note holders the right to purchase the notes at par value 
together with interest thereon upon a change of control.
Under the terms of the £2,500,000,000 Euro Medium Term Note 
Programme the Company issued four tranches of Medium Term 
Notes (MTNs) to various institutions on 13 May 2009 
(£350,000,000), 2 May 2012 (€600,000,000), 6 December 2012 
(€500,000,000) and 9 November 2016 (Euro 500,000,000). In the 
event of a change of control, a put option comes into force, 
according to which holders of any MTN may require the 
Company to redeem the MTNs at par if the MTNs carry a 
sub-investment grade in the period immediately prior to the 
change of control, or in certain circumstances where the MTNs 
are downgraded to sub-investment as a result of the change 
of control.
The Group’s UK pension scheme trust deed contains provisions 
which apply if a takeover event occurs. Following such an event, 
the appointment and removal of trustees becomes subject to 
unanimous trustee agreement and the trustees acquire the 
unilateral power to set the employer contribution rates in certain 
sections of the scheme.
6 Post balance sheet events
There have been no significant events from 31 December 2016 to 
the date of this report.
7 Research and development expenditure
Research in connection with the development of new services 
and products and the improvement of those currently provided by 
the Group is carried out continuously. Research and development 
written-off to profit and loss during the year amounted to £4m 
(2015: £8m).
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 99
Directors’ report 8 Employees
With such a large and geographically dispersed workforce, 
consultation and communication has to be both continuous and 
consistent. We use all methods available to us and are constantly 
looking to improve. The software technology we’ve invested in has 
brought multiple benefits including greater reach and accessibility 
for employee communications. The global intranet now connects 
around 65,000 employees and allows them to share information 
and stay up to date on the Company’s performance and significant 
changes. Global communities such as those developed for health 
and safety are helping drive improvements in some key areas of 
business focus. Our employee relations agreements with trade 
unions and global employee engagement survey are two other 
critical channels for sharing information on Company performance 
and gathering employee feedback on a range of issues affecting 
them. More information on both can be found on pages 16 
and 18.
T o be effective and grow we know we need to foster an 
environment where people feel able to share their own ideas and 
challenge each other’s in a supportive way. Working inclusively and 
treating each other with respect are not only core to our values 
but vital to our sustained success so we invest time and effort in 
our diversity and inclusion strategies. We have robust policies and 
procedures in place to prevent discrimination and harassment  
and provide training on diversity and inclusion for managers and 
people involved in recruitment and promotion, while proactive 
local initiatives support our philosophy and commitments in  
this area. 
Where existing employees become disabled as a result of injury 
or illness, we also want to ensure we continue to support them, 
including making reasonable adjustments or offering support 
through our Employee Trust Fund where applicable. For further 
information on our approach to diversity and inclusion please go 
to page 16.
9 Political donations
Each year the Company’s shareholders have passed a resolution 
on a precautionary basis to allow the Company and its subsidiaries 
to make political donations or incur political expenditure not 
exceeding £50,000. However, the board confirms that the Group’s 
policy is not to make any financial contribution to political parties 
and that the Company and its subsidiaries have made no 
contributions during the year to political parties carrying on 
activities, or to candidates seeking election within the EU, or 
anywhere else in the world.
10 Greenhouse gas emissions
Alongside the risks faced by people and infrastructure from 
climate change are the challenges presented by global 
economic conditions.
Managing fuel costs and the impact of “carbon taxes” through 
programmes to improve the Group’s energy efficiency and reduce 
its environmental impacts are important to the continued 
effectiveness and sustainability of the Group’s business.
What we are doing
We follow WBCSD* and WRI** Greenhouse Gas Protocol to 
measure our Scope 1 and 2 emissions – vehicle fleet, fuel, 
refrigerants and electricity usage for G4S businesses over which 
the Group has financial and operational control. In addition the 
Group has measured Scope 3 emissions from employee business 
air travel.
The businesses that reported data in the 2016 GHG 
measurement represent 91.6% of the Group’s operations, across a 
12 month period. This level of measurement, including each of the 
Group’s main service types, allows reliable calculation of the total 
GHG emissions for 100% of the Group.
How we are performing
The G4S total carbon footprint during 2016, extrapolated to 
100% of the business equates to some 503,821 t/CO
2
e. These 
CO
2
e emissions, including emissions generated by services which 
our customers have outsourced to G4S, have decreased by 1.01% 
since 2015 – against a 6.3% growth in the business during the 
same period, reflecting the efforts made to increase the energy 
efficiency of our business.
In 2017, we will continue to implement energy efficiency strategies 
with the aim of reducing carbon intensity by at least 4.5% 
per annum.
* World Business Council for Sustainable Development
** World Resources Institute
For further details, please visit www.g4s.com/env
100 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ report continued GHG emissions
(Based on 91.6% measurement) 2015 2016
Vehicles (inc. refrigerants) 269,003 275,793
T otal buildings (inc. refrigerants) 149,900 143,388
Including electricity emissions of 111,599 114,243
Air T ravel 16,102 15,275
Carbon intensity
2014 2015 2016
T onnes CO
2
e per £m turnover 73.6 70.9 68.4
11 Substantial holdings
The Company had been notified under DTR 5 of the following interests in the ordinary capital of G4S plc:
As at 31.12.2016
Invesco 186,129,638 (11.99%)
BlackRock, Inc. 87,814,349 (5.66%)
Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 78,613,679 (5.07%)
Woodford Investment Management LLP 78,247,804 (5%)
Harris Associates LP 78,143,564 (5.04%)
Tweedy, Brown Company LLC 71,420,862 (5.06%
†
)
Between 1.1.2017 and 28.3.2017
BlackRock, Inc. – 7.3.17 88,396,749 (5.69%)
† notification received prior to issue of 140,925,757 new shares in August 2013, therefore percentage based on total shares in issue at that date 
12 Auditor
A resolution to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , 
chartered accountants, as auditor to the Company for 2017, and 
for their remuneration to be fixed by the Audit Committee, will 
be submitted to the annual general meeting. 
13 Directors
The directors, biographical details of whom are contained on 
pages 58 and 59, held office throughout the year, apart from  
Steve Mogford who was appointed on 27 May 2016, Barbara 
Thoralfsson who was appointed on 1 July 2016 and Ian Springett 
who was appointed on 1 January 2017. Mark Elliott and  
Adam Crozier retired from the board at the conclusion of  
the Company’s annual general meeting on 26 May 2016 and 
Himanshu Raja stepped down from the board on 1 October 2016. 
In accordance with the code provisions on re-election of directors 
in the UK Corporate Governance Code, each of the directors 
continuing in office will offer themselves for re-election. The board 
believes that the directors standing for re-election possess 
experience and expertise relevant to the Company’s operations; 
that they continue to be effective; that they are committed to the 
success of the Company; and that they should be re-elected (or 
elected) at the annual general meeting.
The contracts of service of the executive directors have no 
unexpired term since they are not for a fixed term. They are 
terminable at 12 months’ notice. None of the non-executive 
directors has a contract of service.
The Company has executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of 
each of the directors in respect of liabilities which may attach to 
them in their capacity as directors of the Company. These deeds 
are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined by 
section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and have been in effect 
since 14 June 2010 for Ms Spottiswoode, 1 October 2010 for  
Ms Fok, 8 June 2012 for Mr Connolly, 1 January 2013 for Mr Spence, 
1 April 2013 for Mr Weller,1 May 2013 for Mr Almanza, 
5 June 2015 for Mr Daly, 27 May 2016 for Steve Mogford, 
1 July 2016 for Barbara Thoralfsson and 1 January 2017 for  
Ian Springett. Copies of the forms of indemnity are available on 
the Company’s website. In addition, indemnities have been granted 
by the Company in favour of certain of the directors of some of 
the Group’s subsidiaries in the UK, the USA, Germany, the 
Netherlands, India and the Philippines. The Company has 
maintained a directors’ and officers’ liability insurance policy 
throughout the year under review.
Details of directors’ interests (including the interests of their 
connected persons) in the share capital of G4S plc are set out on 
pages 94 and 95, and of the directors’ remuneration are set out 
on pages 89 and 90.
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there 
is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is 
unaware, and each director has taken all the steps that he or she 
ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware 
of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the 
Company’s auditor is aware of that information. 
None of the directors had a material interest in any contract 
significant to the business of the Group during the financial year.
By order of the board
Celine Barroche 
Company Secretary 
28 March 2017
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 101 Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of 
the annual report and the financial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and 
the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law 
and have elected to prepare the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and 
of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the 
group and parent company financial statements, the directors are 
required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
• make judgments and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
• for the group financial statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
• for the parent company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the parent company financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the financial position of the parent company and enable 
them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking 
such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets 
of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a strategic report, Directors’ report, 
Directors’ remuneration report and Corporate governance 
statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity  
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may  
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement
Each of the directors, the names of whom are set out on pages 58 
and 59 of this annual report, confirm that, to the best of his or 
her knowledge:
• the financial statements in this annual report have been 
prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting 
standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and results of the Company and the 
Group; and
• the management report required by DTR4.1.8R (contained in 
the strategic report and the Directors’ report) includes a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business 
and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a 
whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties they face.
The strategic report from the inside front cover to page 55 
includes information on the Group structure, the performance of 
the business and the principal risks and uncertainties it faces. The 
financial statements on pages 110 to 185 include information on 
the Group and the Company’s financial results, financial outlook, 
cash flow and net debt and balance sheet positions. Notes 22, 26, 
27, 30 and 31 to the consolidated financial statements include 
information on the Group’s investments, cash and cash equivalents, 
borrowings, derivatives, financial risk management objectives, 
hedging policies and exposure to interest, foreign exchange, credit, 
liquidity and market risks.
Pages 110 to 176 contain information on the performance of the 
Group, its financial position, cash flows, net debt position and 
borrowing facilities. Further information, including financial risk 
management policies, exposures to market and credit risk and 
hedging activities, is given in note 31 to the financial statements. 
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason 
the directors consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Directors are also required to provide a broader assessment of 
viability over a longer period, which can be found on page 55 of 
the annual report and accounts.
The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken 
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
The statement of directors’ responsibilities and the strategic 
report are approved by a duly authorised committee of the  
board of directors on 28 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by 
Tim Weller, chief financial officer.
Tim W eller
Chief Financial Officer 
28 March 2017
102 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Directors’ responsibilities Overview
Materiality
• Overall Group materiality: £15 million which represents 
approximately 5% of adjusted profit before tax, being profit 
before tax after adding back certain non-recurring items.
Audit scope
• Our audit included full scope audits of the Group’s seven 
geographical regions. The regional and corporate head office 
audits were supported by full scope audits at 130 country 
components with specified audit procedures performed at a 
further 11 country components.
• Taken together, the components at which either full scope 
audit work or specified audit procedures were performed 
accounted for 85% of consolidated revenue, 81% of 
consolidated profit before tax and 83% of consolidated 
adjusted profit before tax.
Areas of focus
• Onerous contract provisioning
• Goodwill impairment
• Uncertain tax positions and deferred tax assets 
• Control environment 
• Income statement presentation
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing 
the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.  
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective 
judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future 
events that are inherently uncertain. Consistent with all of our 
audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of 
internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence 
of bias by management that represented a risk of material 
misstatement due to fraud, and the risk of fraud in revenue 
recognition. Procedures designed to address these risks included 
testing of material journal entries and post-close adjustments, 
testing and evaluating management’s key accounting estimates for 
reasonableness and consistency, undertaking cut-off procedures to 
check proper cut-off of revenue and expenses and testing the 
occurrence and accuracy of revenue transactions. In addition, we 
incorporate an element of unpredictability into our audit work 
each year.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on 
our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are 
identified as “areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set 
out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in 
order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a 
whole. Any comments we make on the results of our procedures 
should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all 
risks identified by our audit. 
Report on the financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion:
• G4S plc’s Group financial statements and parent company 
financial statements (the “financial statements”) give a true  
and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent 
company’s affairs at 31 December 2016 and of the  
Group’s profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union;
• the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Integrated Report 
and Accounts (the “Annual Report”), comprise:
• the consolidated statement of financial position at  
31 December 2016;
• the parent company statement of financial position at  
31 December 2016;
• the consolidated income statement and consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
• the consolidated statement of cash flow for the year 
then ended;
• the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year 
then ended;
• the parent company statement of changes in equity for the 
year then ended; and
• the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary 
of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in 
the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial 
statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial 
statements and are identified as audited. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group 
financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in the preparation of the parent company financial 
statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising 
FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework” and applicable law 
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Our audit approach
G4S is an integrated security company specialising in the provision 
of security and related services to customers in around 100 
countries which are organised into seven geographical regions. 
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 103
Independent auditors’ report to the members of G4S plc Area of focus
Onerous contract provisioning
Certain of the Group’s contracts are onerous and long-term in nature. These contracts can be complex and incorporate penalty and key 
performance indicator (“KPI”) clauses in the event of non-compliance. The Group is therefore required to make operational and 
financial assumptions to estimate future losses over periods that can extend beyond 20 years. 
The prediction of future events contains inherent risk and a high degree of management judgement. 
Variability of contract penalties, underlying delivery costs and customer disputes can put additional pressure on margins and on future 
contract profitability, giving rise to onerous contract provisions. 
The Group’s onerous contract provisions at 31 December 2016 are £69m (2015: £83m). The income statement charge for onerous 
contracts in 2016 amounts to £6m.
Refer to Audit Committee report on page 72 and to note 33 of the Group financial statements.
How our audit addressed the area of focus
Our global approach to testing complex contracts starts with an evaluation of management’s process to identify and quantify  
onerous and at-risk contracts. Management focuses on the top 25 contracts by region and on contracts with margins of less than 3%. 
We performed scanning analytics on contract margins and investigated unusual or unexpected trends to check inclusion of all relevant 
contracts in management’s assessment. Our sampling of contracts focused our testing on higher risk and larger contracts and enabled  
us to form an independent view as to whether management’s process had identified all onerous and at-risk contracts.
For each contract in our sample, we obtained and read the contractual terms and tested that the revenue recognised in the period was 
in accordance with the contractual terms and was supported by evidence of service delivery. We read and understood the contract 
penalty clauses and evaluated the completeness of penalties through discussions with contract managers and reading minutes of 
meetings between G4S and the customer and customer correspondence.
We assessed each of the key assumptions used in management’s forecasts to identify and quantify onerous contract provisions. Where 
possible, we obtained third party evidence to corroborate management’s assumptions and assessed the appropriateness of the Group’s 
forecasts based on past performance. The Group’s policy is to include the benefits of performance improvement plans only where there 
is evidence of plans being achievable. We critically challenged these benefits based on observable benefits achieved to date and the 
extent to which these plans are within the Group’s direct control.
We assessed the appropriateness of the discount rate used to present value the obligation and checked that the rate appropriately 
reflected the risk in the underlying cash flows. We also assessed the recoverability of dedicated contract assets where the contract was 
identified as onerous.
We are satisfied that assets directly attributable to delivering onerous contracts have been appropriately impaired at 31 December 2016.
Having examined management’s analysis, our procedures focused on the Facilities Management and Care & Justice businesses in the  
UK and specifically on the Compass contract and on a legacy PFI contract which are both long-term in nature, sensitive to changes in 
assumptions and have given rise to changes in provisioning levels at year-end.
For these contracts, we performed our own independent sensitivity analysis and we have undertaken additional analysis on key 
assumptions to which management’s provisioning judgements are more sensitive. We also held discussions with in-house and external 
legal counsel and read appropriate documentation to evaluate contractual claims and disputes with customers and sub-contractors and 
to assess any issues with the interpretation of contracts.
From the evidence obtained, we did not identify any incremental onerous contracts over and above the arrangements identified  
by management’s own procedures. We considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the context of the Group financial 
statements taken as a whole. However, we noted that the assumptions and judgements that are required to formulate the provisions 
mean that the range of possible outcomes is broad. We are satisfied with the Group’s related disclosures of these onerous contracts in 
light of the underlying assumptions and accounting judgements made.
Goodwill impairment
The Group has £1.99bn of goodwill at 31 December 2016 (2015: £1.83bn). 
During the year, the Group recognised an impairment charge of £9m (2015: £66m) relating to a business classified by management as 
portfolio and identified for closure.
Management determines the recoverable amount of a CGU as the higher of value in use (“VIU”) or fair value less cost of disposal 
(“FVLCD”) for continuing operations. For portfolio businesses where management is committed to either sell or exit the business, a 
market valuation or market participant cash flows are used.
The carrying value of goodwill is contingent on future cash flows and there is risk if these cash flows do not meet the Group’s 
expectations that the assets will be impaired. The impairment reviews performed by the Group contain a number of significant 
judgements and estimates including revenue growth, profit margins, cash conversion and long-term growth and discount rates.  
Changes in these assumptions can have a significant impact on the headroom available in the impairment calculations.
Refer to Audit Committee report on page 72 and to note 18 of the Group financial statements.
104 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Independent auditors’ report to the members of G4S plc continued How our audit addressed the area of focus
We assessed the mathematical accuracy of management’s cash flow model and agreed the underlying forecasts to board approved 
budgets and assessed how these budgets were compiled.
With the support of our valuations experts, we assessed the terminal growth rates and discount rates applied by management to third 
party information and confirmed they fell within a reasonable range of external market data. Where they did not, we applied our 
independent view of a more appropriate rate to management’s forecast.
We considered the reliability of management’s forecasting for revenue, profit and cash conversion by comparing budgeted results to 
actual performance over a period of three years, which we considered appropriate. Where we identified significant shortfalls against 
budget in prior years, this informed our determination of sensitivities to apply as we formed our independent view about reasonable 
downside scenarios.
Where the recoverable amount has been assessed with reference to a valuation multiple, including for portfolio businesses, we assessed 
the appropriateness of the multiple by comparison to recent business disposals and to other third party information. With the support 
of our valuations experts, these multiples were found to be within a reasonable range.
We performed our own risk assessment by considering historical performance, forecasting accuracy and modelled headroom to 
highlight the CGUs with either a lower headroom or which are more sensitive to changes in key assumptions. We also considered the 
valuation multiple implied by management’s estimate. For those CGUs with low headroom, we performed our own sensitivity analysis to 
understand the impact of changes in the assumptions on the available headroom. We critically assessed management’s forecast by 
comparing growth forecast to actual growth to date and to IMF projections. 
The recoverable amount of a number of CGUs including South Africa Cash, Brazil Secure Solutions and UK Cash Solutions were found 
to be sensitive to reasonably possible changes in assumptions and we satisfied ourselves that this risk is appropriately highlighted in the 
disclosures in note 18.
As a result of our work, we determined that the quantum of the impairment recognised in 2016 was appropriate and that adequate 
disclosure has been made.
Uncertain tax positions and deferred tax assets
The Group operates in a complex multinational tax environment and is subject to a range of tax risks during the normal course of 
business including transaction related tax matters and transfer pricing arrangements. 
Where the amount of tax payable is uncertain, the Group establishes provisions based on management’s judgement of the probable 
amount of the future liability. At 31 December 2016, the Group has recognised provisions of £37m related to uncertain tax positions 
(2015: £16m).
In addition, the Group has recognised £285m of deferred tax assets at 31 December 2016 (2015: £187m). The recognition of deferred 
tax assets involves judgement by management regarding the likelihood of the realisation of these assets. The expectation that these 
assets will be realised is dependent on a number of factors, including whether there will be sufficient taxable profits in future periods to 
support utilisation of these assets.
Refer to Audit Committee report on page 72 and to notes 13 and 34 of the Group financial statements.
How our audit addressed the area of focus
With the assistance of our local and international tax specialists, we evaluated and challenged management’s judgements in respect of 
estimates of tax exposures and contingencies in order to assess the adequacy of the Group’s tax provisions. 
In understanding and evaluating management’s judgements, we considered the status of recent and current tax authority audits and 
enquiries, judgemental positions taken in tax returns and current year estimates and developments in the tax environment. Where 
appropriate, we also read appropriate documentation to understand the legal positions reached. From the evidence obtained, we 
considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole. However, we 
noted that the assumptions and judgements that are required to formulate the provisions mean that is there a broad range of 
possible outcomes.
In respect of the recoverability of deferred tax assets, we evaluated management’s assessment of how these assets will be realised and 
whether there will be sufficient taxable profits in future periods to support their recognition. We evaluated management’s future cash 
flow forecasts and the process by which they were prepared ensuring consistency of cash flows with those used for the purpose of 
goodwill impairment testing. Based on our procedures, future cash flow forecasts were both consistent with those used for impairment 
testing and supported the recoverability of the deferred tax assets recognised.
Control environment
The geographical span and decentralised structure of the Group, coupled with the current disparate systems landscape and evolving 
control environment, means that there is an increased risk of errors remaining undetected and aggregating to cause a material 
misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Progress has been made by the Group in 2016 to strengthen the controls framework through the implementation of Minimum Financial 
Controls (“MFC”). However, as the new framework was rolled out and implemented in 2016, the controls were not necessarily 
operational for the whole year.
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 105 How our audit addressed the area of focus
In recognition of the Group’s scale and decentralised structure and aligning to the Group’s regional management structure, we continued 
to deploy teams in each of the Group’s regions to lead our interactions with regional management, to coordinate the audit work 
performed at a country component level and to audit and report on the aggregated financial information of that region.
Given that the MFC framework and controls were not operational for the full year in 2016, we did not seek to test or rely on these 
controls for our 2016 audit. We therefore instructed our component teams not to seek to rely on financial controls at the local business 
level but to perform a substantive audit focused on transaction testing and on the integrity of the year-end balance sheet. 
With the support of our regional teams, we determined the entities to be included in our Group audit scope based on those locations 
with significant risk and those which contribute a significant amount to material line items in the Group financial statements. Recognising 
the systemic risk associated with the current control and IT environment, all entities which contributed more than 2% of consolidated 
revenue and consolidated profit before tax were included in our audit scope.
We applied a reduction to our overall materiality to set a performance materiality benchmark that we used to determine the nature, 
timing and extent of our detailed audit procedures. Our performance materiality benchmark of £9.5m reflected the Group’s evolving 
control environment, the risk of multiple misstatements resulting in a material misstatement and the history of past audit adjustments.
Wherever we identified audit adjustments, we instructed our regional and country component teams to assess whether similar errors 
had arisen elsewhere. While we did identify audit differences across the Group, management corrected the more significant items 
meaning that the uncorrected items reported to the Audit Committee were considered to be immaterial for adjustment, both 
individually and in aggregate.
Income statement presentation
The Group has historically reported specific and other items (including restructuring costs) which are disclosed separately on the face of 
the income statement and which are excluded from management’s reporting of the underlying results of the business. Consistent with 
the Group’s definition of profit before interest, tax and amortisation (“PBITA”), the following items have continued to be disclosed 
separately on the face of the income statement in 2016: net specific items £13m (2015: £70m); restructuring costs £12m (2015: £44m); 
goodwill impairments £9m (2015: £66m); and net profit on disposal and closure of subsidiaries £7m (2015: £12m).
The treatment of specific and other separately disclosed items is explained in the Group accounting policy in note 3(b). We focused on 
this area because the classification of items as specific requires judgement and because certain of these items are excluded from the 
calculation of elements of executive remuneration in line with the Group’s remuneration policy. Consistency in the identification and 
presentation of these items is important to ensure comparability of year-on-year reporting in the Annual Report.
Refer to Audit Committee report on page 72 and to note 3(b) of the Group financial statements.
How our audit addressed the area of focus
We substantiated the nature and quantum of individual items to appropriate corroborating evidence.
We considered whether the designation of individual items as specific was consistent with the Group’s accounting policy and treatment 
in prior years. Furthermore, we considered whether amounts included as specific items related to the current year and might be more 
appropriately reflected in the underlying results. 
We considered whether the Group has taken a balanced approach to this area, checking that exceptional one-off items of income are 
treated consistently with one-off items of cost.
We tested management’s process for identifying and tracking the current year reversal of any prior year specific items, or utilisation of or 
adjustment to related provisions, to identify whether these have been appropriately presented in the current year income statement.
Based on our procedures, we were satisfied that the treatment and classification of these items were consistent year-on-year and with 
the Group’s policies.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements 
as a whole, taking into account the geographical structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls and the industry in which 
the Group operates. 
The Group is structured into seven geographical regions being Africa, Asia Pacific, Europe, Latin America, Middle East & India, North 
America and the UK & Ireland (“UK&I”). A corporate head office region is managed at a Group level. Each geographical region 
(“regional component”) is an aggregation of a number of country-based components along with the Group’s interests in joint ventures 
(together the “country components”). Each geographical region has a separate management team which coordinates the businesses 
within that region.
The Group’s accounting processes are structured around a local finance function in each of the country components. In addition, finance 
shared service centres in the UK, North America and India support certain of the Group’s businesses. The country components report 
to the regions and to the Group through an integrated consolidation system. 
In performing our audit, we determined that we needed to conduct audit work over the complete financial information of each of the 
regional components. We therefore deployed regional component audit teams in each of the seven regions to lead our interactions with 
regional management, to coordinate the audit work performed on the country components and to audit and report on the aggregated 
financial information of that region. In addition to the seven regional components, specific audit procedures over central functions, the 
106 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Independent auditors’ report to the members of G4S plc continued Group consolidation and areas of judgement (including taxation, goodwill and intangible assets impairment, treasury and post-retirement 
benefits) were directly led by the Group audit team.
Recognising that not every country component in each regional component is included in our Group audit scope, we considered as 
part of our Group audit oversight responsibility what audit coverage had been obtained in aggregate by our regional component teams 
by reference to country components at which audit work had been undertaken. Beneath the regional component layer, the Group 
financial statements are an aggregation of over 700 reporting units, each of which is considered to be a country component. We 
identified 130 country component units that, in our view, required a full scope audit due to their size or risk characteristics. Specific audit 
procedures over significant balances and transactions were performed at a further 11 country component units to give appropriate 
coverage of all material balances.
Where the work was performed by regional and country component audit teams, we determined the level of involvement we needed 
to have in the audit work at those components. As a result, six of the seven regions were visited by senior members of the Group audit 
team as a supplement to the regular dialogue between our Group and regional teams and the issuance of instructions to direct their 
work. Regional teams visited a further 18 country components performing oversight procedures under our instruction. For those 
components in Group audit scope where a site visit was not undertaken, our Group and our regional component audit teams’ 
involvement included regular dialogue with our country component teams, review of component auditor work papers and participation 
in certain component audit clearance meetings for the more significant components.
Taken together, the components and functions where we performed either full scope audit work or specified audit procedures 
accounted for 85% of consolidated revenue, 81% of consolidated profit before tax and 83% of consolidated adjusted profit before tax. 
This was before considering the contribution to our audit evidence from performing audit work at the regional and Group levels, 
including disaggregated analytical review procedures and our evaluation of entity level controls, which covered a significant portion of 
the Group’s smaller and lower risk components that were not directly included in our Group audit scope.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, 
together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit 
procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually 
and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £15 million (2015: £13 million)
How we determined it Approximately 5% of adjusted profit before tax
Rationale for benchmark applied The Group’s principal measure of earnings is profit before interest, tax and amortisation 
adjusted for a number of items of income and expenditure (“PBITA”). Management uses this 
measure as it believes that it reflects the underlying performance of the Group. We took this 
measure into account in determining our materiality, except that we did not adjust profit 
before tax to add back acquisition-related amortisation and interest as in our view these are 
recurring items which do not introduce volatility to the Group’s earnings.
Component materiality For each regional and country component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that 
was less than overall Group materiality. The range of overall materiality allocated to each 
regional component was between £3m and £9.5m and to each country component was 
between £0.01m and £9.5m. Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit 
materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £1 million 
(2015: £700,000) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors’ statement, set out on page 102, in relation to going concern. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to 
the directors’ statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial 
statements. We have nothing material to add or to draw to your attention. 
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements. The going concern basis presumes that the Group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in 
operation and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part 
of our audit, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate. However, because not all future events 
or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s and parent company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 107 Other required reporting
Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements
Companies Act 2006 reporting
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
• the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
• the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the parent company and their environment obtained in the 
course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors’ 
report. We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the 
Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions 
to report.
• the statement given by the directors on page 102, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the Code, 
that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for members to assess the Group’s and parent company’s position 
and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the 
Group and parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions 
to report.
• the section of the Annual Report on page 72, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing 
the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the 
Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions 
to report.
The directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of 
the Group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
• the directors’ confirmation on page 66 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 of 
the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, 
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing material 
to add or to draw 
attention to.
• the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being 
managed or mitigated.
We have nothing material 
to add or to draw 
attention to.
• the directors’ explanation on page 55 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 
Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so 
and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as 
they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to 
any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material 
to add or to draw 
attention to
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Group and the directors’ statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group. Our review was 
substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors’ process supporting their 
statements; checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering whether the 
statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
108 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Independent auditors’ report to the members of G4S plc continued Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions 
of the Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibility statement set out on page 102, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of:
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and
• the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a 
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report. With respect to the strategic report and directors’ report, we consider 
whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Richard Hughes (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London
28 March 2017
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 109 Consolidated income statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2016 
110 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
 Notes
2016 
£m 
2015
£m 
 Continuing operations  
 Revenue 5,6 7,590 6,863
   
Operating profit before joint ventures, specific items and other separately disclosed items 452 381
Share of profit after tax from joint ventures 20 9 10
Profit before interest, tax and amortisation (PBITA) 6 461 391
Specific items – charges 8 (21) (82)
Specific items – credits 8 8 12
Restructuring costs 8 (12) (44)
Net profit on disposal/closure of subsidiaries 8 7 12
Goodwill impairment 8,18 (9) (66)
Acquisition-related amortisation and expenses 8 (32) (40)
 Operating profit 6,8 402 183
 Finance income 12 33 26
 Finance expense 12 (139) (131)
 Profit before tax 296 78
 Tax 13 (76) (50)
 Profit from continuing operations after tax 220 28
 Loss from discontinued operations 7 (3) (2)
 Profit for the year 217 26
   
 Attributable to:  
 Equity holders of the parent 198 8
 Non-controlling interests 19 18
 Profit for the year 217 26
   
 Earnings per share attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 15 
   
 Basic and diluted – from continuing operations 13.0p 0.6p
 Basic and diluted – from continuing and discontinued operations 12.8p 0.5p
 
110 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
For the year ended 31 December 2016 
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 111 
Notes 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Profit for the year  217 26
   
Other comprehensive income   
   
Items that will not be re-classified to profit or loss:   
Re-measurements relating to defined retirement benefit schemes 32 (169) 18
Tax on items that will not be re-classified to profit or loss 13 28 (11)
  (141) 7
Items that are or may be re-classified subsequently to profit or loss:   
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations   429 (76)
Change in fair value of net-investment hedging financial instruments  (197) (22)
Change in fair value of cash-flow hedging financial instruments  (4) 2
Tax on items that are or may be re-classified subsequently to profit or loss 13 22 1
  250 (95)
Other comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax  109 (88)
   
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year  326 (62)
   
Attributable to:   
Equity holders of the parent  305 (81)
Non-controlling interests  21 19
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year  326 (62)
 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2016 
 Attributable to equity holders of the parent  
 
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Other
reserves*
£m
Total 
£m 
NCI 
reserve 
£m 
Total
equity
£m
At 1 January 2016 388 258 (174) 201 673  18 691 
Total comprehensive income  –  – 55 250 305  21 326 
Dividends paid  –  – (145) – (145) (17) (162)
Transactions with non-controlling interests  –  – (1) – (1) (1) (2)
Own shares awarded  –  – (5) 5  –   –  – 
Share-based payments  –  – 10  – 10   – 10 
At 31 December 2016 388 258 (260) 456 842  21 863 
   
   
At 1 January 2015  388 258 (42) 296 900  22 922 
Total comprehensive income/(loss)  –  – 14 (95) (81) 19 (62)
Dividends paid  –  – (145) – (145) (29) (174)
Transactions with non-controlling interests  –  – (2) – (2)  – (2)
Share-based payments  –  – 7  – 7   – 7 
Re-classification of non-controlling interests  –  – (6) – (6) 6  – 
At 31 December 2015 388 258 (174) 201 673  18 691 
* See note 36 for an analysis of other reserves.
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 111 Consolidated statement of financial position 
At 31 December 2016 
112 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
Notes 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
ASSETS   
Non-current assets   
Goodwill 18 1,990 1,828
Other acquisition-related intangible assets 18 18 47
Other intangible assets 18 86 82
Property, plant and equipment 19 437 427
Trade and other receivables 23 101 84
Investment in joint ventures 20 19 18
Retirement benefit surplus 32 75 76
Deferred tax assets 34 285 187
 6 3,011 2,749
Current assets   
Inventories 21 112 103
Investments 22 44 49
Trade and other receivables 23 1,442 1,323
Cash and cash equivalents 26 851 593
Assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale 25 151 58
  2,600 2,126
Total assets 6 5,611 4,875
   
LIABILITIES   
Current liabilities   
Bank overdrafts 26,27 (93) (122)
Bank loans 27 (16) (75)
Loan notes 27 (677) (25)
Obligations under finance leases 28 (20) (19)
Trade and other payables 29 (1,260) (1,112)
Current tax liabilities  (64) (36)
Provisions 33 (116) (90)
Liabilities of disposal groups classified as held for sale 25 (58) (30)
  (2,304) (1,509)
Non-current liabilities   
Bank loans 27 (4) (324)
Loan notes 27 (1,715) (1,749)
Obligations under finance leases 28 (37) (45)
Trade and other payables 29 (30) (41)
Retirement benefit obligations 32 (512) (355)
Provisions 33 (132) (152)
Deferred tax liabilities 34 (14) (9)
  (2,444) (2,675)
Total liabilities 6 (4,748) (4,184)
   
Net assets  863 691
   
EQUITY   
Share capital 35 388 388
Share premium  258 258
Reserves 36 196 27
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent  842 673
Non-controlling interests  21 18
Total equity  863 691
The consolidated financial statements were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on 28 March 2017. They were 
signed on its behalf by: 
 
Ashley Almanza     Tim Weller 
Director      Director
112 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Consolidated statement of cash flow 
For the year ended 31 December 2016 
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 113 
Notes 
2016 
£m  
2015
£m 
Operating profit  402 183
   
Adjustments for non-cash and other items:   
Goodwill impairment  9 66
Acquisition-related amortisation and expenses  32 40
Net profit on disposal/closure of subsidiaries  (7) (12)
Loss on disposal of fixed assets   – 2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  106 110
Amortisation of other intangible assets  25 25
Equity-settled share-based payments  10 7
Share of profit from joint ventures 20 (9) (10)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions  (1) 66
Pension curtailment gain   – (5)
Additional pension contributions 32 (39) (44)
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital  528 428
   
Increase in inventory  (5) (1)
Increase in accounts receivable  (9) (49)
Increase/(decrease) in accounts payable  101 (19)
Net cash flow from operating activities of continuing operations  615 359
Net cash flow from operating activities of discontinued operations  (9) 26
Cash generated by operating activities  606 385
   
Tax paid  (84) (102)
Net cash flow from operating activities  522 283
   
Investing activities   
Purchases of non-current assets  (116) (111)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment  9 7
Disposal of subsidiaries  82 14
Acquisition of subsidiaries   (1) (17)
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts in disposed entities  (20) (3)
Interest received  14 16
Sale/(purchase) of investments  7 (1)
Cash flow from equity-accounted investments  8 14
Net cash used in investing activities  (17) (81)
   
Financing activities   
Dividends paid to equity shareholders of the parent  (145) (145)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  (17) (29)
Net (decrease)/increase in borrowings  (11) 139
Interest received relating to interest-rate swaps  22 20
Interest paid  (132) (127)
Repayment of obligations under finance leases  (22) (31)
Transactions with non-controlling interests  (2) (2)
Net cash used in financing activities  (307) (175)
   
Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 37 198 27
   
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the beginning of the year  407 402
Effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on net cash held  87 (22)
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the end of the year 26 692 407
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
114 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
1. General information 
G4S plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom. The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of 
the Company and entities (its subsidiaries) controlled by the Company (collectively comprising the Group) and the Group’s interest in 
joint ventures made up to 31 December each year. The Group operates throughout the world and in a wide range of functional 
currencies, the most significant being the euro, the US dollar and sterling. The Group’s financial statements are presented in sterling, as 
the Group’s primary listing is in the UK. The address of the registered office is given on page 187. 
During the year there has been a significant devaluation in the value of sterling following the decision for the UK to exit the European 
Union. The impact of translating 2015 results at 2016 exchange rates would have been a 7% increase in reported revenue and an 8% 
increase in reported PBITA. 
2. Statement of compliance 
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
adopted by the European Union (adopted IFRSs). The parent company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with  
FRS 101 – Reduced Disclosure Framework, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP). These are 
presented on pages 177 to 185. 
3. Significant accounting policies 
(a) Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared under the going concern basis and using the historical cost 
basis, except for the revaluation of certain non-current assets and financial instruments. The principal accounting policies adopted are set 
out below. Judgments made by the directors in the application of those accounting policies which have a significant effect on the 
financial statements, and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment, are discussed in note 4.  
The Consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2015 has been re-presented to show the impact of adopting the new 
IFRS Interpretation Committee (IFRIC) agenda decision in April 2016 regarding cash pooling. This resulted in an increase to cash and 
cash equivalents and an increase to overdrafts of £56m as at 31 December 2015 and £300m as at 1 January 2015. The Consolidated 
statement of financial position at 31 December 2015 has additionally been re-presented to show the impact of the inclusion of cash and 
cash equivalents and overdrafts, of £94m and £25m respectively (1 January 2015: £80m and £15m respectively), in respect of customer 
cash processing (see note 26 on page 139). As a consequence of each of the above, cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2015 
have increased from £443m to £593m (1 January 2015: increased from £422m to £802m), and overdrafts from £41m to £122m  
(1 January 2015: £20m to £335m). 
(b) Presentation of the Consolidated income statement 
In order to provide further clarity in the Group’s Consolidated income statement and segmental analysis, the Group separately discloses 
specific items, restructuring costs, profits or losses on disposal/closure of subsidiaries, acquisition-related amortisation and expenses and 
goodwill impairment. This is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and reported to the Board 
and assists in providing a more meaningful analysis of the Group’s results. The directors believe that presentation of the Group’s results 
in this way aids the understanding of the Group’s financial performance. 
Specific items 
The Group’s Consolidated income statement and segmental analysis note separately identify results before specific items. Specific items 
are those that in management’s judgment need to be disclosed separately in arriving at operating profit by virtue of their size, nature or 
incidence. Up until 31 December 2015, specific items also included the results of updating estimates and judgments for certain assets 
and liabilities related to the balance sheet review which commenced in 2013 and was completed in 2015. The associated tax impact of 
specific items is recorded within the tax charge. In determining whether an event or transaction is specific, management considers 
quantitative as well as qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability of occurrence.  
Contract losses included within specific items arise from the recognition of material future losses, net of the release of any surplus 
provisions. In general, provisions recognised for future losses are charged to the Consolidated income statement within PBITA. Where 
onerous contract provisions are material by virtue of their size, they are separately charged within specific items. Such losses are distinct 
from “in-year” losses, which are utilised against provisions for onerous contract losses.  
Specific items may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies. Specific items for the current and prior year 
are described in note 8. 
Other separately disclosed items – restructuring costs 
Restructuring costs that are separately disclosed reflect the multi-year efficiency programme which is being carried out by the Group. 
This programme is of a strategic nature and, as such, is monitored and approved by the Group’s Executive Committee. During 2015 
and 2016 activities under the programme have focused primarily on transforming the operating model in the regions of UK & Ireland 
and Europe. Restructuring costs that are incurred in the normal course of business are recorded within PBITA. 
114 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 115 
(c) Basis of consolidation 
Subsidiaries 
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control is achieved where the Group has existing rights that give it the current ability 
to direct the activities that affect the Group’s returns and exposure or rights to variable returns from the entity. This can be determined 
either by the Group’s ownership percentage, or by the terms of any shareholder agreement. In the case of certain investments detailed 
analysis of the different contracts in place is required, together with a level of judgment, to ascertain whether there is control under the 
definition of IFRS 10 – Consolidated financial statements (see note 4). 
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired business are measured at their fair values at the date of 
acquisition. The cost of acquisition is measured as the acquisition date fair value of the assets transferred as consideration to the vendor 
and does not include transaction costs. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is 
recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency in the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired (i.e. discount 
on acquisition) is credited to the Consolidated income statement in the year of acquisition. 
The cost of acquisition includes the present value of deferred and contingent consideration payable, including that in respect of put 
options held by non-controlling shareholders, as estimated at the date of acquisition. For acquisitions prior to 1 January 2010 subsequent 
changes to the present value of the estimate of contingent consideration and any difference upon final settlement of such a liability are 
recognised as adjustments to the cost of acquisition. For acquisitions after 1 January 2010 such changes are recognised in the 
Consolidated income statement with respect to contingent consideration and in other comprehensive income with respect to put 
options. Non-controlling interests are stated at their proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised. Profits and 
losses are applied in the proportion of their respective ownership to the interest of the parent and to the non-controlling interest.  
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated income statement from the effective 
date of control and up to the effective date of disposal, respectively.  
Joint ventures 
A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control have the rights to the net assets of the arrangement. 
The results and assets and liabilities of joint ventures are incorporated in the Group’s consolidated financial statements using the equity 
method of accounting. Under the equity method, investments in joint ventures are carried in the Consolidated statement of financial 
position at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the joint venture, less any impairment 
in the value of the investment. The Group’s share of post-tax profits or losses is recognised in the Consolidated income statement.  
Transactions eliminated on consolidation 
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation. Where a Group company transacts with a 
joint venture of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the relevant joint venture.  
(d) Foreign currencies 
The financial statements of each of the Group’s businesses are prepared in the functional currency applicable to that business. 
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the 
transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities which are denominated in other currencies are retranslated at 
the rates prevailing on that date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value which are denominated in other currencies are 
translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items measured at historical cost 
denominated in other currencies are not retranslated. Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the Consolidated income 
statement for the period.  
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising  
on their acquisition, are translated into sterling at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expenses are 
translated into sterling at the average exchange rates for the period (unless this is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative 
effect of the rate prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rates on the dates of  
the transactions). Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income, together with exchange differences arising 
on monetary items that are in substance a part of the Group’s net investment in foreign operations, and on borrowings and other 
currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments where and to the extent that the hedges are deemed to be effective. 
On disposal, translation differences are recognised in the Consolidated income statement in the period in which the operation is 
disposed of.  
(e) Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting  
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group only holds or issues derivative financial instruments to manage the Group’s exposure 
to financial risk, not for trading purposes. Such financial risk includes the interest-rate risk on the Group’s variable-rate borrowings, the 
fair-value risk on the Group’s fixed-rate borrowings, commodity risk in relation to its diesel consumption and foreign-exchange risk on 
transactions, on the translation of the Group’s results and on the translation of the Group’s net assets measured in foreign currencies. 
The Group manages these risks through a range of derivative financial instruments, including interest-rate swaps, fixed-rate agreements, 
commodity swaps, commodity options, forward foreign-exchange contracts and currency swaps.  
 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
116 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
3. Significant accounting policies continued 
(e) Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting continued 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the Consolidated statement of financial position at fair value as financial assets or 
financial liabilities.  
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Consolidated income statement, unless the 
derivatives qualify for hedge accounting where the treatment of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being 
hedged as described below: 
Fair-value hedges 
The change in the fair value of both the hedging instrument and the related portion of the hedged item is recognised immediately in the 
Consolidated income statement.  
Cash-flow and net-investment hedges  
The change in the fair value of the portion of the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity 
and subsequently recycled to the Consolidated income statement when the hedged cash flow or hedged net investment impacts the 
Consolidated income statement. The ineffective portion of the fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the 
Consolidated income statement.  
(f) Intangible assets  
Goodwill  
Business combinations are accounted for by the application of the acquisition method. Goodwill arising on consolidation represents  
the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
at the date of acquisition of a subsidiary or joint venture. No goodwill arises on the acquisition of an additional interest from a non-
controlling interest in a subsidiary as this is accounted for as an equity transaction. Goodwill is stated at cost, less any accumulated 
impairment losses, and is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that amounts may be impaired.  
On disposal of a subsidiary or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss  
on disposal.  
Acquisition-related intangible assets  
Intangible assets on acquisitions that are either separable or arising from contractual rights are recognised at fair value at the date 
of acquisition. Such acquisition-related intangible assets include trademarks, technology, customer contracts and customer relationships. 
The fair value of acquisition-related intangible assets is determined by reference to market prices of similar assets, where such 
information is available, or by the use of appropriate valuation techniques, including the royalty relief method and the excess 
earnings method. 
Acquisition-related intangible assets are amortised by equal annual instalments over their expected economic life. The directors review 
acquisition-related intangible assets on an on-going basis and, where appropriate, provide for any impairment in value.  
The estimated useful lives are as follows: 
Trademarks and technology   up to a maximum of five years  
Customer contracts and customer relationships  up to a maximum of ten years 
Other intangible assets  
Development expenditure represents expenditure incurred in establishing new services and products of the Group. Such expenditure is 
recognised as an intangible asset only if the following can be demonstrated: the expenditure creates an identifiable asset, its cost can be 
measured reliably, it is probable that it will generate future economic benefits, it is technically and commercially feasible, and the Group 
has sufficient resources to complete development. In all other instances, the cost of such expenditure is taken directly to the 
Consolidated income statement. 
Capitalised development expenditure is amortised over the period during which the expenditure is expected to be revenue-producing, 
up to a maximum of ten years. The directors review the capitalised development expenditure on an on-going basis and, where 
appropriate, provide for any impairment in value.  
Research expenditure is charged to the Consolidated income statement in the year in which it is incurred.  
Capitalised computer software is stated at cost, net of amortisation and any provision for impairment. Amortisation is charged on 
software so as to write off the cost of the assets to their estimated residual values by equal annual instalments over their expected 
useful economic lives, up to a maximum of eight years.  
  
116 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 117 
(g) Property, plant and equipment  
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment. Depreciation is 
provided on all property, plant and equipment other than freehold land. Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of the 
assets to their estimated residual values by equal annual instalments over their expected useful economic lives as follows:  
Freehold and long leasehold buildings  up to 50 years 
Short leasehold buildings (under 50 years)  over the life of the lease  
Equipment and motor vehicles  2 to 10 years 
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorte r of their expected useful economic lives and the terms of the relevant lease. 
Where significant, the residual values and the useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment are re-assessed annually.  
(h) Financial instruments  
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.  
Trade receivables  
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently carried at amortised cost less provision for doubtful debts. 
Provisions are made where the Group identifies a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing, previous losses experienced and 
other local economic and market conditions and are calculated by discounting expected cash flows using the effective interest rate at 
origination of the receivable. 
Service concession assets  
Under the terms of a Private Finance Initiative (PFI) or similar project, the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset remain largely with 
the purchaser of the associated services. In such cases, the Group’s interest in the asset is classified as a financial asset and included at its 
discounted value within trade and other receivables, to the extent to which the Group has an unconditional right to receive cash from 
the grantor of the concession for the construction of the asset. To the extent that the Group has the right to charge for the use of such 
an asset, conditional upon the extent of the use, the Group recognises an intangible asset.  
Current asset investments  
Current asset investments comprise investments in securities which are classified as held-for-trading. Such investments are initially 
recognised at cost, including transaction costs, and subsequently measured at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in fair 
value are recognised in the Consolidated income statement.  
Cash and cash equivalents  
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and that form an 
integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the 
Consolidated statement of cash flow. 
Interest-bearing borrowings  
Interest-bearing bank overdrafts, loans and loan notes are recognised at the value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance 
charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are recognised in the Consolidated income 
statement on an accrual basis using the effective-interest method.  
Trade payables  
Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated initially at fair value.  
Equity instruments  
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.  
(i) Inventories  
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost represents expenditure incurred in the ordinary course of 
business in bringing inventories to their present condition and location and includes appropriate overheads. Cost is calculated using 
either the weighted average or the first-in-first-out method. Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs 
expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.  
(j) Impairment  
The carrying values of the Group’s assets, with the exception of inventories, financial receivables and deferred tax assets, are reviewed 
on an on-going basis for any indication of impairment and, if any such indication exists, the assets’ recoverable amount is estimated. An 
impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated income statement whenever the carrying value of an asset or its cash-generating unit 
exceeds its recoverable amount.  
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of any other asset, an impairment loss is reversed if there has  
been a change in the estimates used to determine its recoverable amount. The amount of the reversal is limited such that the asset’s 
carrying amount does not exceed that which would have been determined (after depreciation and amortisation) if no impairment loss 
had been recognised.  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
118 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
3. Significant accounting policies continued 
(k) Employee benefits  
Retirement benefit costs  
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. Payments made to state-managed retirement 
benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Group’s obligations under the schemes are 
equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefits scheme.  
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Consolidated statement of financial position represents the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from the calculation is recognised in the 
Consolidated statement of financial position, limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to 
the scheme. 
For defined benefit plans, the cost charged to the Consolidated income statement consists of current service cost, net interest cost,  
and past service cost. The finance element of the pension charge is shown in finance expense and the remaining service cost  
element is charged as a component of employee costs in the Consolidated income statement. Actuarial gains and losses and other  
re-measurement gains and losses are recognised immediately in full within other comprehensive income. 
Share-based payments 
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. The fair value of share-based payments is determined at 
the date of grant and expensed, with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the 
Group’s estimate of the shares that will eventually vest. The amount expensed is adjusted over the vesting period for changes in the 
estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest, excluding changes resulting from any market-related performance conditions. 
The Group also issues cash-settled share-based payments to certain employees, which are recognised as a liability at fair value at the 
date of grant. The value of the liability is re-measured at each reporting date and at the date the liability is settled. Changes in the liability 
are recognised directly in the Consolidated income statement. 
(l) Provisions and contingent liabilities 
Provisions are recognised when a present legal or constructive obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where 
the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably. The amount recognised as a provision is the Group’s best estimate of the likely 
outflows at the end of the reporting period.  
In respect of claims, onerous customer contracts and litigation, the Group provides for anticipated costs where an outflow of resources 
is considered probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome. For all risks, the ultimate liability may vary from 
the amounts provided and will be dependent upon the eventual outcome of any settlement. Management exercise judgment in 
measuring the exposures to contingent liabilities (see note 33) through assessing the likelihood that a potential claim or liability will arise 
and in quantifying the possible range of financial outcomes. 
Where the time value of money is material, provisions are stated at the present value of the expected expenditure using an appropriate 
discount rate. 
(m) Restructuring costs 
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a  
valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main 
features to those affected by it. The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the 
restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the on-going 
activities of the entity. 
The Group distinguishes in the Consolidated income statement between restructuring costs that are recurring and those that relate to 
one-off or transformational group programmes that impact a number of operations.  
Recurring restructuring costs that are incurred in the normal course of business are recorded as part of the Group’s results within profit 
before interest, tax and amortisation (PBITA).  
Restructuring costs that are one-off and individually material or relate to programmes linked to the Group’s wider transformation, and 
require approval at executive level, are disclosed separately in the Consolidated income statement. 
(n) Revenue recognition  
The Group’s revenue arises from two primary sources – Secure Solutions products, mainly comprising manned security and facilities 
management services, and Cash Solutions, mainly the provision of physical cash management services.  
Within Secure Solutions there are additional revenue streams arising from: 
• 
Technology services, comprising the supply, installation and monitoring of alarm systems, and security and building systems 
technology;  
• 
Facilities management; and  
• 
Care & Justice services. 
  
118 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 119 
Within Cash Solutions there is an additional revenue stream arising from Technology services to retailers, comprising the provision of 
hardware and software for customer cash management and related services. 
In all of these business areas revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, net of discounts, VAT and 
other sales-related taxes. 
Certain low-volume, high-value government contracts, mainly for Care & Justice outsourcing services and facilities management services, 
can cover a range of bundled services over a long period of time, that are provided on a time and materials basis. Revenue for this  
type of contracts is recognised on an accrual basis based on the individual services provided and in accordance with the terms of  
the contract. 
Where services provided to customers include more than one particular revenue source, particularly in cash technology services and in 
the alarms business, such as the supply and installation of equipment together with on-going services and maintenance contracts, the fair 
value of each revenue source is separately identified and allocated to each element of the arrangement and recognised as the product is 
sold or the services are delivered. 
Manned security, cash management, facilities management, other care and justice services and security systems services 
Revenue is recognised to reflect the period in which the service is provided. 
Security alarm systems installations 
Revenue for B2B customers is recognised on completion of the installation, and the attributable costs of the installation are recognised 
as a cost of sale, given that economic ownership of the asset is transferred to the customer. 
Revenue for B2C customers is deferred and recognised along with the revenue from the related monitoring service over the term of 
the contract, given that legal and economic ownership of the assets remains with the Group. 
Service and monitoring fees for all alarm system contracts are recognised in the period when the service is provided.  
Long-term contracts  
These contracts are mainly related to certain long-term construction or alarm or other technology installation projects which span one 
or more reporting periods and where long-term contract accounting is applied.  
Where the outcome of a long-term contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of 
completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date. This is measured either by the proportion that contract costs incurred for 
work to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, or by the proportion that the sales value of work completed to date bears to 
the total sales value. Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that it is likely that they will 
be agreed with the customer and hence recoverable. 
Where the outcome of a long-term contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of contract 
costs incurred that are deemed likely to be recoverable. Contract costs are recognised as expenses as they are incurred.  
Where it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised immediately as  
an expense. 
(o) Pre-contract and mobilisation costs 
Pre-contract costs in respect of major outsourcing contracts, incurred after the point at which the Group achieves preferred bidder 
status (at which point it is considered probable that the contract will be obtained) and before contract mobilisation, are capitalised and 
expensed over the life of the contract, subject to recoverability criteria. Costs incurred prior to this point are expensed as incurred. 
Capitalised costs are expensed immediately in the event that preferred bidder status is not followed by the award of the contract, or 
where these may no longer be expected to be recovered through future profits. 
Mobilisation costs are those costs incurred after the signing of a contract with a customer, and prior to commencement of delivery of 
the contract. Costs incurred during this stage are generally only capitalised if the criteria to be capitalised as inventories or as property, 
plant and equipment are met. In all other cases mobilisation costs are expensed as incurred. 
(p) Onerous contracts 
Onerous contract provisions are recognised where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the 
economic benefits expected to be received under it. Management’s profit-improvement plans to recover the position on loss-making 
contracts require a level of judgment and are generally taken into account in the calculation of the onerous contract provision only 
when implementation has commenced and tangible evidence exists of benefits being delivered. The provision is calculated based on 
discounted cash flows to the end of the contract.  
In general, provisions recognised for future losses are charged to the Consolidated income statement within PBITA. Where onerous 
contract provisions are material by virtue of their size, they are separately charged within specific items.  
In-year operating losses from onerous contracts are accounted for as a utilisation of the related provision for future losses. Any excess 
or shortfall to the initial estimate for onerous contract provisions is credited or charged in the Consolidated income statement 
consistent with where the charge for the initial provision was recognised.  
Vacant property provisions are recognised when the Group has committed to a course of action that will result in the property 
becoming vacant. The provision is calculated based on discounted cash flows to the end of the lease taking into account expected 
future sub-lease income. 
 
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
120 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
3. Significant accounting policies continued 
(q) Interest  
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.  
This is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset’s net carrying 
amount. Borrowing costs, also calculated using the effective-interest method, are recognised as an expense in the Consolidated  
income statement. 
(r) Income taxes  
Tax is recognised in the Consolidated income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity, in which case 
it is recognised through other comprehensive income. The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.  
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Consolidated income 
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items 
that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.  
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in 
the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for 
using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred 
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised.  
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint 
ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.  
The carrying amount of potential deferred tax assets is re-assessed at each balance sheet date and recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow those assets to be recovered. 
Deferred tax is measured based on the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.  
Tax liabilities or refunds may differ from those anticipated due to changes in tax legislation, differing interpretations of tax legislation and 
uncertainties surrounding the application of tax legislation. In situations where uncertainties exist, provision is made for tax liabilities and 
assets on the basis of management judgment following consideration of the available relevant information. Further detail on 
management’s judgments in respect of taxation is provided in note 4. 
(s) Leasing 
Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. On occasion this classification requires a level of judgment. All other leases are classified as operating leases.  
Assets held under finance leases are recognised at the inception of the lease at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the 
minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Consolidated statement of financial position as a 
finance lease obligation. Lease payments made or received are apportioned between finance charges or income and the reduction of 
the lease liability or asset so as to produce a constant rate of interest on the outstanding balance of the liability or asset.  
Rentals payable or receivable under operating leases are charged or credited to income on a straight-line basis over the lease term, as 
are incentives to enter into operating leases.  
(t) Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations  
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less 
costs to sell.  
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale 
transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset (or 
disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its present condition. The Group must be committed to the sale, which should be 
expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.  
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area 
of operations or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the 
criteria to be classified as held for sale.  
(u) Dividend distribution  
Dividends are recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period in which they are paid or approved by the shareholders in 
general meeting. 
 
  
120 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 121 
(v) Adoption of new and revised accounting standards and interpretations 
IFRS Annual improvements 2012-14 became effective for the financial year beginning on 1 January 2016, and were endorsed by the EU, 
however no accounting policy changes were required as a result of adopting these improvements. 
The Group has not adopted early any standard, amendment or interpretation. A number of new standards, amendments to standards 
and interpretations have been announced but are subject to EU endorsement and/or are not yet effective for the year ended  
31 December 2016. The directors are currently evaluating the impact of these new standards on the Group accounts: 
• 
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 – Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture 
• 
Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 – Investment entities applying the consolidation exemption 
• 
IFRS 2 amendments – Clarifying share-based payment transactions 
• 
IAS 7 amendments – Disclosure initiative 
• 
IAS 12 amendments – Recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses 
• 
IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments 
The Group continues to assess the potential impact of IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers on its consolidated financial 
statements and will adopt the standard from its effective date for the year ended 31 December 2018. IFRS 15 is likely to impact the 
timing of recognition of income in respect of certain long-term Facilities Management and large, complex alarm and other technology-
related contracts. 
In addition, the Group continues to assess the impact of adopting IFRS 16 – Leases, which will be effective for the Group’s financial year 
ended 31 December 2019. IFRS 16 is expected to increase property, plant and equipment capitalised in the Consolidated statement of 
financial position by approximately £400m, together with a broadly similar increase in obligations under finance leases. Whilst IFRS 16 is 
not expected to change materially the Group’s profit before tax, it will increase PBITA due to re-classification of the interest element of 
lease payments as finance costs. 
In April 2016 the IFRIC issued an agenda decision on when and whether entities are able to offset balances in accordance with IAS 32. 
The IFRIC noted that, to the extent to which a Group does not expect to settle its subsidiaries’ period-end account balances on a net 
basis, it would not be appropriate for the Group to assert that it had the intention to settle the entire period-end balances on a net 
basis at the reporting date. In the current and previous reporting periods certain of the Group’s balances did not meet this offset 
criterion and have therefore been presented/re-presented respectively to show the gross position. This resulted in an increase to cash 
and cash equivalents and an increase to overdrafts of £56m as at 31 December 2015 and £300m as at 1 January 2015. 
4. Accounting estimates, judgments and assumptions 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgments, estimates and 
assumptions that affect the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 3, with respect to the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the 
financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period. These judgments, estimates and 
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances, including current and expected economic conditions, and, in some cases, actuarial techniques. Although these judgments, 
estimates and associated assumptions are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and circumstances, the actual 
results may differ.  
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on-going basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period 
in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. 
The judgments, estimates and assumptions which are of most significance in preparing the Group’s 2016 accounts are detailed below: 
Revenue recognition 
The majority of the Group’s revenue is generated by the provision of manned security services or cash management services and, as 
described in note 3(n), is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable. The Group also delivers certain long-term 
outsourcing services which can be complex in nature and may be governed by unique contractual arrangements. In these cases, revenue 
is recognised in line with the contract at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. In such contracts, there can be 
significant judgments and estimates in relation to variations or claims not specified within the original contract, to interpretation of 
complex contract wording, and in relation to estimates required to determine future costs to complete and expected margins, including 
the impact of contractual performance conditions which may give rise to penalties.  
Onerous contracts 
When a long-term contract is expected to incur future unavoidable losses and has therefore become onerous, judgment is required to 
assess the future expected revenue and costs and hence to determine the appropriate level of provision. Further judgment is necessary 
in determining the extent to which account is taken of profit improvement plans developed by management to improve the profitability 
of the contract over the remainder of its life. Such plans are generally taken into account only once they have been developed and 
implementation has commenced, and there is tangible evidence of benefits being delivered.  
 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
122 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
4. Accounting estimates, judgments and assumptions continued 
In addition, where onerous contracts have a termination date that can be extended solely at the customer’s request, consideration is 
given, based on all facts and circumstances known by management, as to whether to provide for future losses to the earliest or the final 
termination date.  
For further details of how the Group has applied judgments and estimates to significant onerous contract provisions refer to note 33 on 
pages 154 and 155.  
Carrying value of goodwill 
The Group tests tangible and intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there are 
indications that amounts may be impaired. The impairment analysis for such assets is based principally upon discounted estimated future 
cash flows from the use and eventual disposal of the assets. Such an analysis includes the estimation of future results, cash flows, annual 
growth rates and discount rates. Judgment is required in relation to the achievability of the long-term business plan and macroeconomic 
assumptions underlying the valuation process. In certain circumstances, where market prices can be ascertained (for example through 
recent transactions), fair value less costs to sell is used as a basis for the recoverable amount. This involves judgments and estimates to 
apply reasonable valuation techniques and to estimate future selling costs. The full methodology and results of the Group’s impairment 
testing are presented in note 18. 
Taxation 
The Group operates in many tax jurisdictions including countries where the tax legislation is not consistently applied and under some 
complex contractual circumstances where the responsibility for tax arising is not always clear. Management are required to apply 
judgments and estimates to determine the appropriate amount of tax to provide for and any required disclosure around contingent tax 
liabilities at each period end.  
Provisions for tax liabilities are estimated for existing matters under dispute with local tax authorities, as well as for matters which it is 
considered may be disputed by them, where it is probable that a future liability will arise. The tax liability provided is management’s best 
estimate, taking into account external advice, the anticipated position of the relevant tax authorities, and other local factors. In certain 
cases, and where appropriate, a probability weighting is applied in determining the amount provided. In all cases it is assumed that the 
local tax authorities have, or will be provided with, full information. Therefore the tax liability is not reduced for “detection risk”. Further 
details about the range of the potential tax exposure to which the Group is subject to are set out in note 13.  
The Group has tax losses and other deductible temporary differences, mainly in the UK and USA, that have the potential to reduce tax 
payments in future years. Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that their recovery is probable, having regard to the 
projected future taxable income of these entities and after taking into account specific risk factors that affect the recovery of these 
assets. Management uses the same profit projections for these purposes as are used by the business, for example in assessing the 
carrying value of goodwill. Management’s judgment in this area is applied on a case-by-case basis due to the jurisdictional nature of 
taxation. This analysis is considered afresh at each balance sheet date. 
Compliance with foreign ownership rules and consolidation of subsidiaries 
The Group has a diverse set of complex ownership structures, which are sometimes driven by local laws and regulations relating to 
foreign ownership. In some instances the Group operates through local structures with limited direct share ownership of the business 
but exercises control through shareholder agreements. In determining whether some Group entities qualify for consolidation under 
IFRS10 – Consolidated Financial Statements, professional and legal advice is sought and a level of judgment is required. Consolidation of 
any of these entities would be at risk if the Group’s ability to enforce its rights of control was successfully challenged. 
Valuation of retirement benefit obligations 
The valuation of defined retirement benefit schemes is arrived at using the advice of qualified independent actuaries who use the 
projected unit credit method for determining the Group’s obligations. This methodology requires the use of a variety of assumptions 
and estimates, including the appropriate discount rate, the expected return on scheme assets, mortality assumptions, future service and 
earnings increases of employees and inflation. Full details of the Group’s retirement benefit obligations, including an analysis of the 
sensitivity of the calculations to the key assumptions are presented in note 32. 
Classification of leases 
The classification of leases as operating or finance leases is based on the criteria set out in IAS 17 – Leases, which defines a series of 
attributes which, when contained within a lease, may result in its classification as a finance lease. Judgment is required in a ssessing leases at 
inception as to whether individual attributes, in aggregate or in isolation, are such that the substance of the lease is that of a finance lease. 
5. Revenue 
An analysis of the Group’s revenue, as defined by IAS 18 – Revenue, is as follows: 
Notes 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Continuing operations   
Sale of goods  311  132 
Rendering of services  7,072  6,561 
Revenue from construction contracts  207  170 
Revenue from continuing operations as presented in the Consolidated income statement 6 7,590  6,863 
122 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 123 
6. Operating segments 
The Group operates on a worldwide basis and derives a substantial proportion of its revenue and operating profit from each of the 
following seven geographic regions: Africa, Asia Pacific, Latin America, Middle East & India, Europe, North America and UK & Ireland. For 
each of these reportable segments, the Group executive committee (the chief operating decision maker) reviews internal management 
reports on a regular basis. As announced in the Integrated Report and Accounts 2015, with effect from 1 January 2016 the former Asia 
Middle East region was split into Asia Pacific and Middle East & India, following a change in the leadership structure and reporting in this 
region. The 2015 comparatives have therefore been re-presented to reflect the split of the total 2015 Asia Middle East revenue of 
£1,421m and PBITA of £117m between the two new regions. 
Segment information is presented below: 
Revenue by reportable segment  
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Africa 501 470
Asia Pacific 714 684
Latin America 660 626
Middle East & India 859 737
Emerging markets 2,734 2,517
Europe 1,441 1,304
North America 1,904 1,523
UK & Ireland 1,511 1,519
Developed markets 4,856 4,346
Total revenue 7,590 6,863
 
Revenue from internal and external 
customers by reportable segment 
Total gross
segment
 revenue
2016
£m
Inter- 
segment 
revenue
2016
£m
External 
revenue
2016
£m
Total gross 
segment  
revenue 
2015 
£m 
Inter-  
segment  
revenue 
2015 
£m 
External 
revenue
2015
£m
Secure Solutions 6,361 (12) 6,349 5,820 (9) 5,811
Cash Solutions 1,242 (1) 1,241 1,054 (2) 1,052
Total revenue 7,603 (13) 7,590 6,874 (11) 6,863
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices.  
Operating profit before corporate costs, 
by reportable segment and geographical area 
Continuing 
operations
2016
£m
Discontinued 
operations
2016
£m
Total
2016
£m
Continuing 
operations 
2015 
£m 
Discontinued 
operations 
2015 
£m 
Total
2015
£m
Africa 35 (1) 34 30 – 30
Asia Pacific 56 – 56 43 – 43
Latin America 15 – 15 15 – 15
Middle East & India 76 – 76 74 – 74
Europe 95 – 95 74 – 74
North America 115 (2) 113 90 – 90
UK & Ireland 119 – 119 115 – 115
PBITA before corporate costs 511 (3) 508 441 – 441
Corporate costs (50) – (50) (50) – (50)
PBITA 461 (3) 458 391 – 391
Net specific items (13) – (13) (70) 5 (65)
Restructuring costs (12) – (12) (44) – (44)
Net profit/(loss) on disposal/closure of 
subsidiaries 7 – 7 12 (3) 9
Goodwill impairment (9) – (9) (66) (1) (67)
Acquisition-related amortisation and expenses (32) – (32) (40) – (40)
Operating profit/(loss) 402 (3) 399 183 1 184
Refer to note 7 for details on discontinued operations. 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
124 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
6. Operating segments continued 
Segment assets and liabilities  
The following information is analysed by reportable segment and by the geographical area in which the assets are located: 
Total assets and liabilities 
Total 
assets
2016
£m
Total  
assets 
2015 
£m 
Total  
liabilities 
2016 
£m 
Total 
liabilities
2015
£m
By reportable segment and geographical area   
Africa 238 196 (117) (87)
Asia Pacific 429 397 (135) (106)
Latin America 327 280 (124) (87)
Middle East & India 342 296 (172) (138)
Europe 767 696 (301) (263)
North America 931 773 (224) (161)
UK & Ireland 1,178 1,241 (333) (341)
Inter-segment trading balance (190) (148) 190 148
Total segment assets and liabilities 4,022 3,731 (1,216) (1,035)
Corporate 140 99 (130) (141)
Total operating assets and liabilities 4,162 3,830 (1,346) (1,176)
Non-operating assets and liabilities 1,449 1,045 (3,402) (3,008)
Total assets and liabilities 5,611 4,875 (4,748) (4,184)
 
Non-current operating assets  
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
By reportable segment and geographical area   
Africa  118 100
Asia Pacific  277 251
Latin America  180 149
Middle East & India  126 111
Europe  466 426
North America  577 481
UK & Ireland  877 920
Total segment assets  2,621 2,438
Corporate  19 55
Total non-current operating assets  2,640 2,493
Non-operating assets  438 281
Less: Non-current assets held for sale  (67) (25)
Total non-current assets  3,011 2,749
Non-operating assets and liabilities comprise financial assets and liabilities, taxation assets and liabilities and retirement benefit obligations.  
Included within operating and non-operating assets are £133m (2015: £47m) and £18m (2015: £11m) respectively relating to disposal 
groups classified as held for sale. Included within operating and non-operating liabilities are £51m (2015: £19m) and £7m (2015: £11m) 
respectively relating to liabilities associated with disposal groups classified as held for sale. Disposal groups are analysed in note 25. 
The 2015 information for Asia Pacific and Middle East & India has been re-presented to reflect the split from the Asia Middle East 
information as presented in the prior year. 2015 operating assets for Asia Middle East were £693m, operating liabilities were £244m 
and non-current operating assets were £362m. 
  
124 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 125 
Other information  
By reportable segment 
Impairment 
losses 
recognised 
in income
2016
£m
Depreciation 
and 
amortisation
2016
£m
Capital 
additions
2016
£m
Impairment 
losses  
recognised  
in income 
2015 
£m 
Depreciation  
and  
amortisation 
2015 
£m 
Capital 
additions
2015
£m
Africa – 13 12 9 15 16
Asia Pacific – 13 6 9 15 14
Latin America 14 15 9 13 18 9
Middle East & India – 11 9 2 10 25
Europe – 45 33 33 42 54
North America – 10 13 – 11 15
UK & Ireland 9 53 32 1 63 31
Corporate – 3 15 – 3 2
Total 23 163 129 67 177 166
The 2015 information for Asia Pacific and Middle East & India has been re-presented to reflect the split from the Asia Middle East 
information as presented in the prior year.  
7. Discontinued operations 
Discontinued operations comprise assets and liabilities relating to a number of historical disposals, the largest of which is the US 
Government Solutions business sold in 2014. 
The loss from discontinued operations during the year comprises costs and charges incurred on historical disposals which were classified 
as discontinued operations at the time of disposal. 
The results of the discontinued operations are presented below: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Operating loss before specific items and other separately disclosed items  (3)  – 
Specific items – charges   –  (2)
Specific items – credits   –  7 
Goodwill impairment   –  (1)
Loss on disposal of discontinued operations   –  (3)
(Loss)/profit before tax  (3) 1 
Tax   –  (3)
Loss from discontinued operations for the year  (3) (2)
During the prior year the Group re-classified its business in Costa Rica, together with certain small businesses that had been classified as 
discontinued operations for more than 12 months and not yet been sold, into continuing operations. Also during the prior year, the 
Group collected £26m ($40m) of receivables relating to the US Government Solutions business, which was sold in November 2014.  
Of this amount £7m was not recognised in the Group’s Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2014 and 
therefore was recognised as income within specific items in 2015. 
The effect of discontinued operations on segment results is disclosed in note 6.  
Cash flows from discontinued operations included in the Consolidated statement of cash flow are as follows: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Net cash flows from operating activities (after tax) (9) 26
 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
126 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
8. Operating profit  
The Consolidated income statement can be analysed as follows: 
Continuing operations 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Revenue 7,590  6,863 
Cost of sales (6,212) (5,657)
Gross profit 1,378  1,206 
Administration expenses (976) (967)
Goodwill impairment (9) (66)
Share of profit after tax from joint ventures 9  10 
Operating profit 402  183 
Operating profit includes items that are separately disclosed for the year ended 31 December 2016 relating to: 
• 
Specific items of a net £13m (2015: £70m) included a £10m charge relating to legacy acquisitions and labour claims in Latin America, 
£7m relating to commercial restructuring in Middle East & India, and a net £4m supplementary onerous contract provision primarily 
in respect of the Compass asylum seekers contract, offset by an £8m credit mainly relating to the recovery of a legal claim in Europe 
and of certain disputed debtor balances in the UK;  
• 
Costs of £12m (2015: £44m) arising from restructuring activities during the year, mainly relating to the multi-year strategic 
productivity programme across the Group. In addition, the Group incurred non-strategic reorganisation costs of £9m (2015: £10m) 
which are included within cost of sales or administration expenses as appropriate; 
• 
Acquisition-related amortisation costs of £32m (2015: £40m) relating to legacy acquisitions were lower in 2016 as certain intangible 
assets recognised on a number of historical acquisitions became fully amortised in 2015. In addition the Group recognised a goodwill 
impairment charge of £9m (2015: £66m) relating to businesses held for sale or closure; and 
• 
A net profit on disposal/closure of subsidiaries of £7m (2015: £12m) relating to the disposal of a number of the Group’s operations 
including the Cash Solutions business in Thailand, the businesses in Finland, Brunei and Kazakhstan, and the Utilities Services and 
ATM engineering businesses in the UK, together with a loss arising on closure of a systems business in Latin America. 
9. Profit from operations 
Profit from continuing and discontinued operations has been arrived at after charging/(crediting): 
 Notes
Continuing
2016
£m
Discontinued
2016
£m
Total
2016
£m
Continuing 
2015 
£m 
Discontinued 
2015 
£m 
Total
2015
£m
Cost of sales   
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 112 – 112 103  – 103
Onerous contract provisions 8,33 4 – 4 65  – 65
   
Administration expenses   
Acquisition-related amortisation and expenses 8 32 – 32 40  – 40
Restructuring costs 8 12 – 12 44  – 44
Goodwill impairment 18 9 – 9 66 1 67
Review of assets and liabilities  – – – 17  – 17
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 19 106 – 106 110  – 110
Amortisation of other intangible assets 18 25 – 25 25  – 25
Net (profit)/loss on disposal/closure of subsidiaries 17 (7) – (7) (12) 3 (9)
Impairment of trade receivables 23 21 – 21 12  – 12
Research and development expenditure 4 – 4 8  – 8
Operating lease rentals payable 98 – 98 99  – 99
Pension curtailment gain  – – – (5)  – (5)
Pension legal settlement  – – – (7)  – (7)
Share-based payments 39 13 – 13 8  – 8
  
126 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 127 
10. Auditor’s remuneration 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the parent company and  
consolidated financial statements 1 1
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:  
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries (2016 fees including £1m in respect of prior years)  7 5
All other services
*
 2 1
* Other services relates to the provision of tax and non-audit advisory services. 
The Audit Committee Report on pages 72 to 77 outlines the Company’s established policy for ensuring that audit independence is not 
compromised through the provision by the Company’s auditor of other services. 
11. Staff costs and employees 
The average monthly number of employees, in continuing and discontinued operations, including executive directors was: 
By reportable segment and geographical area 
2016 
Number 
2015
Number
Africa 126,182 124,707
Asia Pacific 59,996 66,988
Latin America 73,907 75,637
Middle East & India 176,330 176,498
Europe 53,287 59,716
North America 55,522 56,393
UK & Ireland 34,293 35,843
Head office  171 196
Total average number of employees (excluding joint ventures) 579,688 595,978
Average number of employees employed by joint ventures 13,209 15,388
Total average number of employees (including joint ventures) 592,897 611,366
Their aggregate remuneration, in continuing and discontinued operations, comprised: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Wages and salaries 4,533 4,128
Social security costs 479 443
Employee benefits  228 221
Total staff costs (excluding joint ventures) 5,240 4,792
Joint venture staff costs 64 58
Total staff costs (including joint ventures) 5,304 4,850
The 2015 information for Asia Pacific and Middle East & India has been re-presented to reflect the split from the Asia Middle East 
information as presented in the prior year. 
Information on directors’ remuneration, long-term incentive plans, pension contributions and entitlements is set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 98. 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
128 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
12. Net finance expense 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Interest and other income on cash, cash equivalents and investments  15   13 
Interest receivable on loan note related derivatives  18   13 
Gain arising from fair value adjustment to the hedged loan note items  11   10 
Loss arising from change in fair value of derivative financial instruments hedging loan notes  (11)  (10)
Finance income  33   26 
  
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans   (21)  (23)
Interest on loan notes  (97)  (88)
Interest on obligations under finance leases  (5)  (4)
Other interest charges  (6)  (4)
Total group borrowing costs  (129)  (119)
Finance costs on defined retirement benefit obligations  (10)  (12)
Finance expense  (139)  (131)
  
Net finance expense  (106)  (105)
Included within group borrowing costs is a charge of £3m (2015: £5m) relating to cash-flow hedges that were transferred from equity 
during the year. 
13. Tax  
Continuing 
operations
2016
£m
Discontinued 
operations
2016
£m
Total
2016
£m
Continuing 
operations 
2015 
£m 
Discontinued 
operations
2015
£m
Total
2015
£m
Current tax expense/(credit)  
Current year 91 – 91 69  2 71 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (note (vi)) 19 – 19 (7) 3 (4)
Total current tax expense 110  – 110 62  5 67 
  
Deferred tax expense/(credit) (see note 34)  
Current year 6 – 6 – – –
Re-assessment of deferred tax recoverability on losses 
(note (v)) (36) – (36)
 
(9) – (9)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (note (vi)) (4) – (4) (3) (2) (5)
Total deferred tax credit (34) – (34) (12) (2) (14)
  
Total income tax expense for the year 76  – 76 50  3 53 
UK corporation tax is calculated at 20% (2015: 20.25%) of the estimated assessable profits for the year. Overseas tax is calculated at the 
corporation tax rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.  
  
128 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 129 
The tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the Consolidated income statement as follows: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Profit before tax  
Continuing operations 296 78
Discontinued operations (3) 1
Total profit before tax 293 79
  
Tax at UK corporation tax rate of 20% (2015: 20.25%) 59 16
Expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit (note (i)) 25 2
Goodwill impairments not deductible 2 14
Profits on disposal of businesses not taxable or covered by capital losses (note (ii)) (8) (5)
Losses on disposal of businesses not relieved (note (ii)) 7 -
Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in non-UK jurisdictions (note (iii)) 12 15
Benefit of tax incentives and credits (5) (4)
Movement in deferred tax balance due to phased reduction in UK rate to 17% (2015: 18%)  4 5
Adjustment for joint ventures (1) (2)
Tax losses not recognised in the current year (note (iv)) 2 30
Re-assessment of deferred tax recoverability on losses (note (v)) (36) (9)
Adjustment in respect of prior years – current and deferred tax (note (vi)) 15 (9)
Total income tax charge 76 53
  
Effective tax rate for continuing and discontinued operations 26% 67%
The effective tax rate for continuing operations was 26% (2015: 64%). 
(i) Items that are not deductible in determining taxable profit – £25m (2015: £2m) 
This category reflects the tax effect of items which, in management’s judgment, are potentially disallowable for the purposes of 
determining local taxable profits. This includes unrelieved withholding taxes of £9m (2015: £1m) relating to withholding tax deducted 
on domestic or cross-border payments in excess of the profits tax arising in the recipient company. 
(ii) Profits on disposal of businesses not taxable or covered by capital losses – £(8)m (2015: £(5)m) 
This relates to profits arising on the disposal of businesses where any taxable gain arising on the disposal is either exempt from tax 
under the relevant tax legislation or there are capital losses available to offset against those taxable gains, for which deferred tax assets 
were not previously recognised. Similarly, losses on disposal of businesses not relieved – £7m (2015: £nil) relates to the disposal of 
businesses where no deductible loss arises or where there is a low probability that losses will be utilised. 
(iii) Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in non-UK jurisdictions – £12m (2015: £15m) 
This relates to the effect of profits of the Group being subject to tax at rates different from the current UK corporation tax rate of 20%.  
(iv) Tax losses not recognised in the current year – £2m (2015: £30m) 
This relates to current-year losses not recognised as deferred tax assets on the basis that there are insufficient taxable profits available to 
utilise those losses in the foreseeable future. A significant proportion of the prior-year figure relates to UK losses which are included in 
the amounts re-assessed in 2016 (see note (v)). 
(v) Re-assessment of deferred tax recoverability on losses – £(36)m (2015: £(9)m) 
Relates to the recognition of additional deferred tax assets on historical tax losses during the period as a result of improvements in 
profitability in group forecasts and business plans.  
(vi) Adjustment in respect of prior years – current and deferred tax – £15m (2015: £(9)m) 
This relates to a re-assessment of the tax deductibility of expense items and provisions for unresolved tax issues as a result of case law 
developments and settlements with tax authorities.  
Issues relating to taxation 
The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge involves consideration of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be ultimately 
determined until final resolution has been reached through negotiation with the relevant tax authorities, or via a domestic or 
international dispute resolution process.  
The global nature of the Group’s operations means that the most significant tax risk is in relation to challenges from tax authorities in 
relation to the pricing of cross-border transactions and the Group’s interpretation of the OECD’s arm’s-length principle. In determining 
the appropriate level of provisions in respect of such challenges, the Group applies a risk-based approach and also assesses the 
likelihood that compensating adjustments will be obtained under the relevant double-tax treaties. The Group has open tax periods in a 
number of countries involving a number of issues, with the most material disputes typically being in respect of cross-border transactions.  
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
130 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
13. Tax continued 
As at 31 December 2016, the Group had total tax exposures of approximately £102m (2015: £66m) of which £37m (2015: £16m) is 
provided against. The Group believes that it has made appropriate provision for open tax periods which have not yet been agreed by 
tax authorities. The final agreed liabilities may vary from the amounts provided, as these are dependent upon the outcomes of the 
domestic and international dispute resolution processes in the relevant countries. 
During 2015, the Group paid £19m in respect of a disputed liability in a particular jurisdiction in order to reduce exposure to interest 
and penalties. No further payment or receipt occurred in 2016 and none is expected in the next 12 months. The timing of final 
resolution of this case cannot currently be determined due to the nature of the dispute resolution process. 
Following the referendum held on 23 June 2016, the UK voted to leave the European Union. The potential tax impacts which could 
arise as a consequence of the UK withdrawing from the European Union are currently uncertain, but on the basis of current information 
the Group does not anticipate that significant additional tax liabilities will arise. 
The following taxation credit/(charge) has been recognised directly in equity within the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Tax relating to defined retirement benefit schemes 28 (11)
Recognition of tax losses on exchan ge movements previously recognised within other comprehensive income 29 –
Current tax charge for exchange movements recognised within other comprehensive income (8) –
Change in fair value of net-investment and cash-flow hedging financial instruments 1 1
Total tax credited/(charged) to other comprehensive income 50 (10)
14. Dividends  
Pence 
per share
DKK  
per share 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders of the parent in the year   
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 5.82 0.6041  – 90
Interim dividend for the six months ended 30 June 2015 3.59 0.3793  – 55
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 5.82 0.5615 90  –
Interim dividend for the six months ended 30 June 2016 3.59 0.3143 55  –
  145 145
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 5.82 0.5029 90 
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. If so approved, it will be paid on  
9 June 2017 to shareholders who are on the register on 28 April 2017. The Danish kroner exchange rate shown above for the dividend 
is that at 7 March 2017. 
15. Earnings per share attributable to equity shareholders of the parent  
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
From continuing and discontinued operations  
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 198 8
Weighted-average number of ordinary shares (m)  1,546 1,545
Earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations (pence)  
Basic and diluted 12.8p 0.5p
From continuing operations  
Earnings  
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 198 8
Adjustment to exclude loss for the year from discontinued operations (net of tax) 3 2
Profit from continuing operations 201 10
Earnings per share from continuing operations (pence)  
Basic and diluted 13.0p 0.6p
From discontinued operations  
Loss for the year from discontinued operations (net of tax) (3) (2)
Loss per share from discontinued operations (pence)  
Basic and diluted (0.2)p (0.1)p
130 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 131 
16. Acquisitions 
The Group has not made any material acquisitions in the year. In the prior year the Group invested £17m acquiring a number of small 
businesses in the Netherlands, Greece and Colombia and made payments for deferred consideration on certain acquisitions made in 
prior years. In addition, during the prior year, shareholder agreements were re-negotiated for certain joint ventures in Middle East & 
India resulting in the Group obtaining control of these operations. The Group accounted for this as an acquisition, consolidating the 
balance sheets from the date control was obtained.  
17. Disposals and closures  
As part of the on-going portfolio programme, in 2016 the Group sold 12 businesses, including the Cash Solutions business in Thailand, 
the businesses in Finland, Brunei and Kazakhstan, and the Utilities Services and ATM engineering businesses in the UK, realising aggregate 
proceeds of £82m.  
A further four businesses were closed during the year, and in addition the Group is in the process of closing a systems business in Latin 
America which resulted in a loss of £16m in relation to assets written off and costs expected to be incurred in 2017.  
In 2015 the Group disposed of a number of small operations, with the most material being the disposal of the International Parcel 
Service business in the Group’s Asia Pacific region, resulting in a profit of £12m. The net profit on disposal included a loss on disposal in 
discontinued operations of £3m. 
The net assets and net profit on disposal/closure of operations disposed of or closed were as follows:  
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Goodwill  9 –
Acquisition-related intangible assets 1 –
Non-acquisition-related intangible assets 3 –
Property, plant and equipment  18 2
Other non-current assets 2 –
Current assets 86 6
Liabilities (44) (6)
Net assets of operations disposed of/closed 75 2
Net profit on disposal/closure 7 9
Total consideration 82 11
Satisfied by:  
Cash received 90 14
Disposal costs (8) –
Total consideration relating to current year disposals 82 14
Additional consideration to be paid relating to disposals completed in prior years – (3)
Total consideration recognised in the current year 82 11
 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
132 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
18. Intangible assets 
  Acquisition-related intangible assets   
2016 
Goodwill
£m
Trademarks
£m
Customer 
related
£m
Technology 
£m 
Other 
intangibles 
£m 
Total
£m
Cost   
At 1 January 2016 1,962 33 643 9 235 2,882
Acquisition of businesses 2 – – –  – 2
Additions  – – – – 30 30
Disposals  (1) – (6) – (28) (35)
Transferred to held for sale (49) – (23) – (3) (75)
Re-classifications (2) – 2 – – –
Exchange differences 245 1 58 – 21 325
At 31 December 2016 2,157 34 674 9 255 3,129
   
Amortisation and accumulated  
impairment losses   
At 1 January 2016 (134) (31) (599) (8) (153) (925)
Amortisation charge  – – (31) (1) (25) (57)
Impairment (9) – – –  – (9)
Disposals  – – 3 – 23 26
Transferred to held for sale  – – 22 – 2 24
Exchange differences (24) (1) (53) – (16) (94)
At 31 December 2016 (167) (32) (658) (9) (169) (1,035)
   
Carrying amount   
At 1 January 2016 1,828 2 44 1 82 1,957
At 31 December 2016 1,990 2 16 – 86 2,094
 
2015   
Cost   
At 1 January 2015 2,011 32 654 9 220 2,926
Acquisition of businesses 14 – 7 –  – 21
Additions  – – 2 – 24 26
Disposals   – – (2) – (3) (5)
Transferred to held for sale (14) – (2) – (3) (19)
Re-classifications (2) 1 (2) – 1 (2)
Exchange differences (47) – (14) – (4) (65)
At 31 December 2015 1,962 33 643 9 235 2,882
   
Amortisation and accumulated  
impairment losses   
At 1 January 2015 (87) (31) (573) (7) (138) (836)
Amortisation charge  – – (41) (1) (25) (67)
Impairment (67) – – –  – (67)
Disposals  – – 2 – 3 5
Transferred to held for sale 6 – 2 – 2 10
Re-classifications  – – 1 – 1 2
Exchange differences 14 – 10 – 4 28
At 31 December 2015 (134) (31) (599) (8) (153) (925)
   
Carrying amount   
At 1 January 2015 1,924 1 81 2 82 2,090
At 31 December 2015 1,828 2 44 1 82 1,957
 
132 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 133 
Goodwill allocation 
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the cash-generating units (CGUs) which are expected to benefit from that 
business combination. A significant portion of the Group’s goodwill was generated by the merger of the security services businesses of 
Group 4 Falck and Securicor in 2004, which was accounted for as an acquisition of Securicor by Group 4 Falck.  
Goodwill impairment testing 
The Group tests tangible and intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there are 
indications that any of these assets may be impaired. The annual impairment test is performed prior to the year end when the budgeting 
process is finalised and is reviewed post year end. The Group’s impairment test compares the carrying value of each CGU with its 
recoverable amount. CGUs for goodwill impairment testing purposes are identified on a country level basis including significant business 
units, consistent with the Group’s detailed management accounts. Under IAS 36 – Impairment of Assets, an impairment is deemed to 
have occurred where the recoverable amount of a CGU is less than its carrying value.  
The recoverable amount of a CGU is generally determined by its value in use which is derived from discounted cash flow calculations. 
The key inputs to the calculations are described below. In certain circumstances, where market prices can be ascertained (for example 
through recent transactions or by reference to normal industry standard multiples), the fair value less costs to sell is used as a basis for 
the recoverable amount. In the current year the value of goodwill in the Brazil Secure Solutions, Greece and Guatemala CGUs was 
supported by this valuation method. 
Forecast cash flows 
All operating countries in the Group are required to submit a budget for the next financial year (for the year ending 31 December 
2017) and their strategic plan forecasts for the following two years (for the years ending 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2019). 
The revenue figures submitted in this exercise are used to derive a growth rate for the discounted cash flow calculation (see the growth 
rate table below). Forecast cash flows are projected by applying growth rates as detailed in the growth rate section below, and 
discounted using country-specific risk-adjusted discount rates as described in the discount rate section. 
Growth rate 
Growth rates are determined from the budgeted and forecast revenue for years 1-3 with year 4 being calculated to achieve a smooth 
reduction from the year 3 growth rate to the year 5 rate, which is the lower of the year 3 plan rate and the IMF long-term country-
specific inflation rate. The terminal value calculation also uses the long-term inflation rates as used in year 5. This is detailed in the  
table below: 
Growth assumptions Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Terminal value 
Input Budget
*
 Strategic plan 
forecast
*
 
Strategic plan 
forecast
*
 
Projected – to achieve 
midpoint between 
years 3 and 5 
Projected lower of 
year 3 forecast or 
country inflation 
Country-specific  
long-term  
inflation rate 
Example 8% 7% 6% 4% 2% 2% 
* Budgets and forecasts are reviewed by the group board. 
In the above example, budgeted year 1 growth rate is 8%, forecast growth in year 2 is 7% and in year 3 is 6%. The long-term country 
inflation rate is 2% so the growth rate is reduced in year 4 to be the midpoint between 6% in year 3 and 2% in year 5, i.e. 4%. The 
terminal value calculation is then based on the long-term inflation rate of 2%. 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
134 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
18. Intangible assets continued 
Discount rate 
Discount rates are calculated for each CGU based on the relevant local risk-free rate adjusted for that CGU’s specific risk-adjusted 
equity risk premium. Details of how the key discount rate inputs are derived are given below: 
Input How determined  31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 
Risk-free rate Where possible, the risk-free rate is obtained from the local government’s 
20 year gilt/bond rates. Where these are unavailable the Group uses the 
closest available information (e.g. 10-year, or shorter-term gilt rates).  
1.89% in UK 2.52% in UK 
UK equity risk premium The equity risk premium is determined for the UK by analysing a variety  
of sources including economic studies carried out by Barclays Capital  
and others.  
6.4% in UK 6.4% in UK 
Operating country  
equity risk premium 
Specific local equity risk premiums are based on the UK risk premium 
adjusted for specific economic and financial risks. The sources for these 
adjustments are the Institutional Investor Magazine and the IMF website as 
well as other studies by independent economists.  
  
Leveraged beta Beta is a risk adjustment applied to the discount rate to reflect the risk of 
the Group’s operating companies relative to the market as a whole. The 
Group’s beta is obtained from independent market studies and is adjusted 
for the appropriate leverage of the Group.  
0.7 for the 
Group 
0.8 for the 
Group 
Tax rate Local tax rates are applied to each CGU to calculate pre-tax cost of equity. 20% in UK 20% in UK 
Debt margin The Group applies a margin to the cost of debt for each CGU, with a 
higher margin applied to those CGUs operating in higher risk 
environments. These margins range from 1.5% in less risky CGUs (e.g. in 
the UK) to 6.5% in more risky CGUs (e.g. in Guinea and Sierra Leone).  
1.5% in UK 1.5% in UK 
Weighted-average cost  
of capital (pre-tax) 
The weighted-average cost of capital is calculated by weighting the cost of 
equity and the cost of debt by the applicable debt to equity ratio at the 
year end.  
8.1% in UK 8.6% in UK 
The table below sets out the pre-tax discount rates and growth rates used for the countries that represent significant goodwill balances: 
 
Discount rate
2016
Discount rate
2015
Long-term 
growth rate*
2016
Long-term  
growth rate* 
2015 
Goodwill 
2016 
£m 
Goodwill
2015
£m
Brazil 19.7% 19.0% 4.5% 4.6% 86 59
United States of America 9.7% 10.0% 2.2% 2.4% 490 412
Hong Kong 7.0% 7.7% 3.0% 3.5% 51 43
Malaysia  11.9% 12.2% 3.0% 3.0% 37 34
Estonia 9.8% 10.7% 2.7% 2.2% 36 31
Netherlands 6.9% 7.8% 1.2% 1.9% 154 133
United Kingdom 8.1% 8.6% 2.0% 2.0% 696 697
Other (all allocated)  440 419
Total goodwill  1,990 1,828
* Lower of long-term country inflation rate per the IMF and implied year 3 business forecast growth rate. 
Within the UK, the most significant CGUs and their goodwill carrying values are UK Central Government Services (£225m), UK Cash 
Solutions (£205m) and UK Secure Solutions (£102m). Within the USA, the most significant CGU is US Commercial Security Solutions 
with goodwill of £444m. 
  
134 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 135 
Impairment 
During the year the Group recognised an impairment charge of £9m relating to businesses held for sale or closure as a result of their 
estimated recoverable amounts being less than the carrying value of their net assets. 
During the prior year, impairment charges totalling £66m were recorded in respect of the Group's goodwill relating to continuing 
operations, including £25m in Estonia and £11m in the Brazil systems business, as shown below: 
 
Goodwill  
pre-impairment 
2015 
£m 
Impairment 
2015 
£m 
Goodwill 
post-impairment
2015
£m
Brazil Technology 11  (11)  – 
Estonia 56  (25) 31 
Serbia 8  (8)  – 
Papua New Guinea 5  (5)  – 
Chile 2  (2)  – 
China 4  (4)  – 
South Africa Cash Solutions 22  (9) 13 
Other impaired 2  (2)  – 
Total 110  (66) 44 
Other than for Estonia, these businesses were all identified for sale or closure during the prior year and their carrying value was 
therefore compared to their recoverable amount, being the expected net proceeds from disposal. Where the carrying value was less 
than the expected proceeds any goodwill was written down to the recoverable amount. 
The 2015 impairment charge in Estonia reduced goodwill to the estimated recoverable amount based on the challenging economic 
environment and revised business expectations at that time. 
No further impairment charge has been recognised against the carrying value of goodwill at 31 December 2016 in either Estonia or 
South Africa Cash Solutions, as improving profit forecasts support the headroom in their respective CGU discounted cash-flow 
calculations. Sensitivity analyses performed for these CGUs, including the risk of customer attrition or of failure to secure new contracts, 
show a range of potential additional impairment charges of up to £17m. 
Sensitivity to key assumptions 
The key assumptions used in the discounted cash flow calculations relate to the discount rates and growth rates used. The table below 
shows the additional impairment that would arise from an increase in discount rates by 1% and 3% (with all other variables being equal, 
for example, taking the UK base rate from 8.1% to 9.1% and 11.1%) or a decrease in growth rates by 1% and 3% (to a minimum of 0% 
with all other variables being equal, for example, taking the UK growth rate from 2.0% to 1.0% and 0.0%) for the Group in total and for 
each of its countries that represent significant goodwill balances: 
 
 Additional impairment  Additional impairment 
Goodwill 
2016 
£m 
Base 
discount rate
2016
1% 
increase
2016
£m
3% 
increase
2016
£m
Base  
growth  
rate* 
2016 
1%  
decrease 
2016 
£m 
3% 
decrease
2016
£m
Brazil
**
 86 19.7% – – 4.5% – –
United States of America 490 9.7% – – 2.2% – –
Hong Kong 51 7.0% – – 3.0% – –
Malaysia  37 11.9% – – 3.0% – –
Estonia 36 9.8% – – 2.7% – –
Netherlands 154 6.9% – – 1.2% – –
United Kingdom 696 8.1% – – 2.0% – –
Other (all allocated) 440 (1) (3) (2) (2)
Total 1,990  (1) (3)  (2) (2)
* Lower of country growth rate per the IMF and implied year 3 business forecast growth rate. 
** As described above, the recoverable amount of the goodwill held in the Brazil CGU is based on fair value less costs to sell, with an appropriate valuation 
multiple applied to profit forecasts, rather than on a value-in-use basis. No impairment charge has been recognised against the carrying value of goodwill in this 
CGU at 31 December 2016. Sensitivity analysis performed for the CGU, including the risk of failure to control cost, of customer attrition or of not achieving 
the valuation multiple used, shows a range of potential additional impairment charges of up to £20m. 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
136 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
19. Property, plant and equipment 
2016 
Land and  
buildings  
£m 
Equipment  
and vehicles 
£m 
Total
£m
Cost   
At 1 January 2016 232 816 1,048
Additions  12 87 99
Disposals (5) (73) (78)
Transferred to held for sale (6) (10) (16)
Re-classifications 1 (6) (5)
Exchange differences 21 119 140
At 31 December 2016 255 933 1,188
   
Depreciation and accumulated impairment losses   
At 1 January 2016 (89) (532) (621)
Depreciation charge (14) (92) (106)
Disposals 4 59 63
Transferred to held for sale 2 2 4
Re-classifications  – 5 5
Exchange differences (12) (84) (96)
At 31 December 2016 (109) (642) (751)
   
Carrying amount   
At 1 January 2016 143 284 427
At 31 December 2016 146 291 437
   
2015 
Land and  
buildings  
£m 
Equipment  
and vehicles 
£m 
Total
£m
Cost   
At 1 January 2015 248 887 1,135
Acquisition of businesses  – 2 2
Additions 9 114 123
Disposals (14) (91) (105)
Transferred to held for sale (6) (45) (51)
Re-classifications 2 (8) (6)
Exchange differences (7) (43) (50)
At 31 December 2015 232 816 1,048
   
Depreciation and accumulated impairment losses   
At 1 January 2015 (86) (581) (667)
Depreciation charge (13) (97) (110)
Disposals 8 83 91
Transferred to held for sale 4 32 36
Re-classifications (4) 4  –
Exchange differences 2 27 29
At 31 December 2015 (89) (532) (621)
   
Carrying amount   
At 1 January 2015 162 306 468
At 31 December 2015 143 284 427
The net book value of equipment and vehicles held under finance leases was £39m (2015: £53m). Accumulated depreciation on these 
assets was £126m (2015: £128m) and the depreciation charge for the year was £21m (2015: £20m). 
The rights over assets held on finance leases are effectively security for lease liabilities. These rights revert to the lessor in the event  
of default. 
  
136 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 137 
The net book value of equipment and vehicles includes £23m (2015: £18m) of assets leased by the Group to third parties under 
operating leases. Accumulated depreciation on these assets was £40m (2015: £27m) and the depreciation charge for the year was £7m 
(2015: £5m). 
The net book value of land and buildings comprises freeholds of £71m (2015: £63m), long leaseholds of £20m (2015: £19m) and short 
leaseholds of £55m (2015: £61m). 
20. Investment in joint ventures 
The following is summarised aggregate financial information for the Group’s interest in joint ventures that are not material to the Group, 
based on the amounts reported in the Group’s consolidated financial statements: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Carrying amount of interests in joint ventures 19 18
Group's share of:  
Profit from continuing operations 9 10
Total comprehensive income 9 10
During the prior year the Group re-negotiated shareholder agreements in certain joint ventures in the Middle East & India region which 
resulted in the Group obtaining control of these entities. From the date the change in agreement was approved these entities have 
been accounted for as subsidiaries under the Group’s control in accordance with IFRS10 – Consolidated Financial Statements. 
21. Inventories 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Raw materials 7 9
Work in progress 15 11
Finished goods including consumables 90 83
Total inventories 112 103
22. Investments 
Investments comprise primarily listed securities of £31m (2015: £41m) held by the Group’s wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries. 
These are stated at their fair values based on quoted market prices consistent with Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Use of these 
investments is restricted to the settlement of claims against the Group’s captive insurance subsidiaries.  
23. Trade and other receivables 
Notes 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Within current assets   
Accrued income  151  164 
Trade debtors  1,060  970 
Provision for impairment of trade receivables  (65) (53)
Receivables from customers in respect of cash processing operations 26 10  8 
Other debtors  106  88 
Current tax receivable   61  46 
Prepayments  79  82 
Amounts due from construction contract customers 24 17  7 
Derivative financial instruments at fair value 30 23  11 
Total trade and other receivables included within current assets  1,442  1,323 
   
Within non-current assets   
Derivative financial instruments at fair value 30 53  50 
Other debtors  48  34 
Total trade and other receivables included within non-current assets  101  84 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
138 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
23. Trade and other receivables continued 
Credit risk on trade receivables 
There is limited concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group’s customers are both large in number and 
dispersed geographically in around 100 countries. The Group’s largest customer is the UK Government which comprises approximately 
10% (2015:10%) of the total trade debtor balance as at 31 December 2016. Group companies are required to follow the Group 
Finance Manual guidelines with respect to assessing the credit-worthiness of potential customers. These guidelines include processes 
such as obtaining approval for credit limits over a set amount, performing credit checks and assessments and obtaining additional 
security where required. 
Credit terms vary across the Group and can range from 0 to 90 days to reflect the different risks within each country in which the 
Group operates. There is no group-wide rate of provision, and provision is made for debts according to local conditions and past 
default experience. 
The movement in the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
At 1 January (53) (50)
Provision for impairment of trade receivables (21) (12)
Amounts written off during the year 10 7
Unused amounts reversed 6 1
Exchange differences (7) 1
At 31 December (65) (53)
The ageing of trade debtors, net of provision for impairment of trade receivables, is as follows: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Accrued income 151  164 
Not yet due 769  675 
1-30 days overdue 125  146 
31-60 days overdue 41  40 
61-90 days overdue 22  21 
91-180 days overdue 22  24 
181-365 days overdue 11  11 
Over 365 days 5   – 
Net trade debtors and accrued income 1,146  1,081 
No additional provision has been made on the above amounts as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the 
Group believes that the amounts are still recoverable. The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances. The proportion of 
trade debtors at 31 December 2016 that were overdue for payment was 20% (2015: 22%). The Group’s DSO measure (days sales 
outstanding) for continuing operations based on revenue from the last 90 days of the year is 46 days (2015: 50 days).  
The directors believe that the fair value of trade and other receivables, being the present value of future cash flows, approximates to 
their book value. 
24. Construction contracts 
 Notes 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Amounts due from contract customers included in trade and other receivables 23 17 7
Amounts due to contract customers included in trade and other payables 29 (3) (1)
Net balances relating to construction contracts  14 6
   
Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date  198 135
Less: progress billings  (184) (129)
Net balances relating to construction contracts  14 6
At 31 December 2016, advances received from customers for contract work amounted to £14m (2015: £4m), and the value of 
retentions held by customers for contract work amounted to £5m (2015: £2m). All trade and other receivables arising from 
construction contracts are due for settlement within one year.  
  
138 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 139 
25. Disposal groups classified as held for sale 
As at 31 December 2016, disposal groups classified as held for sale include the assets and liabilities associated with a number of group-
wide operations. The more material of these operations include the G4S Israel, the Group’s Youth Service business in North America 
and its Children’s Services business in the UK. 
At 31 December 2015, disposal groups held for sale included the assets and liabilities associated with certain operations in the Group’s 
Asia Pacific, Middle East & India and Latin America regions. 
The major classes of assets and liabilities comprising the operations classified as held for sale are as follows: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Assets  
Goodwill 50  8 
Acquisition-related intangible assets 1   – 
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than acquisition-related 15  17 
Other non-current assets 4   – 
Trading investments 7   – 
Inventories 4  3 
Trade and other receivables (current) 62  21 
Cash and cash equivalents 8  9 
Total assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale 151  58 
  
Liabilities  
Bank overdrafts  (1) (4)
Bank loans (1) (1)
Trade and other payables (47) (17)
Current tax liabilities (1)  – 
Retirement benefit obligations (1) (2)
Obligations under finance leases  –  (5)
Deferred tax liability (1)  – 
Provisions (6) (1)
Total liabilities of disposal groups classified as held for sale (58) (30)
  
Net assets of disposal groups 93  28 
26. Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 
The Group’s Cash Solutions businesses provide a range of cash handling and processing services on behalf of customers. Certain of 
those services comprise collection, segregated storage and delivery of customer cash, with title to the cash handled remaining with the 
customer throughout the process. Such cash is never recorded in the Group’s balance sheet. 
A number of other cash processing services are provided to customers, such as the sale and purchase of physical cash balances, and the 
replenishment of ATMs and similar machines from customer funds held in Group bank accounts. Such funds, which are generally settled 
within two working days, are classified as “funds within cash processing operations”, along with the related balances due to and from 
customers in respect of unsettled transactions, and are included gross within the relevant balance sheet classifications.  
The Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 has been re-presented in respect of such “funds within cash 
processing operations”, as follows: 
Funds within cash processing operations 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Stocks of money, included within cash and cash equivalents 95 94
Overdraft facilities related to cash processing operations, included within bank overdrafts (22) (25)
Liabilities to customers in respect of cash processing operations, included within trade  
and other payables (83) (77)
Receivables from customers in respect of cash processing operations, included within trade  
and other receivables 10 8
Funds within cash processing operations (net) – –
 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
140 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
26. Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts continued 
Whilst such cash and bank balances are not formally restricted by legal title, they are restricted by the Group’s own internal policies such 
that they cannot be used for the purposes of the Group’s own operations. For the purposes of the Group’s Consolidated statement of 
cash flow, funds within cash processing operations are therefore recorded net of the related balances due to and from customers in 
respect of unsettled transactions, within cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts, and hence have no impact on the Group’s statutory 
cash flow. 
A reconciliation of cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the end of the year per the Consolidated statement of financial position 
to the corresponding balances included within the Consolidated statement of cash flow is as follows: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated statement of financial position 851  593 
Bank overdrafts in the Consolidated statement of financial position (93) (122)
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts included within disposal groups classified as held for sale 7  5 
Total cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 765  476 
Add:  
Liabilities to customers in respect of cash processing operations, included within trade  
and other payables (83) (77)
Receivables from customers in respect of cash processing operations, included within trade  
and other receivables 10 8
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the end of the year in the Consolidated statement of 
cash flow 692 407
Cash and cash equivalents comprise principally short-term money market deposits, current account balances and Group-owned cash 
held in ATM machines. At 31 December 2016 cash and cash equivalents earned interest at a weighted-average rate of 0.6% (2015: 
0.8%). The credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited because wherever possible, and in accordance with Group Treasury policy, 
the cash is placed with bank counterparties that hold investment grade credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies. 
The Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 has been re-presented to show the impact of adopting the 
new IFRIC agenda decision issued in April 2016 regarding cash pooling. This resulted in an increase to cash and cash equivalents and an 
increase to overdrafts of £56m as at 31 December 2015. 
Cash and cash equivalents of £95m (2015: £69m) are held by the Group’s wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries. Their use is 
restricted to the settlement of claims against the Group’s captive insurance subsidiaries. 
27. Bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Bank overdrafts 93 122
Bank loans 20 399
Loan notes
*
 2,392 1,774
Total bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes 2,505 2,295
  
The borrowings are repayable as follows:  
On demand or within one year 786 222
In the second year 659 588
In the third to fifth years inclusive 536 1,078
After five years 524 407
Total bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes 2,505 2,295
  
Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months (shown under current liabilities):  
Bank overdrafts (93) (122)
Bank loans (16) (75)
Loan notes (677) (25)
 (786) (222)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months (shown under non-current liabilities) 1,719 2,073
* Loan notes include £675m (2015: £611m) of private loan notes and £1,717m (2015: £1,163m) of public loan notes. 
The Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 has been re-presented to show the impact of adopting the 
new IFRIC agenda decision issued in April 2016 regarding cash pooling. This resulted in an increase to cash and cash equivalents and an 
increase to overdrafts of £56m as at 31 December 2015. 
  
140 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 141 
Analysis of bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes by currency is as follows: 
Sterling
£m
Euros
£m
US dollars 
£m 
Others 
£m 
Total
£m
Bank overdrafts 1 10 50 32 93
Bank loans  –  – 6 14 20
Loan notes 395 1,366 631  –  2,392
At 31 December 2016 396 1,376 687 46 2,505
   
Bank overdrafts 44 10 17 51 122
Bank loans 215 – 170 14 399
Loan notes 421 812 541  –  1,774
At 31 December 2015 680 822 728 65 2,295
Of the borrowings in currencies other than sterling, £1,198m (2015: £991m) is designated as a net-investment hedge. 
The weighted-average interest rates on bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes at 31 December 2016, adjusted for hedging, were  
as follows: 
 
2016 
% 
2015
%
Bank overdrafts 3.8 1.8
Bank loans
*
 – 1.8
Private loan notes 4.1 3.9
Public loan notes 3.5 4.1
* There were no material bank loans in place at 31 December 2016. 
At 31 December 2016, the Group’s committed bank borrowings comprised a £1bn multi-currency revolving credit facility with £964m 
maturing in January 2022 and the remainder in January 2021. At 31 December 2016, this committed facility was undrawn. Interest on all 
committed bank borrowing facilities is at prevailing LIBOR or EURIBOR rates (with a floor of zero), dependent upon the period of 
drawdown, plus an agreed margin, and re-priced within one year or less.  
Borrowing at floating rates exposes the Group to cash-flow interest rate risk. The management of this risk is discussed in note 31.  
The Group’s main sources of finance and their applicable rates as of 31 December 2016 are set out below: 
 
Nominal 
amount
a
 
Issued 
interest rate  
Post-hedging
average 
interest 
rate  
Year of redemption and amounts (£m)
b
 
Debt instrument/  
Year of issue  2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Total
US PP 2008 £44m 7.56% 6.59%  44      44
US PP 2007 US$450m 5.86% - 6.06% 1.86% 162 117   85  364
Public Bond May 2012 €600m 2.875% 3.12%  501       501
US PP 2008 US$298.5m 6.78% - 6.88% 6.90%  166 60      226
Public Bond Dec 2012 €500m 2.625% 2.65%   412      412
Public Bond 2009 £350m 7.75% 6.82%    350     350
Eurobond 2016 €500m 1.5% 2.25%   440 440
Revolving Credit  
Facility 2015 
£1bn  
(multi curr) Undrawn –         –
      663 622 467 60 – 85 440 2,337
a.  Nominal debt amount. For fair value carrying amount see note 31. 
b.  Applying foreign exchange rates at 31 December 2016 or hedged foreign exchange rates where applicable. 
 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
142 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
27. Bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes continued 
The Group’s average cost of gross borrowings in 2016, net of interest hedging, was 3.9% (2015: 4.0%). 
In November 2016 the Group issued a €500m Eurobond. The bond matures in January 2023 and pays an annual coupon of 1.5%. 
The committed bank facilities and the private loan notes are subject to one financial covenant (net debt to EBITDA ratio where 
EBITDA is calculated as Group PBITA plus depreciation and amortisation of non-acquisition related intangible assets) and non-
compliance with the covenant may lead to an acceleration of maturity. The Group complied with the financial covenant throughout the 
year to 31 December 2016 and the year to 31 December 2015. The Group has not defaulted on, or breached the terms of, any 
material loans during the year.  
Bank overdrafts, bank loans, the loan notes issued in July 2008 (with the exception of £44m), €510m of the loan notes issued in  
May 2012, €380m of the loan notes issued in December 2012 and the loan notes issued in November 2016 are stated at amortised 
cost. The loan notes issued in March 2007, £44m of the loan notes issued in July 2008, the loan notes issued in May 2009, €90m of the 
loan notes issued in May 2012 and €120m of the loan notes issued in December 2012 are stated at amortised cost but are designated 
in a fair-value hedge relationship which has a fair-value adjustment in relation to the hedged interest-rate risk. 
Cross-currency swaps with a nominal value of US$50m (£41m) relating to the loan notes issued in July 2008 have a fair-value mark-to-
market gain of £16m (2015: gain £9m), predominantly resulting from fixing the sterling value of this portion of the loan notes at an 
exchange rate of 1.975 and partly from fixing the sterling and US dollar interest rates. 
Cross-currency swaps with a nominal value of €325m (£278m) relating to the loan notes issued in May 2012 have a fair-value mark-to-
market gain of £12m (2015: loss £26m), predominantly resulting from fixing the sterling value of this portion of the loan notes at an 
exchange rate of 1.222 and partly from fixing the sterling and euro interest rates. 
Cross-currency swaps with a nominal value of €350m (£299m) relating to the loan notes issued in December 2012 have a fair-value 
mark-to-market gain of £20m (2015: loss £19m), predominantly resulting from fixing the sterling value of this portion of the loan notes 
at an exchange rate of 1.233 and partly from fixing the sterling and euro interest rates. 
Cross-currency swaps with a nominal value of €270m (£231m) relating to the loan notes issued in November 2016 have a fair-value 
mark-to-market loss of £17m, predominantly resulting from fixing the sterling value of this portion of the loan notes at an exchange rate 
of 1.109 and partly from fixing the sterling and euro interest rates. 
28. Obligations under finance leases 
Minimum lease 
payments
2016
£m
Minimum lease 
payments 
2015 
£m 
Present value of 
minimum lease 
payments 
2016 
£m 
Present value of 
minimum lease 
payments
2015
£m
Amounts payable under finance leases:   
Within one year 22 23 20 20
In the second to fifth years inclusive 36 45 35 43
After five years 2 1 2 1
 60 69 57 64
Less: future finance charges on finance leases (3) (5)  
Present value of lease obligations 57 64  
   
Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months (shown under 
current liabilities)  (20) (19)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months (shown under  
non-current liabilities)  37 45
The Group leases certain of its fixtures and equipment under finance leases. The weighted-average lease term is six years (2015: seven 
years). For the year ended 31 December 2016, the weighted-average effective borrowing rate was 5.7% (2015: 6.3%). Interest rates  
are fixed at the contract date. All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent 
rental payments.  
The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ charges over the leased assets.  
  
142 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 143 
29. Trade and other payables 
Notes 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Within current liabilities:   
Trade creditors  252  164 
Amounts due to construction contract customers 24 3  1 
Other taxation and social security costs  204  172 
Holiday pay and other wage-related accruals  373  320 
Liabilities to customers in respect of cash processing operations 26 83  77 
Other creditors  61  73 
Other accruals   203  216 
Deferred income  76  66 
Derivative financial instruments at fair value 30 5  23 
Total trade and other payables included within current liabilities  1,260  1,112 
   
Within non-current liabilities:   
Derivative financial instruments at fair value 30 14  38 
Other creditors  16  3 
Total trade and other payables included within non-current liabilities  30  41 
Trade and other payables comprise principally amounts outstanding for trade purchases and on-going costs. The average credit period 
taken for trade purchases for continuing operations is 35 days (2015: 31 days).  
30. Derivative financial instruments 
The carrying values of derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date are presented below: 
Assets
2016
£m
Assets 
2015 
£m 
Liabilities 
2016 
£m 
Liabilities
2015
£m
Forward foreign-exchange contracts  1  –   1   – 
Cross-currency swaps designated as cash-flow hedges  48 9   17  45 
Interest-rate swaps designated as cash-flow hedges   –  –   1  1 
Interest-rate swaps designated as fair-value hedges   27 52   –  12 
Commodity swaps  –  –   –  3 
 76 61  19  61 
Less: non-current portion  (53) (50) (14) (38)
Current portion 23 11  5  23 
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value, measured using techniques consistent with Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy 
(inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are observable for the asset and liability, either directly or indirectly). The source 
of the market prices is Bloomberg and in addition the third party relationship counterparty banks. The relevant currency yield curve is 
used to forecast the floating-rate cash flows anticipated under the instrument which are discounted back to the balance sheet date.  
This value is compared to the original transaction value giving a fair value of the instrument at the balance sheet date. 
The mark-to-market valuation of the derivatives has improved by £57m during the year, predominantly as a result of sterling weakness 
driving up the value of the cross-currency swaps. 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
144 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
30. Derivative financial instruments continued 
The interest-rate, cross-currency, foreign-exchange and commodity swaps treated as cash-flow or net-investment hedges have the 
following maturities: 
Assets
2016
£m
Assets 
2015 
£m 
Liabilities 
2016 
£m 
Liabilities
2015
£m
Within one year 12 – 1 4
In the second year 36 – – 26
In the third year  – 9 – 19
In the fourth year – – 1 –
In the fifth year or greater – – 17 –
Total carrying value 48 9 19 49
The projected settlement of cash flows (including accrued interest) associated with derivatives treated as cash-flow hedges is as follows: 
 
Assets
2016
£m
Assets 
2015 
£m 
Liabilities 
2016 
£m 
Liabilities
2015
£m
Within one year 16 – 5 9
In the second year 35 – 4 22
In the third year  – 9 4 15
In the fourth year – – 3 –
In the fifth year or greater – – 3 –
Total cash flows 51 9 19 46
31. Financial risk 
Capital management 
The second extension option in the Group’s £1bn multi-currency revolving credit facility was exercised during the year by all but one of 
the sixteen participant banks, extending the maturity date on £964m of the facility to 7 January 2022. The remaining £36m matures on 
7 January 2021. The Group issued a new €500m Eurobond in November 2016. The bond matures in January 2023 and pays an annual 
coupon of 1.5%. 
In August 2016, Standard & Poor’s affirmed the Group’s long-term credit rating of BBB- (negative). The Group will continue to manage 
its capital structure so that it retains an investment grade rating. 
The Group’s policy is to maintain a net debt to EBITDA ratio of less than 2.5x. At the end of 2016 the ratio was 2.8x (2015: 3.4x) 
showing progress towards the target, despite sterling falling sharply following the result of the UK referendum on EU membership in 
June 2016. 
At 31 December 2016 the Group had no drawings from its committed £1bn bank facility. The next debt maturities are US$200m of 
US Private Placement debt maturing in March 2017 and a €600m Eurobond maturing in May 2017. Overall the debt portfolio has a 
medium to long-term debt maturity profile. The Group is currently well placed to access finance from the debt capital markets and the 
bank market if required. Borrowings are principally in sterling, US dollars and Euros reflecting the geographies of significant operational 
assets and profits. 
Liquidity risk 
The Group mitigates liquidity risk by ensuring there are sufficient undrawn committed facilities available to it. For more details of the 
Group’s bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes see note 27. 
The percentage of available but undrawn committed facilities during the course of the year was as follows: 
31 December 2015  25% 
31 March 2016  20% 
30 June 2016  12% 
30 September 2016  19% 
31 December 2016  30% 
 
To reduce re-financing risk, Group Treasury obtains finance with a range of maturities and hence minimises the impact of a single 
material source of finance terminating on a single date. 
Re-financing risk is further reduced by Group Treasury opening negotiations to either replace or extend any major medium-term facility 
at least 12 months before its termination date.   
144 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 145 
Maturity profile of loans and borrowings 
The contractual maturities of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts in the Consolidated statement of financial 
position, including interest payments, estimated based on expectations at the reporting date, are shown, subtotalled by category, below: 
31 December 2016 Notes
Carrying 
amount
£m
Fair 
value
£m
Total 
contractual 
cash flows
£m
Within 1 
year 
£m 
2-5 
years 
£m 
Over 5
years
£m
Investments 22 44 44 44 44  – –
Derivative financial instruments (interest-rate swaps) 30 27 27 49 30  18 1 
Derivative financial instruments (foreign-exchange forwards) 30 1 1 1 175+(174) – –
Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 72 72 94 75  18 1
   
Derivative financial instruments (cross-currency swaps) 30 48 48 51 296+(280) 355+(320) –
Financial assets designated as cash-flow hedges 48 48 51 16  35 –
   
Net trade receivables and accrued income 23 1,146 1,146 1,146 1,146  – –
Cash and cash equivalents
**
 26 756 756 756 756  – –
Loans and receivables 1,902 1,902 1,902 1,902  – –
   
Loan notes (issued May 2009, 7.75%, maturing 2019) 27 (351) (398) (431) (27) (404) –
Loan notes (issued March 2007, 5.86%-6.06%, maturing  
2017-22) 27 (389) (381) (420) (184) (148) (88)
Financial liabilities designated as fair-value hedges (740) (779) (851) (211) (552) (88)
   
Derivative financial instruments (cross-currency swaps) 30 (17) (17) (17) 1+(5) 14+(27) 254+(254)
Derivative financial instruments (interest-rate swaps) 30 (1) (1) (1) – (1) –
Derivative financial instruments (foreign-exchange forwards) 30 (1) (1) (1) 34+(35) – –
Financial liabilities designated as cash-flow hedges (19) (19) (19) (5) (14) –
   
Loan notes (issued July 2008, 6.78%-7.56%, maturing 2018-20)
*
 27 (286) (306) (334) (20) (314) –
Loan notes (issued May 2012, 2.875%, maturing 2017)
*
 27 (513) (518) (527) (527) – –
Loan notes (issued December 2012, 2.625%, maturing 2018)
*
 27 (428) (446) (450) (11) (439) –
Loan notes (issued November 2016, 1.5%, maturing 2023) 27 (425) (429) (459) (6) (26) (427)
Bank loans 27 (20) (20) (20) (16) (4) –
Bank overdrafts
**
 27 (71) (71) (71) (71) – –
Finance lease liabilities 28 (57) (57) (57) (20) (37) –
Trade creditors 29 (252) (252) (252) (252) – –
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (2,052) (2,099) (2,170) (923) (820) (427)
* £44m of July 2008 loan notes, €90m (£77m) of May 2012 loan n otes and €120m (£103m) of December 2012 loan notes are held in fa ir-value hedge relationships. 
** Excluding cash and overdraft balances in respect of cash processing operations (see note 26). 
Note: In the table above, certain values are presented gross, to show both the asset and the liability. 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
146 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
31. Financial risk continued 
31 December 2015 Notes
Carrying 
amount
£m
Fair 
value
£m
Total 
contractual 
cash flows 
£m 
Within 1 
year 
£m 
2-5
years
£m
Over 5 
years
£m
Investments 22 49 49 49  49  – –
Derivative financial instruments (interest-rate swaps) 30 40 40 61  19  39 3 
Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 89 89 110  68  39 3 
   
Derivative financial instruments (foreign-exchange forwards) 30 – – – 5+(5) – –
Derivative financial instruments (cross-currency swaps) 30 9 9 9  2+(2) 37+(28) –
Financial assets designated as cash-flow hedges 9 9 9  – 9 –
   
Net trade receivables and accrued income 23 1,081 1,081 1,081  1,081  – –
Cash and cash equivalents
**
 26 499 499 499  499  – –
Loans and receivables 1,580 1,580 1,580  1,580  – –
   
Loan notes (issued May 2009, 7.75%, maturing 2019) 27 (352) (404) (459) (27) (432) –
Loan notes (issued March 2007, 5.86%-6.06%, maturing 2017-22) 27 (339) (329) (366) (18) (270) (78)
Financial liabilities designated as fair-value hedges (691) (733) (825) (45) (702) (78)
   
Derivative financial instruments (cross-currency swaps) 30 (45) (45) (43) 14+(19) 534+(572) –
Derivative financial instruments (interest-rate swaps) 30 (1) (1) (1) (1) – –
Derivative financial instruments (commodity swaps) 30 (3) (3) (3) (3) – –
Financial liabilities designated as cash-flow hedges (49) (49) (47) (9) (38) –
   
Loan notes (issued July 2008, 6.78%-7.56%, maturing 2016-20)
*
 27 (272) (300) (332) (44) (288) –
Loan notes (issued May 2012, 2.875%, maturing 2017)
*
 27 (442) (456) (468) (13) (455) –
Loan notes (issued December 2012, 2.625%, maturing 2018)
*
 27 (369) (388) (398) (10) (388) –
Bank loans 27 (399) (399) (399) (75) (324) –
Bank overdrafts
**
 27 (97) (97) (97) (97) – –
Finance lease liabilities 28 (64) (64) (64) (19) (45) –
Trade creditors 29 (164) (164) (164) (164) – –
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (1,807) (1,868) (1,922) (422) (1,500) –
* £44m of July 2008 loan notes, €90m (£66m) of May 2012 loan n otes and €120m (£89m) of December 2012 loan notes were held in fa ir value hedge relationships. 
** Excluding cash and overdraft balances in respect of cash processing operations (see note 26). 
Note: In the table above, certain values are presented gross, to show both the asset and the liability. 
The gross cash flows disclosed in the tables above represent the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to derivative financial 
assets and liabilities held for risk management purposes and which are usually not closed out before contractual maturity. The disclosure 
shows the net cash-flow amount for derivatives that are net cash-settled and gross cash inflow and outflow amounts for derivatives that 
have simultaneous gross cash settlement – e.g. forward-exchange contracts. 
  
146 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 147 
Market risk 
Currency risk and forward foreign-exchange contracts  
The Group conducts business in many currencies. Transaction risk is limited since, wherever possible, each business operates and 
conducts its financing activities in local currency. However, the Group presents its consolidated financial statements in sterling and it is in 
consequence subject to foreign-exchange risk due to the translation of the results and net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.  
Treasury policy is to manage significant translation risks in respect of net operating assets and its consolidated net debt/EBITDA ratio by 
holding foreign currency denominated loans where possible and to a lesser extent foreign-exchange-forward transactions. The Group 
has hedged a substantial proportion of its exposure to fluctuations in the translation into sterling of its overseas net assets through  
these instruments. 
Translation adjustments arising on the translation of foreign currency loans and the foreign-exchange-forward transactions meeting 
hedge accounting criteria are recognised in equity to match translation adjustments on foreign currency equity investments as they 
qualify as net-investment hedges with no residual impact to equity. At 31 December 2016 short-dated foreign-exchange-forward 
transactions which did not meet hedge accounting criteria were in place. These transactions mature on 3 January 2017, have a  
nominal value of £175m, and a mark-to-market fair value gain of £1m. This mark-to-market gain was recognised in the Consolidated 
income statement. 
At 31 December 2016, the Group’s US dollar and Euro net assets were approximately 80% and 93% respectively hedged by foreign 
currency loans and foreign-exchange-forward transactions (2015: US dollar 83%, Euro 90%).  
Cross-currency swaps with a nominal value of £25m are in place hedging the foreign currency risk on US$50m of the second US Private 
Placement notes issued in July 2008, effectively fixing the sterling value of this portion of debt at an exchange rate of 1.9750. 
Cross-currency swaps with a nominal value of £266m were arranged to hedge the foreign currency risk on €325m of the Euro public 
notes issued in May 2012, effectively fixing the sterling value of this portion of debt at an exchange rate of 1.2217. 
Cross-currency swaps with a nominal value of £284m were arranged to hedge the foreign currency risk on €350m of the Euro public 
notes issued in December 2012, effectively fixing the sterling value of this portion of debt at an exchange rate of 1.2332. 
Cross-currency swaps with a nominal value of £244m were arranged to hedge the foreign currency risk on €270m of the Euro public 
notes issued in November 2016, effectively fixing the sterling value of this portion of debt at an exchange rate of 1.1088. 
Assuming the 2016 US dollar and the Euro foreign exchange rate market movements against sterling in 2015 were repeated in 2016, 
the fair value net gain on the cross-currency swaps which hedge part of the currency loan notes would be expected to increase  
by £99m. 
Interest-rate risk and interest-rate swaps  
Much of the Group’s debt is issued at fixed rate, but to the extent there is borrowing at floating rates as described in note 27, the 
Group is exposed to cash-flow interest-rate risk, which the Group manages within policy limits approved by the directors. Interest-rate 
swaps and, to a limited extent, forward-rate agreements are utilised to fix the interest rate on a proportion of borrowings on a reducing 
scale over forward periods up to a maximum of five years. At 31 December 2016 the nominal value of such contracts was £nil (in 
respect of US dollar) (2015: £109m) and £60m (in respect of Euro) (2015: £52m); their weighted-average interest rate was 0.6% 
(Euro) (2015: 0.6% Euro, 1.3% US dollar), and their weighted-average period to maturity was three years four months (2015: two 
years). All the interest-rate hedging instruments are designated and fully effective as cash-flow hedges and movements in their fair value 
have been deferred in equity.  
The US Private Placement market is predominantly a fixed-rate market, with investors preferring a fixed-rate return over the life of the 
loan notes. At the time of the first issue in March 2007, the Group was comfortable with the proportion of floating rate exposure not 
hedged by interest-rate swaps and therefore rather than take on a higher proportion of fixed-rate debt arranged fixed to floating swaps 
effectively converting the fixed coupon on the Private Placement to a floating rate. Following the swaps the resulting average coupon on 
the US Private Placement is LIBOR + 60bps. These swaps have been documented as fair value hedges of the US Private Placement 
fixed interest loan notes, with the movements in their fair value recognised in the Consolidated income statement at the same time as 
the movement in the fair value of the hedged item. 
The interest on the US Private Placement notes issued in July 2008, the sterling public notes issued in May 2009, €510m of the  
Euro public notes issued in May 2012, €380m of the Euro public notes issued in December 2012 and the Euro public notes issued  
in November 2016 was initially kept at fixed rate. In April 2014, the interest rate on £44m of the US Private Placement notes issued  
in July 2008 and on all the GBP public notes issued in May 2009 was swapped from fixed to floating for a period of three years  
using derivatives. 
All four public notes have a coupon step up of 1.25% which is triggered should the credit rating of G4S plc fall below investment grade. 
The core group borrowings are held in US dollars, Euros and sterling. Although the impact of rising interest rates is largely shielded by 
fixed-rate loans and interest-rate swaps which provide certainty on the vast majority of the exposure, some interest-rate risk remains.  
A 1% increase in interest rates across the yield curve in each of these currencies with the 31 December 2016 debt position constant 
throughout 2017, would lead to an expectation of an additional interest charge of £10m in the 2017 financial year. 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
148 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
31. Financial risk continued 
Commodity risk and commodity swaps 
The Group’s principal commodity risk relates to the fluctuating level of diesel prices, particularly affecting its Cash Solutions businesses. 
Commodity swaps and commodity options are on occasions used to fix synthetically part of the exposure and reduce the associated 
cost volatility. The hedging programme is under evaluation and as a consequence there was no commodity hedging in place at  
31 December 2016. 
Counterparty credit risk 
The Group’s strategy for credit risk management is to set minimum credit ratings for counterparties and monitor these on a regular basis.  
For treasury-related transactions, the policy limits the aggregate credit risk assigned to a counterparty. The utilisation of a credit limit is 
calculated by applying a weighting to the notional value of each transaction outstanding with each counterparty based on the type and 
duration of the transaction. The total mark-to-market value outstanding with each counterparty is also closely monitored against policy 
limits assigned to each counterparty. For short-term transactions (under one year), at inception of the transaction, the financial 
counterparty must be investment grade rated by either the Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s rating agencies. For long-term transactions,  
at inception of the transaction, unless otherwise approved, the financial counterparty must have a minimum rating of BBB+/Baa1 from 
Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s.  
Treasury transactions are dealt with through the Group’s relationship banks, all of which have a strong investment grade rating. At  
31 December 2016 the largest two counterparty exposures related to treasury transactions were £22m and £16m and both were held 
with institutions with a long-term Standard & Poor’s credit rating of A. These exposures represent 29% and 21% of the carrying values 
of the treasury transactions, with a fair value gain at the balance sheet date. Both of these banks had significant loan commitments 
outstanding to G4S plc at 31 December 2016. 
The Group operates a multi-currency notional pooling cash management system with a wholly-owned subsidiary of an A-rated bank. At 
year end, credit balances of £135m were pooled with debit balances of £59m, resulting in a net pool credit balance of £76m. There is a 
legal right of set-off under the pooling agreement and an overdraft facility of £3m. Following the IFRS IC (IFRIC) agenda decision issued 
in April 2016 regarding cash pooling, the cash and overdraft balances in the cash pool are represented gross in the Consolidated 
statement of financial position. 
At an operating level the minimum investment grade rating criteria applies. Exceptionally, where required by local country circumstances, 
counterparties with no rating or a non-investment grade rating can be approved as counterparties for a period of up to 12 months.  
Due to the Group’s global geographical footprint and exposure to multiple industries, there is minimal concentration risk.  
32. Retirement benefit obligations 
The Group operates a wide range of retirement benefit arrangements which are established in accordance with local conditions and 
practices within the countries concerned. These include funded defined contribution, multi-employer and funded and unfunded defined 
benefit schemes.  
Defined contribution arrangements 
The majority of the retirement benefit arrangements operated by the Group are of a defined contribution structure, where the 
employer contribution and resulting income statement charge is fixed at a set level or is a set percentage of employees’ pay. 
Contributions made to defined contribution schemes in 2016 and charged to the Consolidated income statement totalled £77m  
(2015: £96m). 
In the UK, following the closure of the defined benefit schemes to new entrants in 2004, the main scheme for new employees is a 
contracted-in defined contribution scheme.  
Multi-employer arrangement 
In the Netherlands, most employees are members of the Security Industry Wide Pension Fund (IWPF). This is a career-average defined 
benefit plan. Pensionable salary is subject to a cap, and minus an offset that reflects social security levels. Withdrawal from the scheme is 
only possible under certain strict conditions determined by Dutch law and by the pension fund board of the IWPF.  
The plan is funded by a premium that is set by the IWPF board in line with the financing rules that state that the premium should cover 
the cost of the annual accrual of pension benefits. Historically, the premium has been 30% of pensionable salaries and the employer pays 
60% of this premium and the employees the remaining 40%.  
The financing rules specify that an employer is not obliged to pay any further premiums in respect of previously accrued benefits. This 
means that in case of insufficient funding, the benefits of participants could, in theory, be reduced. The current solvency ratio is 95.0% 
(December 2016). The required solvency ratio according to Dutch law is 124.3% (as at 31 December 2016). Should a surplus appear 
within the scheme the board will decide if a reduction in premium is possible although this would only be possible at much higher 
solvency levels.  
Premiums paid to the scheme by the Group and charged to the Consolidated income statement in 2016 totalled £5m (2015: £7m). 
The estimated premium expected to be paid to the scheme during the financial year commencing 1 January 2017 in respect of the  
on-going accrual of benefits is approximately £5m.  
The scheme is not accounted for as a defined benefit scheme under IAS 19 – Employee Benefits as it is not possible to identify the 
Group’s share of the scheme’s assets and liabilities. As a result, and in line with general practice for such schemes, the scheme is 
accounted for as if it were a defined contribution scheme under IAS 19.   
148 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 149 
 
The Netherlands Cash Solutions Pension Plan (“the Cash Solutions scheme”) is a separate scheme operated by the Group but is 
required to provide benefits at least equivalent to the IWPF, and in particular pension increases in payment and deferment, as well as 
revaluation of active members’ rights in the Cash Solutions scheme have to follow the multi-employer scheme (which applies a 
conditional approach). 
At the end of December 2015, liability for future pension accrual in respect of the Cash Solutions scheme was transferred to the IWPF, 
resulting in a curtailment gain of £5m. Past service accruals remained with the Cash Solutions scheme – the scheme is insured so 
longevity risk on the base level of insured pension (that is before increases) is carried by the insurer, and any bonuses from the insurer’s 
returns may defray the cost of pension increases. Accordingly, there is a counterparty risk against the insurer. 
Defined benefit arrangements  
The Group operates several funded defined retirement benefit schemes where the benefits are based on employees’ length of service. 
Whilst the Group’s primary scheme is in the UK, it also operates the Cash Solutions scheme in the Netherlands and other less material 
plans elsewhere. Under funded arrangements, the assets of defined benefit schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds or 
similar structures in the countries concerned.  
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated income statement in relation to the material funded schemes are included within the 
following categories: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Cost of sales 4 7
Administration expenses 2 2
Specific items credit – (5)
Net finance costs 7 9
Total for material funded defined benefit schemes 13 13
The £5m specific item credit in 2015 relates to the curtailment gain on the transfer of the future pension accrual of the Netherlands 
Cash Solutions scheme to the Security Industry Wide Fund.  
There are also various less material unfunded arrangements, for which the Group does not hold related assets separate from the 
Group. In aggregate, other unfunded arrangements incurred £nil (2015: £1m) of costs within cost of sales, and £3m (2015: £3m) within 
finance costs, and recognised a £5m (2015: £3m) actuarial loss within other comprehensive income. 
The defined benefit obligations (DBO) and assets for defined benefit schemes are as follows: 
2016 
DBO  
£m 
Assets  
£m 
(Deficit)/surplus 
£m
UK sections:   
Securicor  (1,957) 1,655 (302)
Group 4  (430) 337 (93)
GSL (272) 347 75
Total UK (2,659) 2,339 (320)
Netherlands (81) 60 (21)
Total for material funded defined benefit schemes  (2,740) 2,399 (341)
Total provision for unfunded and other funded defined benefit schemes   (96)
Total provision for all defined benefit schemes   (437)
   
2015 
DBO  
£m 
Assets  
£m 
(Deficit)/surplus 
£m
UK sections:   
Securicor  (1,642) 1,448 (194)
Group 4  (362) 291 (71)
GSL (214) 290 76
Total UK (2,218) 2,029 (189)
Netherlands (63) 47 (16)
Total for material funded defined benefit schemes  (2,281) 2,076 (205)
Total provision for unfunded and other funded defined benefit schemes   (74)
Total provision for all defined benefit schemes   (279)
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
150 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
32. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
UK defined benefit scheme 
The defined benefit scheme in the UK accounts for 94% (2015: 92%) of the net balance sheet liability for material funded defined 
retirement benefit schemes. It comprises three sections: the Group 4 section which is the pension scheme demerged from the former 
Group 4 Falck A/S, the Securicor section, for which the Group assumed responsibility on 20 July 2004 with the acquisition of Securicor 
plc, and the GSL section, for which the Group assumed responsibility on 12 May 2008 with the acquisition of GSL.  
The UK scheme is closed to future accrual apart from some sub-sections of the GSL section, and for most members defines the pension 
based on final salary. Certain sub-sections of the GSL section have historically remained open to provide a facility to accept former 
public-sector employees who join the Group through outsourcings. In the Group 4 and Securicor sections, members retain their link to 
final salary where appropriate on their benefits accrued up to closure in 2011.  
As at the latest actuarial funding valuation the participants of the UK pension scheme sections can be analysed as follows: 
At 5 April 2015 
Group 4 
section
GSL  
section 
Securicor  
section Total
Active participants   
• 
 Number – 607 – 607
• 
 Average age N/A 49.0 N/A 49.0
   
Deferred participants   
• 
Number 3,653 1,236 8,535 13,424
• 
Average age 52.0 51.0 53.0 52.5
   
Pensioner participants   
• 
Number 3,346 883 9,551 13,780
• 
Average age 71.0 65.0 69.0 69.2
There is a mix of fixed and inflation-dependent pension increases (in payment and deferment) which vary from member to member 
according to their membership history and the section of the scheme. 
The discounted weighted-average duration of the accrued liabilities of the sections are respectively 17 years (Group 4 section), 20 years 
(GSL section) and 18 years (Securicor section). As at 31 December 2015 the discounted weighted-average duration of the accrued 
liabilities of the sections were 16 years (Group 4 section), 18 years (GSL section) and 17 years (Securicor section). 
The scheme is set up under UK law and governed by a Trustee company which is responsible for the scheme’s investments, 
administration and management. The Board of the Trustee company is comprised of an independent chairman and further independent, 
Group and scheme membership representatives. 
The current schedule of deficit recovery contributions provides for a contribution of approximately £40m during 2017. In addition, the 
Company has pledged a share of any material disposal proceeds to the pension scheme (to be shared in the same proportion as the 
pension scheme deficit bears to overall group indebtedness) and has agreed that additional contributions would be made in the event 
that the average annual dividend payment to ordinary shareholders over the three financial years 2016, 2017 and 2018 exceeds a 
certain threshold or in the event that the Company makes a significant special dividend payment (or equivalent capital return), to its 
ordinary shareholders over the same period.  
A funding valuation is carried out for the scheme’s Trustee every three years by an independent firm of actuaries. Depending on  
the outcome of that valuation a schedule of future contributions is negotiated; the Group has guaranteed any contributions due from  
its subsidiaries. 
Following completion of the latest triennial valuation process, the G4S pension trustees agreed during the year a reduced annual 
pension deficit payment of £39m (2015: £44m), with a 3% per annum increase until the next funding valuation due in 2018. 
The Group has concluded that it should allow for a refund of any residual surplus in all three sections of the UK Scheme after all 
benefits have been paid. Therefore no adjustments for asset ceiling or additional liabilities under the IFRIC 14 interpretation are made. 
At present the GSL section has a surplus and the other two sections have deficits. The IASB is proposing to amend IFRIC 14 and the 
Group will assess if there are any implications once the final form of the revised interpretation is clarified. 
Expected contributions 
The estimated amount of contributions expected to be paid to the UK schemes during the financial year commencing  
1 January 2017 in respect of the on-going accrual of benefits is approximately £4m and it is anticipated that it will remain at a similar 
level in the medium term subject to changes in financial conditions. 
Principal risks 
The Group’s pension schemes create a number of risk exposures. Annual increases in benefits are, to a varying extent from scheme to 
scheme, dependent on inflation so the main uncertainties affecting the level of benefits payable are future inflation levels (including the 
impact of inflation on future salary increases) and the actual longevity of the membership. Benefits payable will also be influenced  
by a range of other factors including member decisions on matters such as when to retire and the possibility to draw benefits in 
different forms. 
150 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 151 
Principal risks 
A key risk is that additional contributions are required if the investment returns fall short of those anticipated when setting the 
contributions to the pension plans. For the UK funding valuation those assumed investment returns (for funding valuations) are set 
based on fixed margins over the LIBOR swap curve. The management of the pension fund assets has been delegated to an asset 
manager, who manages the assets against a liability benchmark. The key parameters of this mandate can be summarised as follows: 
• 
An asset mix which is managed dynamically over time rather than a set strategic allocation 
• 
Interest rate and inflation risk is managed with the benchmark of hedging 100% of these risks as a percentage of the asset value 
through the use of debt instruments (government bonds) and derivatives 
• 
Currency risk is managed with the objective of hedging at least 70% of the overseas currency exposure in the portfolio through the 
use of forward foreign currency contracts 
All pension schemes are regulated by the relevant jurisdictions. These include extensive legislation and regulatory mechanisms that are 
subject to change and may impact the Group’s pension schemes. 
Regarding financial reporting measures, the IAS 19 liability measurement (DBO) and the service cost are sensitive to the actuarial 
assumptions made on a range of demographic and financial matters that are used to project the expected benefit payments, the most 
important of these assumptions being about future inflation and salary growth levels and the assumptions made about life expectation. 
The DBO and service cost are also very sensitive to the IAS 19 discount rate, which determines the discounted value of the projected 
benefit payments. The discount rate depends on market yields on high-quality corporate bonds. Investment strategies are set with 
funding rather than IAS 19 considerations in mind and do not seek to provide a specific hedge against the IAS 19 measurement of 
liabilities. As a result the difference between the market value of the assets and the IAS 19 liabilities may be volatile. 
Assumptions and sensitivities  
The weighted averages for each of the principal assumptions used for the purposes of the actuarial valuations were as follows: 
 UK Netherlands
Key assumptions used at 31 December 2016  
Discount rate 2.5% 2.0%
Expected rate of salary increases 3.4% N/A
Pension increases in payment (for the UK, at RPI
*
 with a limit of 5% p.a.) 3.1% 0.8%
Inflation 3.3% 1.9%
Key assumptions used at 31 December 2015  
Discount rate 3.8% 2.4%
Expected rate of salary increases 3.2% 1.9%
Pension increases in payment (for the UK, at RPI
*
 with a limit of 5% p.a.) 3.0% 0.9%
Inflation 3.1% 1.9%
* The CPI assumption used for the UK valuation in 2016 was 2.3% (2015: 2.1%). 
IAS 19 specifies that pension liabilities should be discounted at appropriate high quality corporate bond rates. The Group considers that 
it is appropriate to consider AA-rated corporate bonds as high quality and has therefore used discount rates based on yields on such 
bonds corresponding to the liability profile of the respective schemes. 
The effect of a movement in the discount rate applicable in the UK alters reported liabilities (before associated deferred tax 
adjustments) by approximately the amounts shown in the table below: 
Sensitivity analysis 
Increase/(decrease) in the 
DBO of the UK scheme 
2016 
£m 
Increase/(decrease) in the 
DBO of the UK scheme
2015
£m
Discount rate assumption being 0.5% higher  (221) (165)
Discount rate assumption being 0.5% lower 243 188
The effect of a movement in RPI inflation applicable in the UK alters reported liabilities (before associated deferred tax adjustments) by 
approximately the amounts shown in the table below: 
Sensitivity analysis 
Increase/(decrease) in the 
DBO of the UK scheme 
2016 
£m 
Increase/(decrease) in the 
DBO of the UK scheme
2015
£m
Inflation assumption being 0.5% higher  92 71
Inflation assumption being 0.5% lower (85) (73)
The above sensitivities allow for inflation-dependent assumptions such as salary growth and relevant pension increases to vary 
corresponding to the inflation assumption variation. Due to the caps and floors on pension increases a certain movement in the inflation 
assumption will not generally result in the same movement in the pension increase assumption. 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
152 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
32. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
In addition to the above, the Group uses appropriate mortality assumptions when calculating the schemes’ obligations. The mortality 
tables used for the scheme in the UK are: Birth year table S2P[M/F]A Base with future improvements in line with CMI_2015 Core 
projections, based on a long-term improvement rate of 1.25% p.a. and allowing for individual scaling factors based on the mortality 
analysis carried out as part of the last funding valuation. 
The resulting assumed life expectancy of a male member of the UK schemes currently aged 65 is 21 years. The assumed life expectancy 
at 65 of a male currently aged 52 is 22 years. At those ages, the assumed life expectancy for a female member is between two and 
three years longer than for a male member.  
The effect of a one-year change in this UK life expectancy assumption is to alter reported liabilities (before associated deferred tax 
adjustments) by approximately £137m (2015: £93m).  
The selection of these movements to illustrate the sensitivity of the DBO to key assumptions should not be interpreted as the Group 
expressing any specific view of the probability of such movements happening. 
The amounts recognised in the Group’s balance sheet in respect of the material funded defined benefit schemes and in the various 
components of income, OCI and cash flow are as follows: 
2016 
DBO 
£m 
Assets  
£m 
Provision 
£m
Amounts recognised on the balance sheet at the beginning of the year (2,281) 2,076 (205)
   
Amounts recognised in income:   
Current service cost (4) – (4)
Interest on obligations and assets (85) 78 (7)
Administration costs paid from plan assets (2) – (2)
Total amounts recognised in income (91) 78 (13)
   
Re-measurements:   
Actuarial loss – change in financial assumptions (545) – (545)
Actuarial gain – change in demographic assumptions 81 – 81
Actuarial gain – experience 23 – 23
Return on assets in excess of interest – 277 277
Re-measurement effects recognised in OCI
*
 (441) 277 (164)
   
Cash:   
Employer contributions – 43 43
Benefits paid from plan assets 83 (83) –
Net cash 83 (40) 43
   
Other:   
Impact of exchange rates (10) 8 (2)
Amounts recognised in the balance sheet at the end of the year (2,740) 2,399 (341)
* Total re-measurements recognised in OCI of £169m are shown net of re-measurements relating to other unfunded schemes of £5m. 
  
152 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 153 
2015 
DBO  
£m 
Assets  
£m 
Provision 
£m
Amounts recognised on the balance sheet at the beginning of the year (2,304) 2,040 (264)
   
Amounts recognised in income:   
Current service cost (7) – (7)
Curtailment gain 5 – 5
Interest on obligations and assets (83) 74 (9)
Administration costs paid from plan assets (2) – (2)
Total amounts recognised in income (87) 74 (13)
   
Re-measurements:   
Actuarial gain – change in financial assumptions 18 – 18
Actuarial loss – change in demographic assumptions (34) – (34)
Actuarial gain – experience 34 – 34
Return on assets in excess of interest – 3 3
Re-measurement effects recognised in OCI
*
 18 3 21
   
Cash:   
Employer contributions – 50 50
Employee contributions (2) 2 –
Benefits paid from plan assets 81 (81) –
Net cash 79 (29) 50
   
Other:   
Impact of exchange rates 4 (3) 1
Transfers to immaterial schemes 9 (9) –
Amounts recognised in the balance sheet at the end of the year (2,281) 2,076 (205)
* Total re-measurements recognised in OCI of £18m are shown net of re-measurements relating to other unfunded schemes of £3m. 
Employer contributions in 2016 included £39m (2015: £44m) of additional contributions in respect of the deficit in the UK schemes.  
The composition of the scheme assets at the reporting date is as follows:  
2016 
UK  
£m 
Netherlands  
£m 
Total 
£m
Equity 747 11 758
Government bonds 237 39 276
Other 1,355 10 1,365
Total 2,339 60 2,399
   
2015 
UK  
£m 
Netherlands  
£m 
Total 
£m
Equity 648 8 656
Government bonds 254 33 287
Other 1,127 6 1,133
Total 2,029 47 2,076
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
154 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
32. Retirement benefit obligations continued 
A more granular, approximate split of assets of the UK scheme at 31 December 2016 is as follows: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Equity  628 574
Private equity  119 74
Government bonds  237 254
Credit  51 226
Property  71 65
Macro-orientated  339 319
Multi-strategy  217 104
Derivatives  412 123
Cash and cash equivalents  265 290
Total UK assets  2,339 2,029
A much greater part of the UK assets are now categorised as multi-strategy as they are now held in a pooled fund structure, which is a 
multi-asset fund investing across all asset classes. 
Within the UK pension fund, the Equity, Credit, Macro-orientated and Multi-strategy sub-categories consist of pooled vehicles investing 
predominantly in assets with quoted prices in active markets. All government bonds are issued by the UK government and have quoted 
prices in active markets. Other UK investments are predominantly unquoted. 
Derivatives include a range of interest-rate and inflation-linked swaps, forward-currency contracts, equity-index total return swaps, equity 
options, and futures. Investing in interest-rate and inflation-linked swaps is designed to mitigate the impact of future changes in interest 
rates and inflation. 
None of the pension scheme assets are held in the Group’s own financial instruments or in any assets held or used by the Group. 
33. Provisions and contingent liabilities 
 
Employee 
benefits
£m
Restructuring
£m
Claims
£m
Onerous 
customer 
contracts 
£m 
Property  
and other 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2016 19 14 100 83  26  242 
Additional provision in the year 5 14 28 6  27  80 
Utilisation of provision (3) (20) (35) (16) (14) (88)
Transferred to held for sale  (1) – (4) –  (1) (6)
Re-classifications (2) (4) (6) (5) 25  8 
Unused amounts reversed (1) (1) (1) –  (5) (8)
Exchange differences 2 2 14 1  1  20 
At 31 December 2016 19 5 96 69  59  248 
   
Included in current liabilities   116 
Included in non-current liabilities   132 
   248 
Judgment is required in quantifying the Group's provisions, especially in connection with claims and onerous customer contracts, which 
are based on a number of assumptions and estimates where the ultimate outcome may be different to the amount provided. Each of 
these provisions reflects the Group's best estimate of the probable exposure at 31 December 2016 and this assessment has been made 
having considered the sensitivity of each provision to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions. The Group is satisfied that it  
is unlikely that changes in these key assumptions will have a material impact on the Group's overall provisioning position in the next  
12 months. 
Employee benefits  
The provision for employee benefits is in respect of any employee benefits which accrue over the working lives of the employees, 
typically including items such as long service awards and termination indemnity schemes.  
The Group’s net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits other than retirement benefits represents the present value of the 
future benefit that employees have earned at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of scheme assets out of which the obligations 
are to be settled directly. 
  
154 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 155 
Restructuring  
Restructuring provisions include amounts for redundancy payments, and the costs of closure of activities in acquired businesses and 
discontinued operations. Settlement of restructuring provisions is highly probable. The timing is uncertain but is generally likely to be 
short term. In the year the Group incurred restructuring costs of £12m (2015: £44m) within specific items relating to the multi-year 
strategic productivity programme across the Group. In addition, the Group incurred non-strategic reorganisation costs of £9m  
(2015: £10m) which are included within PBITA. 
Claims 
Claims provisions represent any outstanding litigation claims against the Group that are likely to lead to the outflow of funds in the 
future, including provisions within the captive insurance companies to cover (where appropriate) anticipated claims incurred as at the 
balance sheet date, based on actuarial assessments to calculate the liabilities. 
The claims reserves are held by the Group’s wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries in Guernsey and the US which underwrite  
part of the Group’s Cash Solutions, general liability, workers’ compensation and auto liability policies. In the year the Group  
provided £20m (2015: £16m) in relation to these claims. The provisions are subject to regular actuarial review and are adjusted as 
appropriate. Settlement of these provisions is highly probable but both the value of the final settlements and their timing is uncertain,  
dependent upon the outcome of on-going processes to determine both liability and quantum in respect of a wide range of  
claims or possible claims.  
Onerous customer contracts  
Under the UK Compass asylum seeker contract with the Home Office, the Group provides accommodation, transportation and 
subsistence services for asylum seekers whilst their claims are being processed. This contract commenced in 2012 and initially ran to  
1 September 2017, with a potential extension of a further two years. 
In 2014, an onerous contract provision was recognised in relation to the then-current assumptions regarding asylum seeker numbers, 
the duration and cost of accommodation and support services. The Compass provision was updated in December 2015 to reflect the 
estimated increase in asylum seekers assigned to the Group, the availability of suitable accommodation approved by local authorities and 
the speed of processing of applications by the immigration authority. 
On 8 December 2016 the Group announced an extension to the Compass contract up to August 2019. Additional onerous contract 
provisions of a net £4m, primarily in respect of the Compass contract, were recognised as specific items in the year together with £2m 
in respect of the closure of the systems business in Latin America (included within net profit on disposal/closure of subsidiaries). 
The other principal onerous contract provision relates to a previously identified PFI contract entered into in 2005 and is subject to  
on-going discussions with the customer. A best estimate has been made based on a range of possible outcomes including a commercial 
or dispute resolution process. 
Net unwinding of discounts charged was not material. 
Property and other  
Included within property and other provisions are future liabilities for all properties sub-let at a shortfall, for the cost of replacing assets 
where there is a present contractual requirement, for long-term idle, leased properties and for customer claims on contracts that are 
related to the performance on a contract but do not form part of onerous customer contract provisions. Whilst the likelihood of 
settlement of these obligations is considered probable, there is uncertainty over their value and duration.  
Included in property and other provisions are contract-related provisions of £43m (2015: £14m) and onerous property lease provisions 
of £16m (2015: £12m).  
Contingent liabilities 
The Group is involved in disputes in a number of countries, mainly related to activities incidental to its operations. Currently there  
are a number of such disputes open in relation to the application of local labour law, commercial agreements with customers and 
subcontractors and claims and compliance matters, in some cases in the course of litigation. Where, based on legal counsel advice, the 
Group estimates that it is probable that the dispute will result in an outflow of economic resources, provision is made based on the best 
estimate of the likely financial outcome. Where a reliable estimate cannot be made, or where the Group, based on legal counsel advice, 
considers that it is not probable that there will be an outflow of economic resources, no provision is recognised.  
In this regard, the Group is party to a num ber of on-going litigation processes in rela tion to interpretation of local labour l aw and regulations in a 
number of countries, and where it is expected that these matters will not be resolved in the near future. At this stage, the Gr oup's view is that 
these cases will either be resolved in a manner favourable to th e interests of the Group or, due to the nature and complexity o f the cases, it is 
not possible to estimate the potential economic exposure. In addi tion, in the ordinary course of business, other contingent liabilities exist where 
the Group is subject to commercial claims and litigation from a range of parties in respect of contracts, agreements, regulatory and compliance 
matters, none of which are expected to have a material impact on the Group. 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
156 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
34. Deferred tax 
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the year:  
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations
£m
Intangible 
assets
£m
Tax losses 
£m 
Other  
temporary 
differences 
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2016 45 (3) 51 85 178
Credit/(charge) to the income statement  – 4 35 (5) 34
Disposal of subsidiaries  – – – (2) (2)
Credit to equity  23 – 22  – 45
Exchange differences  – – 2 14 16
Transfers and re-classifications 1 – – – 1
At 31 December 2016 69 1 110 92 272
   
At 1 January 2015 64 (7) 41 75 173
(Charge)/credit to the income statement (7) 6 10 5 14
Acquisition of subsidiaries  – – – (1) (1)
(Charge)/credit to equity (12) – – 3 (9)
Exchange differences  – (2) –  – (2)
Transfers and re-classifications  – – – 3 3
At 31 December 2015 45 (3) 51 85 178
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where permitted. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances 
(after offset): 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Deferred tax liabilities (14) (9)
Deferred tax assets 285 187
Net deferred tax asset included in assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale 1  –
Net deferred tax balance 272 178
At 31 December 2016, the Group had unutilised tax losses of approximately £842m (2015: £813m) potentially available for  
offset against future profits. A deferred tax asset of £110m (2015: £51m) has been recognised in respect of approximately £529m  
(2015: £263m) of gross losses based on profitability from approved budgets and business plans. The recognition of additional deferred 
tax assets on tax losses during the period is predicated on the projected generation of material streams of income in certain group 
companies, which should result in the utilisation of available tax losses within a foreseeable period. These income streams are driven by 
the current and future global results of the Group in line with business plans. The timing of recognition of the tax losses as additional 
deferred tax assets in 2016 is supported by the improved taxable profit profile of the relevant group companies, which itself is 
underpinned by the continuing progress of the Group’s transformation strategy to generate future sustainable, profitable growth. As part 
of these losses was due to items originally allocated to equity, the related deferred tax movement is also allocated to equity. 
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining £313m (2015: £550m) of gross losses due to the 
unpredictability and availability of future profit streams in the relevant jurisdictions, and the fact that a significant proportion of such 
losses remains unaudited by the relevant tax authorities. In certain cases, there are continuing structural issues which prevent the 
utilisation of losses within the foreseeable future. Losses which will never be utilised, for example due to the operation of statute, are 
not included in the above figures. 
Approximately £80m (2015: £414m) of the gross unrecognised losses relate to the UK group. Utilisation of such losses is dependent 
upon the profitability of particular trading and corporate entities. The financial projections used in assessing the future profitability are 
consistent with those used in assessing the carrying value of goodwill as set out in note 18. The utilisation of these losses will occur at 
different rates due to the incidence and timing of profits within these entities, which consequently impacts their recognition as deferred 
tax assets. 
Included in unrecognised tax losses are gross losses of £40m (2015: £38m) which will expire between 2017 and 2026. Other losses 
may be carried forward indefinitely.  
At 31 December 2016, the aggregate amount of undistributed earnings of non-UK subsidiaries and joint ventures on which temporary 
differences may exist was £1,646m (2015: £1,334m). A deferred tax liability of £3m (2015: £3m) has been recognised on undistributed 
earnings, based on expected distributions from such subsidiaries and joint ventures. 
Other temporary differences vary by country and include items relating to the local tax treatment of fixed assets, employee benefits, 
and provisions. 
  
156 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 157 
35. Share capital 
G4S plc 
2016 
£ 
2015
£
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 25p each 387,898,609 387,898,609
  
Ordinary shares in issue 
2016 
Number 
2015
Number
At 1 January  1,551,594,436 1,551,594,436
At 31 December  1,551,594,436 1,551,594,436
36. Other reserves 
Hedging 
reserve
£m
Translation 
reserve
£m
Merger  
reserve 
£m 
Reserve for  
own shares 
£m 
Total other 
reserves
£m
At 1 January 2016 3 (210) 426  (18) 201 
Total comprehensive (loss)/income attributable to 
equity shareholders of the parent (3) 253  –   –  250 
Own shares awarded  –  –  –  5  5 
At 31 December 2016  – 43 426  (13) 456 
   
At 1 January 2015 1 (113) 426  (18) 296 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to 
equity shareholders of the parent 2 (97) –   –  (95)
At 31 December 2015 3 (210) 426 (18) 201
Other reserves include: 
Hedging reserve  
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash-flow instruments related to 
the hedged transactions that have not yet occurred (net of tax). The amount recognised in the hedging reserve includes a fair-value gain 
on hedging instruments of £69m (2015: £42m loss) and a loss of £73m (2015: £44m gain). 
Translation reserve  
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign 
operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Group’s net investment in foreign operations (net of tax). 
Merger reserve  
The merger reserve comprises reserves arising upon the merger between the former Group 4 Falck A/S and the former Group 4 
Securitas BV in 2000 and the acquisition of Securicor plc by the Group in 2004. In accordance with Section 612 of the Companies Act 
2006 the £308m premium on ordinary shares issued in the Group’s 9.99% share placement in August 2013 was initially recorded in the 
merger reserve, and has subsequently been transferred to retained earnings. 
Reserve for own shares  
An employee benefit trust established by the Group held 4,844,243 shares at 31 December 2016 (2015: 6,320,144 shares) to satisfy 
the vesting of awards under the performance share plan and performance-related schemes. During the year no shares (2015: no shares) 
were purchased by the trust, whilst 1,475,901 shares (2015: 88,306 shares) were used to satisfy the vesting of awards under the 
schemes. At 31 December 2016, the cost of shares held by the trust was £12,896,107 (2015: £16,825,102), whilst the market value of 
these shares was £11,383,971 (2015: £14,251,925). Shares held by the trust are treated as treasury shares, are deducted from equity, 
do not receive dividends and are excluded from the calculations of earnings per share.  
Distributable reserves 
As at 31 December 2016 the parent company of the Group had distributable reserves of £918m (2015: £1,078m). 
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
158 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
37. Analysis of net debt 
A reconciliation of net debt to amounts in the Consolidated statement of financial position is presented below: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 851 593
Receivables from customers in respect of cash processing operations, included within trade and other 
receivables 10 8
Net cash and overdrafts included within net assets of disposal groups held for sale 7 5
Bank overdrafts (93) (122)
Liabilities to customers in respect of cash processing operations, included within trade and other 
payables (83) (77)
Total group cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts  692 407
Investments 44 49
Net debt (excluding cash and overdrafts) included within net assets of disposal groups held for sale 6 (6)
Bank loans (20) (399)
Loan notes (2,392) (1,774)
Obligations under finance leases (57) (64)
Fair value of loan note derivative financial instruments 57 5
Total net debt (1,670) (1,782)
  
An analysis of movements in net debt in the year is presented below:  
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts per Consolidated statement of cash flow 198 27
(Sale)/purchase of investments (7) 1
Net decrease/(increase) in borrowings 11 (139)
Repayment of finance leases 22 31
Decrease/(increase) in net debt resulting from cash flows 224 (80)
New finance leases (7) (27)
Net debt in disposed entities 5 –
Net decrease/(increase) in net debt  222 (107)
Exchange differences (110) (36)
Net debt at the beginning of the year (1,782) (1,639)
Net debt at the end of the year (1,670) (1,782)
38. Operating lease arrangements 
The Group as lessee 
As at 31 December 2016, the Group had outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Within one year 104  107 
In the second to fifth years inclusive 272  216 
After five years 110  125 
Total operating lease commitments 486  448 
The Group leases a number of its office properties, vehicles and other operating equipment under operating leases. Property leases are 
negotiated over an average term of around ten years, at rates reflective of market rentals. Periodic rent reviews take place to bring lease 
rentals into line with prevailing market conditions. Some, but not all, lease agreements have an option to renew the lease at the end of 
the lease term. Leased vehicles and other operating equipment are negotiated over an average lease term of four years.  
  
158 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 159 
39. Share-based payments 
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
In June 2014 a new LTIP replaced the previous performance share plans. Shares allocated under the Group’s LTIP are subject to 
performance conditions and forfeitures, as detailed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 78.  
Under the Group’s LTIP, Relative Total Shareholder Return (a market performance condition) constitutes 30% (2015: 30%) of the 
performance criteria and is measured over three financial years. The Relative Total Shareholder Return is measured against a 
comparator group of selected relevant companies. 25% of this element of the award vests upon the Group’s Total Shareholder Return 
being ranked median against the comparator group. The fair value of the shares awarded which is subject to this market performance 
condition has therefore been reduced by 75%. 
Deferred Bonus Share Plan (DBSP) and Restricted Share Plan (RSP) 
Shares allocated under the Group’s DBSP and RSP are not subject to further financial performance conditions, but in both cases, are 
subject to forfeitures, either in part or in full, subject to continued employment, unless deemed as a good leaver by the Remuneration 
Committee. Share awards under the RSP were granted in 2016 for the first time. 
Share-based payment plans information 
All three share plans have a three-year vesting period from their dates of grant. 
The following table shows the movements in the number of shares held under the share-based payment plans outstanding but  
not exercisable: 
 
DBSP and RSP
2016
Number
LTIP
2016
Number
Total
2016
Number
DBSP 
2015 
Number 
LTIP 
2015 
Number 
Total
2015
Number
Outstanding at 1 January 858,866 17,210,721 18,069,587 237,494 17,396,477 17,633,971
Granted during the year 1,017,512 10,431,311 11,448,823 712,075 7,128,722 7,840,797
Exercised during the year (358,260) (1,424,577) (1,782,837) (45,923) (42,383) (88,306)
Forfeited during the year – (2,104,420) (2,104,420) (44,780) (3,195,821) (3,240,601)
Expired during the year – (3,525,883) (3,525,883) – (4,076,274) (4,076,274)
Outstanding at 31 December 1,518,118 20,587,152 22,105,270 858,866 17,210,721 18,069,587
The weighted-average remaining contractual life of conditional share allocations outstanding at 31 December 2016 was 17 months 
(2015: 16 months). The weighted-average share price at the date of allocation of shares allocated conditionally during the year was 
185.2p (2015: 290.0p) and the contractual life of all conditional allocations was three years. The weighted-average share price at the 
date of exercise for the shares exercised during the year was 196.3p (2015: 278.9p).  
The Consolidated income statement is charged with an estimate for the vesting of shares awarded conditionally and subject to  
non-market performance conditions. The charge for 2016 was £13m (2015: £8m), out of which £10m (2015: £7m) arose from  
equity-settled share-based payments. The total carrying amount for the liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions is  
£6m (2015: £3m). 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
160 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
40. Related party transactions 
Transactions and balances with joint ventures 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. 
Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below. All transactions with related parties are 
entered into in the normal course of business. 
Transactions with joint ventures included revenue recorded of £49m (2015: £48m). Amounts due from related parties include £8m 
(2015: £5m) from joint ventures. There are no amounts due to joint ventures (2015: £nil). 
No expense (2015: £nil) has been recognised in the year for bad and doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties.  
The Group has a legal interest in a number of joint ventures and joint arrangements, where the economic interest was divested by the 
Global Solutions Group prior to its acquisition by G4S plc in 2008. Transactions with these entities during the year comprised: 
 
2016 
Services/sales to 
£m 
2015
Services/sales to
£m
White Horse Education Partnership Limited 3 2
Integrated Accommodation Services plc 54 49
Fazakerley Prison Services Limited 34 34
Onley Prison Services Limited 16 15
ECD Cookham Wood Limited – 3
ECD Onley Limited – 11
UK Court Services (Manchester) Limited 2 2
East London Lift Company Limited 1 1
Total 110 117
The Group had outstanding balances of £12m due from these entities as at 31 December 2016 (2015: £10m). 
Transactions with post-employment benefit schemes  
Details of transactions with the Group’s post-employment benefit schemes are provided in note 32. Unpaid contributions owed to 
schemes amounted to £0.5m at 31 December 2016 (2015: £0.4m).  
Transactions with other related parties 
In the normal course of the Group’s business the Group provides services to and receives services from certain non-controlling interests 
on an arm’s length basis. 
Remuneration of key management personnel  
The Group’s key management personnel are deemed to be the non-executive directors and those individuals, including the executive 
directors, whose remuneration is determined by the Remuneration Committee. Their remuneration is set out below. Further 
information about the remuneration of individual directors included within key management personnel is provided in the audited part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 98.  
 
2016 
£ 
2015
£
Short-term employee benefits 11,463,651 11,637,540
Post-employment benefits 74,390 134,201
Other long-term benefits 28,728 63,938
Termination benefits 305,159 –
Share-based payment  6,417,657 4,922,935
Total 18,289,585 16,758,614
41. Events after the balance sheet date 
No significant post-balance sheet events have affected the Group since 31 December 2016.  
  
160 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 161 
42. Significant investments 
The companies listed below are those which were part of the Group at 31 December 2016 and which, in the opinion of the directors, 
significantly affected the Group’s results and net assets during the year. A comprehensive list of all Group undertakings is disclosed on 
pages 162 to 176. 
The principal activities of the companies listed below are indicated according to the following key:  
Secure Solutions    S
Cash Solutions   C
These businesses operate principally in the country in which they are incorporated. 
Product  
segment Country of incorporation 
Ultimate 
ownership
Subsidiary undertakings   
G4S Soluciones de Seguridad S.A. S Argentina 86%
G4S Custodial Services Pty Limited S Australia 100%
G4S Secure Solutions AG (Austria) S Austria 100%
G4S Secure Solutions SA/NV S Belgium 100%
G4S Cash Solutions (Belgium) NV C Belgium 100%
G4S Interativa Service Ltda S Brazil 100%
Vanguarda Segurança e Vigilância Ltda S Brazil 100%
G4S Secure Solutions (Canada) Limited S Canada 100%
G4S Security Services Regiones S.A. S Chile 100%
G4S Secure Solutions Colombia S.A. S+C Colombia 100%
G4S Security Services A/S S Denmark 100%
G4S Aviation Services (UK) Limited S England 100%
G4S Care and Justice Services (UK) Limited S England 100%
G4S Cash Centres (UK) Limited C England 100%
G4S Cash Solutions (UK) Limited C England 100%
G4S Facilities Management (UK) Limited  S England 100%
G4S Risk Management Limited S England 100%
G4S Secure Solutions (UK) Limited S England 100%
G4S Security Services (UK) Limited S England 100%
AS G4S Baltics S+C Estonia 100%
G4S Keszpenzlogisztikai Kft  C Hungary 100%
G4S Secure Solutions (India) Pvt. Limited
1,3
 S India 49%
G4S Secure Solutions (Ire) Limited S Ireland 100%
G4S Secure Solutions (Israel) Limited S Israel 92%
G4S Security Technologies (Israel) Limited S Israel 92%
G4S Kenya Limited S+C Kenya 100%
G4S Security Solutions S.A.R.L S+C Luxembourg 100%
Safeguards G4S Sdn Bhd
2,3
 S+C Malaysia 49%
G4S Cash Solutions BV C Netherlands 100%
G4S Beheer BV S Netherlands 100%
G4S Peru S.A.C. S+C Peru 100%
Al Majal Service Master LLC
3
 S Saudi Arabia 49%
Mohammed Bin Abdoud Al Amoudi Co for Civilian Security Services Partnership (Almajal)
3
 S+C Saudi Arabia 0%
G4S Cash Solutions (SA) (Pty) Limited C South Africa 75%
G4S Secure Solutions (SA) (Pty) Limited  S South Africa 72%
G4S Security Services (Thailand) Limited S Thailand 98%
G4S Secure Solutions LLC
3
 S+C United Arab Emirates 49%
G4S Retail Solutions (USA) Inc. C USA 100%
G4S Secure Solutions (USA) Inc. S USA 100%
G4S Technology LLC S USA 100%
G4S Youth Services LLC S USA 100%
1. G4S Secure Solutions (India) Pvt. Limited has a year end of 31 March. 
2. Safeguards G4S Sdn Bhd has a year end of 30 June. 
3. By virtue of shareholder agreements, options, pre-emption rights and other contractual arrangements, the Group has the power to govern the financial and 
operating policies, so as to obtain the benefits from the activities of these companies. These are therefore consolidated as full subsidiaries. 
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
162 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
43. Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc 
Subsidiaries  
Entities listed below are subsidiaries at 31 December 2016, by reason of the holding of a majority of the voting rights or, if a majority is 
not held, by virtue of section 1162 (2) (c) of the Companies Act 2006. Not all of the companies listed below are trading entities. 
Company Name 
Country of  
Incorporation 
% owned  
by group 
% owned 
by plc Registered address 
G4S ALGERIE EURL Algeria 100.0%   Lotissement Benhedadi Said N°3 Dar Diaf Cherraka, 16050, Algeria 
SECURICOR GRAY SECURITY SERVICES 
(ANGOLA) (PTY) LTD 
Angola 100.0%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
G4S SERVICOS DE SEGURANCA 
(ANGOLA) LIMITADA 
Angola 65.0%   Rua di reita da Samba, No 58, Corimba, Samba  
Luanda, Angola 
G4S SOLUCIONES DE SEGURIDAD S.A. Argentina 85.6%   Timoteo Gordillo 5697/5611, C1439 GKA Buenos Aires, Argentina 
G4S SERVICIOS DE SEGURIDAD S.A. Argentina 75.0%   Timoteo Gordillo 5697/5611, C1439 GKA Buenos Aires, Argentina 
INDOMEGA S.A. Argentina 85.6%   Peru 338 San Fernando del Valle de Catamarca, K4700AKJ Catamarca, 
Argentina 
MANAR S.A. Argentina 85.6%   Peru 338 San Fernando del Valle de Catamarca, K4700AKJ Catamarca, 
Argentina 
PROTECCION E INVERSIONES, S.A. Argentina 80.0%   Timoteo Gordillo 5697/5611, C1439 GKA Buenos Aires, Argentina 
G4S SOLUCIONES GLOBALES S.A. Argentina 75.0%   Jose Demaria 4470 (C1425AEB), Buenos Aires, Argentina 
G4S APPLIED SECURITY S.A. Argentina 75.0%   Timoteo Gordillo 5697/5611, C1439 GKA Buenos Aires, Argentina 
G4S CONTROL SYSTEMS SA Argentina 79.6%   Timoteo Gordillo 5697/5611, C1439 GKA Buenos Aires, Argentina 
G4S DETCON S.A. Argentina 75.0%   Lavalle 1528, 3º "E" (C1048AAL), Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires, 
Argentina 
ORCANI PTY LTD Australia 100.0%   Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia 
G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS 
(AUSTRALIA) PTY LTD 
Australia 100.0%   c/o HLB Mann Judd, Level 19, 207b Kent Street, 2000 Sydney, Australia 
G4S COMPLIANCE & INVESTIGATIONS  
PTY LTD 
Australia 100.0%   P.O. Box 7332 (Level 3, 182-184 Bourke Road), NSW 2015 Alexandria, 
Australia 
G4S AUSTRALIA PTY LTD Australia 100.0%   Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia 
G4S HEALTH SERVICES AUSTRALIA  
PTY LTD 
Australia 100.0%   Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia 
G4S CUSTODIAL SERVICES PTY LTD Australia 100.0%   Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia 
G4S AUSTRALIA HOLDINGS PTY LTD Australia 100.0%   Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS  
(AUSTRALIA) PTY LTD 
Australia 100.0%   Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia 
G4S CORRECTIONAL SERVICES 
(AUSTRALIA) PTY LTD 
Australia 100.0%  Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Victoria, Australia 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS AG (AUSTRIA) Austria 100.0%   Dresdner Strasse 91/1, A-1200 Vienna, Austria 
G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS GMBH Austria 100.0%   Peilsteinerstr. 5-7, A-5020 Salzburg, Austria 
G4S DIENSTLEISTUNGS GMBH Austria 100.0%   Dresdner Strasse 91/1, A-1200 Vienna, Austria 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS  
BAHRAIN W.L.L 
Bahrain 34.3%   Villa 925, Road 3830, Manama, Qudaybiyah 338, P. O. Box 15193 Adliya, 
Bahrain 
G4S REGIONAL CONSULTANCY SERVICES 
(NAMESA) WLL 
Bahrain 100.0%   2235 West Tower BFH  
Manama, Bahrain 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS BANGLADESH 
(P) LTD 
Bangladesh 100.0%   House # KA 79, Joar Sahara, Dhaka, 1212 Dhaka, Bangladesh 
FIRST SELECT BANGLADESH LIMITED Bangladesh 40.0%   Apartment 10/A, Rupsha Tower, 7 Kamal Ataturk Avenue, Banani, Dhaka, 
Bangladesh 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (BARBADOS) 
LTD 
Barbados 51.0%   Brighton, Spring Garden, St. Michael, Barbados 
G4S CASH SOLUTIONS (BELGIUM) SA/NV Belgium 100.0%   Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium 
G4S SUPPORT SERVICES SA/NV Belgium 100.0%   Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SA/NV Belgium 100.0%   Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium 
G4S CARGO SOLUTIONS SA/NV Belgium 100.0%   Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium 
G4S TRAINING & CONSULTANCY 
SERVICES SA/NV 
Belgium 100.0%   Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium 
G4S AVIATION SECURITY SA/NV Belgium 100.0%   Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium 
G4S SECURE MONITORING SA/NV Belgium 100.0%   Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium 
G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS SA/NV Belgium 100.0%   Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium 
G4S CARE SA/NV Belgium 50.4%   Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium 
G4S EVENT SERVICES SA/NV Belgium 100.0%   Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium 
G4S EVENT SECURITY SA/NV Belgium 100.0%   Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium 
G4S FIRE AND SAFETY BV/BA Belgium 100.0%   Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium 
G4S BELGIUM NOMINEE NV Belgium 100.0% 100% Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium 
G4S SAFETY SYSTEMS N.V. Belgium 100.0%   Abtsdreef 10, 2940 Stabroek, Belgium 
ASC SAFETY SERVICES B.V./B.A. Belgium 100.0%   Abtsdreef 10, 2940 Stabroek, Belgium 
G4S BOLIVA S.A. Bolivia 99.9%   Marcelo terceros Banzer S/N, 3er Anillo Ext. Equipetrol (Frente Hotel Casa 
Blanca), Santa Cruz, Bolivia 
  
162 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 163 
Subsidiaries continued 
Company Name 
Country of  
Incorporation 
% owned  
by group 
% owned 
by plc Registered address 
G4S (BOTSWANA) LTD Botswana 70.0%   C/o Grant Thornton Business Services (Pty) Ltd, Acumen Park, Plot 50370, 
Fairgrounds Gaborone Botswana 
FIDELITY CASH MANAGEMENT SERVICES 
(BOTSWANA) PTY LTD 
Botswana 100.0%   c/o Price Waterhouse Coppers (Pty) Ltd, Plot 50371, Fairgrounds Office 
Park Gaborone Botswana 
G4S FACILITIES MANAGEMENT 
BOTSWANA (PTY) LTD 
Botswana 48.9%   Plot 50370, Fairgrounds Office Park, Gaborone, Botswana 
G4S BRAZIL HOLDING LTDA Brazil 100.0%   Rua Rui Barbosa 70, 2º andar, 01326-010 São Paulo, Brazil 
G4S MONITORAMENTO  
E SISTEMAS LTDA. 
Brazil 100.0%   Rua João Sierra, 245, Distrito, Industrial II., CEP13602-054 Araras/SP, Brazil 
VIGILARME SERVIÇOS DE VIGILÂNCIA 
ARMADA E DESARMADA LTDA. 
Brazil 100.0%   Avenida Indianapolis, 1.948, Bloco B, Planalto Paulista, Sao Paulo, Brazil 
G4S ENGENHARIA E SISTEMAS LTDA Brazil 100.0%   Rua Rui Barbosa 191,1º andar, 01326-010 São Paulo, Brazil 
G4S INTERATIVA SERVICE LTDA. Brazil 100.0%   Rua Santa Rosa, 911, Bairro Santa Paula, Sao Caetano do Sul, Sao Paulo, 
Brazil 
VANGUARDA SEGURANÇA E VIGILÂNCIA 
LTDA 
Brazil 100.0%   Rua Conselheiro Ramalho 362, Bela Vista, 01325-000 São Paulo, Brazil 
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE SEGURANCA 
LTDA 
Brazil 100.0%   Rua Maria José 133, Bela Vista, 01324-010 São Paulo, Brazil 
G4S PARTICIPAÇÕES LTDA Brazil 100.0%   Rua Rui Barbosa 70, 1º andar, Bela Vista 01326-010 São Paulo, Brazil 
G4S GROUP HOLDING (ASIA) LTD British Virgin Islands 100.0%   CITCO Building, Wickhams City, P.O. Box 662, Road Town,  
Tortola, British Virgin Islands 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (ASIA) LTD British Virgin Islands 100.0%   Suite 1701-08, Tower 2, Times Square, 1 Matheson Street, Causeway Bay, 
Hong Kong 
G4S HOLDINGS LTD British Virgin Islands 100.0%   1395 University Blvd, 33458 Jupiter, FL, United States 
ARMORGROUP (SPECIAL CLEARANCE 
SERVICES) LTD 
British Virgin Islands 100.0%  Craigmuir Chambers, P.O. Box 71, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin 
Islands 
HILL & ASSOCIATES CONSULTANTS LTD British Virgin Islands 100.0%   Kingston Chambers, P.O. Box 173, Road Town Tortola, British Virgin Islands 
G4S (BVI) HOLDCO (COLOMBIA II) LTD British Virgin Islands 100.0%   1395 University Blvd, 33458 Jupiter, FL, United States 
HILL & ASSOCIATES CONSULTANTS 
(MIDDLE EAST) LTD 
British Virgin Islands 100.0%   P.O. Box 957, Offshore Incorporations Centre, Road Town, Tortola, British 
Virgin Islands 
ASHINO HOLDINGS LTD British Virgin Islands 100.0%   1395 University Blvd, 33458 Jupiter, FL, United States 
G4S SECURITY SOLUTIONS EOOD Bulgaria 100.0%   management at 1, Business Park Sofia, block 3, office 207-208, 1766 Sofia, 
Mladost Region, Bulgaria 
G4S SECURITY SERVICES CAMEROON PLC Cameroon 48.4%   Old Airport Road, Bonapriso Doula, Cameroon 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (CANADA) LTD. 
(G4S SOLUTIONS DE SECURITE (CANADA) 
LTEE) 
Canada 100.0%   150 Ferrand Drive, Suite 600, M3C 3E5 Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
INDO BRITISH GARMENTS (CANADA) LTD Canada 100.0%   5255 Orbitor Drive, L4W 5M6 Mississauga Ontario, Canada 
I-VISION SYSTEMS INC Canada 100.0%  160 Elgin Street, K1P 1C3, Ottawa, Canada  
SERVICE MASTERS LTD Cayman Islands 100.0%   Sterling Trust (Cayman) Limited, Whitehall House, 238 North Church 
Street, k1-1102 Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands 
G4S CENTRAFRIQUE SECURITE SOLUTION 
SURL 
Central African 
Republic 
100.0%   No 48/85, Avenue Kolwezi, Gombe, Kinshasa, DRC 
G4S HOLDINGS CHILE S.A. Chile 100.0%   Avda. Zañartu 1680, Ñuñoa – Santiago, Chile 
G4S SECURITY SERVICES REGIONES, S.A. Chile 100.0%   Avda. Zañartu 1680, Ñuñoa – Santiago, Chile 
G4S SECURITY SERVICES LIMITADA Chile 100.0%   Avda. Zañartu 1680, Ñuñoa – Santiago, Chile 
ARRIENDOS FAST CAR, LTDA. Chile 100.0%   Avda. Zañartu 1680, Ñuñoa – Santiago, Chile 
CAPACITACIÓN Y DESARROLLO, LTDA. Chile 100.0%   Avda. Zañartu 1680, Ñuñoa – Santiago, Chile 
SERVICIOS Y CAPACITACIÓN, LTDA. Chile 100.0%   Avda. Zañartu 1680, Ñuñoa – Santiago, Chile 
SERVICIOS DE INFORMACIÓN 
COMUNICACIONES Y  
TECNOLÓGICOS S.A. 
Chile 100.0%   Avda. Zañartu 1680, Ñuñoa – Santiago, Chile 
G4S AUSTRAL S.A. Chile 100.0%    Paraguay 939, Puerto Montt, Chile 
G4S FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LTD. China 100.0%   13F, Hui Shang Building, 1286 Min Sheng Road, Pudong New District, 
200122, Shanghai, China 
SHENZHEN G4S DONAR TECHNOLOGY 
CO, LTD 
China 100.0%   West Floor 9, Bus Tower 1001, Lianhau branch, Futian District, 518036 
Shenzhen, China 
G4S MING WANG SECURITY SYSTEMS  
CO., LTD. 
China 75.0%   Room 801, East 8th Floor, 1st Building, QingDong Business Area, No.1 
CheDaoGou, HaiDan District, 100089 Beijing, China 
G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS (BEIJING) CO., LTD China 75.0%   Room 01-4 Tower A 8F, Yi Cheng International Centre No.10 Rong Hua 
Middle Road Beijing Development Area, 100176 Beijing, China 
G4S TECHNOLOGY (CHINA) LTD China 100.0%   Room 710A, 7/F, Nan Fang Securities Building, 140 -148 Ti Yu Dong Lu, 
Tian He District, Guangzhou, China 
HILL & ASSOCIATES (PRC) LTD China 100.0%   6A, Huamin Empire Plaza, No. 728 Yan An Road (W), 200050 Shanghai, 
China 
G4S ZHEJIANG SECURE SOLUTIONS  
CO LTD 
China 90.0%   17-1 Bai Ma Miao Xiang, Shangcheng District, Hangzhou, China 
G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS 
(SHANGHAI) CO. LTD 
China 100.0%   Room 204-7, 2/Floor, China Diamond Exchange Center Building, Tower B, 
No. 1701 Century Boulevard, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China 
G4S MANAGEMENT SERVICES  
(SHANGHAI) CO. LTD 
China 100.0%   13F, Hui Shang Building, 1286 Min Sheng Road, Pudong New District, 
200122, Shanghai, China 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 163 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
164  G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
43. Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued 
Subsidiaries continued 
Company Name 
Country of  
Incorporation 
% owned  
by group 
% owned 
by plc Registered address 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS COLOMBIA S.A. Colombia 100.0%   Avenida 26 No 69A-51 Torre A, Int 1 Piso 3, Bogota, Colombia 
G4S RISK MANAGEMENT COLOMBIA S.A. Colombia 94.5%   Avenida 26 No. 69A – 51 Torre A, Int 1, Piso 2, Bogota, Colombia 
G4S HOLDING COLOMBIA SA Colombia 100.0%   Avenida 26 No 69A-51 Torre A, Int 1 Piso 3, Bogota, Colombia 
G4S TECHNOLOGY COLOMBIA S.A. Colombia 100.0%   Avenida 26 No 69A-51 Torre A, Int 1 Piso 3, Bogota, Colombia 
G4S CASH SOLUTIONS COLOMBIA LTDA. Colombia 100.0%   Avenida de las Americas No. 41 – 08, Bogota, Colombia 
EBC INGENIERIA S.A.S Colombia 100.0%   Avenida 26 No 69A-51 Torre A, Int 1 Piso 3, Bogota, Colombia 
GFOURS S.A. Costa Rica 100.0%   Sabana Sur Yamuni 200 Sur de Frente a Consejo Nacional de Produccion, 
San Jose, Costa Rica 
G CUATRO S VALOURS S.A. Costa Rica 100.0%   Cinco Esquinas de Tibas de la Clinica, Clorito Picado 150 mts. Oeste,  
San Jose, Costa Rica 
WACKENHUT SERVICIOS DE SEGURIDAD, 
S.A. 
Costa Rica 100.0%   Sabana Sur Yamuni 200 Sur de Frente a Consejo  
Nacional de Produccion, San Jose, Costa Rica 
WACKENHUT SERVICIO DE ESCOLTAS, 
S.A. 
Costa Rica 100.0%   Sabana Sur Yamuni 200 Sur de Frente a Consejo  
Nacional de Produccion, San Jose, Costa Rica 
G FOUR S GRUPO DE SERVICIOS 
ESPECIALES DE SEGURIDAD, S.A. 
Costa Rica 100.0%   Sabana Sur Yamuni 200 Sur de Frente a Consejo  
Nacional de Produccion, San Jose, Costa Rica 
G FOUR S CONSULTOR EN SEGURIDAD, 
S.A. 
Costa Rica 100.0%   Sabana Sur Yamuni 200 Sur de Frente a Consejo  
Nacional de Produccion, San Jose, Costa Rica 
G CUATRO S LOGISTICA DE VALORES SA Costa Rica 100.0%   Cinco Esquinas de Tibas de la Clinica, Clorito Picado 150 mts. Oeste,  
San Jose, Costa Rica 
G CUATRO S CASH SOLUTIONS S.A. Costa Rica 100.0%   Cinco Esquinas de Tibas de la Clinica, Clorito Picado 150 mts. Oeste,  
San Jose, Costa Rica 
G4S GULF HOLDINGS NV Curacao 100.0%   Kaya Flamboyan 6, Curaçao, Dutch West Indies, Curacao 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (CYPRUS) LTD Cyprus 74.0%   Diianiras 17, 2045 Strovolos Nicosia, P.O. Box 23989 1687, Nicosia, Cyprus 
G4S HOLDING CYPRUS LTD Cyprus 100.0%   P.O. Box 23989, 1687 Nicosia, Cyprus 
ARMORGROUP (MIDDLE EAST) LIMITED Cyprus 100.0%   Julia House, 3 Themistocles Dervis street, CY-1066 Nicosia, Cyprus 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (CZ), A.S. Czech Republic 100.0%   Na Kosince 2257/9, 180 00 Prague 8, Czech Republic 
G4S CASH SOLUTIONS (CZ) A.S. Czech Republic 100.0%   Na Kosince 2257/9, 180 00 Prague 8, Czech Republic 
G4S SERVICES S.R.O. Czech Republic 100.0%   Na Kosince 2257/9, 180 00 Prague 8, Czech Republic 
G4S (DRC) S.A.R.L. Democratic Republic 
of Congo 
95.0%   108, Boulevard du 30 Juin, Gombe, Kinshasa, Democratic 
G4S HOLDINGS (DK) A/S Denmark 100.0% 100.0% Roskildevej 157, DK-2620 Albertslund, Denmark 
G4S INTERNATIONAL (DK) A/S Denmark 100.0%   Roskildevej 157, DK-2620 Albertslund, Denmark 
G4S SECURITY SERVICES A/S Denmark 100.0%   Roskildevej 157, DK-2620 Albertslund, Denmark 
G4S KYHLENSO A/S Denmark 100.0%   Roskildevej 157, DK-2620 Albertslund, Denmark 
G4S VIKINGA SURAMERICANA APS Denmark 100.0%   Roskildevej 157, DK-2620 Albertslund, Denmark 
G4S SURAMERICANA HOLDING APS Denmark 100.0%   Roskildevej 157, DK-2620 Albertslund, Denmark 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Dominican Republic 95.0% 28.50% Paseo de los Locutores #36, Ensanche Piantini, Santo Domingo, Dominican 
Republic 
G4S CASH SOLUTIONS Dominican Republic 95.0%   Paseo de los Locutores #36, Ensanche Piantini, Santo Domingo, Dominican 
Republic 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (ECUADOR)  
CIA LTDA. 
Ecuador 99.9%   Gral. Giacomo Roca N33-92 y Bosmediano, Quito, Ecuador 
G4S HOLDING (ECUADOR) S.A. Ecuador 99.9%   Luis Cordero E12-114 y Toledo, Quito, Ecuador 
DEFENCE SYSTEMS ECUADOR  
DSE CIA LTDA 
Ecuador 99.9%   Calle Moscú E09-8 y Av. República del Salvador, Quito, Ecuador 
G4S FACILITY MANAGEMENT CIA LTDA Ecuador 99.9%   Calle La Perla y 5th. Transversal, P.O. Box 17-11-04791 Quito,  
Ecuador Calle Moscú E09-8 y Av. República del Salvador  
Quito, Ecuador 
CEFOSEG CIA. LTDA. Ecuador 100.0%   Av. Principal la Perla S52-136 y Quinta Transversal  
Quito Ecuador 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (EGYPT) LLC Egypt 85.0%   2nd District, 90th Street, Area 6, 5th Settlement, New Cairo, Cairo, Egypt 
INDO BRITISH GARMENTS EGYPT S.A.E. Egypt 99.0%   Head Office: Ismalia Public Free Zone Area, Egypt 
FS INVESTMENTS LLC Egypt 99.0%   7 El Sherka El Porsaidia St., Auba Boula Sq. Ard El Golf, Heliopolis, Cairo, 
Egypt 
FIRST SELECT EGYPT LLC Egypt 59.4%   Flat no. 7, Bur Saeediya Company Street, Alan Babula Square, Heliopolis, 
Golf Land, Cairo, Egypt 
G4S LOTUS FACILITIES MANAGEMENT 
COMPANY 
Egypt 51.0%   3A Nabatat Street, Garden City, Cairo, Egypt 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS EL SALVADOR 
S.A. DE C.V. 
El Salvador 100.0%   Av. Olimpica 3765, San Salvador, El Salvador 
AS G4S BALTICS Estonia 100.0%   Paldiski mnt 80, 10617 Tallinn, Estonia 
AS G4S GRUPP Estonia 100.0%   Paldiski mnt 80, 10617 Tallinn, Estonia 
AS G4S EESTI Estonia 100.0%   Paldiski mnt 80, 10617 Tallinn, Estonia 
ALARMTEC AS Estonia 100.0%   Töökoja 1, 11313 Tallinn, Estonia 
AS ÜHISTEENUSED Estonia 100.0%   Tarta mnt 80j, 10112 Tallinn, Estonia 
  
164 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 165 
Subsidiaries continued 
Company Name 
Country of  
Incorporation 
% owned  
by group 
% owned 
by plc Registered address 
G4S INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS 
(FRANCE) SAS 
France 100.0%   18 R Pasquier, 75008 Paris, France 
G4S AVIATION SECURITY (FRANCE) SAS France 100.0%   18 Rue Pasquier, 75008 Paris, France 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS FRANCE SAS France 100.0%   9 PLACE DE LA MADELEINE 75008 Paris, France 
G4S GABON SECURE SOLUTIONS S.A. Gabon 99.9%   Quartier Ambowe, BP 4000 Libreville, Gabon 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (GAMBIA) LTD Gambia 90.0%   9 Booster Street, Fajara, SK Serrekunda, Gambia 
G4S SECURITY HOLDINGS DE GMBH Germany 100.0%   C/o Baker Tilly Roelfs AG Wirtschaftspruefungsgesellschaft  
Valentinskamp 88 20355 Hamburg, Germany 
G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS 
(GERMANY) GMBH 
Germany 100.0%   Rathenaustrasse 53, D-63263 Neu-Isenburg, Germany 
G4S IMMOBILIEN-VERWALTUNGS GMBH Germany 100.0% 5.20% C/o Baker Tilly Roelfs AG Wirtschaftspruefungsgesellschaft  
Valentinskamp 88 20355 Hamburg, Germany 
G4S SECURITY SERVICES (GHANA) LTD Ghana 100.0%   31 Second Labone Street, Labone, Accra, Ghana 
G4S (GHANA) LTD Ghana 100.0%   31 Second Labone Street, Labone, Accra, Ghana 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (GHANA) LTD Ghana 100.0%   31 Second Labone Street, Labone, Accra, Ghana 
G4S RISK MANAGEMENT (AFRICA) LTD Ghana 49.0%   31 Second Labone Street, Labone, Accra, Ghana 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SA Greece 100.0%   7, Sorou Str., 144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece 
G4S HELLAS HOLDING SA Greece 100.0%  7, Sorou Str., 144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece 
G4S CASH SOLUTIONS SA Greece 100.0%  7, Sorou Str., 144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece 
G4S TELEMATIX SA Greece 39.4%   7, Sorou Str., 144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece 
WSW SKYKAP SERVICES SA Greece 42.5%   5 klm, Spaton-Loutsas aven., 190 19 Spata, Greece 
G4S AVIATION AND PORTS  
SECURE SOLUTIONS SA 
Greece 100.0%   7, Sorou Str., 144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece 
HELLAS GUARD S.A.  
UNDER LIQUIDATION 
Greece 18.0%   National Road Palaiokastritsas, 491 00 Kerkiras, Greece 
G4S RMS LTD Greece 100%   7, Sorou Str., 144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece 
CSI DEFENSE LTD Greece 50.0%   35 Kountouriotou, 555-35 Thessaloniki, Greece 
G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS AND 
MONITORING SERVICES (GREECE) SA 
Greece 100.0%   7, Sorou Str., 144 52 Metamorphosis, Athens, Greece 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (GRENADA) LTD. Grenada 51.0%   Maurice Bishop Highway Grand Anse St. George’s, Grenada 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (GUAM), INC. Guam 100.0%   1851A Army Drive, Harmon, Guam, 96913, Guam 
G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS (GUAM) INC. Guam 100.0%   1851A Army Drive, Harmon, Guam, 96913, Guam 
WACKENHUT DE GUATEMALA SA Guatemala 50.0%   Avenida Petapa 42-51, Zona 12 Guatemala City, Guatemala 
WACKENHUT ELECTRONICA SA Guatemala 47.5%   Avenida Petapa 42-51, Zona 12 Guatemala City, Guatemala 
G4S DOCUMENTA, S.A. Guatemala 50.0%   Avenida Petapa 42-51, Zona 12 Guatemala City, Guatemala 
FACILITY SERVICES, S.A. Guatemala 28.0%   Avenida Petapa 42-51, Zona 12 Guatemala City, Guatemala 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS, S.A. Guatemala 50.0%   Avenida Petapa 42-51, Zona 12 Guatemala City, Guatemala 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (GUERNSEY) LTD Guernsey 100.0%   Homefield Rue de L’Epinel Forest, GY8 0HL, Guernsey 
G4S INSURANCE (GUERNSEY) LTD Guernsey 100.0% 100.0% P.O. Box 384, 4th Floor, The Albany, South Esplanade, GY1 4NF  
St. Peter Port, Guernsey 
G4S SECURITY SERVICES (GUINEA) SARL Guinea 75.0%   Commune de Ratoma, Kipe Centre Emetteur, Pres de la Seg, Conakry, 
Guinea 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS DE HONDURAS 
S.A. DE C.V. 
Honduras 100.0%   Edificio Santa Elena, primer nivel. Colonia San Carlos, Av. La Paz 
Tegucigalpa, Honduras 
G4S (HONG KONG – HOLDING) LTD Hong Kong 100.0%   1/F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong 
Kong 
VERDI LTD Hong Kong 100.0%   1/F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong 
Kong 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS  
(HONG KONG) LTD 
Hong Kong 100.0%   1/F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong 
Kong 
G4S GURKHA SERVICES LTD Hong Kong 100.0%   1/F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong 
Kong 
HONG KONG SECURITY LTD Hong Kong 100.0%   1/F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong 
Kong 
G4S DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES 
(HONG KONG) LTD 
Hong Kong 100.0%   1/F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong 
Kong 
G4S FACILITY SERVICES  
(HONG KONG) LTD. 
Hong Kong 100.0%   1/F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong 
Kong 
G4S CASH SOLUTIONS  
(HONG KONG) LTD 
Hong Kong 100.0%   1/F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong 
Kong 
SECURICOR MACAU  
INVESTMENT LTD 
Hong Kong 100.0%   1/F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong 
Kong 
G4S GROUP HOLDING (CHINA) LTD Hong Kong 100.0%   1/F, Securicor Centre, 481 Castle Peak Road, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, 
Hong Kong 
STARPOINT INVESTMENTS LTD Hong Kong 100.0%   1/F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong 
Kong 
G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISITICS (HONG 
KONG) LTD 
Hong Kong 100.0%   Unit 02, 7/F, Beautiful Group Tower, 77 Connaught Rd Central, Hong Kong 
G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS  
(HONG KONG) LTD 
Hong Kong 100.0%   1/F, Securicor Centre, 481 Castle Peak Road, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, 
Hong Kong 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 165 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
166  G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
43. Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued 
Subsidiaries continued 
Company Name 
Country of  
Incorporation 
% owned  
by group 
% owned 
by plc Registered address 
GREAT STEP INVESTMENT LTD Hong Kong 100.0%   1/F, Securicor Centre, 481 Castle Peak Road, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, 
Hong Kong 
VICTORY STEP GROUP LTD Hong Kong 75.0%   1/F, Securicor Centre, 481 Castle Peak Road, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, 
Hong Kong 
G4S TECHNOLOGY  
(HONG KONG) LTD 
Hong Kong 100.0%   1/F, Securicor Centre, 481 Castle Peak Road, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, 
Hong Kong 
HILL & ASSOCIATES LTD Hong Kong 100.0%   Suite 1701-08, Tower 2, Times Square, 1 Matheson Street, Causeway Bay, 
Hong Kong 
G4S BIZTONSÁGTECHIKAI ZRT Hungary 100.0%   Harrer Pál u. 3., 1033 Budapest, Hungary 
G4S KÉSZPÉNZLOGISZTIKAI KFT Hungary 100.0%   Rozsnyai u. 21-25, 1139 Budapest, Hungary 
G4S BIZTONSÁGI  
SZOLGÁLTATÁSOK ZRT 
Hungary 100.0%   Polgár u. 8-10, 1033 Budapest, Hungary 
G4S HOLDING KFT Hungary 100.0%   Polgár u. 8-10, 1033 Budapest, Hungary 
G4S CENTRAL MONITORING SERVICES 
(INDIA) PVT. LTD 
India 100.0%   C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New 
Delhi, India 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (INDIA) PVT. LTD India 49.0%   C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New 
Delhi, India 
INDO-BRITISH GARMENTS (P) LTD India 100.0%   C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New 
Delhi, India 
G4S CASH SOLUTIONS (INDIA) PVT LTD India 100.0% 18.50% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New 
Delhi, India 
G4S FLEET MANAGEMENT SERVICES 
(INDIA) PVT. LTD 
India 100.0%   C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New 
Delhi, India 
G4S PRODUCTS (INDIA) PVT. LTD India 100.0%   C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New 
Delhi, India 
G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS (INDIA) PVT. LTD India 100.0%   C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New 
Delhi, India 
MONITRON SECURITY (P) LTD India 100.0%    Office Unit No.301, Third Floor, A-Wing,Eureka Tower, Building No. 7, 
Mind Space, Link Road, Malad (west), 400064 Mumbai, India 
G4S CORPORATE SERVICES (INDIA)  
PVT. LTD. 
India 100.0%   C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New 
Delhi, India 
FIRST SELECT (P) LTD India 100.0%   C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New 
Delhi, India 
G4S FACILITY SERVICES (INDIA) PVT. LTD India 100.0%   C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New 
Delhi, India 
G4S IT SERVICES (INDIA) PVT. LTD India 100.0% 84.5% C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New 
Delhi, India 
PROTEX SECURITY SERVICES  
(AP) PVT. LTD 
India 48.9%   Plot No. 43, Road No. 14, Banjara Hills, 500034 Hyderabad, India 
INVESTIGATION AND SECURITY SERVICES 
(INDIA) PVT. LTD 
India 46.7%   Plot No. 43, Road No. 14, Banjara Hills, 500034 Hyderabad, India 
MONITRON SUPPORT  
SERVICES PVT. LTD 
India 49.5%   C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 110058 New 
Delhi, India 
HILL & ASSOCIATES (INDIA) PVT. LTD India 100.0%   Upper Ground Floor, Tower B, Building No. 10, DLF Cyber City, 122002 
DLF Phase II, Gurgaon, Haryana, India 
HILL & ASSOCIATES RISK CONSULTANCY 
PVT. LTD 
India 100.0%   Upper Ground Floor, Tower B, Building No. 10, DLF Cyber City, 122002 
DLF Phase II, Gurgaon, Haryana, India 
PT G4S SECURITY SERVICES Indonesia 97.0%   The Security Center- Unit 407, Cilandak Commercial Estate KKO, 12560 
Jakarta, Indonesia 
PT G4S CASH SERVICES Indonesia 83.9%   Jl. Ciputat Raya No. 18, Pondok Pinang, Kebayoran Lama, 12310 Jakarta, 
Indonesia 
PT CASINTRANS PERDANA Indonesia 100.0%   Menara Jamsostek Fl.22, Jl. Jend. Gatot Subroto No. 38, Kuningan Barat, 
Jakarta Selatan, Indonesia 
PT G4S EURONET (INDONESIA) Indonesia 53.0%   The Security Center- Unit 407, Cilandak Commercial Estate KKO, 12560 
Jakarta, Indonesia 
PT HILL KONSULTAN INDONESIA Indonesia 99.0%   Gedung Setiabudi 2 Lt.3A Suite 3A-01 Jl. H.R. Rasuna, Said Kav.62, 12920 
Jakarta, Indonesia 
PT G4S SECURITY SOLUTION SERVICES Indonesia 51.0%   The Security Center- Unit 407, Cilandak Commercial Estate KKO, 12560 
Jakarta, Indonesia 
PT ARGENTA ADHILOKA PRATAMA Indonesia 51.0%   Jl. Administrasi Negara 1A No. 30, Bendungan Hilir, Tanah Abang, 10210 
Jakarta, Indonesia 
GROUP 4 SECURICOR  
GLOBAL RISKS LTD 
Ireland 100.0%   2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland  
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (IRE) LTD Ireland 100.0%   2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland  
G4S SUPPORT SERVICES  
(IRELAND) LTD 
Ireland 100.0%   2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland  
G4S HOLDINGS (IRELAND) LTD Ireland 100.0%   2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland 
G4S CASH SOLUTIONS IRELAND LTD Ireland 100.0%   Bluebell Industrial Estate, Bluebell Ave, Dublin 12, Ireland 
G4S MONITORING (IRE) LTD Ireland 100.0%   2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland 
A1 SECURITY TECHNOLOGIES LTD Ireland 100.0%   2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland 
G4S FACILITIES MANAGEMENT (IRE) LTD Ireland 100.0%   Unit 5 Calmount Business Park, Ballymount, Dublin 12, Ireland 
ALARM MONITORING SERVICES LTD Ireland 100.0%   2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland 
  
166 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 167 
Subsidiaries continued 
Company Name 
Country of  
Incorporation 
% owned  
by group 
% owned 
by plc Registered address 
G4S COMPLIANCE AND INVESTIGATIONS 
(IRELAND) LIMITED 
Ireland 100.0%  2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland 
G4S FINANCE (IRELAND) LTD Ireland 100.0% 100.0% 2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland  
GDJS SECURITY LTD Ireland 100.0%   2013 Orchard Place, City West, Dublin 24, Ireland 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS  
(ISLE OF MAN) LTD 
Isle of Man 100.0%   Isle of Man Business Pk, Isle of Man IM2 2SE 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (ISRAEL) LTD Israel 91.9%   14 Scacham St., Petch Tikva, Israel 
G4S SECURITY CONSULTANCY (ISRAEL) 
LTD 
Israel 91.9%   14 Scacham St., Petch Tikva, Israel 
G4S SAFETY SOLUTIONS (ISRAEL) LTD Israel 91.9%   14 Scacham St., Petch Tikva, Israel 
G4S SECURITY TECHNOLOGIES (ISRAEL) 
LTD 
Israel 91.9%   10 Scacham St., Petch Tikva, Israel 
G4S MANPOWER SERVICES (ISRAEL) LTD Israel 91.9%   14 Scacham St., Petch Tikva, Israel 
G4S COMPUTERIZED SYSTEMS (HOTELO-
ISRAEL) LTD 
Israel 91.9%   2 Hashiloach, Petch Tikva, Israel 
MOKED EMUN SURVEILLANCE  
& CONTROL (1995) LTD 
Israel 64.3%   Maskit – Merkazim Building, 46120 Herzelia, Israel 
G4S SECURITY TECHNOLOGIES (EILAT-
ISRAEL) LTD. 
Israel 91.9%   5 Peten, 8801306 Eliat,Israel 
G4S ISRAEL PPP LTD Israel 100.0%   14 Scacham St., Petch Tikva, Israel 
POLICITY LTD Israel 46.0%   1a Ha'Yarden St. Air Port City, Lod, Israel 
G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS (ISRAEL) 
LTD  
Israel 100.0%   111, Arlozorov Street, Tel Aviv-Yafo, Israel, 6209809 
WACKENHUT SA Ivory Coast 97.5%   20 B.P., 845 Abidjan 20, Ivory Coast 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (CI) SA Ivory Coast 97.5%   3 Boulevard Valerie Giscard d'Estaing, 01 BP 6065 ABJ 01  
Abidjan, Ivory Coast 
ARMORGROUP COTE D'IVOIRE SA Ivory Coast 100.0%   Rue B31, Lot 29, Cocody danga Nord Abidjan, 20 BP 845 Abidjan  
20 Abidjan, Ivory Coast 
G4S JAMAICA LTD Jamaica 100.0%   6-8 East Avenue, 5 Kingston W.I., Jamaica 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS JAPAN K.K Japan 100.0%   202, Musashino Hills, 2299-4 Fussa, Fussa-shi, 1970011 Fussa-shi, Japan 
HILL & ASSOCIATES (JAPAN) KK Japan 100.0%   2-2-15, #403, Minami-Aoyama, Minato-ku, 107-0062 Tokyo, Japan 
G4S HOLDINGS INDIA LTD Jersey 100.0%   Third Floor, 37 Esplanade, JE2 3QA St Helier, Jersey 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (JERSEY) LTD Jersey 100.0%   The Security Centre Rue des Pres Trading Estate, JE2 7QP St Saviour, Jersey
G4S INTERNATIONAL  
EMPLOYMENT SERVICES LTD 
Jersey 100.0%   The Old Chapel, Sacre Coeur, Rouge Bouillon St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3ZA 
LUCAS CAPITAL (JERSEY) LTD Jersey 100.0% 100.0% Ogier House, The Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG, Jersey 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS INTERNATIONAL 
INC (JORDAN) LTD. 
Jordan 50.0%   # 12, Mithqual El Fayez St., Third Circle, Jebel, P.O. Box 831358, 11183 
Amman, Jordan 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS INT. (JORDAN) 
FOR INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS 
Jordan 60.0%   Roxy Al Ozaizi Street – Dana Center 2, 11183 Amman, Jordan 
G4S KENYA LTD Kenya 100.0%   Witu Rd off Lusaka Rd, P O Box 30242, GPO 00100 Nairobi, Kenya 
G4S FIRE SERVICES (KENYA) LTD Kenya 100.0%   Witu Rd off Lusaka Rd, P O Box 30242, GPO 00100 Nairobi, Kenya 
ARMORGROUP KENYA LTD Kenya 100.0%   Plot No. LR 209/368/10, Armor House, Lenana Road, P.O. Box 2714 
Nairobi, Kenya 
G4S SECURE DATA SOLUTIONS (KENYA) 
LTD 
Kenya 60.0%   Witu Rd off Lusaka Rd, P O Box 30242, GPO 00100  
Nairobi, Kenya 
AS G4S LATVIA Latvia 100.0%   Stigu Str 10, LV-1021, Riga, Latvia 
AS G4S CASH SERVICES LATVIA Latvia 100.0%   Stigu Str 10, LV-1021, Riga, Latvia 
GROUP 4 SECURITY SERVICES LEBANON 
SAL 
Lebanon 50.6% 50.60% Saliba Building Awkar Dbayeh, 70-461, Antelias Beirut, Lebanon 
G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS LEBANON SAL Lebanon 50.7%   Saliba Building Awkar Dbayeh, 70-461, Antelias Beirut, Lebanon 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS LESOTHO (PTY) 
LTD 
Lesotho 100.0%   397 Hilton Hill Road Maseru, Lesotho 
G4S CASH SOLUTIONS LESOTHO (PTY) 
LTD 
Lesotho 100.0%   397 Hilton Hill Road, Maseru, Lesotho 
UAB G4S LIETUVA Lithuania 100.0%   J.Jasinskio 16C, LT-01112 Vilnius, Lithuania 
G4S SECURITY SOLUTIONS S.A.R.L. Luxembourg 100.0%   14 Rue du Père Raphaël – P.O. Box 1513, L-1015 Luxembourg 
G4S GENERAL SERVICES SA Luxembourg 100.0%   14 Rue du Père Raphaël – P.O. Box 1513 
G4S FINANCE (LUXEMBOURG) SARL Luxembourg 100.0% 100.0% 14 Rue du Père Raphaël – P.O. Box 1513  
HILL & ASSOCIATES (MACAU) lTD Macau 100%  Avenida Venceslau de Morais, 157, BL 2,2, Edificio Centro Ind. Keck Seng, 
Fase II, 2 Andar H, Macau 
G4S (MACAU – HOLDING) LTD Macau 100.0%   Avenida Venceslau de Morais, 185-191, 1 Andar A, Macau 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (MACAU) LTD Macau 100.0%   Avenida Venceslau de Morais, 157, BL 2,2, Edificio Centro Ind. Keck Seng, 
Fase II, 2 Andar H, Macau 
GREAT WALL SECURITY SERVICES LTDA. Macau 100.0%   Avenida Venceslau de Morais, 157, BL 2,2, Edificio Centro Ind. Keck Seng, 
Fase II, 2 Andar H, Macau 
GREAT WALL PROPERTY MANAGEMENT 
SERVICES LTD 
Macau 100.0%   Avenida Venceslau de Morais, 157, BL 2,2, Edificio Centro Ind. Keck Seng, 
Fase II, 2 Andar H, Macau 
GREAT WALL HOLDINGS LTD Macau 100.0%   Avenida Venceslau de Morais, 157, BL 2,2, Edificio Centro Ind. Keck Seng, 
Fase II, 2 Andar H, Macau 
G4S MADAGASCAR SOLUTIONS DE 
SECURITE SARL 
Madagascar 100.0%   Lot II, 161 HC Ambohijatovo Ivandry Immeuble Millenium, 10101 101 
Antananarivo Renivohitra C.U., Madagascar 
     
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 167 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
168  G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
43. Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued 
Subsidiaries continued 
Company Name 
Country of  
Incorporation 
% owned  
by group 
% owned 
by plc Registered address 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (MALAWI) LTD Malawi 99.7%   Chirimba Industrial Area, P O Box 720, Blantyre, Malawi 
G4S PREMIER GUARDING SERVICES 
(MALAWI) LTD 
Malawi 100.0%   Chirimba Industrial Area, P O Box 720, Blantyre, Malawi 
G4S PREMIER ALARM MONITORING AND 
RESPONSE SERVICES (MALAWI) LTD 
Malawi 100.0%   Chirimba Industrial Area, P O Box 720, Blantyre, Malawi 
G4S MALAYSIA SDN. BHD. Malaysia 60.0%   25-2, Jalan PjU 1/42A, Dataran Prima, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Malaysia 
ALMO SYSTEMS SDN BHD Malaysia 49.0%   25-2, Jalan PjU 1/42A, Dataran Prima, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Malaysia 
GROUP 4 FALCK CMS SDN BHD Malaysia 49.0%   Suite 226, 1st floor, FAS Business Avenue, No.1, Jalan Perbandaran, 47301 
Petaling Jaya, Malaysia 
SAFEGUARDS G4S SDN BHD Malaysia 49.0%   No 1 & 1A, 2nd Floor (Room 2), Jalan Ipoh Kecil, 50350 Kuala Lumpur, 
Malaysia 
SECURICOR (MALAYSIA) SDN BHD Malaysia 49.0%   No 1 & 1A, 2nd Floor (Room 2), Jalan Ipoh Kecil, 50350 Kuala Lumpur, 
Malaysia 
SAFEGUARDS G4S (SABAH) SDN BHD Malaysia 49.0%   No 1 & 1A, 2nd Floor (Room 2), Jalan Ipoh Kecil, 50350 Kuala Lumpur, 
Malaysia 
SAFEGUARDS G4S (SARAWAK) SDN BHD Malaysia 49.0%   No 1 & 1A, 2nd Floor (Room 2), Jalan Ipoh Kecil, 50350 Kuala Lumpur, 
Malaysia 
SAFEGUARDS G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS 
SDN BHD 
Malaysia 49.0%   No 1 & 1A, 2nd Floor (Room 2), Jalan Ipoh Kecil, 50350 Kuala Lumpur, 
Malaysia 
GWENKENS SECURITY SERVICES SDN BHD Malaysia 44.1%   910 (Suite 1), Block B, Phileo Damansara 2, No 15, Jalan 16/11, Off Jalan 
Damansara, Petaling Jaya,46350 Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia 
G4S MANAGEMENT SERVICES (ASIA 
PACIFIC) SDN BHD 
Malaysia 100.0%   1st Floor, Lot 6, Jalan 225, Sec 51A, Petaling Jaya, 46100 Selangor, Malaysia 
HILL CORPORATE SERVICES SDN BHD Malaysia 100.0%   2nd floor, No 2-4 Jalan Manau, 50460 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
RISK CONSULTING (L) LTD Malaysia 100.0%   Level 15B, Main Office Tower, Financial Park, Jalan Merdeka, 87000 Labuan, 
Malaysia 
HILL RISK CONSULTING (MALAYSIA)  
SDN BHD 
Malaysia 100.0%   Unit No 9-7, The Boulevard, Mid Valley City, Lingkaran Syed Putra, 59200 
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
VIVA POWERTECH SDN. BHD. Malaysia 100.0%   Level 21, Suite 21.10, The Gardens South Tower, Mid Valley City, Lingkaran 
Syed Putra, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
SAFEGUARDS G4S ACADEMY SDN BHD Malaysia 44.1%   910 (Suite 1), Block B, Phileo Damansara 2, No 15, Jalan 16/11, Off Jalan 
Damansara, Petaling Jaya, 46350 Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia 
GWENKENS CENTRAL MONITORING  
SDN BHD 
Malaysia 44.1%   910 (Suite 1), Block B, Phileo Damansara 2, No 15, Jalan 16/11, Off Jalan 
Damansara, Petaling Jaya, 46350 Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia 
INDO BRITISH GARMENTS  
MALAYSIA SDN BHD 
Malaysia 100.0%   Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah-Kwong Hing No 1 Leboh Ampang, 
50100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
G4S (MALI) SARL Mali 100.0%   Hamdallaye ACI 2000, street 405 – gate 558, Bamako, Mali 
G4S SECURITY SERVICES (MALTA) LTD Malta 50.1%   Ent A, Level 1, Capital Business Centre, Triq ta-Zwejt, SGN 3000 San 
Gwann, Malta 
G4S SECURITY SERVICES LTD Malta 50.1%   Ent A, Level 1, Capital Business Centre, Triq ta-Zwejt, SGN 3000 San 
Gwann, Malta 
G4S HOLDINGS (MALTA) LTD Malta 100.0%   Ent A, Level 1, Capital Business Centre, Triq ta-Zwejt, SGN 3000 San 
Gwann, Malta 
 G4S COMMUNITY SERVICES LIMITED Malta 50.1%   Ent A, Level 1, Capital Business Centre, Triq ta-Zwejt, SGN 3000 San 
Gwann, Malta 
G4S SECURITY SERVICES (MAURITANIA) SA Mauritania 70.0%   BP 4201, Nouakchott, Tevragh Zeina Ilot C, No. 261, Nouakchott, 
Mauritania 
G4S HOLDINGS CHINA LTD Mauritius 100.0%   c/o Multiconsult Ltd, Les Cascades Building, Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, 
Mauritius 
CROSSKEYS (MAURITIUS) HOLDINGS LTD Mauritius 100.0%   210 St James Court, Rue St Denis, Port Louis, Mauritius 
HILL RISK MANAGEMENT LTD Mauritius 100.0%   c/o Multiconsult Ltd, Les Cascades Building, Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, 
Mauritius 
HILL & ASSOCIATES (MAURITIUS) LTD Mauritius 100.0%   c/o Multiconsult Ltd, Les Cascades Building, Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, 
Mauritius 
HILL RISK CONSULTING (MAURITIUS) LTD Mauritius 100.0%   c/o Multiconsult Ltd, Les Cascades Building, Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, 
Mauritius 
S GRAY MANAGEMENT SERVICES LTD Mauritius 100.0%   c/o Intercontinental Trust LTD, Level 3, Alexander House, 35 Cybercity, 
Ebene, Mauritius 
G4S HOLDINGS MÉXICO, SA DE CV Mexico 100.0%   Barranca del Muerto #380, CP 01020 Mexico, D.F., Mexico 
G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS S.A. DE C.V. Mexico 100.0%   Barranca del Muerto #380, CP 01020 Mexico, D.F., Mexico 
G4S PRIVATE SECURITY SERVICES, SA DE 
CV 
Mexico 100.0%   Barranca del Muerto #380, CP 01020 Mexico, D.F., Mexico 
G4S SECURITY SERVICES CRNA GORA 
DOO PODGORICA 
Montenegro 85.0%   Cvijetna Street no.25, Podgorica, Montenegro 
WACKENHUT MOROCCO INC (BRANCH 
OFFICE) 
Morocco 93.8%   24 Lotissement la Colline, Sidi Maarouf, 20150 Casablanca, Morocco 
MAROC PROTECTION SURVEILLANCE SA Morocco 100.0%   24 Lotissement la Colline, Sidi Maarouf, 20150 Casablanca, Morocco 
G4S (MAROC) SA Morocco 100.0%   24 Lotissement la Colline, Sidi Maarouf, 20150 Casablanca, Morocco 
FIRST SELECT MOROCCO SA Morocco 99.9%   24, Lotissement la Colline, Sidi Maârouf, Casablanca, Morocco 
G4S INTERGRATED SERVICES MOROCCO 
SA 
Morocco 100.0%   24 Lotissement la Colline, Sidi Maarouf, 20150 Casablanca, Morocco 
  
168 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 169 
Subsidiaries continued 
Company Name 
Country of  
Incorporation 
% owned  
by group 
% owned 
by plc Registered address 
WACKENHUT MOZAMBIQUE LIMITADA Mozambique 90%  Rua Mariano Machado nr. 99/186, Maputo, Mozambique 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS MOCAMBIQUE 
LIMITADA 
Mozambique 87.5%   Av da Organizacao da Unidade Africana, 121, Maputo, Mozambique 
G4S ORDNANCE MANAGEMENT 
(MOCAMBIQUE), LIMITADA 
Mozambique 90.0%   No 2085, Avenida Ahmed Sekoe Toure, Maputo, Mozambique 
G FOUR S MANNED SECURITY (NAMIBIA) 
(PTY) LTD 
Namibia 100.0%   33 General Murtala Ramat Muhammed Street, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia 
G FOUR S AVIATION SECURITY (NAMIBIA) 
(PTY) LTD 
Namibia 100.0%   33 General Murtala Ramat, Muhammed Street, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia 
G FOUR S SECURE SOLUTIONS (NAMIBIA) 
(PTY) LTD 
Namibia 100.0%   33 General Murtala Ramat Muhammed Street, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia 
ARMED RESPONSE COMPANY 
(PROPRIETARY) LTD 
Namibia 100.0%   33 General Murtala Ramat Muhammed Street, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia 
RESCUE 911 (PROPRIETARY) LTD Namibia 100.0%   33 General Murtala Ramat Muhammed Street, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia 
PRO-FORCE CORPORATE SECURITY 
(PROPRIETARY) LTD 
Namibia 100.0%   33 General Murtala Ramat Muhammed Street, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia 
G FOUR S CASH SOLUTIONS (NAMIBIA) 
(PTY) LTD 
Namibia 100.0%   33 General Murtala Ramat Muhammed Street, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia 
G4S SECURITY SERVICES NEPAL (P) LTD Nepal 99.9%   House No. 75/45, Kailash Chaur, Ward No. 2, Kathmandu Metropolitan 
City, Kathmandu, Nepal 
FIRST SELECT NEPAL (P) LTD Nepal 100.0%   P.O. Box 20423, House # 75/45, Lazimpat, Kailash Chaur, Kathmandu, 
Nepal 
SECURITAS PRODUCT NEPAL P. LTD Nepal 100.0%   Ichhunadi Marg, Baluwatar, Ward No. 4 , Kathmandu Metropolitan City, 
Kathmandu, Nepal 
G4S FACILITY & EMPLOYMENT SERVICES 
NEPAL PVT. LTD 
Nepal 100.0%   Ichhunadi Marg, Baluwatar, Ward No. 4 , Kathmandu Metropolitan City, 
Kathmandu, Nepal 
G4S INTERNATIONAL (NL) BV Netherlands 100.0%   Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands 
G4S HOLDING (B) BV Netherlands 100.0%   Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands 
G4S INDIA HOLDINGS (NL) BV Netherlands 100.0%   Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands 
G4S AVIATION SECURITY BV Netherlands 100.0%   Evert van de Beekstraat 1 rumimtenummer 66, Luchthaven Schiphol, 1118 
CL Netherlands 
G4S SECURE MONITORING BV Netherlands 100.0%   Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands 
G4S (CPH) BV Netherlands 100.0%   Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands 
G4S INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS 101 (NL) 
BV 
Netherlands 100.0%   Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands 
G4S SECURITY SERVICES BV Netherlands 100.0%   Hogehilweg 12, 1101 CD Amsterdam, Netherlands 
G4S HOLDINGS 102 (NL) B.V. Netherlands 100.0%   Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands 
G4S HOLDINGS 103 (NL) BV Netherlands 100.0%   Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands 
G4S GROUP HOLDING (ASIA) BV Netherlands 100.0%   Hogehilweg 12, 1101 CD Amsterdam, Netherlands 
G4S BEHEER BV Netherlands 100.0%   Hogehilweg 12, 1101 CD Amsterdam, Netherlands 
G4S SERVICES BV Netherlands 100.0%   Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands 
G4S PUBLIC SECURITY BV Netherlands 100.0%   Hogehilweg 12, 1101 CD Amsterdam, Netherlands 
G4S CASH SOLUTIONS B.V. Netherlands 100.0%   Ptolemaeuslaan 61, 3528 BR Utrecht, Netherlands 
G4S CASH MANAGEMENT B.V. Netherlands 100.0%   Ptolemaeuslaan 61, 3528 BR Utrecht, Netherlands 
G4S STAMFORD INVESTMENTS BV Netherlands 100.0%   Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands 
G4S TRAINING & SAFETY BV Netherlands 100.0%   Galvanistraat 89, 6716 AE Ede, Netherlands 
G4S DIRECT BV Netherlands 100.0%  Galvanistraat 89, 6716 AE Ede, Netherlands 
ROTUS BV Netherlands 100.0%   Galvanistraat 89, 6716 AE Ede, Netherlands 
IBG EUROPE BV Netherlands 100.0%   Hogehilweg 12, 1101 CD Amsterdam, Netherlands 
G4S PERSONNEL BV Netherlands 100.0%   Amperestraat 25, 6716 BN Ede, Netherlands 
G4S ZORG & WELZIJN B.V. Netherlands 100.0%   Tolnasingel 1, 2411 PV Bodegraven, Netherlands 
G4S OVERSEAS HOLDINGS BV Netherlands 100.0%   Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands 
G4S FIRE & SAFETY B.V. Netherlands 100.0%   Donk 1D, 2991 LE Barendrecht, Netherlands 
G4S REGIONAL MANAGEMENT (EUROPE) 
BV 
Netherlands 100.0%   Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands 
INZETBAAR B.V. Netherlands 100.0%   Tolnasingel 1, 2411PV Bodegraven, Netherlands. 
FAIR BEDRIJFSDIENSTEN BV Netherlands 100.0%  Tolnasingel 1, 2411PV Bodegraven, Netherlands. 
FAIR BEWAKING BV Netherlands 100.0%  Tolnasingel 1, 2411PV Bodegraven, Netherlands. 
G4S NEW ZEALAND LTD New Zealand 100.0%   Level3, 2 Kalmia Street, Ellerslie, 1051, New Zealand 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS, SOCIEDAD 
ANÓNIMA 
Nicaragua 51.0%   Reparta Belmonte, Dr. Hospital Velez Paiz, 1 Cuadra Holis  
Arriba, Nicaragua 
OUTSOURCING SERVICES LTD Nigeria 99.9%   27, Oba Akinjobi Street, GIRA, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria 
SCHC LTD Nigeria 99.0%   13A, A.J. Marinho Drive, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS NIGERIA LTD Nigeria 100.0%   27, Oba Akinjobi Street, GIRA, Ikeja Lagos. Nigeria 
G4S TRACKING SOLUTIONS LTD Nigeria 60.0%   AIB Plaza, Off Akin Adesola Street, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria 
ASSETGUARD SERVICES LTD Nigeria 100.0%   1 Murtala Mohammed Drive (Formerly Bank Road), Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria 
ARMORGROUP (NIGERIA) LTD Nigeria 100.0%   27, Oba Akinjobi Street, GIRA, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria 
DEFENCE SYSTEMS (NIGERIA) LTD Nigeria 100.0%   6 Takoradi Street, Wuse Abuja, Nigeria 
G4S/GLOBAL RISKS NIGERIA LTD Nigeria 100.0%   Plot 7a Acme Road, Block C, Ogba Inustrial Scheme, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 169 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
170  G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
43. Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued 
Subsidiaries continued 
Company Name 
Country of  
Incorporation 
% owned  
by group 
% owned 
by plc Registered address 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (CNMI) INC. Northern Mariana 
Islands 
100.0%   PMB 384 PPP Box 1000, 96950 Saipan, Northern Mariana Islands 
G4S SECURITY SOLUTIONS LLC Oman 49.0%   P.O. Box 1625, 112, Ruwi Muscat, Oman 
G4S SERVICES LLC Oman 49.0%   P.O. Box 1625, 112 Muscat, Oman 
HILL & ASSOCIATES PAKISTAN (PVT.) LTD Pakistan 100.0%   B-61, KDA Scheme 01, 7550 Karachi, Pakistan 
FIRST SELECT PAKISTAN (PVT) LTD Pakistan 51.0%   H.No. 7-B, Street No. 8, F-7/3, Islamabad, Pakistan 
INVERSIONES SETESCA Panama 100.0%   Calle 41, 2-40 Bella Vista, Panama 
SEGURIDAD TECNICA SA Panama 44.0%   Calle 41, 2-40 Bella Vista, Panama 
TELEMETRIA Y ALARMA SA Panama 17.6%   Calle 41, 2-40 Bella Vista, Panama 
DETECTA SA Panama 44.0%   Calle 41, 2-40 Bella Vista, Panama 
LIMPIE SA Panama 44.0%   Calle 41, 2-40 Bella Vista, Panama 
G4S S.A. Panama 100.0%   Marbella, Ave. Aquilino de la Guardia Ocean Business Plaza, Piso 17-1704, 
Panama City, Panama 
METERS CORP. Panama 100.0%   Calle 41, 2-40 Bella Vista, Panama 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (PNG) LTD Papua New Guinea 100.0%   Section 61, Allotment 13, Morata Street, Gordons, National Capital District, 
Papua New Guinea 
MONT BLANC LIMITED Papua New Guinea 100.0%   C/ Sinton Spence Chartered Accountants 2nd Floor Brian Bell Plaza Turmu 
St. Boroko, Boroko, Papua New Guinea 
G4S PNG LIMITED Papua New Guinea 100.0%  PO Box 5392 Boroko NCD, Papua New Guinea 
WACKENHUT PARAGUAY SA Paraguay 1.6%   Nery Quevedo 315 Esq. Hipolito Garron, Asuncion, Paraguay 
G4S PERU SAC Peru 99.9%   Av. El Sol 916, Urbanización La Campiña., Chorrillos, Lima, Peru 
G4S L&T PERU S.A.C Peru 99.9%   Av. El Sol N° 906, Distrito de Chorrillos, Provincia Y Departmento De 
Lima, Peru 
G4S HOLDING, INC. Philippines 79.9%   G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd., Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines 
G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS, INC. Philippines 79.8%   G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd., Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines 
PERSONAL SECURITY SYSTEMS INC. Philippines 100%   G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd., Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines 
CATENA SECURITY INC. Philippines 100%   G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd., Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines 
VALLUM SECURITY SERVICES CORP. Philippines 100%   G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd., Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines 
G4S SECURITY TRAINING INC. Philippines 31.9%   Metro Manila, Philippines C/O Unit 201 Conservatory Bldg, 605 Shaw Blvd., 
Mandaluyong City, Philippines 
ATTINA SECURITY SERVICES, INC. Philippines 100.0%   G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd., Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines 
HILL & ASSOCIATE RISK CONSULTING 
PHILS., INC. 
Philippines 100.0%   Unit 505, Pse Tower One & Exchange Plaza, 6767 Ayala Avenue, 1226 
Makati City, Philippines 
ACCURIA EXECUTIVE PROTECTION & 
DETECTIVE SERVICES INC. 
Philippines 100.0%   G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd., Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines 
G4S CASH SOLUTIONS PHILLIPINES INC. Philippines 51.0%   100 E. Rodriquez Avenue, Ugong Norte, 1552 Quezon City, Philippines 
GLOBAL SECURITY SOLUTIONS INC. Philippines 50.0%   Unit 201 Conservatory Building, 1552 Mandaluyong City, Philippines 
CYNEWARD SECURITY CORP. Philippines 100.0%   G4S House, 142 Pasig Blvd., Bagong Ilog, 1600 Pasig City, Philippines 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS  
(PUERTO RICO) INC. 
Puerto Rico 100.0%   Carretera #1 Plaza Bairoa, Suite 211, Caguas, Puerto Rico 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SRL Romania 100.0%   15 Charles de Gaulle Square, 12th floor, District 1, Bucharest, Romania 
G4S CASH SOLUTIONS SRL Romania 100.0%   15 Charles de Gaulle Square, 12th floor, District 1, Bucharest, Romania 
G4S FIRE & SAFETY S.R.L. Romania 100.0%   15 Charles de Gaulle Square, 12th floor, District 1, Bucharest, Romania 
LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY PRIVATE 
SECURITY ENTITY GROUP 4 SECURITAS 
RENAMED LLC PSE GSN 
Russia 100.0%   UKhtomski Pereulok, 4, 111020 Moscow, Russia 
LLC PSE G4S SECURITY  
SERVICES – SAKHALIN 
Russia 75.0%   36 Dzerzhinskogo, 693000 Yuzhno Sakhalinsk, Russia 
LLC G4S TECNICAL SOLUTIONS – 
SAKHALIN 
Russia 75.0%   62A Amurskaya Str, Office 103, 693000 Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, Russia 
G4S EURASIA LLC Russia 100.0%   Building 1, 4 Ukhtomsky Pereulok, 111020 Moscow, Russia 
G4S RWANDA LTD Rwanda 99.0%   5698 Nyarutarama, P.O. Box 7230, Kigali, Rwanda 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (ST.LUCIA) LTD Saint Lucia 51.0%   P.O. Box CP 6098 Conway Post Office, Castries, Saint Lucia 
AL MAJAL GROUP 4S FOR SECURITY AND 
SAFETY LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY 
Saudi Arabia 49.0%   P.O. Box 31049, 21497 Jeddah, Saudi Arabia 
AL MAJAL SERVICE MASTER LLC Saudi Arabia 49.0%   Post Code 6930, 21452 Jeddah, Saudi Arabia 
MOHAMMED BIN ABDOUD AL AMOUDI 
CO FOR CIVILIAN SECURITY SERVICES 
PARTNERSHIP (ALMAJAL) 
Saudi Arabia 0.0%   P.O. Box 2779, 21461 Jeddah, Saudi Arabia 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS D.O.O. Serbia 85.0%   Kumodraska Street no 240, Belgrade, Serbia 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (SL) LTD Sierra Leone 100.0%   6 Spur Road, P.O Box, Freetown, Sierra Leone 
GROUP 4 SECURICOR (S) PTE. LTD. Singapore 100.0%   8 Commonwealth Lane, #04-04 (Annex), 149555 Singapore 
G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS (S) PTE. LTD. Singapore 100.0%   8 Commonwealth Lane, #04-04 (Annex), 149555 Singapore 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (SINGAPORE) 
PTE. LTD.  
Singapore 100.0% 25.30% 8 Commonwealth Lane, #04-04 (Annex), 149555 Singapore 
  
170 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 171 
Subsidiaries continued 
Company Name 
Country of  
Incorporation 
% owned  
by group 
% owned 
by plc Registered address 
G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS 
(SINGAPORE) PTE LIMITED 
Singapore 100.0%   158 Cecil Street, 069 545 #11-01 Singapore, 
HILL & ASSOCIATES RISK CONSULTING 
(SINGAPORE) PTE LTD 
Singapore 100.0%   51 Cuppage Road, #10-18, 229469, Singapore 
G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS (SK) S.R.O. Slovak Republic 100.0%   Visnova 16, 831 01 Bratislava, Slovak Republic 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (SK), A.S. Slovak Republic 100.0%   Visnova 16, 831 01 Bratislava, Slovak Republic 
G4S FIRE SERVICES (SK), S.R.O Slovak Republic 100.0%   Visnova 16, 831 01 Bratislava, Slovak Republic 
G4S TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS  
(SK), S.R.O 
Slovak Republic 100.0%   Visnova 16, 831 01 Bratislava, Slovak Republic 
G4S DRUZBA ZA VAROVANJE D.O.O.  
(G4S D.O.O.) 
Slovenia 96.2%   Stegne 21, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia 
GROUP 4 FALCK (PTY) LTD South Africa 100.0%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
G4S SECURITY SERVICES (AFRICA) 
(PROPRIETARY) LTD 
South Africa 100.0%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (SA) (PTY) LTD South Africa 72.2%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
G4S AVIATION SECURITY (SA) (PTY) LTD South Africa 72.2%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
G4S INTEGRITY ASSESSMENT (PTY) LTD South Africa 72.2%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS (SOUTH 
AFRICA) PTY. 
South Africa 100.0%   Unit 31, First Floor Waterford Office Park, Corner Witkoppen & Waterford 
Road, Fourways 1610, South Africa 
GRAY SECURITY SERVICES (SA) 
(PROPRIETARY) LTD 
South Africa 72.2%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
G4S CASH SOLUTIONS (SA) (PTY) LTD South Africa 74.9%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
G4S INSURANCE (SA) LTD South Africa 74.9%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
ELWIERDA (GAUTENG) (PTY) LTD South Africa 74.9%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
CMS MICRO FINANCE (PTY) LTD South Africa 74.9%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
G4S EMPOWERMENT VENTURES  
(SA) (PTY) LTD 
South Africa 48.4%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
G4S CARE AND JUSTICE SERVICES (SOUTH 
AFRICA) (PTY) LTD 
South Africa 100.0%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
G4S CORRECTION SERVICES 
(BLOEMFONTEIN) (PTY) LTD 
South Africa 81.0%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
GSL REBOUND (PTY) LTD South Africa 100.0%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
SKYCOM (PTY) LTD South Africa 72.2%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
ACCESS AND BEYOND (PTY) LTD South Africa 72.2%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
INTEGRATED SKY FORCE SOLUTIONS 
(PTY) LTD 
South Africa 72.2%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa, 0157 Centurion 
INDO BRITISH GARMENTS PVT. LIMITED,  South Africa 100.0%   SORENTO SUITE, 5 DE HAVILAND CRESCENT, ILL VILLAGGIO 
PERSEQUOR Pretoria, Gauteng, South Africa 
INVESTMENT SURVEYS (PTY) LTD South Africa 100.0%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
G4S DEPOSITA (RF) (PTY) LTD South Africa 74.9%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
G4S ATM ENGINEERING (SA) (PTY) LTD South Africa 74.9%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
INTEGRA (PTY) LTD South Africa 100.0%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
THETHA TECHNOLOGIES (PTY) LTD South Africa 74.9%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
G4S AFRICA (PROPRIETARY) LTD South Africa 100.0%   Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 
0157 Centurion, South Africa 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (KOREA) LTD South Korea 100.0%   13th Floor ILJIN Building, 50-1 Dohwa-dong, 121-716 Mapo-gu Seoul, 
South Korea 
G4S SECURITY SERVICES (PRIVATE) LTD. Sri Lanka 60.0%   21 Vauxhall Street, 2 Colombo, Sri Lanka 
ARMORGROUP SUDANESE CO LTD Sudan 100.0%   8 Mek Nimer Street, P.O. Box 47, Khartoum, Sudan 
ARMORGROUP LIMITED (SUDAN) Sudan 100.0%   8 Mek Nimer Street, P.O. Box 47, Khartoum, Sudan  
GROUP 4 SYRIA LIMITED LIABILITY 
COMPANY 
Syria 29.4%   Al-Aasar Building, near the Central Post office, Sinjikdar, Damascus, Syria 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (TAIWAN) LTD Taiwan 100.0%   20F-1, No. 266, Sec 1, Wenhua 2nd Road, Linkou Dist, 24448 New Taipei 
City, Taiwan 
G4S ATM SOLUTIONS (TAIWAN) LTD Taiwan 100.0%   20F-2, No. 266, sec 1, wun hua 2nd road, Linko Distt, 24448 Taipei City, 
Taiwan, 
G4S PROPERTY MANAGEMENT LTD Taiwan 100.0%   20F-1, No. 266, Sec 1, Wenhua 2nd Road, Linkou Dist, 24448 New Taipei 
City, Taiwan 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 171 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
172  G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
43. Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued 
Subsidiaries continued 
Company Name 
Country of  
Incorporation 
% owned  
by group 
% owned 
by plc Registered address 
G4S SECUREWELL SECURE SOLUTIONS 
(TAIWAN) LTD 
Taiwan 100.0%   20F-1, No. 266, Sec 1, Wenhua 2nd Road, Linkou Dist, 24448 New Taipei 
City, Taiwan 
G4S WEI FUNG SECURE SOLUTIONS 
(TAIWAN) LTD 
Taiwan 100.0%   20F-2, No. 266, sec 1, wun hua 2nd road, Linko Distt, 24448 Taipei City, 
Taiwan 
G4S SYSTEM ENGINEERING 
CORPORATION 
Taiwan 85.0%   6F., No.320, Sec. 1, Neihu Rd., Neihu Dist., Taipei City 11493, Taiwan 
(R.O.C), 22101 Taipei, Taiwan 
HILL & ASSOCIATES (TAIWAN) LTD Taiwan 100.0%   20F-1, No. 266, Sec 1, Wenhua 2nd Road, Linkou Dist, 24448 New Taipei 
City, Taiwan 
G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS CO. LTD Taiwan 85.0%   16th Floor, Suite 1, No. 266, Sec. 1, Wen-Hwa 2nd Road, Linko Hsiang, 
Taipei, Taiwan, 22101 Taipei, Taiwan 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (TZ) LTD Tanzania 100.0%   Plot no. 57, Uporoto Street, Ursino Estate, P.O. Box 5555, Dar Es Salaam, 
Tanzania 
ARMORGROUP TANZANIA LTD Tanzania 100.0%   TDFL, 3rd Floor (Opposite Sheraton Hotel), Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania 
G4S (THAILAND) LTD Thailand 97.5%   2922/205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, 
Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand 
G4S SECURITY SERVICES (THAILAND) LTD Thailand 98.2%   2922/205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, 
Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand 
G4S HOLDINGS (THAILAND) LTD Thailand 97.5%   96 Moo 3, Vibhavadee – Rangsit Road, Talad Bangkhen, Laksi, 10210 
Bangkok, Thailand 
INTER-ASIAN ENTERPRISES (IAE) 
COMPANY LTD 
Thailand 97.4%    2922/205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, 
Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 0310 Bangkok, Thailand 
G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS 
HOLDING (THAILAND) LTD 
Thailand 100%   45/1 Silom 19 Building, 2nd Floor, Soi Silom 19, Silom Road, Silom, 10500 
Bangrak, Bangkok, Thailand 
G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS 
(THAILAND) LTD 
Thailand 100%   45/1 Silom 19 Building, 2nd Floor, Soi Silom 19, Silom Road, Silom, 10500 
Bangrak, Bangkok, Thailand 
ASIAN HOLDING INTERNATIONAL 
COMPANY LTD 
Thailand 95.5%   96 Moo 3, Vibhavadee – Rangsit Road, Talad Bangkhen, Laksi, 10210 
Bangkok, Thailand 
GUARDIAN ALARMS COMPANY LTD. Thailand 98.3%   43/55 Moo 5, Wiset Rd., Rawai Sub District, Muang District, Phuket 
Province, Thailand 
HILL RISK CONSULTING  
(THAILAND) CO., LTD 
Thailand 49.0%   2922/205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, 
Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand 
G4S HOLDINGS 4 (THAILAND) LIMITED Thailand 48.9%   2922/205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, 
Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand 
G4S HOLDINGS 3 (THAILAND) LIMITED Thailand 48.9%   2922/205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, 
Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand 
G4S HOLDINGS 2 (THAILAND) LIMITED Thailand 48.9%   2922/205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, 
Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand 
G4S HOLDINGS 1 (THAILAND) LIMITED Thailand 48.9%   2922/205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th Floor, New Petchburi Road, 
Bangkapi, Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand 
G4S HOLDINGS (TRINIDAD) LTD Trinidad & Tobago 51.0%   61-63 Edward Street, Port of Spain, Trinidad & Tobago 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (TRINIDAD) LTD Trinidad & Tobago 51.0%   61-63 Edward Street, Port of Spain, Trinidad & Tobago, 
G4S GÜVENL İK HİZMETLERİ  
ANONİM ŞİRKETİ 
Turkey 100.0%   Ayazaga Mah. Ataturk Cad Mezarlik Sok No 1 Ayazaga, Sariyer, Istanbul, 
Turkey 
G4S ELEKTRONİK SİSTEMLERİ ANON İM 
ŞİRKETİ 
Turkey 100.0%   Ayazaga Mah. Ataturk Cad Mezarlik Sok No 1 Ayazaga, Sariyer, Istanbul, 
Turkey 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (UGANDA) LTD Uganda 99.9%   Plot 6, Nakasero Road, Kampala, Uganda 
ALARM PROTECTION SERVICES LTD Uganda 100.0%   Plot 53 Lumumba Avenue, Nakasero, Kampala, Uganda 
US DEFENSE SYSTEMS LLC (UGANDA) Uganda 100.0%   Plot 53 Lumumba Avenue, Nakasero, Kampala, Uganda 
GROUP 4 SECURITAS LLC Ukraine 99.4%   21A Moskovskij ave, 02073 Kiev, Ukraine 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (UKRAINE) LTD Ukraine 100.0%   21A Moskovskij ave, 02073 Kiev, Ukraine 
G4S SECURITY SOLUTIONS (UKRAINE) LTD Ukraine 100.0%   21A Moskovskij ave, 02073 Kiev, Ukraine 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS LLC United Arab Emirates 49.0%   Chain Tower (Oriental Travel Building), First Floor, Muroor Street, P.O. Box 
31859 Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates 
GROUP 4 FALCK SERVICES LLC United Arab Emirates 49.0%   P.O. Box 32634, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 
G4S CASH SERVICES LLC  United Arab Emirates 49.0%   P.O. Box 113400, Rsahidiya Dubai, United Arab Emirates 
GROUP 4 SECURICOR INFORMATION 
TECHNOLOGY UAE LLC (G4S) 
United Arab Emirates 48.5%   P.O. Box 32634, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 
GROUP 4 SECURICOR FACILITY SERVICES 
LLC (G4S) 
United Arab Emirates 48.5%   P.O. Box 32634, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 
SHAMS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES L.L.C 
(G4S) 
United Arab Emirates 48.5%   P.O. Box 32634, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 
FIRST SELECT UAE LLC United Arab Emirates 48.5%   P.O. Box 32634, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 
G4S ALARM MONITORING SERVICES LLC United Arab Emirates 24.5%   P.O. Box 31859, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates 
FIRST SELECT INTERNATIONAL LLC United Arab Emirates 48.5%   65610, 65610 Dubai 
G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS (MIDDLE 
EAST) FZE 
United Arab Emirates 100.0%   Unit 1-05, Street W B 4, Airport Free Zone, 54907, UAE, United Arab 
Emirates 
G4S EVENTS SERVICES UAE LLC United Arab Emirates 48.5%   Dubai, 215634, United Arab Emirates 
G4S INTERNATIONAL MARITIME 
SOLUTIONS JLT 
United Arab Emirates 100.0%   Units # 3007 & 3008, Liwa Heights, Plot # W3 Jumeirah Lakes Towers, 
Dubai, United Arab Emirates 
G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS (MIDDLE 
EAST) DMCC 
United Arab Emirates 100.0%   Unit No. Al Mas 2 – D14, Al Mas Tower, Plot No. LT2, Jumeirah Lake 
Tower Dubai, United Arab Emirates 
  
172 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 173 
Subsidiaries continued 
Company Name 
Country of  
Incorporation 
% owned  
by group 
% owned 
by plc Registered address 
G4S UK HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Southside, 105 Victoria Street, London, SW1E 6QT, United Kingdom 
G4S HOLDINGS 3 (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S TECHNOLOGY LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Challenge House, International Drive, GL20 8UQ Tewkesbury, 
Gloucestershire, United Kingdom 
AMAG TECHNOLOGY LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Challenge House, International Drive, GL20 8UQ Tewkesbury, 
Gloucestershire, United Kingdom 
G4S SECURITY SERVICES (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey,  
United Kingdom 
GROUP 4 LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S 084 (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 99.80% Southside, 105 Victoria Street, London, SW1E 6QT, United Kingdom 
G4S GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD  United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S HOLDINGS 102 (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
SECURICOR LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S HOLDINGS 103 (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S INTERNATIONAL 105 (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S AMERICAS (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S AVIATION SERVICES (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey,  
United Kingdom 
G4S AVIATION (FRANCE) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey,  
United Kingdom 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey,  
United Kingdom 
G4S CASH SOLUTIONS (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey,  
United Kingdom 
G4S CASH CENTRES (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey,  
United Kingdom 
G4S CARE AND JUSTICE SERVICES (UK) 
LTD 
United Kingdom 100.0%   Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S SPV HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S MP (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S MANAGEMENT SERVICES  
127 (UK) LTD 
United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S NOMINEES LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S GOVERNMENT SERVICES LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S TRUSTEES 2 LTD* United Kingdom Limited by 
guarantee 
  Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey,  
United Kingdom 
G4S MANROYAL INVESTMENTS LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S FINANCE LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
FIRST SELECT HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S EM INTERNATIONAL LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S POLICING SOLUTIONS LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S GURKHA SERVICES (UK) LTD  United Kingdom 100.0%   Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey,  
United Kingdom 
G4S US HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S (MARCH 2008) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S WORLDWIDE HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S DEFENCE SYSTEMS EURASIA LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S DEFENCE SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL 
LTD 
United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S DSL HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S HOLDINGS INTERNATIONAL (AG) 
LTD 
United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
* Pension trust not part of the consolidation.  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 173 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
174  G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
43. Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued 
Subsidiaries continued 
Company Name 
Country of  
Incorporation 
% owned  
by group 
% owned 
by plc Registered address 
G4S HOLDINGS UK (AG) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United 
Kingdom 
G4S FINANCE MANAGEMENT  
(AG) LTD 
United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S RISK MANAGEMENT LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (IRAQ) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S RISK CONSULTING LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S US INVESTMENTS LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S 308 (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S 309 (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S 182 (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S REGIONAL MANAGEMENT      
(UK & I) LTD  United Kingdom 100.0%   Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S HOLDINGS 305 (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S FACILITIES MANAGEMENT (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S OVERSEAS HOLDINGS LTD United Kingdom 100.0%   Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S GOVERNMENT AND OUTSOURCING 
SERVICES (UK) LTD 
United Kingdom 100.0%   Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
STRATUS INTEGRATED SERVICES LTD United Kingdom 100.0%  Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S HEALTH SERVICES (UK) LTD     
G4S CASH SOLUTIONS EMPLOYEES' 
CRIMINAL ATTACK FUND LTD 
United Kingdom Limited by 
guarantee 
 Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, SM1 4LD Sutton, Surrey,  
United Kingdom 
SHIREMOOR INTERNATIONAL 
ENGINEERING LTD 
United Kingdom 100.0%  6 Kingsbrook House, Kingsclere Park, Kingsclere, RG20 4SW Newbury, 
Berkshire, United Kingdom 
G4S CASH SERVICES (CAMBRIDGE) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%  Southside, 105 Victoria Street, London, SW1E 6QT, United Kingdom 
G4S ORDNANCE MANAGEMENT LTD United Kingdom 100.0%  Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
IBG HOLDINGS (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%  5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S INTERNATIONAL FINANCE PLC United Kingdom 100.0% 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S CORPORATE SERVICES LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S INVESTIGATION SOLUTIONS (UK) 
LTD 
United Kingdom 100.0%  Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S MONITORING  
TECHNOLOGIES NO.1 LTD 
United Kingdom 100.0%  Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S MONITORING  
TECHNOLOGIES NO.2 LTD 
United Kingdom 100.0%  Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S MONITORING TECHNOLOGIES 
FRANCE LTD 
United Kingdom 100.0%  Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S MONITORING  
TECHNOLOGIES LTD  
United Kingdom 100.0%  Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S FINANCE (BRAZIL) LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S INVESTMENT LONDON LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 100.0% 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S INTEGRATED SERVICES HOLDINGS 
LTD 
United Kingdom 100.0%  Southside, 105 Victoria Street, London, SW1E 6QT, United Kingdom 
G4S BULLION SOLUTIONS (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%  Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Park Road, SM1 4LD Sutton,  
United Kingdom 
G4S FIRE AND SECURITY SYSTEMS LTD  United Kingdom 100.0%  Site 16 Sydenham Buisness Park Airport Road West, BT3 9LN BELFAST, 
United Kingdom 
G4S PATIENT TRANSPORT (UK) LTD United Kingdom 100.0%  Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London, United Kingdom 
G4S FINANCING LTD United Kingdom 100.0%  5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, SW1E 6QT London,  
United Kingdom 
G4S TRUSTEES LTD United Kingdom 100.0% 100.0% Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Park Road, SM1 4LD Sutton,  
United Kingdom 
G4S HOLDING ONE INC United States 100.0%  2711 Centerville rd, 19808 Wilmington, DE, United States 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (USA) INC. United States 100.0%  1395 University Blvd, 33458 Jupiter, FL, United States 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS INTERNATIONAL 
INC. 
United States 100.0%  1395 University Blvd, 33458 Jupiter, FL, United States 
AMAG TECHNOLOGY INC United States 100.0%  20701 Manhattan Place, CA 90501-1829 Torrance, United States 
TITANIA INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA United States 100.0%  156 College Street, 3 rd Floor, 05401 VT, IS, United States 
TWC/FL/01 INC United States 100.0%  4200 Wackenhut Drive, Suite 100, FL 33410 Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, 
United States 
TUHNECKCAW INC United States 100.0%  900 Market Street, Suite 200, DA 19801 Wilmington, Delaware,  
United States 
  
174 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016  
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 175 
Subsidiaries continued 
Company Name 
Country of  
Incorporation 
% owned  
by group 
% owned 
by plc Registered address 
AMERICAN GUARD & ALERT INC United States 100.0%  4200 Wackenhut Drive, Suite 100, FL 33410 Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, 
United States 
WACKENHUT U.S. PROPERTIES INC United States 100.0%  2711 Centerville rd, 19808 Wilmington, DE, United States 
WACKENHUT FOREIGN PROPERTIES INC United States 100.0%  2711 Centerville rd, 19808 Wilmington, DE, United States 
G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS (USA), 
INC. 
United States 100.0%  PROLOGIS Cargo Center 75, JFK International Airport, North Hangar 
Road, Suite 210 Jamaica 
11430 New York, United States 
G4S YOUTH SERVICES LLC United States 100.0%  2000 Riveredge Parkway, Suite GL 100, GA 30328 Atlanta, Georgia, United 
States 
VEBA TRUST United States 100.0%  1395 University Blvd., 33458 Jupiter, United States 
WACKENHUT HOMELAND SECURITY, INC. United States 100.0%  4200 Wackenhut Drive, Suite 100, FL 33410 Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, 
United States 
SERVICE AND SUPPLY INTERNATIONAL, 
INC. 
United States 100.0%  701 Brazos, Suite 1050, 78701 Austin, Texas, United States 
G4S COMPLIANCE & INVESTIGATIONS, 
INC. 
United States 100.0%  910 Paverstone Drive, 27615 Raleigh, NC, United States 
G4S TECHNOLOGY HOLDINGS (USA) INC. United States 100.0%  21 North Avenue, MA 01803 Burlington, United States 
G4S TECHNOLOGY SOFTWARE 
SOLUTIONS LLC 
United States 100.0%  21 North Avenue, MA 01803 Burlington, United States 
US DEFENSE SYSTEMS LLC United States 100.0%  2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington DE, United States 
RONCO CONSULTING CORPORATION United States 100.0%  1209 Orange Street, DE 19801 Wilmington, Delaware, United States 
G4S US INC. United States 100.0%  4200 Wackenhut Drive, Suite 100, FL 33410 Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, 
United States 
G4S SECURE INTEGRATION LLC United States 100.0%  1200 Landmark Center, Ste 1300, 68102 Omaha, NE, United States 
G4S GUATEMALA HOLDING, LLC United States 100.0%  1395 University Blvd., 33458 Jupiter, United States 
G4S ELECTRONICA HOLDING, LLC United States 100.0%  1395 University Blvd., 33458 Jupiter, United States  
G4S GUATEMALA FACILITY SERVICES, LLC United States 100.0%  1395 University Blvd., 33458 Jupiter, United States  
G4S RETAIL SOLUTIONS (USA) INC United States 100.0%  2711 Centerville rd, 19808 Wilmington, DE, United States 
RENAISSANCE CENTER MANAGEMENT 
COMPANY 
United States 90.9%  601 Abbot Rd., 48823 Lansing, United States 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS (URUGUAY) S.A. Uruguay 80.0%  Cufre 2320, Montevideo, Uruguay 
SETECSA DE VENEZUELA CA Venezuela 30.0%  Los Ruices Sur, Calle Milan 1013, Caracas, Venezuela, Venezuela 
GROUP 4S SECURITY SERVICES YEMEN 
LTD 
Yemen 25.0%  Off 50 Meter Road, Hadda, 11805 Sana'a, Yemen 
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS ZAMBIA LTD Zambia 100.0%  P.O. Box 32914, 10 H Kabulonga Road, Lusaka, Zambia 
SAFETECH (COPPERBELT) LTD Zambia 100.0%  Plot 3144, Mukwa Road, Lusaka, Zambia 
SAFETECH ZAMBIA LTD Zambia 100.0%  Plot 7305, Kambala Road, Lusaka, Zambia 
Holdings in other undertakings 
Entities listed below are joint ventures, where the economic interest has been divested and are therefore not included in the c onsolidation. 
Company Name Registered Address 
% ordinary 
shares owned 
by group 
G4S INVESTMENTS LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, Bristol BS1 4DJ, United Kingdom 16.78 
G4S JOINT VENTURES LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, Bristol BS1 4DJ, United Kingdom 16.78 
ACCOMMODATION SERVICES (HOLDINGS) LTD 84 Salop Street, Wolverhampton, West Midlands, WV3 0SR, United Kingdom 8.39 
INTEGRATED ACCOMODATION SERVICES PLC 84 Salop Street, Wolverhampton, West Midlands, WV3 0SR, United Kingdom 8.39 
EAST LONDON LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICES LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 5.03 
EAST LONDON LIFT COMPANY LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 5.03 
EAST LONDON LIFT INVESTMENTS LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 8.39 
EAST LONDON LIFT HOLDCO NO2 LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 5.03 
EAST LONDON LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICES NO2 LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 5.03 
EAST LONDON LIFT HOLDCO NO4 LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 5.03 
EAST LONDON LIFT HOLDCO NO3 LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 5.03 
ELLAS NO3 LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 5.03 
ELLAS NO4 LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 5.03 
ECD (COOKHAM WOOD) LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 
ECD (ONLEY) LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 
EDUCATION CARE AND DISCIPLINE LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 
EDUCATION CARE AND DISCIPLINE THREE LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 
G4S JOINT VENTURES (FAZAKERLEY) LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 
FAZAKERLY PRISON SERVICES LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 
G4S JOINT VENTURES (ONLEY) LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 
ONLEY PRISON SERVICES LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 175 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued  
176  G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
43. Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued 
Holdings in other undertakings continued 
Company Name Registered Address 
% ordinary 
shares owned 
by group 
OCHRE SOLUTIONS (HOLDINGS) LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 3.36 
OCHRE SOLUTIONS LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 3.36 
NORTH WILTSHIRE SCHOOLS LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 
UK COURT SERVICES (MANCHESTER) HOLDINGS LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 
UK COURT SERVICES (MANCHESTER) LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom  16.78 
WHITE HORSE EDUCATION PARTNERSHIP LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 
HULL MATERNITY DEVEOPMENT LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 
HEALTHCARE PROVIDERS LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 16.78 
ALBION HEALTHCARE (OXFORD) HOLDINGS LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 4.19 
ALBION HEALTHCARE (OXFORD) LTD 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, Prince Street, BS1 4DJ Bristol, United Kingdom 4.19 
LIFT HEALTHCARE INVESTMENTS LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 2.85 
BEXLEY BROMLEY & GREENWICH LIFT COMPANY LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 
BBG HOLDCO LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 
BBG LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICES LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 
BBG HOLDCO (NO 2) LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 
BBG LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICES (NO 2) LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 
BHH LIFT COMPANY LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 
BHH HOLDCO LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 
BHH LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICES LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 
HEALTHCARE IMPROVEMENT PARTNERSHIP  
(WOVERHAMPTON CITY AND WALSALL) LTD 
Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 
WOLVERHAMPTON CITY AND WALSALL HOLDCO LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 
WOLVERHAMPTON CITY AND WALSALL LIFT 
ACCOMMODATION SERVICES LTD 
Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 
WALSALL HOLDCO LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 
WALSALL LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICES LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 1.71 
LONDON LIFTCO PS LTD Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 2.82 
Associated companies 
Company Name % owned by group Profit or loss Registered address 
G4S-SJC LLC 20 not material 1395 University Blvd., 33458 Jupiter, United States 
G4S PARSONS PACIFIC LLC 20 not material 7121 Fairway Drive, Suite 301, 33418 Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, United States 
Joint Ventures 
Company Name Registered address 
% owned  
by group 
undertakings
Factors on which joint 
management is based 
Date of last  
financial year  
if not 31/12 
PARKSEC LIMITED Ent A, Level 1, Capital Business Centre, Triq ta-Zwejt, SGN 
3000 San Gwann, Malta 
50.1 Joint venture agreement   
PACIFIC BUILDING SERVICES MANAGEMENT 
LIMITED (JV) 
Level 6, Era Rumana Building Champions Parade, Port 
Moresby, Papua New Guinea 
50 1 director appointed to the 
board 
  
BRIDGEND CUSTODIAL SERVICES LIMITED Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, GL20 
8UQ, United Kingdom 
58.45 Joint venture agreement 30th September
BLOEMFONTEIN CORRECTIONAL 
CONTRACTS (PTY) LIMITED 
Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, 
Highveld Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa  
20 Joint venture agreement 30th September
POLICITY – OPERATOR LIMITED Virginia 1, Beit Shemesh, Israel  50 Joint venture agreement   
FORBES G4S SOLUTIONS PVT LTD C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, 
110058 New Delhi, India 
50 Joint venture agreement   
FEDERAL GAMING CAPE (PTY) LTD 1 Waterford Mews, Century Boulevard, 7441 Century City, 
South Africa 
29.5 Joint venture agreement   
GROUP 4 S SECURITY SOLUTIONS CO. WLL P.O. Box 22063, 13081 Safat, Kuwait 48.5 Joint venture agreement   
AL MULLA SECURITY SERVICES CO WLL P.O. Box 117, 13002 Safat, Kuwait 49 Joint venture agreement   
G4S QATAR S.P.C Villa no. 321, Corner of Abduallah Bin Rawaha Street, C Ring 
Road, P.O. Box 18592 Doha, Qatar 
0 Joint venture agreement   
BUSINESS CASH CENTER S.A. Parc Industriel de la CFCIM, lot No63, Bouskoura, Casablanca, 
Morocco 
45.7 Joint venture agreement    
 
 
 
176 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Parent company statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2016 
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 177 
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m 
Reserve for 
own shares
£m
Total 
equity
£m
At 1 January 2016 388 258 1,102 – (16) 1,732
  
Comprehensive income:  
Profit for the year – – 122 – – 122
  
Other comprehensive income:  
Change in fair value of cash-flow hedging financial instruments – – – 7 – 7
Cash-flow hedging fair value transferred to income statement – – – (7) – (7)
Re-measurements relating to defined retirement benefit scheme – – (162) – – (162)
Tax on items taken directly to equity – – 21 – – 21
Total comprehensive loss – – (19) – – (19)
  
Transactions with owners:  
Dividends paid – – (145) – – (145)
Own shares awarded – – (3) – 3 –
Share-based payments – – 10 – – 10
 – – (138) – 3 (135)
At 31 December 2016 388 258 945 – (13) 1,578
  
At 1 January 2015 388 258 1,165 1 (16) 1,796
  
Comprehensive income:  
Profit for the year – – 65 – – 65
  
Other comprehensive income:  
Change in fair value of cash-flow hedging financial instruments ––– 1 –1
Cash-flow hedging fair value transferred to income statement – – – (2) – (2)
Re-measurements relating to defined retirement benefit scheme – – 15 – – 15
Tax on items taken directly to equity – – (5) – – (5)
Total comprehensive income / (loss) – – 75 (1) – 74
  
Transactions with owners:  
Dividends paid – – (145) – – (145)
Share-based payments ––7 – –7
 – – (138) – – (138)
At 31 December 2015 388 258 1,102 – (16) 1,732
  
  
 
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 177 Parent company statement of financial position 
At 31 December 2016 
178  G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
Notes 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
ASSETS   
Non-current assets   
Intangible assets (d) 7 7
Investments in subsidiaries  (e) 3,045 3,039
Trade and other receivables (f) 32 47
Retirement benefit surplus (k) 75 76
Deferred tax assets (l) 118 43
  3,277 3,212
   
Current assets   
Trade and other receivables (f) 1,660 1,716
Current tax assets  – 11
Cash and cash equivalents  1 –
  1,661 1,727
Total assets  4,938 4,939
   
LIABILITIES   
Current liabilities   
Loan notes (unsecured) (g) (165) (25)
Current tax liability  (5) –
Trade and other payables (h) (1,934) (1,979)
Provisions (i) – (1)
  (2,104) (2,005)
   
Non-current liabilities   
Loan notes (unsecured) (g) (861) (937)
Retirement benefit obligations (k) (395) (265)
  (1,256) (1,202)
Total liabilities  (3,360) (3,207)
   
Net assets  1,578 1,732
   
EQUITY   
Share capital (m) 388 388
Share premium   258 258
Retained earnings
1
 (n) 945 1,102
Reserve for own shares (o) (13) (16)
Total equity  1,578 1,732
1. The profit for the financial year was £122m (2015: £65m) 
The parent company financial statements were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on 28 March 2017. 
They were signed on its behalf by: 
 
Ashley Almanza     Tim Weller 
Director      Director 
 
178 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Notes to the parent company financial statements 
   Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 179 
(a) General information 
G4S plc (the ‘Company’) is incorporated in the United Kingdom, registered in England and Wales, and domiciled in the UK. It is a public 
company, limited by shares. The Company’s registered office is given on page 187. 
The financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Company’s functional currency, and in millions of pounds. 
(b) Statement of compliance 
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard (‘FRS’) 101-Reduced Disclosure Framework. 
(c) Significant accounting policies  
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements have been prepared under the going concern basis and using the historical cost convention, except for the 
revaluation of certain financial instruments, in accordance with Companies Act 2006 and applicable United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (‘UK GAAP’)). The principal accounting policies and measurement 
bases adopted are the same as those disclosed in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, except as noted below, and have 
been applied consistently to all the years presented, unless stated otherwise. Judgments made by the directors in the application of 
these accounting policies which have a significant effect on the financial statements, and estimates with a significant risk of material 
adjustment, have been disclosed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. 
Going concern 
Pages 110 to 176 of the consolidated financial statements contain information on the performance of the Group, its financial position, 
cash flows, net debt position and borrowing facilities. Further information, including financial risk management policies, exposures to 
market and credit risk and hedging activities, is given in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements, ‘Financial risk’. After making 
enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. For this reason the directors consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements. 
Exemptions 
In accordance with section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own 
income statement. 
The Company has taken advantage of certain disclosure exemptions in FRS 101, in part because its financial statements are included in 
the publicly-available consolidated financial statements of G4S plc. 
These disclosure exemptions relate to:  
• 
the requirements of IAS 7 – Statement of Cash Flows; 
• 
the statement of compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards adopted by the European Union; 
• 
new IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective and which have not been applied by the Company; 
• 
comparative information for the movements from the beginning to the end of the year in respect of intangible assets and certain 
other additional comparative information;  
• 
information on the assumptions used in the determination of fair value and recoverable amounts of cash-generating units containing 
goodwill and management’s approach to determining these amounts; 
• 
financial instruments disclosures required by IFRS 7 – Financial Instruments: Disclosures; 
• 
disclosures required by IFRS 13 – Fair Value Measurement;  
• 
certain related-party disclosures on key management compensation and transactions entered into between two or more wholly-
owned members of a Group; and 
• 
capital management disclosures. 
Investments in subsidiaries 
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provisions for impairment. The accounting policy for impairments is 
disclosed in note 3(j) to the consolidated financial statements. 
Amounts owed by/to Group undertakings 
Amounts owed by/to Group undertakings are recognised initially at fair value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost. Finance 
income and expense are recognised in the income statement on an accruals basis using the effective interest method. 
Impairment of financial assets 
The Company provides for impairments in financial assets when there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more 
events that impact the estimated future cash flows of the financial assets. 
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 179 Notes to the parent company financial statements continued 
180  G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
(c) Significant accounting policies continued 
Share-based payments 
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. The fair value of share-based payments is determined 
at the date of grant and is either expensed or capitalised as an investment in the relevant subsidiary, with a corresponding increase  
in equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of the shares that will eventually vest.  
The amount expensed or capitalised is adjusted over the vesting period for changes in the estimate of the number of shares that will 
eventually vest, save for changes resulting from any market-related performance conditions. The Company also issues cash-settled  
share-based payments to certain employees, which are recognised as a liability at fair value at the date of grant. The value of the liability 
is re-measured at each reporting date and at the date on which the liability is settled. The fair value of share-based payments is 
expensed in the income statement if it relates to employees of the Company and capitalised as an investment in the relevant subsidiary 
if it relates to employees of a subsidiary company. 
Financial guarantees 
The Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group. The 
Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. The Company therefore treats such contracts 
as a contingent liability unless and until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under 
the guarantee. 
(d) Intangible assets  
  
Software
£m
Cost  
At 1 January 2016  13
Additions  2
At 31 December 2016  15
  
Amortisation  
At 1 January 2016  (6)
Amortisation charge  (2)
At 31 December 2016  (8)
  
Carrying amount  
At 1 January 2016  7
At 31 December 2016  7
(e) Investments in subsidiaries  
Subsidiary undertakings  
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Shares at net book value:  
At 1 January  3,039 3,049
Additions – 8
Contribution through share-based payments 6 4
Impairments – (22)
At 31 December 3,045 3,039
Full details of all investments held by the parent company are disclosed in note 43 to the consolidated financial statements. During the 
year ended 31 December 2016 there were no impairment charges recorded in respect of the Company’s investments in subsidiaries. 
 
  
180 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016    Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 181 
(f) Trade and other receivables 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Within current assets   
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 1,652 1,706
Derivative financial instruments at fair value (note (j)) 8 10
Total trade and other receivables within current assets 1,660 1,716
  
Within non-current assets  
Derivative financial instruments at fair value (note (j)) 32 47
Total trade and other receivables within non-current assets 32 47
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, interest-free or interest-bearing based on market rates, and repayable  
on demand. 
(g) Loan notes (unsecured) 
  
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
The loan notes are repayable as follows:  
On demand or within one year 165 25
In the second year 226 143
In the third to fifth years inclusive 536 708
After five years 99 86
Total loan notes 1,026 962
The Company issued fixed rate loan notes in the US Private Placement market totalling US$550m on 1 March 2007. US$100m of these 
notes matured and were repaid on 1 March 2014, with the remaining notes maturing in March 2017 (US$200m), March 2019 
(US$145m) and March 2022 (US$105m). 
The Company issued further fixed rate loan notes in the US Private Placement market totalling US$514m and £69m on 15 July 2008. 
US$65m of these notes matured and were repaid on 15 July 2013, US$150m matured and were repaid on 15 July 2015, £25m 
matured and were repaid on 15 July 2016. The remaining notes mature in July 2018 (US$224m and £44m), and July 2020 (US$75m). 
The Company issued its inaugural public note of £350m using its European Medium Term Note Programme on 13 May 2009. The note 
matures in May 2019. 
The loan notes issued in July 2008, with the exception of £44m, are stated at amortised cost. The loan notes issued in March 2007, 
£44m of the loan notes issued in July 2008 and the loan notes issued in May 2009, are stated at amortised cost but are designated in a 
fair value hedge relationship which has a fair value adjustment in relation to the hedged interest-rate risk. Information on the significant 
assumptions underlying the valuation model used and the interest rates on the borrowings are disclosed in note (j). 
Derivatives relating to the loan notes, described in note (j), have a fair value gain of £16m (2015: £9m). The management of currency 
risk and interest-rate risk is also described in note (j).  
(h) Trade and other payables 
 
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Within current liabilities:     
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1,913 1,948
Other taxation and social security costs 2 3
Accruals 15 13
Other payables 4 3
Derivative financial instruments at fair value (note (j)) – 12
Total trade and other payables  1,934 1,979
Amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, interest-free or interest-bearing based on market rates, and repayable  
on demand. 
 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 181 Notes to the parent company financial statements continued 
182  G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
(i) Provisions 
Provisions of £1m were transferred to the Company in 2015, including estimates of the likely fees for outsourced services required to 
ensure members’ pension benefits are correctly recorded and paid. During the year ended 31 December 2016, following a review of 
estimates, the majority of these provisions were reversed as unused. 
(j) Derivative financial instruments 
The carrying values of derivative financial instruments at the reporting date are presented below: 
 
2016
Assets
£m
2015 
Assets 
£m 
2016 
Liabilities 
£m 
2015
Liabilities
£m
Cross-currency swaps designated as cash-flow hedges 16 9 – –
Interest-rate swaps designated as fair-value hedges 24 48 – 12
Total 40 57 – 12
   
Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months (shown under 
current assets and current liabilities):    
Cross-currency swaps designated as cash-flow hedges  (1) – – –
Interest-rate swaps designated as fair-value hedges (7) (10) – (12)
  (8) (10) – (12)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 32 47 – –
The mark-to-market valuation of the derivatives has decreased by £5m (2015: decreased by £28m). Fair value losses of £12m (2015: 
£9m) were included directly in the income statement and gains of £7m (2015: £1m) in the hedging reserve. 
 
2016
Income 
statement
£m
2015 
Income  
statement 
£m 
2016 
Equity 
£m 
2015
Equity
£m
Cross-currency swaps designated as cash-flow hedges – – 7 1
Interest-rate swaps designated as fair-value hedges (12) (9) – –
  (12) (9) 7 1
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value, measured using techniques consistent with Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy 
(inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are observable for the asset and liability, either directly or indirectly). The source 
of the market prices is Bloomberg and in addition the third party relationship counterparty banks. The relevant currency yield curve is 
used to forecast the floating-rate cash flows anticipated under the instrument, which are discounted back to the reporting date. This 
value is compared to the original transaction value giving a fair value of the instrument at the reporting date. 
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is calculated using a discounted cash flow approach and using inputs based on 
observable market data. Judgment is used to determine the relevant inputs, currency yield curves and discount rates. Although these 
judgments, estimates and associated assumptions are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and circumstances,  
the actual results may differ. 
Currency risk and cross-currency swaps 
The Group conducts business in many currencies. The Group presents its consolidated financial statements in sterling and as a 
consequence is subject to foreign exchange risk due to the translation of the results and net assets of its foreign subsidiaries. The 
Company, together with its subsidiary G4S International Finance plc, hedges a substantial portion of the Group’s exposure to 
fluctuations in the translation into sterling of the Group's overseas net assets by holding loans in foreign currencies. On consolidation, 
exchange differences arising on the translation of foreign currency loans are recognised in equity to match exchange differences on 
foreign currency equity investments, as they qualify as net-investment hedges. However, in the Company's own financial statements, 
exchange differences arising on the translation of foreign currency loans are recognised in the income statement and are in part hedged 
by cross-currency swaps. 
Cross-currency swaps with a nominal value of £25m are outstanding. These swaps were arranged to hedge the foreign currency risk on 
US$50m of the second US Private Placement notes issued in July 2008, effectively fixing the sterling value on this portion of debt at an 
exchange rate of 1.9750. These swaps will mature in July 2018. 
  
182 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016    Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 183 
Interest-rate risk and interest-rate swaps  
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Company to fair value interest-rate risk, which the Company manages within policy limits 
approved by the directors. When fixed/floating interest-rate debt in the preferred mix is unavailable directly from investors, interest-rate 
swaps are utilised to create the desired blend and meet Treasury policy, with the proportion of fixed interest rate held reducing on a 
sliding scale over forward periods up to a maximum of five years. The quantity of interest-rate swaps outstanding in the Company is 
expected to continue to decline as treasury activity is increasingly conducted by G4S International Finance plc. 
The US Private Placement market is predominantly a fixed-rate market, with investors preferring a fixed-rate return over the life of the 
loan notes. At the time of the first issue in March 2007, the Group was comfortable with the proportion of floating-rate exposure not 
hedged by interest-rate swaps and therefore rather than take on a higher proportion of fixed-rate debt it arranged fixed-to-floating 
swaps, effectively converting the fixed coupon on the Private Placement to a floating rate. Following the swaps the resulting average 
coupon on the US Private Placement is LIBOR + 60bps. These swaps have been documented as fair value hedges of the US Private 
Placement fixed-interest loan notes, with the movements in their fair value posted to profit and loss at the same time as the movement 
in the fair value of the hedged item. The swaps mature in 2017, 2019 and 2022. 
The interest on the US Private Placement notes issued in July 2008 and on the £350m public notes issued in May 2009, was initially kept 
at fixed rate. In April 2014, the interest rate on £44m of the US Private Placement notes issued in July 2008 and on all of the £350m 
public notes issued in May 2009 was swapped from fixed to floating for a period of three years using derivatives. These swaps have also 
been documented as fair-value hedges. 
The £350m public notes have a coupon step-up of 1.25%, which is triggered should the credit rating of the Company fall below 
investment grade. 
(k) Retirement benefit obligations 
The Company is the sponsoring company for the Group’s UK defined benefit pension scheme, to which it provides a guarantee over all 
payments to be made to the scheme by the operating companies. The required disclosures for this scheme are given in note 32 to the 
consolidated financial statements.  
The following disclosures relate to the UK scheme only and are given because the same disclosures in note 32 of the Group financial 
statements refer to the consolidated Group position and include certain non-UK schemes. 
The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position and the various components of income, other comprehensive income 
and cash flow are as follows: 
2016 
Obligation 
£m 
Assets 
£m 
Provision
£m
At 1 January 2016 (2,218) 2,029  (189)
   
Amounts recognised in income   
Current service cost (in cost of sales) (4) – (4)
Interest on obligations and assets (in finance costs) (82) 76 (6)
Administration costs paid from plan assets (in administration expenses) (2) – (2)
Total amounts recognised in income (88) 76 (12)
   
Re-measurements   
Actuarial loss – change in financial assumptions (539) – (539) 
Actuarial gain – change in demographic assumptions 82 – 82
Actuarial gain – experience 22 – 22
Return on assets in excess of interest – 273 273
Re-measurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income (435) 273 (162) 
   
Cash   
Employer contributions – 43 43 
Benefits paid from plan assets 82 (82) –
Net cash 82 (39) 43
   
At 31 December 2016 (2,659) 2,339  (320)
 
  
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 183 Notes to the parent company financial statements continued 
184  G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 
(k) Retirement benefit obligations continued 
2015 
Obligation 
£m 
Assets 
£m 
Provision
£m
At 1 January 2015 (2,222) 1,983  (239)
      
Amounts recognised in income      
Current service cost (in cost of sales) (5) – (5)
Interest on obligations and assets (in finance costs) (81) 73  (8)
Administration costs paid from plan assets (in administration expenses) (2) – (2)
Total amounts recognised in income (88) 73  (15)
       
Re-measurements      
Actuarial gain – change in financial assumptions 13  – 13 
Actuarial loss – change in demographic assumptions (34) – (34)
Actuarial gain – experience 33  – 33 
Return on assets in excess of interest –  3  3 
Re-measurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income 12  3  15 
    
Cash      
Employer contributions      
Employee contributions – 50  50 
Benefits paid from plan assets 80  (80) – 
Net cash 80  (30) 50
       
At 31 December 2015 (2,218) 2,029  (189)
Contributions in 2016 included £39m (2015: £44m) of additional contributions in respect of the deficit in the UK scheme.  
(l) Deferred tax assets 
The reconciliation of deferred tax assets is as follows: 
 
Intangible
assets
£m
Retirement 
benefit 
obligation
£m
Share-based 
payments
£m
Tax losses 
£m 
Other 
temporary 
differences
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2016 – 36 1 – 6 43
Credit/(charge) to the income statement 1 – 1 58 (6) 54
Credit to equity – 24 – – – 24
Charge to equity – change in tax rate – (3) – – – (3)
At 31 December 2016 1 57 2 58 – 118
        
At 1 January 2015   – 48 1  –   – 49 
(Charge)/credit to the income statement  – (7) – –  6 (1)
Charge to equity  – (3) –  –   – (3)
Charge to equity – change in tax rate  – (2) –  –   – (2)
At 31 December 2015  – 36 1 –  6 43 
At 31 December 2016, the Company had unutilised tax losses of approximately £298m (2015: £304m) potentially available for offset 
against future profits. A deferred tax asset of £58m (2015: £nil) has been recognised in respect of approximately £298m (2015: £nil) of 
gross losses based on profitability from approved budgets and business plans. The recognition of additional deferred tax assets on tax 
losses during the period is predicated on the projected generation of income in the Company which should result in the utilisation of 
the available tax losses within a foreseeable period. This income stream is driven by the current and future global results of the Group in 
line with business plans. The timing of recognition of the tax losses as a deferred tax asset in 2016 is supported by the improved profit 
profile of the Company, which itself is underpinned by the continuing progress of the Group’s transformation strategy to generate future 
sustainable, profitable growth.  
   
184 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016    Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 185 
(m) Share capital 
Disclosures on the share capital of the Company have been disclosed in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements. 
(n) Retained earnings 
Included in the Company’s retained earnings is £918m (2015: £1,078m) of distributable profits. 
(o) Reserve for own shares 
Disclosures on the reserve for own shares of the Company have been disclosed in note 36 to the consolidated financial statements. 
(p) Auditor’s remuneration 
Fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the audit of the Company’s annual financial statements have been disclosed in note 
10 to the consolidated financial statements. 
(q) Staff costs and employees 
The average monthly number of employees, including executive directors was: 
  
2016 
Number 
2015
Number
Average number of employees (corporate) 21 22 
The aggregate remuneration of employees, including executive directors, employed by the Company comprised: 
  
2016 
£m 
2015
£m
Wages and salaries 10 10
Social security costs 2 1
Employee benefits 7 5
Total staff costs 19 16
Information on directors’ remuneration, long-term incentive plans, pension contributions and entitlements is set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 98. 
(r) Share-based payments 
The Company has both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payment schemes in place, being the conditional allocations  
of G4S plc shares. An employee benefit trust established by the Group holds shares to satisfy the vesting of conditional allocation 
awards. Disclosures relating to the reserve for own shares, relevant to the Company, are presented within note 36 to the consolidated 
financial statements. Share-based payments disclosures relevant to the Company are presented within note 39 to the consolidated 
financial statements. 
(s) Related party transactions 
Certain disclosures relevant to the Company are presented within note 40 to the consolidated financial statements. Company 
transactions with Group undertakings primarily consist of royalty charges, central service charges and loan transactions.  
There were no material transactions with non-wholly-owned Group undertakings or with other external related parties in 2016  
(2015: none). 
(t) Contingent liabilities  
To help secure cost-effective finance facilities for its subsidiaries, the Company issues guarantees to some of its finance providers.  
At 31 December 2016 guarantees totalling £470m (2015: £373m) were in place in support of such facilities. 
The Company also guarantees the debt obligations of certain subsidiaries. At 31 December 2016 contingent liabilities of £1,367m 
(2015: £1,192m) were outstanding in support of such debt obligations.  
(u) Dividends 
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders of the Company in the year have been disclosed in note 14 to the consolidated 
financial statements. 
Financial report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 185 0
2
4
6
8
10
16 15 14 13 12
6.8
6.4
6.2
5.9
5.8
Revenue
*
 (£bn) 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
16 15 14 13 12
638
395
457
441
268
Operating cash ow
*
 (£m) 
0
2
4
6
8
10
16 15 14 13 12
9.41 9.41
9.24
8.96 8.96
Dividend (pence per share) 
0
100
200
300
400
500
16 15 14 13 12
454
414
394
365
354
PBITA
*
 (£m) 
0
200
400
600
800
16 15 14 13 12
585
610
623 618
607
Employees (’000)
as at 31 December 2016 
GROUP 
FINANCIAL 
RECORD
Revenue
*
 at constant  
exchange rates 
£6.8bn
G4S revenue
*
 grew 6.3% in 2016.
Operating cash flow* 
£638m
Operating cash flow grew 61.5%.
Dividend 
9.41p
The total dividend was maintained 
at 9.41 pence per share in 2016.
PBITA
*
 at constant  
exchange rates 
£454m
PBITA defined as profit before 
interest, tax and amortisation and 
excluding specific and other 
separately disclosed items, 
increased 9.7%.
Employees  
as at 31 December 2016
585,000
(including joint ventures and 
businesses held for sale 
or closure)
* Revenue, PBITA and operating cash flow relate to the Group’s continuing businesses excluding results from businesses held for sale or 
closure, onerous contracts and specific and other separately disclosed items. A reconciliation between results from continuing 
businesses and statutory results is provided on page 33.
186 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Group financial record General information
Financial calendar
Results announcements
Q1 Trading update – May 
Half-year results – August 
Q3 Trading update – November 
Final results – March
Dividend payment
Interim paid – 14 October 2016 
Final payable – 9 June 2017
Annual General Meeting
25 May 2017
Corporate addresses
Registered office
5
th
 Floor 
Southside 
105 Victoria Street 
London 
SW1E 6QT 
Telephone +44 (0) 207 963 3100
Registered number
4992207
Legal Entity Identifier code
549300L3KWKK8X35QR12
General shareholder information
Registrars and transfer office
All enquiries relating to the administration 
of shareholdings should be directed to:
Capita Asset Services 
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent 
BR3 4TU 
Telephone: within the UK 0871 664 0300 
(calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone 
company’s access charge. If you are outside 
the UK, call +44 371 644 0300. Calls from 
outside the UK will be charged at the 
applicable international rate) 
Fax: +44(0) 1484 600 911 
Email: shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk 
Secure share portal: 
www.capitashareportal.com
Please note that beneficial owners of  
shares who have been nominated by the 
registered holder of those shares to receive 
information rights under section 146 of the 
Companies Act 2006 are required to direct 
all communications to the registered holder  
of their shares rather than to the Company  
or the Company’s registrar.
Capita share portal
The share portal is an online facility provided 
by the company’s registrars, Capita Asset 
Services, for shareholders to manage their 
holding securely online reducing the need 
for paperwork. By registering for a free 
portal account, shareholders are able to 
access a range of online facilities 24 hours  
a day including those described below.
View account holding details
Allows shareholders to access their personal 
account, shareholding balance, share 
transaction history, indicative share valuation 
and dividend payment history. It also enables 
shareholders to buy and sell shares.
Change of address, bank mandates, 
downloadable forms
Allows shareholders to update their postal 
address and complete, change or delete 
bank mandate instructions for dividends.  
A wide range of shareholder information, 
including downloadable forms such as stock 
transfer forms, is also available.
Dedicated helpline
Capita Asset Services has a helpline to help 
users with all aspects of the service. The 
numbers are as noted above. Lines are open 
9.00am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday 
excluding public holidays.
Auditor (since 2015 AGM)
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
1 Embankment Place 
London 
WC2N 6RH
Stockbrokers
J.P . Morgan Cazenove 
25 Bank Street 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 5JP
Citigroup Global Markets Limited 
Citigroup Centre 
Canada Square, Canary Wharf 
London E14 5LB
Financial advisors
J.P . Morgan Cazenove 
25 Bank Street 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 5JP
Barclays Capital 
5 The North Colonnade 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 4BB
G4S website
www.g4s.com
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 187
General information Printed by Park Communications on FSC
®
 certified paper. 
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management 
System is certified to ISO 14001. 
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press  
chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99%  
of any waste associated with this production will be recycled. 
This document is printed on Cocoon 50 Silk; a paper containing  
50% recycled fibre from genuine waste paper and 50% virgin fibre 
sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC
®
 certified forests.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc. G4S plc 
5
th
 Floor 
Southside 
105 Victoria Street 
London 
SW1E 6QT 
United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0) 207 963 3100 
Email: investor@g4s.com
Registered in England No. 4992207
www.g4s.com
