 Galliford T ry plc 
Annual Report and  
Financial Statements  
2016
Building a 
sustainable 
future
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements  2016 Galliford Try is a leading UK construction 
and housebuilding group. Our shares  
are listed on the London Stock Exchange 
and we are a member of the FTSE 250  
in the Home Construction sector.
Through our three strong businesses,  
we are helping to construct a sustainable 
future for the UK. We make an important 
contribution to meeting the demand  
for new homes in both the private and 
affordable homes sectors. We also 
construct public and regulated 
infrastructure and buildings that  
support our economy and way of  
life, while working with our clients  
to deliver positive, lasting change for  
the communities we work in.
FAST READ
Open the flap to see an 
overview of our business 
model, strategy and 
proposition
ONLINE
Learn more about  
Galliford Try at  
gallifordtry.co.uk Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
1
Profit before tax
£135.0m
+18%
Return on net assets
25.3%
+2.0 points
Earnings per share
132.5p
+17%
Group revenue
1
£2,495m
+6%
Net debt
£8.7m
down by £8.6m
Revenue
1
£2,670m
+10%
Dividend per share
£82p
+21%
79 Independent auditor’s report
84 Consolidated income statement
85  Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income
86 Balance sheets
87  Consolidated and Company statements  
of changes in equity
88 Statements of cash flows
89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
128 Five-year record
129 Shareholder information
50 Directors and Executive Board
52 Governance review
62 Remuneration Policy and Report
75 Directors’ Report
78 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
Governance
Financial Information
2 Our businesses at a glance
4 Chief Executive’s Q&A
6 Our business model
8 Our value creation model
10 Value creation: in the housebuilding market
12 Value creation: in the construction market
14 Strategy to 2018, targets and performance
18 Principal risks
22 Chairman’s statement
24 Chief Executive’s review
26 Financial review
30 Business review: Linden Homes
34  B u s i n e s s r e v ie w :  
Partnerships and Regeneration
38 Business review: Construction
44 Operating sustainably: health and safety
46 Operating sustainably: our people
48  O p e r a t i n g s u sta i n a b l y :  
resources and relationships
Strategic Report
 5 Record profit following another strong year with growth 
across the Group. 
 5 21 % increase in full year dividend payment to 82 pence.
 5 Minimal net debt of £8.7 million at 30 June 2016  
(2015: £1 7 .3 million). 
 5 Return on net assets improved to 25.3% from 23.3%.
 5 Management reorganised to continue to improve 
operational excellence in all three businesses.
1  ‘Revenue’ includes share of joint ventures’ revenue of £175.5 million  
(2015: £82.3 million). ‘Group revenue’, where stated, excludes share of joint ventures.
See our  
Performance against strategy p14
See our  
Business review starting on p30
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
GROUP HIGHLIGHTS Building a  
sustainable future...
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
We aim to deliver superior returns to shareholders by achieving  
the following strategic objectives.
OUR VISION
To be leaders in the construction  
of a sustainable future.
OUR VALUES
Excellence, passion, integrity and collaboration.  
See page 23 for more details.
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
Galliford T ry has a hybrid  
business model that spans 
complementary markets. 
This model is unique in our industry and helps to  
reduce our exposure to different economic cycles.
Partnerships and Regeneration
Housebuilding Construction
GROUP STRATEGY, GOVERNANCE & CULTURE
SALES &
AFTERCARE
INVEST
BUILD
DESIGN &
PLANNING
MANAGE RISK
WORK WITH
SUPPL Y CHAIN
DELIVER
CLIENT &
COMMUNITY FOCUS
Linden Homes
Construction
ONE
Deliver disciplined growth 
by focusing on the quality of 
opportunities and prioritising 
margin over revenue.
TWO
Operate sustainably, 
recognising that health  
and safety and our people  
are our top two priorities.
THREE
Generate shareholder return 
by growing earnings and 
dividends, and carefully 
managing our balance sheet.
See our  
Business model p6
See our  
Strategy p14 OUR MARKET
Linden Homes
Construction
 5 Consumer confidence, low interest rates, 
mortgage availability and Government 
policy all supported demand throughout 
the year. 
 5 A rising population and single occupancy 
also influenced demand during the year .
 5 Construction markets continued to 
generate a pipeline of opportunities  
with robust margins.
 5 The regulated sector remains steady,  
as clients fulfil their business plans.
 5 Government is committed to investment 
in infrastructure across the UK.
Linden Homes is a leading UK housebuilder , 
providing award-winning homes on prime sites 
in sought-after locations. We have a well-
respected brand and are increasingly targeting 
the mid-market. Most of our customers are 
existing homeowners but we also sell to 
first-time buyers. In addition to houses for 
private sale, we work with the public sector to 
offer affordable homes on many of our sites.
Partnerships and Regeneration is our 
regeneration business, working with 
registered providers and local authorities  
to help increase the supply of affordable 
housing and build sustainable communities. 
We also develop mixed-tenure 
developments, which include housing  
for sale under the Linden Homes brand.
Our Construction business operates across 
the UK, offering public, regulated and 
private sector clients the benefits of national 
strength with local delivery from our regional 
offices. The majority of our work is in the 
regulated and public sectors and we 
maintain positions on several major  
national and regional frameworks.
OUR PROPOSITION
See our  
Business review p30
See our  
Business review p34
See our  
Business review p38
 5 High house prices mean there is more 
demand than ever for affordable homes. 
 5 Housing associations are increasingly 
looking to partner with experienced 
private sector providers.
 5 New opportunities are emerging  
in the private rented sector .
Partnerships and Regeneration Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 2
Our businesses at  
a glance
Linden Homes delivers around 3,000 houses and apartments each 
year, most of which are for private sale. We have a strong presence  
in the South and East of England, and a growing presence in the  
North and Midlands.
We develop homes on prime sites in good locations, close to  
transport links and local amenities. Our homes are built to meet  
the varying needs of our customers and designed to complement  
their surroundings. Through rigorous attention to detail, we create 
high-quality homes that earn industry awards.
We create sustainable developments, which include building 
affordable homes for sale to registered provider clients.
Linden Homes Galliford T ry has three strong businesses. 
Linden Homes develops private and 
affordable homes for sale throughout 
England. Partnerships and Regeneration  
is our regeneration business, working to 
increase the supply of housing across all 
tenures. Our Construction business is  
a major UK contractor , working across  
the public, regulated and private sectors.
Revenue
£841m
+8%
Profit from operations
£147.2m
+18%
See our Business review: 
Linden Homes p30 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
3
Construction operates nationwide, primarily under the Galliford Try  
and Morrison Construction brands. Our network of regional offices is  
a key advantage, enabling us to deliver schemes of national distinction 
using a local approach.
The business is organised into the Building and Infrastructure divisions. 
It also includes facilities management, our multi-disciplined group of 
chartered surveyors and our national piling specialists.
Building 
Building serves a range of clients across the UK, with a substantial 
presence in Scotland. We work alongside organisations in the public, 
regulated and private sectors, and have a particularly strong presence 
in the health, education and commercial markets.
Infrastructure 
Infrastructure carries out civil engineering projects, primarily in the 
highways, rail, aviation, environmental, water and waste, and power 
and security markets.
Construction
PPP Investments 
PPP Investments specialises in delivering major building and 
infrastructure projects through public-private partnerships. The 
business leads bid consortia and arranges finance, making equity 
investments and managing construction through to operations. 
Partnerships and Regeneration is our specialist regeneration business. 
It has a strong presence in the South East, Midlands and North East 
England, and a growing business across the rest of the country.
We are a leading partner for the Homes and Communities Agency and 
provide contracting services to housing associations, local authorities 
and other registered providers, building vibrant, affordable homes and 
sustainable communities on their behalf.
Partnerships also develops mixed-tenure projects, providing private 
housing for sale on regeneration-led sites. We use the Linden Homes 
brand and draw on Linden Homes’ expertise in housing development 
and sales to successfully deliver these projects.
Partnerships and Regeneration
Revenue
£301m
-9%
Profit from operations
£11.7m
+24%
Revenue
£1,503m
+16%
Profit from operations
£15.8m
+1%
See our Business review: 
Partnerships and Regeneration p34
See our Business review: 
Construction p38 4 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Q.
What pleased you most about this  
year’s performance?
A. We have three strong businesses and  
they all made solid progress. The margin 
improvement in Linden Homes stood out for 
me and we are very focused on continuing  
to improve it. Partnerships continued to  
show why we are excited about the 
business’s potential, with further growth  
in its mixed-tenure revenue. Construction  
also benefited from the improvement in its  
markets throughout the year.
I was also pleased by our succession 
planning, the aim of which is to ensure we 
have the right leaders at Board, Executive 
Board and other senior management levels. 
We have recruited Bill Hocking in the 
Construction business to succeed Ken 
Gillespie, who has led that business (including 
the acquired Miller Construction business)  
for over 20 years, and will retire from the 
Group next year. They are working together  
to ensure the handover is as smooth and 
effective as possible.
“Galliford T ry is an excellent business, with skilled 
and passionate people and exciting prospects 
across the Group. We have the right strategy to 
deliver and have made excellent progress towards 
our 2018 targets. Going forward we will be 
following a similar course, focused on achieving 
sustainable and disciplined organic growth.  
We are currently finalising our strategy beyond 
2018 which we will communicate in due course.”
Peter Truscott
Chief Executive
Peter T ruscott joined 
Galliford T ry as Chief 
Executive on 1 October 
2015. In this section,  
he provides his thoughts  
on our performance, 
prospects, strategy  
and culture.
Chief Executive’s Q&A 5 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Q.
Where do you think Galliford Try can  
do better?
A. We need to make sure we are as efficient 
and productive as we can be and there  
is room for simplification in some areas.  
In Linden Homes, for example, we have 
worked hard to rationalise our operating 
processes, which will generate annualised 
savings of over £5 million from FY 2017 . 
We also have an opportunity to give each  
of our businesses more autonomy. While our 
hybrid model means that we have businesses 
that are countercyclical and fit well together,  
I want each business to be great in its own 
right, so they are the best they can be. In 
practice, this means refocusing the whole  
of the centre on providing a strategic steer 
while placing more responsibility into the 
hands of those people closest to the front  
line, who have the detailed understanding 
required to make the right decisions. This will 
also allow decisions to be made more quickly. 
The businesses should then be supported  
by appropriate pooled resources in central 
functions (such as HR and health, safety and 
sustainability) or outsourced resources, which 
are designed to fit the businesses’ needs.
Q.
What excites you most about the  
future for Galliford Try?
A. The most exciting thing for me is the 
potential to be a major participant in an  
area with huge opportunities, namely the 
affordable homes and regeneration sector.  
I am excited by the prospect of rolling that 
out, achieving scale and being a sector 
leader. The capital requirements are much 
lighter than developing housing for private 
sale, in part because the contracting side  
is cash generative – it is a hybrid within  
a hybrid. The demand from clients is also  
less susceptible to cyclical changes.  
Our Partnerships and Regeneration business  
has a real advantage in having both extensive 
contracting and developer skills.
With the construction market beginning  
to grow and the Government’s proposed new 
investment in infrastructure, our Construction 
business is also well placed to capitalise on  
future opportunities.
I am also enthusiastic about the prospects  
for Linden Homes. It has a great brand,  
and is solidly positioned, with good locations 
and well-designed homes. We have the 
opportunity to grow further geographically,  
as we increase our presence in the North  
and the Midlands. While we will continue  
to create developments that are designed  
to complement their local areas, we are using 
more standard floor plans and processes  
to increase profitability.
Q.
What do you see as the key risks  
facing Galliford Try?
A. The biggest risk is the macro-economic 
environment and the possibility of an 
economic downturn. We have to manage  
that risk and part of that is building a longer 
order book. We have been doing that 
successfully and Linden had sales carried 
forward of £380 million at the year end.
The result of the recent EU referendum  
does have the potential to distort some of  
our markets, although the fundamentals 
remain favourable. While this is certainly not 
an inevitable outcome, we must be mindful  
of the potential risks and plan for the Group’s 
future accordingly.
In Construction, the availability of skilled 
people concerns me. The skills shortage  
has eased but it can have a significant  
impact on our supply chain and costs.
Q.
How do you see Galliford Try’s culture?
A. Having the right culture is absolutely critical 
to achieving our strategy as a long-term 
sustainable business. It means everyone 
understanding how we should work and the 
behaviours we want to see. I believe our 
values – excellence, passion, integrity and 
collaboration – are the foundation on which 
the business is built. During the year, we 
relaunched our Code of Conduct, called 
‘Doing the Right Thing’, which draws on these 
values and defines how we behave in the 
workplace. The Code is far more than a list  
of policies; it gives our people the practical 
help they need to make the right decisions 
and ‘do the right thing’.
That is important as we give the businesses 
more autonomy. If you empower the right 
people, then you can release their ‘can-do’ 
attitude and entrepreneurial flair. We can 
combine that with clear standards of 
behaviour and our sound understanding  
of risk, and make sure we reward people  
for success.
There are also other areas that I would like  
to develop. I strongly believe that productivity 
is a key driver in running a successful 
business over the longer term. For the sectors 
in which we operate, this more often than  
not manifests itself in the simplicity and 
effectiveness of our processes: keeping it 
simple and avoiding too many tangents is key.
Read our Chief Executive’s review on p24 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 6
We have a hybrid business model, 
encompassing housebuilding and 
construction activities. Partnerships  
and Regeneration is a hybrid within  
a hybrid, delivering both contracting 
services and mixed-tenure homes.
INVEST
Maintain landbank  
of prime plots in 
good locations
DESIGN & 
PLANNING
Unique elevations 
with standard 
floorplans
BUILD
Construct quality, 
sustainable homes
SALES & 
AFTERCARE
Offer first-class 
service to  
customers
MANAGE RISK
From bid selection 
through to delivery
WORK WITH 
SUPPLY CHAIN
Partner with 
suppliers to  
support delivery
DELIVER
Complete projects  
to the highest 
standards
CLIENT & 
COMMUNITY 
FOCUS
Become a long-term 
partner of clients, 
focused on 
communities
SET STRATEGY
Give strategic 
direction to the 
businesses
MITIGATE RISK
Identify and manage 
risks to our Group 
strategy and 
business model
ALLOCATE 
CAPITAL
Provide resources to 
support the 
businesses’ 
strategies
EMBED CULTURE
Demonstrate and 
lead the desired 
behaviours 
throughout  
the Group
DELIVER 
CENTRAL 
SERVICES
Support the 
businesses with 
essential functions
OVERSEE 
GOVERNANCE
Ensure robust 
framework for 
strategy delivery
Role of the Group
Housebuilding Construction
See our  
Value creation  
model p8
See our  
Principal  
risks p18
See our  
Sustainability section 
p43 to p49
See our  
Governance section 
p50
Our business model
Partnerships and Regeneration
Housebuilding Construction
GROUP STRATEGY, GOVERNANCE & CULTURE
SALES &
AFTERCARE
INVEST
BUILD
DESIGN &
PLANNING
MANAGE RISK
WORK WITH
SUPPL Y CHAIN
DELIVER
CLIENT &
COMMUNITY FOCUS
 Linden Homes
Construction Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
7
How our hybrid business  
model works
Reduced impact of  
economic cycles
Linden Homes adapts quickly to economic 
changes, particularly when the economy 
returns to growth, while long contracts and 
lead times affect Construction later in the 
cycle. Partnerships’ mix of housebuilding 
and contracting also reduces its cyclicality. 
Operating through businesses with differing 
economic profiles reduces the economic 
risk to the Group.
Less reliance on any  
one market
Our businesses serve different customers, 
with different requirements and different 
sources of financing. This makes us less 
reliant on any one market and means we  
do not have to pursue low-margin revenue 
when markets are difficult.
Complementary  
financial profiles
Construction generates cash from clients’ 
regular payments, while Linden Homes  
uses cash to invest in land and 
development, and receives cash when  
the homes are sold. Partnerships funds 
mixed-tenure developments using cash 
generated by its contracting activities.  
These complementary financial profiles  
help to limit our need for external debt.
Housebuilding
£ PROFIT £ PROFIT
Construction
The hybrid model
£ CASH
Our hybrid business model creates long-term shareholder value 
allowing us to harness the benefits of our complementary businesses. 
At the same time this reduces the impact of economic cycles and 
allows us to prioritise high-quality work, so we can focus on  
margins and deliver disciplined revenue growth. 8 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
HOW WE DRIVE SUSTAINABLE VALUE
OPERATE SUSTAINABLY
We transform the inputs to our business  
to create value for our shareholders, 
clients, customers, suppliers, society  
and the environment over the short, 
medium and long-term.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 8
Our value creation 
model
OUR BUSINESSES INPUTS
DISCIPLINED GROWTH
Cash investment
We invest in land and 
development using cash 
generated by construction 
activities and external debt.
See our Financial review p26
INVEST 
Maintain landbank  
of prime plots in 
good locations
Housebuilding
Construction
MANAGE RISK
From bid selection 
through to delivery
£
Linden Homes
Partnerships  
and Regeneration
Construction
Relationships
We develop long-term 
relationships with clients, 
customers, suppliers, 
subcontractors and  
communities to win work  
and deliver it effectively.
See our Resources and  
relationships p48
People and expertise
We rely on our people’s expertise 
and seek to recruit and retain  
the very best talent.
See Our people p46
Physical resources
Our building processes use 
natural resources including  
land, materials and energy.
See Resources and  
relationships p48
See our  
Business review p30
See Construction p12
Galliford Try 
Group
Set strategy
Mitigate risk
Allocate capital
Embed culture
Deliver central 
services
Oversee 
governance
See Housebuilding p10 9 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 9
OUTPUTS HOW WE DRIVE SUSTAINABLE VALUE
SHAREHOLDER VALUE OPERATE SUSTAINABLY
Shareholder returns
Shareholders benefit from  
rising earnings and cash flows.
See our Financial review p26
Engaged and  
healthy workforce
Developing our people and  
safeguarding their health and  
safety keeps them engaged with  
their work and boosts productivity.
See Health and safety p44 
See Our people p46
Quality buildings, 
infrastructure and homes
Excellent people and processes,  
and an understanding of our  
clients’ and customers’ needs,  
enable us to produce high-quality, 
sustainable projects.
Satisfied customers, clients, 
suppliers and communities
By delivering on time and to budget, 
collaborating with our supply chain  
and involving our communities,  
we strengthen our reputation with  
our stakeholders.
BUILD 
Construct quality, 
sustainable  
homes
DESIGN & 
PLANNING
Unique elevations 
with standard 
floorplans
SALES & 
AFTERCARE
Offer first-class 
service to  
customers
WORK WITH 
SUPPLY CHAIN
Partner with 
suppliers to  
support delivery
DELIVER
Complete 
projects to  
the highest 
standards
CLIENT & 
COMMUNITY 
FOCUS
Become a 
long-term partner 
of clients, focused 
on communities
Housebuilding
Construction 10 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
INVEST 
Maintain landbank of prime 
plots in good locations
Both Linden Homes and 
Partnerships maintain  
a substantial landbank,  
sufficient to meet our anticipated 
needs for the next three to four 
years. We acquire prime sites 
with good transport links and 
local amenities, where we can 
create communities that people 
aspire to live in. 
We are increasingly investing  
in strategic land to generate  
a pipeline of high-quality sites  
that offer higher margins.
Partnerships also identifies  
sites which are then purchased 
directly by our registered provider 
clients, allowing us to develop the 
project for them without having 
to acquire the land ourselves.
We create value throughout the housing cycle  
by selecting the right land, good locations and 
designing high-quality homes to build sustainable 
communities. We prioritise customer service  
by delivering The Linden Way.
Value creation:
In the housebuilding 
market
£
DESIGN AND PLANNING
Unique elevations with 
standard floorplans
We want our developments to 
complement their local areas  
and distinguish us from other 
housebuilders, so we create 
unique designs for the exteriors of 
our homes. Standardised interior 
layouts (the Linden Homes 
Layouts) help us to procure and 
build our homes as efficiently as 
possible, without compromising 
on design, and ensure our  
homes have good specifications. 
Partnerships also uses these 
standard interior layouts. 11 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
BUILD
Construct quality, 
sustainable homes
SALES & AFTERCARE
Offer first-class service  
to customers
We are renowned for the quality 
of our homes. We work closely 
with our subcontractors to use 
efficient and safe methods of 
construction, and with our 
suppliers to source the most 
suitable materials. By increasingly 
standardising processes in both 
Linden Homes and Partnerships, 
we increase our efficiency and 
cut waste, which in turn  
reduces the environmental 
impact of our developments.
As a responsible developer,  
we also deliver well-designed 
public spaces that support 
sustainable communities.  
This can range from providing 
streetscapes that reduce the 
speed of vehicles to cycle routes, 
woodlands and play areas.
We think about our customers’ 
needs at every stage, from 
before we buy land to our 
aftersales service – an approach 
that we call ‘The Linden Way’. 
This programme shares best 
practice across Linden Homes 
and sets out how we support our 
customers at each step of their 
purchasing journey. Partnerships 
also follows The Linden Way 
within its mixed-tenure schemes.
Our Customer Charter describes 
our commitment to providing  
a first-class service. It also 
outlines to our customers exactly 
what they should expect from us,  
from accurate and up-to-date 
information to home warranties. 12 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
MANAGE RISK
From bid selection through 
to delivery
WORK WITH SUPPLY CHAIN
Partner with suppliers  
to support delivery
We look to manage risk at  
every stage, from selecting 
opportunities through to 
maintaining the finished asset. 
We carefully assess and select 
the projects we take on, while 
our presence on numerous 
frameworks further reduces  
our risk profile by allowing us  
to work collaboratively with 
clients, understand their needs 
and become experts in delivering 
repeat projects for them.
Our supply chain is critical  
for the safe, efficient and timely 
delivery of projects to our  
clients. We collaborate with  
our subcontractors and suppliers 
and keep them informed of  
our pipeline of work, so that  
we can secure the supply chain 
required to deliver our projects. 
Wherever practical, we prioritise 
the use of local suppliers.  
Our ‘Advantage through 
Alignment’ initiative builds on  
this collaborative approach with 
selected supply chain partners. 
Our approach helps to ensure 
service quality for clients and 
increases our efficiency.
See our Business review  
on p39
We create value by carefully selecting the projects 
we take on and working closely with our clients  
and supply chain to deliver superior buildings and 
infrastructure that improve the built environment and 
create a positive legacy for the people they serve.
Value creation:
In the construction 
market
£ 13 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
DELIVER
Complete projects to the 
highest standards
We are recognised for the quality 
and safety of our project delivery 
and have won numerous industry 
awards. We focus on quality  
from day one and increasingly 
use technology such as BIM 
(Building Information Modelling) 
to help us deliver superior 
buildings. At the same time,  
we look to improve continuously 
through programmes such as 
‘Delivering Excellence’ , an internal 
initiative which helps us to hand 
over projects defect-free.
We look to work with clients  
we can collaborate with and 
become their long-term partners. 
Our approach to collaboration 
has been accredited to BS 
1 1000, the recognised best 
practice standard. We also 
endeavour to develop strong 
community relationships and 
look to ensure our teams reflect 
the diversity of their local 
communities. This helps to make 
us welcomed locally and to work 
more effectively and seamlessly.
CLIENT & COMMUNITY 
FOCUS
Become long-term partners 
of clients and communities 14 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
DELIVER DISCIPLINED GROWTH OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
Linden Homes
Partnerships and Regeneration
Construction
 5 Continue to grow our contracting revenues.
 5 Grow our mixed-tenure revenue by partnering with our  
registered provider clients and leveraging Linden Homes’  
brand and development skills.
 5 Use the cash generated by Partnerships’ contracting activities  
to fund the mixed-tenure developments.
 5 Execute planned regional expansion of offices.
 5 Monitor economic conditions and maintain an appropriately  
sized landbank which supports our growth and strategy.
STRATEGY
STRATEGY
STRATEGY
 5 Focus on increasing our operating margin by maximising the 
efficiency and effectiveness of our operations.
 5 Deliver disciplined expansion in volumes by continuing to focus  
on prime sites in good locations.
 5 Monitor economic conditions and maintain an appropriately  
sized landbank which supports our growth and strategy.
ONE
Deliver disciplined growth by focusing on the quality  
of opportunities and prioritising margin over revenue.
The Group’s aim is to deliver superior returns to 
shareholders by successfully implementing our 
three-part strategy. For each element of the strategy,  
we have set and developed a number of targets.  
Our strategy was set for the five-year period to  
2018 against a 2013 baseline.
Building and Infrastructure
 5 Continue our disciplined selection of projects with appropriate  
risk and cash profiles.
 5 Focus on both the public and the private sector, frameworks  
and increasing our capability in major projects.
 5 Achieve margin improvements.
PPP Investments
 5 Target our PPP investment capabilities to support our 
Construction, Partnerships and facilities management businesses.
 5 Increasingly become a collaborative investment partner for  
public sector clients to give us access to a pipeline of projects 
rather than one-off bids.
Strategy to 2018, targets 
and performance 15 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
DELIVER DISCIPLINED GROWTH
 5 Contracting growth slowed due to the Government’s rent reforms 
which caused registered providers to reappraise their plans.
 5 Delivered strong growth in mixed-tenure revenues.
 5 Announced our intention to allow Partnerships to take on debt of  
up to £30 million, to accelerate its mixed-tenure growth.
 5 Progressed regional expansion plans by opening a Bristol office.
 5 Grew our landbank to 2,700 plots.
 5 Maintained contracting order book of £850 million.
PROGRESS
PROGRESS
PROGRESS
TARGETS
TARGETS
TARGETS
 5 Increased operating margin from 16.0% in 2015 to 17 .5%,  
with further improvement expected to come in FY 2017 from 
rationalising our operating processes.
 5 Grew volumes by 1 1%, contributing to a 8% increase in revenue.
 5 Continued to extend our presence in the North of England,  
opening a second office in Yorkshire.
 5 Our landbank stood at 1 1,500 plots.
 5 Continued to secure work successfully, while focusing on risk 
management and cash.
 5 Awarded places on a number of major frameworks.
 5 Forward order book of £3.5 billion.
 5 Recruited senior leaders to enhance our major projects capability.
 5 Closed projects that added over £300 million to the order books  
of our Construction business and facilities management business.
 5 Continued to secure a pipeline of projects, despite the now resolved 
public sector accounting classification issue delaying close on 
several PPP projects in Scotland in the first half of the year.
Target
2018
Actual
2016
Actual
2013
+50%
Revenue £m 
633
841
Target
2018
Actual
2016
Actual
2013
Revenue £m 
97
>400
301
Target
2018
Actual
2016
Actual
2013
Revenue £m 
823
1,500 1,503
Target
2018
Actual
2016
Actual
2013
Operating margin % 
1.6
2.0
1.1
Target
2018
Actual
2016
Actual
2013
Operating margin % 
1.4
4.0
3.9
Target
2018
Actual
2016
Actual
2013
Operating margin % 
13.3
18.0
17.5 16 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES OPERATE SUSTAINABL Y
GENERATE SHAREHOLDER RETURN
Financial management
 5 Actively manage cash in Construction and investment  
in both Linden Homes and Partnerships to control the  
Group’s net debt position.
 5 Ensure the Group has the funding to implement its growth 
strategy, through internal cash generation and appropriate  
debt facilities.
Efficiency
 5 Help the businesses to implement their strategies by providing 
high-quality centralised Group functions, such as health and 
safety, sustainability and people development, contributing to 
profit and earnings growth and the ability to pay higher dividends.
STRATEGY
STRATEGY
Health and safety
 5 Implement policies and procedures to establish safe working 
practices for everyone, and drive them through leadership.
 5 Implement programmes to improve employee and subcontractor 
safety behaviours.
 5 Work with our employees to ensure we maintain our culture of care.
People
 5 Implement policies and procedures to ensure we have competent 
and capable employees who also emulate our values.
 5 Engage with our employees to identify training and development 
needs and opportunities to improve business performance.
 5 Implement programmes to drive fairness, inclusion and respect 
across the Group.
Strategy, targets and performance continued
In quantifying our strategic objectives to 2018, we made the  
following assumptions about market conditions:
 5 economic growth continues in line with the then current 
consensus, with interest rates rising gradually through the period;
 5 the private housing market continues ‘as is’, with mortgage 
availability and flexibility maintained and no material change  
to Help to Buy;
 5 Government support for affordable housing continues; and
 5 construction markets continue a steady recovery.
We continue to monitor these assumptions against actual market 
conditions so that we can take alternative actions if required.
TWO
Operate sustainably, recognising that health and safety  
and our people are our top two priorities.
THREE
Generate shareholder return by growing earnings and 
dividends, and carefully managing our balance sheet.
ASSUMPTIONS 17 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
 5 Continued to focus on cash and working capital management.
 5 Year end net debt of £8.7 million, resulting in gearing of 1%. 
 5 Increased our bank facility by £50 million to £450 million.
 5 Grew profit before tax by 18%, leading to a 17% increase in  
earnings per share.
 5 Increased the full year dividend by 21% to 82p per share,  
with earnings cover of 1.6 times.
 5 Began process of giving more autonomy to our businesses  
and maintaining central functions or outsourced resources that  
are focused on supporting the Group.
PROGRESS
PROGRESS
 5 Maintained our year-on-year Accident Frequency Rate at 0. 14.
 5 Implemented a new central health and safety database to improve 
management information to identify cause and effect; embedded 
random testing for drugs and alcohol and launched ‘Golden Rules’ 
(see page 44), while continuing to reinforce our behavioural safety 
programme ‘Challenging Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour’. 
 5 Progressed our approach to succession planning and talent 
management (see page 46).
 5 Relaunched “Doing the Right Thing”, our Code of Conduct,  
setting out standards and principles for how we work and what  
we value (see page 47).
 5 Delivered 12,685 training days, an average of 2.2 per employee.
 5 Employee churn rate was 17 .9%, down from 18. 1% in 2015.
We also made a number of assumptions about the Group and  
our businesses, notably that:
 5 the Group has financing in place throughout the period;
 5 Linden Homes delivers mid-to-high single digit growth in revenue, 
with a stable mix of private and affordable units, and no house 
price inflation;
 5 Partnerships increases proportion of mixed-tenure work,  
has one new office in Bristol, and further offices opening  
through the period; and
 5 Construction delivers steady growth towards its revenue  
and margin targets.
Target
2018
Actual
2016
Actual
2013
Accident Frequency Rate
1
 
0.14
0.10
0.13
1
 By RIDDOR classification.
Actual
2016
Actual
2013
Employee churn rate
2
 
17.9%
11.5%
2
 Against a benchmark of 15%.
Actual
2016
Actual
2013
Gearing % 
3.0
1.0
Maximum 30%
Target
2018
Actual
2016
Actual
2013
PBT £m 
74.1
135.0
+100%
Target
2018
Actual
2016
Actual
2013
Dividend per share and cover
37.0p
1.6x
1.9x
82.0p
>100%
Target
2018
Actual
2016
Actual
2013
Earnings per share p
71.7
132.5
>100%
OPERATE SUSTAINABL Y
GENERATE SHAREHOLDER RETURN 18 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Roles and responsibilities
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s systems of risk 
management and internal control, which are subject to ongoing 
monitoring processes alongside a formal and robust annual review.  
It is also responsible for determining the overall level of risk which it  
is willing to accept in pursuing the Group’s strategy. The Board has 
delegated implementation of risk management and internal control, 
together with their day-to-day operation, to the Group’s executive 
management. The process is overseen by the Risk Committee,  
which is chaired by the Group Finance Director and managed  
on a day-to-day basis by the Director of Risk and Internal Audit.  
The Risk Committee is also attended by the Chairman. Although  
they are not absolute assurance against the risk of material 
misstatement or loss, the Group’s systems of risk management  
and internal control are designed to identify, manage, mitigate,  
monitor and report on risks to which the Group is exposed. 
Risk identification, assessment and mitigation 
We develop and maintain risk registers at business unit, divisional  
and Group level, which identify key operational, financial and strategic 
risks applicable to that level within the organisation, and which are 
assessed and consolidated into a Group-wide register using a 
standardised methodology. The methodology requires each identified 
risk to be assessed and measured using a risk matrix which quantifies 
the likelihood and impact of each risk (the inherent risk), the effect of 
the mitigating actions (to determine the residual risk) and the desirable 
risk profile (the target risk), as aligned to the Group’s risk appetite.  
The methodology evaluates the impact of each risk on the Group’s 
profitability and reputation. 
Risk management, risk reporting, internal controls and 
internal audit
The material components of the Group’s established framework  
of internal controls comprise the following:
 5 organisational structure: each business has its own management 
board and each business unit is led by a managing director and 
management team;
 5 contractual review and commitments: the Group has clearly defined 
policies and procedures for entering into contractual commitments 
which apply across its business units and operations and are 
enforced through the Group’s legal authorities matrix;
 5 investment in land and development: land expenditure approval is 
subject to clearly defined policies and procedures, with significant 
investments approved at Executive and main Board levels under 
Group policies and procedures;
 5 operational activity: there are established frameworks to manage 
and control all site operations including health, safety and 
environmental procedures, regular performance monitoring,  
quality and external accountability to stakeholders;
 5 financial planning framework: the Group reviews and refines its 
business plan on an annual basis, following specific Board meetings 
held to consider strategy. A detailed annual budget is prepared  
for each financial year which is approved by the Board;
 5 operational and financial reporting: we continue to improve the 
Group’s reporting and financial systems as a result of implementing 
both Oracle and Hyperion systems. An exacting profit and cash 
reporting and forecasting regime is in place across the Group.  
As well as the emphasis placed on cash flow, income and balance 
sheet reporting, health, safety and environmental matters are 
prioritised within monthly operational reports;
Identifying, evaluating and managing our 
principal risks and uncertainties is integral 
to the way we do business and to achieving 
our strategy.
Principal risks 19 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
b
 a
 i
 f
 g h
 5 Code of Conduct: the Group requires its employees to operate 
ethically and with demonstrable integrity. Group standards are set 
out in a Code of Conduct issued to all employees, and supported 
by specific training modules in key areas;
 5 pension plan administration: the administration of the Group’s  
fully closed final salary and ongoing defined contribution pension 
plans is outsourced to professional service providers. Each of the 
final salary schemes has an independent scheme secretary and  
a proportion of independent trustees to provide additional layers  
of external scrutiny; and
 5 assurance provided by non-audit functions: a number of other 
Group functions provide assurance in areas including, but not 
limited to, health, safety and environment; legal contract review  
and compliance; and construction industry regulation. 
The Group’s governance reporting structure shown on page 57 
clarifies the effective Group, business and operational board structures 
upon which the delegated authorities matrices and corporate and 
finance manuals are overlaid.
The Risk Committee and the Board review the risk registers and 
associated mitigating actions on a regular basis. For example, during 
the last year the ongoing review included consideration of the impact 
of possible outcomes of June’s EU referendum and the Group’s 
exposure to the London market. In addition to this process, which has 
been in place throughout the past year, we undertake an annual 
review of our risk management processes in the context of market 
developments, projects secured and Group strategy to ensure that 
they remain up-to-date and relevant. This also encompasses a review 
of the internal controls framework, together with the findings of  
the internal audit function over the past year, which may indicate 
weaknesses that have had, could have had, or may have in the future, 
a material impact on results, and any remedial actions taken. Based 
on these assessments, the Board is satisfied with the effectiveness  
of the Group’s systems of risk management and internal control. 
Viability statement 
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, the Board has assessed the prospects of the Group over a 
period longer than the 12 months as required under provision C. 1.3  
of the Code in relation to the adoption of the going concern basis.  
The Board conducted this review for a period of three years in line with 
its typical business planning and risk management review period. 
The Group’s business plan includes information in relation to the 
Group’s revenues, profits, cash flows, dividends, net debt, and other 
key financial and non-financial metrics. The plan considers the 
potential impact of the principal risks to the business as described 
below and overleaf, and the cyclical nature of the markets in which  
the Group operates, and incorporates an appropriate level of flexibility 
to provide against these risks. This is achieved through the preparation 
of sensitivity analyses on a range of scenarios including variations in 
revenue, house prices, sales rates, build costs, cash generation and 
access to financing. 
Based on the results of this analysis, the Board has a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation  
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of  
its assessment. 
Impact Higher Lower
Lower Likelihood Higher
a Economic
b Government
c Health and Safety
d Over-reliance
e Legal and regulatory compliance
f Land acquisition
g People and supply chain
h Business management systems
i Business continuity
Risk heat map – effects of mitigation on inherent risks and residual risks
 f
 h
c,d,e c,d,e
 a
 i
b
Inherent Residual  
 g
The heat map shows the principal risks the 
Group faces by impact and likelihood, before 
and after mitigating actions are taken into 
account, illustrating the effects of the Group’s 
risk management process in mitigating the 
identified risks. 20 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Category Description of inherent risk
Inherent  
risk trend  
in the year Mitigation
a. Economic The biggest risk is the macro-economic 
environment and the possibility of an economic 
downturn. The result of the recent EU  
referendum has the potential to distort some  
of our markets. While this is certainly not an 
inevitable outcome, we must be mindful of the 
potential risks and plan for the Group’s future 
accordingly. The Construction and Partnerships 
businesses are very well placed to deal with any 
uncertainty due to the nature of their businesses 
and their late cycle and hybrid nature respectively. 
Linden Homes, while more exposed to a potential 
slowdown and changes in consumer confidence, 
has a great brand, and is solidly positioned,  
with an appropriate landbank, good locations  
and well-designed homes.
Improvement in the construction market increases 
the workload in our supply chain, enabling it to 
seek increased prices which could impact our 
margins. House price inflation can mitigate this 
effect but the effect can be amplified by a house 
price fall. The input costs to our business can  
also be affected by fluctuations in foreign 
exchange rates.
We manage the impact of macro-economic risks, 
including by building a strong order book and 
maintaining an appropriately sized landbank.  
We have been doing that successfully and had  
a Construction order book of £3.5 billion and sales 
carried forward position in Linden of £380 million 
at the year end. We monitor closely political and 
economic developments: we have modelled a 
range of macro-economic scenarios and planned 
measures which can be implemented should  
the macro-economic environment improve or 
deteriorate as against our internal models. 
We also regularly monitor actual supply chain 
costs against costs assumed at tender, with 
regular reforecasting of the likely effect on margin, 
and with realistic increased supply chain costs fed 
back into tenders going forward. We also regularly 
review fixed price assumptions in bids. Land 
purchases at appropriate margins are reviewed  
in the context of three-year market forecasts,  
and we monitor sales rates on an ongoing basis.
b. Government A reduction in Government spending on 
infrastructure projects or affordable housing 
development, including schemes such as  
Help to Buy, would directly affect our business. 
Other initiatives relating to project bank accounts 
or payment terms may impact the cost of doing 
business. Government may also impose future 
taxes or levies that are not incorporated into  
our plans. 
The Group regularly engages with Government 
and the Homes & Communities Agency (HCA), 
both directly and via our membership of industry 
bodies. Prudent pricing models, increased hurdle 
rates and other contingencies are built into our 
land appraisal process, including removal of any 
Government support. Support for Help to Buy 
appears to be in place until 2020. The Group 
monitors on an ongoing basis economic and 
political conditions and developments; and it  
plans for different economic scenarios.
c.  Health and 
Safety (H&S)
A catastrophic incident with fatalities and/or 
significant injuries can, in addition to its impact  
on victims and corporate reputation, lead to fines 
or prosecutions for individual members of staff  
or directors. A high cumulative level of H&S 
prosecutions would reduce our ability to win work. 
We have operational controls in place, including  
a H&S site risk assessment for every site. We have 
processes in place which allow us to respond 
promptly and appropriately to incidents. During the 
year, we implemented the ‘Golden Rules’, a new 
H&S database, and reinvigorated our award-
winning ‘Challenging Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour’ 
safety programme. 
d. Over-reliance Direct or indirect over-reliance on a single 
customer or vendor, such as the HCA in 
Housebuilding, may leave us exposed,  
especially if there is a large degree of regulation 
surrounding this customer or vendor. 
We carefully monitor and maintain relationships  
at every level of the organisation up to Executive 
Board level. Where customers or suppliers have 
regulated contractual commitments, we undertake 
annual (and, as necessary, independent) audits,  
to ensure we are meeting our requirements. 
Principal risks continued
Principal risks
The directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business 
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. Our consideration of the key risks and uncertainties relating to the Group’s operations,  
along with their potential impact and the mitigations in place, is set out below and on the previous page. There may be other risks and 
uncertainties besides those listed below which may also adversely affect the Group and its performance. More detail can be found in the  
Audit Committee Report on pages 58 and 59. 21 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Category Description of inherent risk
Inherent  
risk trend  
in the year Mitigation
e.  Legal and 
regulatory 
compliance
Legal and regulatory failure, for example 
involvement in blacklisting, cover pricing, bribery  
or other fraudulent activity, or non-compliance  
with law (including for example the Bribery Act, 
Fraud Act, Competition Act, Money Laundering 
Regulations, and Proceeds of Crime Act) could 
lead to disbarment from bidding for certain  
public or regulated sector work, fines, jail,  
and reputational damage.
The Group has comprehensive policies and 
guidance in place at every level, including  
the recently reinvigorated Code of Conduct, 
mandatory e-learning for all employees, regular 
Board legal updates and briefings, six-monthly 
compliance declarations and conflicts of interest 
registers and authorisations. In addition, an 
anonymous and independent whistleblowing 
helpline is available to all staff, with strict policies  
to ensure anonymity and regular reporting of 
helpline use provided to the Board. 
f.  L a n d 
acquisition
If the assumptions used in the land acquisition 
process are wrong, subsequent financial results 
may be affected. 
There are comprehensive land acquisition policies 
and procedures in place. The Group monitors  
on an ongoing basis economic and political 
conditions and developments; and it plans for 
different economic scenarios.
g.  People and 
supply chain
The ability to attract, develop, retain and build 
relationships with diverse and high-quality 
employees and supply chain impacts every level  
of the Group, from developing and building our 
products to succession planning to the Board. 
The Group has an established HR strategy based 
on best practice, Investors in People principles 
and relevant legislation which, among other  
things, includes the regular review of remuneration 
and benefits packages to ensure we remain 
competitive. Our succession planning and talent 
management processes enable continuity and 
identify future leaders. 
The Group aims to develop long-term relationships 
with subcontractors to ensure we are a preferred 
customer in the supply of people and skills, as well 
as materials. Key initiatives this year include rolling 
out the ‘Advantage through Alignment’ initiative 
throughout our Construction business supply 
chain. The Group monitors on an ongoing  
basis economic and political conditions and 
developments; and it plans for different  
economic scenarios.
h .  Bu s in e s s 
management 
systems
The stability, performance and successful 
operation of current and legacy third party 
business management systems, such as  
our Oracle finance system and electronic 
document management systems, are critical  
to the successful operation of the business,  
both in Group locations and on-site project offices 
and sales outlets. 
Our IT governance structure prioritises  
resources on the most critical and added value 
improvements. Specific improvement forums,  
for example the Procurement Improvement  
Group, further refine and optimise core processes. 
Relationships with third parties are given the 
highest level of management attention, with 
contingency solutions reviewed as appropriate. 
i.  B u s i n es s 
continuity
Loss of our Shared Service Centre or IT 
infrastructure, especially our financial system, 
including a natural disaster or malicious  
attack, may affect our ability to carry on  
day-to-day business.
Disaster recovery plans have remained in  
place throughout the year, and are tested on  
a regular basis, including penetration tests in 
respect of cybercrime.  22 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Performance and dividend
Galliford Try delivered another record set of 
results in 2016, with growth across the Group. 
Throughout the year, Linden Homes 
benefited from a robust housing market, 
underpinned by supply shortages and ample 
availability of low-cost mortgages, and a land 
market that remained positive. We grew 
revenue and margins, as we rigorously 
focused on overheads and processes.
Prospects for Partnerships remain excellent 
with the UK suffering a substantial affordable 
housing shortage.
Construction markets continued to generate 
a pipeline of opportunities with better 
margins. While we saw some commercial 
clients delay contracts ahead of the EU 
referendum, and some public sector work 
has been slower to come through than we 
expected, we were generally encouraged  
by market conditions. The markets in which 
Construction operates are typically less 
susceptible to short-term fluctuations, and  
we expect the construction market to remain 
positive notwithstanding any short-term 
distortion, not least because of the substantial 
infrastructure renewal required in the UK. 
We recognise the importance of dividends  
to our shareholders. The Board is 
recommending a final dividend of 56.0 pence 
per share, an increase of 22%. Combined 
with the interim dividend of 26.0 pence per 
share, which was up 18%, this gives a total 
dividend for the year of 82.0 pence per share, 
representing growth of 21%. The final 
dividend will be paid on 23 November 2016  
to shareholders on the register at 28 October 
2016. With earnings per share of 132.5 
pence, the total dividend is 1.6 times covered. 
The result of the referendum to leave the  
EU inevitably created a backdrop of 
uncertainty for the new financial year. 
Although this resulted in share price 
reductions across our sector peer groups, 
and Galliford Try’s share price fell broadly  
in line with the sector, the Board remains 
confident about the prospects for the Group.
Chairman’s statement
“We have successfully managed a number 
of important changes to our Board and 
senior management over the last two 
years, allowing us to maintain our track 
record of performance and deliver further 
solid growth this year .”
Greg Fitzgerald
Chairman
Earnings per share
132.5p
+17%
Dividend per share
82p
+21% 23 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Our values
Our values encourage us to work ethically 
and to the best of our abilities. They shape 
our approach to day-to-day activities  
and help us achieve our business goals, 
while ensuring we remain a good 
corporate citizen.
Excellence
Striving to deliver the best.
Passion
Committed and enthusiastic in all that  
we do.
Collaboration
Dedicated to working together to  
achieve results.
Integrity
Demonstrating strong ethical standards, 
with openness and honesty.
Strategy
The strategy we outlined in February 2014, 
which set out detailed Group and divisional 
targets to 2018, has served us well and our 
performance each year has been ahead  
of plan. Going forward we will likely follow  
a similar course, focused on achieving 
sustainable, disciplined organic growth.  
We are currently finalising our strategic targets 
for the period beyond 2018 and will 
communicate these in due course.
Setting objectives has a number of benefits. 
We want to be transparent and show 
investors what we think we will achieve  
over the next few years. I also believe we 
perform better when we have clear goals  
and that our ambition helps to attract,  
retain and motivate our people.
Board and Governance
This was a period of further evolution on the 
Board. As planned, Peter Truscott joined us 
as Chief Executive from 1 October 2015  
and I moved from Executive to Non-executive 
Chairman from 1 January 2016. As I 
announced in July 2016, I will step down  
from the Board following the conclusion  
of the 2016 AGM on 1 1 November 2016. 
In February 2016, we announced that Chief 
Operating Officer Ken Gillespie had decided 
to retire from the Group in 2017 . He stepped 
down from the Board on 31 July 2016 but  
he will remain responsible for specific tasks 
until his departure in 2017 . We thank Ken  
for his substantial contribution to the Group’s 
success and wish him and his family all the 
best for the future.
Galliford Try has a relatively new Board,  
with four of our five independent  
non-executive directors having joined  
us in the last three years, bringing fresh 
perspectives to our discussions. We have 
worked hard during this time to ensure  
the Board provides the leadership and 
oversight the Group requires to continue 
delivering strong operational and financial 
performance. It was therefore gratifying that 
our externally facilitated Board evaluation  
in March 2016 reported that we have  
a strong Board that is working well together.
People and culture
In addition to our new Chief Executive joining, 
there were notable changes to the executive 
team. Bill Hocking joined us from Skanska  
as Managing Director of Construction in 
September 2015. He became Chief Executive 
of Construction & Investments on 1 August 
2016, as part of the smooth transition of  
Ken Gillespie’s responsibilities ahead of his 
retirement. Andrew Richards left in April 2016 
after more than 15 years with the Group  
and its acquired businesses, most recently  
as Managing Director of Linden Homes.  
We thank him for his contribution and wish 
him well for the future. With effect from  
1 July 2016, Stephen Teagle has assumed 
the role of Chief Executive of the Partnerships 
business. From 9 August 2016, Tom 
Nicholson and Andrew Hammond were 
respectively appointed to the positions of 
Divisional Chairman East and Divisional 
Chairman West for Linden Homes.
Having the right culture is critical for success 
and we recognise the Board’s role in setting 
that culture and demonstrating the right 
behaviours. We were pleased to launch our 
refreshed Code of Conduct during the year. 
This provides a framework for everyone in 
Galliford Try, and those who work with us,  
to ensure everything we do is in line with  
our values, the law and our high ethical 
standards. Our values are the foundation  
our business is built on and we must continue 
to live by them to retain our reputation as  
an industry leader. More information about 
our culture can be found in Peter Truscott’s 
Q&A on page 5.
All businesses depend on their employees 
and Galliford Try has excellent people 
throughout the organisation. I have very  
much enjoyed my 35 years with the Group.  
I leave with a degree of sadness but I am 
confident the Group is in great shape to  
meet the challenges ahead. I want to thank 
everyone for their hard work and dedication 
this year, and thank everyone I have worked 
with over my career, together with all 
stakeholders, for their support.
Conclusion and outlook
While the EU referendum and the resulting 
uncertainty may cause some distortion of 
some of our markets, we are confident that 
the outlook remains positive for all three of  
our businesses. It may be necessary to  
make investment decisions in the short-term 
that reflect the current market conditions,  
but at the same time we remain confident 
about future prospects and continue to  
plan accordingly.
Greg Fitzgerald 
Chairman 24 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategy
Galliford Try has a successful strategy, which 
has delivered excellent growth in recent years.
Going forward we will be following a similar 
course, focused on achieving sustainable  
and disciplined organic growth.
We are currently finalising our strategy beyond 
2018 and will communicate this in due 
course. While we will factor in the result of the 
EU referendum into our strategy, and need to 
be mindful of the wider economic climate that 
may result from the referendum, we anticipate 
pursuing the same strategy of disciplined 
growth across our core business segments.
Fundamentally, we believe that the macro-
economic environment in all three of our 
businesses will be favourable. It may be 
necessary to make investment decisions in 
the shorter term that reflect any dislocation, 
but at the same time we remain confident 
about future prospects and continue to plan 
accordingly. The long-term underinvestment 
in housing and strategic infrastructure in  
the UK still exists regardless of any potential 
headwinds over the coming months, and  
our businesses are well placed to exploit  
the opportunities that will arise.
Sustainability
To implement our strategy, we need to have 
the right people. Galliford Try has many skilled 
and dedicated employees but strong market 
conditions mean demand for quality people  
is high and employee churn remains high 
across the industry. Over the last 12 months, 
we have continued to improve the way  
we recruit, develop and retain our people.  
This includes succession planning and talent 
management as well as effective reward  
and recognition. All of these factors, as well  
as simply being a good place to work,  
will help us to attract the people we need  
and to keep them within the Group.
We continue to bring the next generation  
of talent into the industry, taking on around 
100 graduates and trainees each year.  
Our challenging and rewarding graduate 
programme has made us one of the top 100 
companies – and the sixth best construction 
company – for graduates to work for.
Chief Executive’s 
review
“Galliford T ry has strong, complementary 
businesses and positive prospects in each 
of our markets.”
Peter Truscott
Chief Executive 25 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
Health and safety is always our top priority. 
While we maintained our Accident Frequency 
Rate at 0. 14 in 2016, which is in line with the 
industry average, we were disappointed not 
to have improved our performance, which  
I believe does not fully reflect the benefits  
of our significant work in this area. More 
information about our approach to health and 
safety can be found on pages 44 and 45.
We work hard to meet the needs of our 
customers and clients. We were therefore 
pleased that Linden Homes retained its four 
star National House Building Council (NHBC) 
customer satisfaction rating and increased  
its score from 80% in 2015 to 83.5% in 2016. 
Partnerships and Construction both seek  
to develop long-term relationships with  
clients and continue to receive high levels  
of repeat business. 
Conditions in the supply chain have eased 
this year and we are generally able to source 
the skills and materials we need. Our supply 
chain has a critical role in our delivery to 
clients and we continue to look for ways to 
work more collaboratively, such as through 
our ‘Advantage through Alignment’ initiative  
in Construction (see page 39).
Building strong relationships with local 
communities is important to us across the 
Group. As evidence of our commitment,  
we were delighted to win 30 Considerate 
Constructors Scheme National Site Awards, 
including three Gold awards.
Our environmental performance is also 
important. Reducing energy use and waste 
helps to cut our costs at the same time as 
lowering our carbon footprint. It also supports 
our ability to win work in Construction,  
where clients often look to their supply chain 
to help improve their own sustainability. 
Demonstrating this continued strong 
performance against environmental, social 
and governance benchmarks, we were 
pleased to retain our position within the 
FTSE4Good Index, and, furthermore,  
improve our score.
Outlook
The outlook remains positive for all three  
of our businesses. 
The construction market continues to  
provide a pipeline of opportunities, not least 
because of the substantial infrastructure 
renewal required in the UK. However, the 
speed of some work coming through in the 
public sector is slower than expected. While it 
is too early to predict how the construction 
market will perform following the EU 
referendum, our solid order book and focus 
on the public and regulated sectors give  
us a strong position going forward. We will 
remain disciplined in our approach. While  
it is desirable to maintain some scale of 
operations, we will always prioritise the  
quality of the order book over quantity. 
The prospects for Partnerships are 
considered to be excellent, with significant 
unmet demand for low-cost, intermediate and 
rented affordable homes. Further geographic 
expansion and the growth in mixed-tenure 
revenues will drive both the top line and 
margins in this business. 
The long-term underinvestment in housing 
and demand for private homes still exists 
regardless of any potential headwinds over 
the coming months. Linden Homes has  
a great brand, and is solidly positioned,  
with good locations and well-designed 
homes. We have the opportunity to grow 
further geographically, as we increase our 
presence in the North and the Midlands. 
While we continue to create developments 
that are designed to complement their local 
area, we are using more standard floor plans 
and processes to increase profitability. 
Overall, Linden Homes is well placed to 
exploit the opportunities that will arise.
Peter Truscott 
Chief Executive
ONE
Deliver disciplined growth 
by focusing on the quality of opportunities  
and prioritising margin over revenue.
TWO
Operate sustainably, 
recognising that health and safety and  
our people are our top two priorities.
THREE
Generate shareholder return 
by growing earnings and dividends,  
and carefully managing our balance sheet.
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Revenue £m
+10% 
1,576
2,431
2,670
1,559
1,851
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Profit before tax £m
+18% 
63.1
114.0
135.0
74.1
95.2
See our Strategy p14 26 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Financial highlights
Revenue
£2,670m up 10%
Profit before tax
£135.0m up 18%
Equity
£600.0m up 5%
Net tangible assets
£447.8m up 8%
Net debt
£8.7m from £1 7 .3m
Return on net assets
25.3% up 2.0 points
Financial review
“Strong progress in all elements of  
our strategy of disciplined growth 
underpinned increases in revenues,  
profits and dividend.”
Graham Prothero
Finance Director 27 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Introduction
Galliford Try again delivered record levels  
of profit before tax and earnings per share, 
and a further increase in return on net assets, 
making excellent progress against our 
strategic targets for 2018.
Results
Revenue including our share of joint ventures 
rose 10% to £2,670 million (2015: £2,431 
million). Group revenue, excluding joint 
ventures, was 6% higher at £2,495 million 
(2015: £2,348 million). 
Profit from operations, which is stated before 
finance costs, exceptional items, tax and our 
share of joint ventures’ interest and tax, rose 
13% to £157 .5 million (2015: £138.9 million). 
This resulted in profit before tax of £135.0 
million, up 15% from £1 17 .7 million (pre-
exceptional) in 2015, principally reflecting 
revenue growth and improving margins in 
Linden Homes and Partnerships, and up  
18% on 2015’s post-exceptional profit.
Average net debt during the year was  
£204 million and year end net debt was  
£8.7 million, both of which were in line with 
our plans as we continue to invest in the 
growth of Linden Homes and Partnerships.
Linden Homes
Linden Homes grew revenue by 8% to 
£840.8 million (2015: £779.0 million), as a 
result of increased unit numbers and a higher 
average selling price, which reflected modest 
house price inflation partially offset by a 
change in the mix of property types. Revenue 
included sales of land, mainly into joint 
ventures, of £19.5 million (2015: £51. 1 million). 
Linden Homes’ gross margin was 23.8%,  
up from 22.5% in 2015. Excluding land sales, 
the gross margin was 22.6% (2015: 21.2%). 
We saw the initial benefits from efficiency 
improvements and increased standardisation 
of layouts. During the year we took action  
to rationalise our operating processes and 
reduce overheads, and further restructured 
our operations in the South, which will 
generate annualised savings of over £5 million 
from FY 2017 . The restructuring cost was 
£2.5 million in FY 2016.
Profit from operations increased by 18%  
to £147 .2 million (2015: £124.3 million).  
The operating margin rose to 17 .5%, up from 
16.0% in 2015. Following an operating margin 
in the first half of the year of 17 .0%, the margin 
achieved in the second half of the year was 
17 .9%, showing good progress. Excluding 
land sales, the operating margin for the year 
was 16.2% (2015: 14.7%). 
Return on net assets calculated under  
our updated segmental disclosure was  
31.7% compared with 27 .9% (restated)  
in 2015, reflecting continued strong working 
capital management.
Partnerships and Regeneration
Partnerships’ revenue was £300.6 million, 
down 9% (2015: £329.4 million). Revenue 
from mixed-tenure developments continued 
to increase strongly and was up 19% at  
£66.7 million. Contracting revenues were 
£233.9 million, down 14%, reflecting a 
procurement hiatus while registered providers 
reappraised their business plans in light  
of the Government’s rent reforms. 
Profit from operations rose by 24% to  
£1 1.7 million (2015: £9.4 million). This 
represented a blended operating margin  
of 3.9% (2015: 2.9%), benefiting from the 
increased proportion of higher margin 
mixed-tenure revenue. 
Net debt in Partnerships stood at £12. 1  
million at 30 June 2016 (2015: net cash  
of £15 million), reflecting investment to fund 
mixed-tenure developments. We intend to 
allow the business to operate in a modest  
net debt position to accelerate its mixed-
tenure growth.
Construction
Revenue grew by 16% to £1,503.4 million 
(2015: £1,293.2 million), benefiting from  
steady growth in key sectors and our strong 
framework participation. We continued to 
focus on risk management, margin and 
targeting work with acceptable returns.  
Profit from operations was £15.8 million  
(2015: £15.7 million), representing a margin  
of 1. 1% (2015: 1.2%). Construction’s results 
included the sale of our site accommodation 
portfolio to a third party equipment hirer, 
achieving a profit of £5.2 million on the 
disposal and securing competitive rates  
going forward. 
Building delivered profit from operations of 
£9.0 million (2015: £8.0 million), with a margin 
of 0.9% (2015: 0.9%). The division continued 
to work through legacy contracts, won in 
more difficult market conditions. Margins  
on newer work are more robust, with both 
pricing and cost estimates appropriately 
reflecting more inflationary market conditions. 
Infrastructure’s profit from operations was 
£6.8 million (2015: £7 .7 million), representing  
a margin of 1.4% (2015: 2.0%), reflecting the 
mix of work performed.
PPP Investments
PPP Investments reported revenue of  
£25.0 million (2015: £28.8 million) and  
net costs of bidding and administration of 
£1.4 million (2015: £3.7 million). The result  
in 2015 benefited from profits from sales of 
investments of £6.6 million.
2016 2015 2014 2013
Linden Homes operating margin %
13.3
16.0
17.5
15.1
2016 2015 2014 2013
Partnerships operating margin % 
1.4
2.9
3.9
2.1
2016 2015 2014 2013
Construction operating margin %
1.6
1.2
1.1
1.0 28 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Exceptional items
There were no exceptional items in the  
year. Exceptional costs in 2015 were  
£3.7 million and related to the integration  
of Miller Construction.
Taxation
We adopt a clear and transparent approach 
to taxation and avoid aggressive techniques 
to reduce our tax bill.
The effective tax rate was 19.3% (2015: 19.0%), 
slightly below the standard corporate tax rate 
of 20%. We believe our effective tax rate will 
continue to be just below the headline rate of 
corporation tax in future years, mainly reflecting 
the tax effect of joint venture reporting. 
Earnings and dividend
Earnings per share increased by 14%  
to 132.5 pence (2015 (pre-exceptional):  
1 16.3 pence). Details of the calculation of 
earnings per share can be found in note 8  
to the financial statements. 
The directors are recommending a final 
dividend of 56.0 pence per share which, 
subject to approval at the AGM, will be paid 
on 23 November 2016 to shareholders on  
the register at 28 October 2016. 
Together with the interim dividend of 26.0 
pence per share paid in April, this will result  
in a total dividend in respect of the year of 
82.0 pence per share, an increase of 21% 
over the previous year. The total dividend  
is 1.6 times covered by earnings.
The cost of the final dividend is £46.4 million, 
resulting in a total dividend cost relating to  
the year of £67 .9 million. 
Cash and equity
Managing cash is a critical focus for  
the Group. Net debt at the year end was  
£8.7 million (2015: £17 .3 million). Cash 
balances in Construction stood at £161. 1 
million at the same date (2015: £172.7 million). 
We continue to enjoy strong support from  
our syndicate banks, and during the year we 
increased our revolving credit facility by £50 
million, to £450 million, on the same terms.
Group average net debt during the year  
was £204 million, in line with our strategy  
to 2018. The year end net capital employed  
in developments and joint ventures in Linden 
Homes was £750 million (2015: £722 million), 
and in Partnerships was £66 million  
(2015: £47 million). 
We continue to purchase land on deferred 
payment terms where possible. We have 
reviewed our policy on land creditors to bring 
this into line with our sector peer companies, 
which has resulted in a deferral of the point  
of recognition of these assets and liabilities, as 
explained in note 1 to the financial statements, 
and we have restated the 2015 balance sheet 
accordingly. Land creditors stated on the 
revised basis were £202.8 million, a reduction 
of £22.0 million compared with the previous 
year. There was a similar reduction on the 
previous basis, as per note 1.
Total equity increased by £30.8 million  
to £600.0 million, while tangible net assets 
increased by £65.0 million to £447 .8 million. 
This represented net assets per share at  
30 June 2016 of £7 .24 (2015: £6.92) and 
tangible net assets per share of £5.40  
(2015: £5.02).
Group return on net assets, which is 
pre-exceptional profit before tax, finance 
costs and amortisation, divided by average 
net assets, increased to 25.3% from 23.3%, 
reflecting profit growth across the Group.  
This year we have enhanced our disclosure 
by providing a segmental split of our balance 
sheet, as shown in note 2 in the financial 
statements, enabling us to refine our 
estimation of divisional return on net assets.
Financial review continued
Capital structure and funding
The Group is funded by ordinary shares, 
retained profits and a single bank facility. 
During the year, we increased our bank 
facility by £50 million to £450 million,  
on the same terms. The facility expires in 
2020 and provides the funding we need 
for our growth strategy. We are targeting 
period-end gearing of no more than 
30%, with average and peak levels  
well below our covenants. Our joint 
ventures also use bank funding, which 
was £64 million at 30 June 2016 and  
has limited recourse to the Group.
We have two interest rate swaps, one  
for £100 million at 1.4%, which runs until 
2020, and a second for £75 million at 
1.5%, which expires in 2017 . The swaps 
lock in low interest rates and give us 
certainty about the cost of a large 
portion of our debt.
Our hybrid business model reduces  
our reliance on external funding. 
Construction generates cash, which 
helps fund our continued investment in 
Linden Homes and increasing investment 
in Partnerships. The Construction 
business had an average cash balance  
of £93 million during the year. 
Net assets in Linden Homes increased 
to £130. 1 million and in Partnerships  
to £31.9 million, as set out in note 2,  
in line with our growth ambitions. In both 
businesses we continue to optimise the 
deployment of capital by means of joint 
ventures, which both reduce our capital 
investment and diversify specific location 
risk. In a land market that continues to 
be favourable we also take advantage  
of deferred land payments in order to 
minimise working capital and improve 
our returns. 29 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Pension and share scheme costs
The total pension cost charged to the  
income statement was £17 .3 million  
(2015: £14.4 million). 
Under IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ there  
is a deficit in the Group’s final salary  
pension schemes. This was calculated at  
30 June 2016 by an independent actuary. 
The gross deficit recognised on the balance 
sheet is £4.3 million (2015: £1.2 million 
surplus) with the deterioration driven by  
lower market discount rates, exacerbated  
in the days immediately following the EU 
referendum. 
During the year, the Final Salary scheme 
completed a £95 million buy-in transaction 
with a third party insurance company.  
The transaction exchanges some of the 
pension scheme assets for an insurance 
policy that more closely matches the 
scheme’s liabilities. The transaction is the  
latest in a series of steps the pension scheme 
Trustees have taken, with the support  
of the Group, to reduce risk in the investment 
portfolio of the pension scheme.
The last valuation of the Galliford Try Final 
Salary scheme, at 1 July 2012, showed  
a deficit of £33.7 million. The latest valuations 
of the Group’s other schemes showed a 
deficit of £1.6 million. During the year, the 
Group made deficit funding payments of  
£6.6 million to the schemes. Further details  
of the Group’s pension arrangements can be 
found in note 30 to the financial statements. 
Amounts charged to the income statement  
in respect of employee share schemes 
amounted to £4.0 million in 2016. Further 
details can be found in note 27 to the  
financial statements. 
Treasury management and  
financial instruments
The Group operates under treasury policies 
and procedures approved by the Board.  
Our financial instruments principally comprise 
bank borrowings, interest rate swaps, and 
cash and liquid resources that arise directly 
from our operations. We do not trade in 
financial instruments. 
The Group’s bank facility is subject to 
covenants in respect of interest cover,  
gearing and minimum consolidated tangible 
assets. We continue to operate well within 
these covenants. 
We have rigorous controls to ensure that  
we maintain borrowings at an acceptable 
level. Each day, we aggregate the bank 
balances or borrowings in all the Group’s 
operating companies into a total cash or 
borrowing figure, so we can obtain the  
most advantageous offset arrangements  
and interest rate. 
The main risk arising from our financial 
instruments is interest rate risk. While our 
policy is to accept a degree of interest rate 
risk, in 2012 the Group entered into a five-year 
swap agreement to fix the interest rate of  
£75 million of borrowings at 1.5% for five 
years. In 2015, we took out a second interest 
rate swap to fix the interest rate on a further 
£100 million of borrowings at 1.4% for five 
years. This hedge matures in February 2020, 
at the same time as our bank facility. 
Virtually all of our activities take place in the 
UK and the Group had no material foreign 
currency exposure as at 30 June 2016.
Maximum credit risk exposure
The directors consider that the maximum 
credit risk exposure in each class of financial 
asset is represented by the carrying value  
as at 30 June 2016. Further information  
can be found in notes 18 and 25 to the 
financial statements. 
Contingent liabilities
The directors ensure that contingent liabilities, 
as described in note 32 to the financial 
statements, are appropriately assessed, 
documented and monitored.
Going concern
The Group’s statement of going concern, 
together with further related information,  
can be found in the Directors’ Report on  
page 77 . The principal risks and uncertainties 
that could affect the Group’s future financial 
performance are detailed on pages 18  
to 21.
Critical accounting policies and 
assumptions
The Group’s principal accounting policies  
are set out in note 1 to the financial 
statements, together with a description of  
the key estimates and judgments affecting the 
application of those policies and amounts 
reported in the financial statements. There 
were no significant changes to the Group’s 
critical accounting policies or assumptions in 
the year, although we have updated our land 
acquisition policy as set out above.
Graham Prothero 
Finance Director 30 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategy  
Our strategy and performance against targets 
can be found on pages 14 to 17 .
Market 
In 2014, the Government estimated that  
circa 250,000 new homes would be needed 
each year to meet the demands of the UK’s 
growing population. The number of units 
completed has been well below this in recent 
years, with total completions in the year 
ending on 31 March 2016 estimated at 
139,690
1
 homes. 
Regional demand also varies, depending  
on local economies and job markets,  
as demonstrated in recent years by the 
market in London and the South East,  
where Linden Homes has a strong presence.
Business review 
Linden Homes
This was another good year for Linden Homes. 
We increased our revenue and margins, 
benefiting from a rigorous drive for efficiency , 
and maintained our landbank.
South East 1,057
South West 1,049
North/Midlands/East 972
3,078
Completions by region
Private 2,487
Affordable 591
Completions by sector
3,078
PERFORMANCE
HIGHLIGHTS
2016 2015
Revenue (£m) 840.8 779.0
Profit from operations (£m) 147.2 124.3
Operating profit margin (%) 17.5 16.0
Completions 3,078 2,769
 5 3,078 completions (2015: 2,769) producing an 8% increase  
in revenue to £841 million (2015: £779 million).
 5 Significant margin increase to 17 .5% (2015: 16.0%). 
 5 Sales per outlet up 2% on last year, with 27% growth in  
sales carried forward to £380 million (2015: £300 million).
 5 Linden Homes landbank of 1 1,500 plots (2015: 13,550 plots)  
with a 14,200 total Group landbank (2015: 15,750 plots).
 5 100% of land required for 2017 financial year in place and  
84% of land secured for 2018.
 5 Restructuring implemented generating annualised savings  
of over £5 million from FY 2017 .
01. Home @ Heartlands, Cornwall
1  Source: Department for Communities and  
Local Government (DCLG). 31 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Housing supply is heavily influenced by  
the planning environment. Over the last few 
years, changes such as the introduction  
of the National Planning Policy Framework 
have improved approval rates, with the latest 
Homes Builders Federation (HBF) figures 
showing planning approvals in the 12 months 
ended September 2015 were 243,000, up 
from 234,000 a year earlier. However,  
while most local authorities are supportive  
of housebuilding, the process of obtaining 
detailed planning permission can still be  
slow, with the shortage of planning officers 
contributing to delays.
The availability and terms of mortgages are 
important drivers of demand. Both remained 
favourable this year, with the number of loans 
issued in the 12 months ended June 2016 
rising to circa 835,000
2
 (2015: 753,000), while 
average mortgage rates also remained low.
Government policies such as Help to Buy 
and the proposed Starter Homes initiative 
continued to support this demand during  
the past financial year. 
While homes for private sale remained  
the largest proportion of the new build 
market, there was a growing demand  
for affordable housing. 
Performance  
Linden Homes benefited from a robust 
housing market throughout the year, 
underpinned by supply shortage, ample 
availability of low-cost mortgages, and  
a land market that remained positive.  
Linden Homes increased its revenue by  
8% to £840.8 million, benefiting from an  
1 1% rise in completions to 3,078  
(2015: 2,769). Private housing completions 
accounted for 2,487 of the total (2015: 2,059), 
with 591 affordable housing completions 
(2015: 710). Excluding our joint venture 
partners’ share, completions were 2,691 
against 2,566 in 2015.
The average selling price for private housing 
rose by 2% to £335,000. The average selling 
price for affordable homes was £1 13,000 
(2015: £120,000).
We had an average of 80 active selling sites, 
up significantly from 62 in 2015. Sales  
per site per week were excellent at 0.62, 
compared with 0.61 in 2015. Cancellation 
rates remained at 17% (2015: 17%). Sales  
in hand at the year end stood at a record  
£380 million (2015: £300 million).
Driving margin improvement was a key  
focus of the year in Linden Homes. The  
gross margin rose to 23.8% (2015: 22.5%), 
contributing to an operating margin of 17 .5%, 
up from 16.0% in 2015. Excluding land sales 
(which mainly represented transfers into 
strategic joint ventures), the operating margin 
was 16.2% (2015: 14.7%).
We continued to roll out the Linden Homes 
Layouts, which provide templates for the 
interiors of our homes and allow us to benefit 
from a more standardised procurement and 
construction process. 
02. Camomile Lawn, Devon
02. 
Driving improvement through  
the Linden Homes Layouts (LHLs) 
Linden Homes is building a collection  
of new homes at Camomile Lawn 
consisting of two to five bedrooms.  
The range includes terraced, 
semi-detached and detached styles,  
all of which will use the new LHLs,  
a set of 33 carefully designed house 
types. Adopting LHLs provides a 
number of benefits for the business 
including cost efficiencies, consistent 
quality and reduced build times.
01. 
Committed to sustainability 
Linden Homes won silver in the category 
for ‘Sustainable Developer of the Year’  
at the 2015 What House? Awards in 
recognition of making improvements  
in every area scored. Among other 
things, Linden Homes was praised  
for developing a Sustainability Route 
Map to measure performance against 
targets in key areas of sustainability,  
and for taking a fabric-first approach 
which is credited with homes 
‘overwhelmingly’ achieving a ‘B’  
Energy Performance Certificate. 
2  Source: Office for National Statistics. 32 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
A significant focus on rationalising our 
operating processes generate annualised 
savings of over £5 million from FY 2017 ,  
and was broadly neutral in FY 2016, while 
retaining capacity to grow unit numbers.  
For example, to enhance our sales and 
marketing processes we have created 
standard designs for marketing suites, 
standardised brochures and have 
streamlined our signage. This helps 
customers to make buying decisions, gives 
more prominence to the Linden Homes 
brand at our sites and reduces costs.
To support our growth, we launched a 
second business in Yorkshire in July 2016. 
This builds on our successful acquisition  
of Shepherd Homes in 2015 and increases 
our presence in the North of England. 
The land market remains positive, allowing us 
to continue to secure plots in strong locations 
at robust hurdle rates. We are mindful that 
the business needs to retain flexibility, 
therefore, we will carefully evaluate and 
cautiously approach all landbank investments 
until the impact of the EU referendum 
becomes clearer. At the year end, Linden 
Homes’ landbank stood at 1 1,500 plots 
(2015: 13,550 plots), as we followed our 
strategy of maintaining a landbank equivalent 
to three-and-a-half to four years’ supply. 
Partnerships owned a further 2,700 plots  
at the year end, giving us a Group landbank 
of 14,200 plots. The figure represents  
the number of plots we own and control, 
including sites under option but excluding 
longer-term strategic options. 80% of the 
total private landbank is houses with the 
remainder apartments. Linden Homes’ 
average cost per plot is £73,000 and  
the expected average selling price per  
plot is £310,000. 
The gross development value of our landbank 
decreased by £0.3 billion to £3.6 billion (2015: 
£3.9 billion). Our strategic land holdings stood 
at 1,775 acres at the year end (2015: 1,500 
acres) and we expect to generate in excess  
of 9,500 plots from this land.
We are proud to have retained our NHBC 
four star customer satisfaction rating for 
another year. Our customer satisfaction rating 
increased to 83.5% (2015: 80%) and our  
net promoter score rose to 20.3 (2015: 5.8). 
We recognise the importance of engaging 
and supporting local communities and 
continue to promote our activities in this  
area via The Linden Homes Foundation.  
Our successful approach to communities 
and the wider sustainability agenda is 
reflected in our Silver awards from the 
NextGeneration benchmark and What 
House?, the latter being in the ‘Sustainable 
Developer of the Year’ category.
Management
With effect from 9 August 2016, Andrew 
Hammond and Tom Nicholson were 
respectively appointed to the roles of 
Divisional Chairman West and Divisional 
Chairman East in Linden Homes.
Business review continued
Linden Homes
01. Wilshere Park, Welwyn 33 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Affordable housing and regeneration
In addition to our Partnerships and 
Regeneration business (see pages 34 to 37), 
Linden Homes develops affordable homes, 
which are often a condition of obtaining 
planning permission. We sell a large majority 
of these affordable homes to housing 
associations, which typically pay us during 
the construction phase and help to optimise 
the cash contribution.
The business continued to perform well, 
despite the impact of the Government’s  
rent reforms on our housing association 
clients’ budgets. We worked hard with our 
clients to accommodate changes to their 
plans, rebalancing the tenure mix in order  
to maintain delivery of our affordable  
housing output.
Registered providers are increasingly looking 
to partner with the private sector, which can 
give them access to marketing expertise, 
land acquisition and production efficiencies. 
The market is evolving away from single- 
site joint ventures towards establishing  
a development company with a number  
of active sites. We have joint ventures with 
housing associations including Thames 
Valley, Aster Group, Home Group and Devon 
& Cornwall Housing. Projects through our 
joint ventures now have a gross development 
value of £2.5 billion and are set to deliver 
9,000 homes.
During the year, we extended our joint 
venture activity with Aster Group and  
Home Group and created new ventures  
with Affinity Sutton and Sanctuary Housing, 
one of the UK’s largest registered providers. 
Our focus is on working with a small number 
of housing associations and we have 
concentrated on enhancing our internal 
expertise and infrastructure to deliver joint 
venture opportunities. There is an 
opportunity to extend joint venture working  
to local authorities, as they take forward their 
commissioning role.
We continue to be successful in securing 
public sector land releases through the 
Homes & Communities Agency’s Delivery 
Partner Panel and the London Development 
Panel. We develop this land through our  
joint ventures or directly via Linden Homes  
or Partnerships.
Outlook
The long-term underinvestment in housing 
and demand for private homes still exists 
regardless of any potential headwinds over 
the coming months. Linden Homes has  
a great brand, and is solidly positioned,  
with good locations, an appropriate 
landbank, and well-designed homes.  
We have the opportunity to grow further 
geographically, as we increase our presence 
in the North and the Midlands. While we  
will continue to create developments that  
are designed to complement their local area, 
we are using more standard floor plans and 
processes to increase profitability. Overall, 
Linden Homes is well placed to exploit the 
opportunities that will arise.
02. Velare Place, Sunbury-on-Thames
03. Supporting Women in Property
01. 
Delivering wider benefits through 
The Linden Homes Foundation  
We remain committed to delivering  
a sustainable approach to building  
for the benefit of our customers, the 
community and the environment.  
Now in its fourth year, The Linden 
Homes Foundation allows communities 
to request support from us with the  
aim to bring real-life benefits of 
housebuilding in their neighbourhoods. 
Our work is showcased through  
The Foundation’s website at  
www.lindenhomes.co.uk/foundation.
02. 
Customers at Velare Place, 
Sunbury-on-Thames 
We are playing our part to boost the 
supply of new homes by informing the 
debate as well as building new homes. 
We strongly back initiatives such as  
Help to Buy, have supported the 
devolution agenda and, in London,  
we published a manifesto setting out 
recommendations which will help 
developers to build new homes.
03. 
Supporting Women in Property  
As part of our future talent programme, 
Linden Homes is sponsoring the 
National Student Awards run by the 
Association of Women in Property  
(WiP), an organisation which works  
with businesses and other organisations 
to help redress the gender imbalance  
in the sector.
Linden Homes 34 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategy  
Our strategy and performance against targets 
can be found on pages 14 and 17 .
Market 
Partnerships delivers contracting services  
to housing associations and local authorities, 
building affordable homes on their behalf,  
and is increasingly a developer of mixed-
tenure projects, which includes private 
housing for sale.
For the last three decades, the UK has 
underinvested in affordable housing,  
creating a historic deficit, relying on various 
mechanisms for supply. 
The supply of new affordable homes rose  
by over 50% in 2015 to 67 ,000 homes  
(2014: 43,000)
1
. Housing associations are  
the main procurers of affordable homes and 
although some local authorities are increasing 
their provision, they remain a comparatively 
small part of the market.
Business review 
Partnerships and 
Regeneration
Data TBC Data TBC
Partnerships and Regeneration delivered 
strong growth in mixed-tenure revenues  
and operating margin.
 5 Growth in mixed-tenure revenue to £67 million from  
526 completions (2015: £56 million and 408 respectively).
 5 Contracting revenue lower at £234 million (2015: £273 million), 
slightly constrained by procurement delays following the 
Governments’s rent reforms.
 5 Margin improving to 3.9% (2015: 2.9%).
 5 Growth in landbank to 2,700 (2015: 2,200) plots).
 5 New Bristol office opened in July 2016 and a new  
Central Southern office planned for FY 2017 . 
 5 Contracting order book of £850 million (2015: £825 million)  
and mixed-tenure sales carried forward of £45 million.
 5 Partnerships and Regeneration teams merged to enhance 
strategic and operational focus. 
North £297m
South East £402m
Central £120m
South West £31m
Order book
£850m
Contracting £233.9m
Mixed-tenure £66.7m
£300.6m
Revenue
2016 2015
Revenue (£m) 300.6 329.4
Profit from operations (£m) 11.7 9.4
Operating profit margin (%) 3.9 2.9
Completions 526 408
Equivalent contracting units 1,600 1,800
Order book (£m) 850 825
PERFORMANCE
01. 765 Finchley Road, North West London
HIGHLIGHTS
1  Source: Department for Communities and  
Local Government. 35 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
The Government’s rent reforms significantly 
reduced housing associations’ budgets, 
slowing their procurement of contracting 
services while they reassessed their plans. 
The rent reforms are likely to increase the 
attraction of mixed-tenure schemes, allowing 
housing associations to cross-subsidise 
affordable homes by producing some 
housing for private sale. The reforms are  
also encouraging mergers between housing 
associations, making the enlarged 
organisations some of the biggest providers 
of homes in the country. These changes 
make our proposition in Partnerships an 
attractive choice, given our capabilities.
Performance 
There was some disruption to our registered 
provider clients’ procurement activities in  
the first half of the year, as they reassessed 
their business plans in light of the 
Government’s rent reforms, however, 
revenue from mixed-tenure developments 
continued to grow strongly. As a result,  
£66.7 million or 22% of Partnerships’  
revenue in the year came from mixed-tenure 
developments, with the remaining  
£233.9 million from contracting. 
We completed 526 private units at an 
average selling price of £166,000 and around 
1,600 equivalent contracting units. Profit  
from operations rose from £9.4 million to 
£1 1.7 million representing a margin of 3.9%  
(2015: 2.9%).
The increase in mixed-tenure revenue was 
the primary driver of the margin increase,  
as we successfully implemented our strategy 
to invest cash generated by the business’ 
contracting operations, as well as the £30 
million of debt funding we have previously 
announced. Partnerships ended the year 
with mixed-tenure sales carried forward of 
£45 million (2015: £43 million) and a landbank 
of 2,700 plots (2015: 2,200). The business 
achieved planning consent on nine mixed-
tenure sites during the year.
Despite the pause in our clients’ procurement 
activities in the first half, Partnerships  
won new contracting work during the  
year. The business continued its successful 
relationship with the ExtraCare Charitable 
Trust and was contracted to build a  
£45 million Extra Care village in High 
Wycombe, and the £42 million Stoke  
Gifford Retirement Village. 
Partnerships was also one of six contractors 
appointed to North Yorkshire County 
Council’s Extra Care Housing Programme 
Framework, which has an anticipated value 
of up to £650 million over six years, and was 
selected for five of the eight lots available 
under the Hyde Housing Group Main 
Contractor Framework Agreement. The 
framework is anticipated to be worth up to  
£1 billion. Overall, Partnerships’ contracting 
order book increased by 3% to £850 million 
at the year end (2015: £825 million).
01. 
Delivery of high quality 
mixed-tenure homes 
765 Finchley Road is a development  
for Affinity Sutton comprising 80  
new high-quality mixed-tenure  
homes. It builds on our already strong 
relationship with Affinity Sutton  
and underlines our commitment to 
deliver both affordable and private 
homes for sale.
02. 
Supporting our people 
One of our biggest strengths as  
a business is the quality of our people. 
Testament to this, Sue Bamgboye,  
a Project Quantity Surveyor in our 
Partnerships business, was a finalist for 
a Women In Construction & Engineering 
award. Sue has been supported by the 
business since joining in 2010 and is 
now a mentor to other young people, 
and particularly women, in the Group.
02. Supporting Women In Construction & Engineering 36 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Business review continued
Partnerships  
and Regeneration
Management 
With effect from 1 July 2016, we combined 
our Affordable Housing & Regeneration 
teams with Partnerships in order to build 
upon the complementary knowledge and 
expertise within both businesses. This will 
allow us to strengthen our strategic offering  
in this area while providing greater clarity  
to clients and investors. Stephen Teagle 
became Chief Executive of the enlarged 
Partnerships and Regeneration business  
also with effect from 1 July 2016.
Geographical expansion is a key part of 
Partnerships’ growth strategy. We opened 
our new office in Bristol in July 2016, giving 
us six offices across England and South 
Wales, and plan to open a new Central 
Southern office in FY 2017 , and further 
offices over the coming years. Strong 
regional businesses and sector knowledge 
are critical elements of our sustainable 
growth plans. We also see opportunities  
to grow in the private rental sector and  
are in discussions with investors and  
local authorities who are interested in 
commissioning schemes.
We continued to look for ways to improve  
our efficiency and effectiveness. This 
included rolling out the Linden Homes 
Layouts, which we jointly developed with 
Linden Homes and which also include 
standard layouts for affordable homes. 
To support our business strategy growth, we 
developed our own Business Management 
System (BMS). Partnerships had previously 
used Construction’s BMS, which included  
a wide range of processes that were not core 
to our business, such as those relating to 
infrastructure projects. This has allowed us  
to reduce the number of processes in our 
system by half, and to add new processes 
such as those covering land buying which we 
drew from Linden Homes. The system was 
accredited to BS 1 1001 in October 2015.
Business improvements for next year  
will include reviewing our customer care 
processes to ensure a consistently high level 
of care across the business. We carefully 
monitor customer satisfaction, through 
NHBC surveys on mixed-tenure projects  
and client questionnaires for contracting.  
We will also work with our supply chain  
to ensure proper recovery of costs for 
rectifying defects.
Strong community relationships are critical 
for us, given the nature of our business.  
We were therefore pleased to run a pilot  
for the Considerate Constructors Scheme’s 
new Ultra Site initiative. We are one of six 
organisations trialling this concept, which 
aims to raise industry standards and 
collaboration among clients, contractors, 
subcontractors and suppliers. We were also 
pleased to win our first Gold award under  
the Considerate Constructors Scheme,  
for our Grange Avenue project near Preston. 
Outlook 
We see excellent prospects for the 
Partnerships business and intend to set 
ambitious growth plans over the next three 
years. There are significant opportunities  
to capture investment in the private rental, 
mixed-tenure, affordable housing and 
regeneration sectors. Building on our 
experience and relationships with public 
sector commissioners, we will use our  
skills in housebuilding and placemaking  
to deliver an increase in the number of new 
homes we provide. 
01. Great Eastern Quays in East London 37 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
01. 
Specialising in regeneration  
in Partnerships 
In our largest ever single project, we are 
building the £81 million Great Eastern 
Quays project in East London on behalf 
of Notting Hill Housing. The regeneration 
scheme involves creating up to 350 
mixed-tenure homes, as well as 
developing public spaces alongside  
the river and the docks, business,  
retail and leisure areas.
02. 
Improving the image of 
construction 
As a Group, we once again 
demonstrated our commitment to 
improving the image of construction  
with 30 Considerate Constructors 
Scheme (CCS) National Site Awards  
and Runner Up prize for ‘Most 
Considerate Site of the Year’ . We are 
proud to have gone one step further  
and demonstrated industry-leading  
best practice at Protheroe House in  
East London, which has been selected 
as an Ultra Site pilot for CCS.
02. Protheroe House, East London
Partnerships  
and Regeneration
MARKET OPPORTUNITY
Current operating areas
Potential operating area
We are setting ambitious plans to 
take advantage of the significant 
opportunities in the private rental, 
mixed-tenure, affordable housing 
and regeneration sectors to 
support our strategy for growth. 
1. Newcastle
2. Warrington
3. Wolvey
4. Chelmsford 
5. Bristol 
6. Exeter
1
2
3
4
5
6 38 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Business review 
Construction
We delivered a strong performance in 
Construction, with an increase in revenue,  
while managing our margin and cash  
position, and remaining selective about  
the opportunities we take on.
 5 Construction margin of 1. 1% from revenue of £1,503 million  
(2015: 1.2% and £1,293 million respectively).
 5 Order book of £3.5 billion (2015: £3.5 billion).
 5 82% of this year’s planned revenue secured (2015: 88%).
 5 Cash continues to be strong at £161 million (2015: £173 million).
2016 2015
Revenue (£m) 1,503.4 1,293.2
Profit from operations (£m) 15.8 15.7
Operating profit margin (%) 1.1 1.2
Order book (£bn) 3.5 3.5
HIGHLIGHTS
PERFORMANCE
Building £1,013.8m
Infrastructure £489.6m
Revenue by division
£1,503.4m
Building £2,340m
Infrastructure £1,160m
£3.5bn
Order book by division
Strategy
Our strategy and performance against targets 
can be found on pages 14 to 17 .
Market 
Over the year to 30 June 2016, the 
construction market continued to generate an 
improving pipeline of projects, although at a 
slower rate than previously anticipated. Build 
cost increases moderated, and the availability 
of skilled labour improved across all regions.
The Government’s pipeline of economic  
and social infrastructure work was positive, 
covering all the key sectors in which  
we operate including the public and  
regulated sectors which represent 89%  
of our order book.
In regulated markets including water,  
rail and energy, where clients are often 
required to invest in line with the plans they 
agree with their regulators, demand was 
stable and we improved our order book,  
with good visibility on projected revenue for 
FY 2017 and FY 2018. 
01. Black Rock Specialist Training facility near Portishead 39 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
01. 
Award-winning construction 
We gained recognition from both RIBA 
and RICS at their regional awards for  
the work we did in delivering a specialist 
firearms training facility for Avon & 
Somerset Police Authority. The unique 
facility near Portishead provides a centre 
to train UK and overseas professionals 
with a 50m and 100m firing range, 
tactical training areas and office space.
In the public sector, there were high levels  
of anticipated spend in education and in 
defence-related work, such as repurposing 
old sites for the defence estate, which we 
benefited from. 
Many public sector clients procure through 
frameworks. Gaining positions on these  
has been a key focus of our Construction 
business, and this continued throughout  
the year.
The private sector market remained steady, 
with opportunities in the commercial sector 
where work came through in London and  
the surrounding areas, such as Thames 
Valley, and activity in other major cities  
such as Birmingham. 
Performance
Construction performed well and delivered 
revenue growth and margins in line with  
our expectations. 
Revenue was 16% higher at £1,503.4  
million (2015: £1,293.2 million), with the 
increase driven by both the Building  
and Infrastructure businesses. 
We continue to focus on risk management, 
margin and targeting work with acceptable 
returns. Operating margin was 1. 1% 
compared to 1.2% in 2015, benefiting from 
new projects being won at appropriate 
margins and including inflation allowances. 
Legacy contracts continued to constrain 
margins. Due to the finalisation of these 
contracts and the settlement of their final 
accounts, these contracts are unlikely to 
achieve the levels of margin at which we are 
now winning work, and will consequently 
hold back the reported figure in FY 2017 .
Cash remains a prime focus in Construction 
and we continued to manage it carefully.  
Year end cash balances in Construction were 
£161. 1 million, representing 1 1% of revenue 
(2015: £173 million and 13% respectively).
At 30 June 2016, our order book was  
£3.5 billion (2015: £3.5 billion). Of this,  
73% was in the public sector (2015: 72%), 
16% was in regulated industries (2015: 15%) 
and 1 1% was in the private sector (2015: 
13%). Importantly, 7 4% of our order book  
is in frameworks (2015: 69%), which is an 
unprecedented position for us. The level of 
work we generate through frameworks is  
a significant advantage, as they allow us  
to work collaboratively with clients, gain a 
deep understanding of their needs and build 
expertise through delivering repeat projects. 
Our approach to collaboration, which  
has been accredited to BS 1 1000, makes  
us attractive to public and regulated sector 
clients who often procure through 
frameworks. We continue to enhance  
the way we work and will be introducing  
a new platform for our Business 
Management System which covers the  
full range of processes employed across 
Construction, including commercial and 
quality management processes, best 
practice and lessons learned. The new 
platform will make this content both easier  
to access and to use, helping us to drive 
consistency across the business and deliver 
better outcomes for clients.
While conditions in the supply chain are 
easing, there remains strong competition  
for particular capabilities such as building 
services and people with project 
management and commercial skills.  
This requires us to be selective about the 
work we take on, only accepting contracts 
we have the capacity to deliver. We want  
to be a preferred client for our key supply 
chain partners, and we piloted an initiative 
called ‘Advantage through Alignment’ in our 
Southern business this summer. This gives 
our key suppliers visibility of our pipeline  
and helps them to plan their workload.  
We are also using technology to enhance 
collaboration between us, our clients and  
our supply chain. 
Other important initiatives include ‘Delivering 
Excellence’, which focuses on quality and  
the use of technology such as Building 
Information Modelling to handover defect  
and snag-free buildings to our clients.  
The programme is currently being piloted 
and we intend to embed it in our way of 
doing business. We are also engaging with 
clients to understand their business plans, 
what their expectations of us are and  
how our capabilities can help deliver their 
objectives. This aligns with our collaborative 
approach and our focus on risk 
management. Looking forward, we want  
to embed a lean mindset in everything we 
do, helping us to drive out process waste  
at every opportunity.
We and our clients, particularly those in  
the public sector, have a strong focus on 
delivering community benefits. We work  
hard to employ local people, including 
apprentices, and aspire to more closely align 
the diversity of our employees to that of the 
communities we work in. Our success with 
the Considerate Constructors Scheme also 
reflects our community focus, with two of  
our projects winning Gold awards this year. 40 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Building 
2016 2015
Revenue (£m) 1,013.8 906.9
Profit from operations (£m) 9.0 8.0
Operating profit margin (%) 0.9 0.9
Order book (£m) 2,340 2,390
Business review continued
Construction
During the year, Building secured a number 
of key projects and continued to implement 
its framework strategy. It won a place on  
the Ministry of Defence’s South West and 
South East Next Generation Estate Contracts 
regional frameworks, which are worth up to 
£1 billion in total over four years. Building was 
also appointed to the YORbuild2 framework, 
which covers 91 local authorities in the North 
of England and has a potential pipeline of 
approximately £1.9 billion over four years.
Education frameworks continue to provide  
a healthy pipeline of work and we are now  
a key contractor to the Education Funding 
Agency (EFA). We reached financial close 
with the EFA for the £48.5 million North and 
North East Lincolnshire batch of schools  
and the £41.9 million Greenwich, Lewisham 
and Croydon batch. 
Other notable wins in the education sector 
included a contract with Birmingham  
City University to build the £46 million 
Conservatoire, a £62 million contract with 
Newcastle University to construct the  
Park View Student Village and a £40 million 
contract to provide student accommodation 
at Coventry University.
The Scottish Hub operations are also busy  
in education and in healthcare, including  
the award of the £55 million Anderson  
High School in the Shetland Islands,  
the £43.3 million construction of the new 
Largs education campus for North Ayrshire 
Council and the £72 million East Lothian 
Community Hospital.
In the commercial building sector, we won  
a £66 million contract to construct the  
2 Arena Central building in Birmingham, 
which will include 210,000 sq ft of office 
space. We were also awarded a £40 million 
contract to construct 185,000 sq ft of  
office space in the Forbury Place 
development in Reading. 
01. Alphabeta in Central London
Education Funding Agency (EFA) 
Contractors Framework  
(North and South)
Next Generation Estate Contracts 
(NGEC) Regional Capital Works 
Framework with Defence  
Infrastructure Organisation
ProCure22 NHS Procurement 
Framework
Southern Construction Framework 
covering the South West, South East 
and London, and North West 
Construction Hub
Crown Commercial Services Facilities 
Management Framework
Positions on Hub North, South East  
and South West in Scotland
Key framework positions  
in Building
01. 
Leading in the commercial sector 
Our track record in the commercial 
sector was showcased at the British 
Council for Offices London and  
South East Awards.
The major structural refurbishment of  
an iconic City building, now known  
as Alphabeta, won ‘Refurbished/
Recycled Workplace of the Year’ .
PERFORMANCE 41
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Infrastructure
2016 2015
Revenue (£m) 489.6 386.3
Profit from operations (£m) 6.8 7.7
Operating profit margin (%) 1.4 2.0
Order book (£m) 1,160 1,110
Infrastructure secured several significant  
wins during the year. Our joint venture with 
Costain was appointed as a delivery partner 
by Highways England for its Smart 
Motorways programme, which has a total 
framework value of £1.5 billion. The joint 
venture has been allocated three 
construction packages, with a value to 
Galliford Try of more than £180 million.
The water frameworks in England, Scotland 
and Wales are well underway and we  
have been awarded a £75 million package  
of biomass energy plants. In addition, 
Manchester Airports Group, Network Rail 
and Environment Agency frameworks all 
continue to provide good workstreams.
Infrastructure was also appointed to a new 
framework for the North East Procurement 
Organisation, which represents 12 local 
authorities in the region. The framework  
has a total value of between £900 million  
and £1.2 billion over four years.
In addition, we secured a three-year 
extension to our Urban Vision joint venture 
with Salford City Council and Capita.  
Urban Vision provides technical services  
to the council. The extension is worth up  
to £30 million to Galliford Try.
Construction
02. Queensferry Crossing, Firth of Forth
02. 
Queensferry Crossing,  
Firth of Forth 
We continue to make good progress on 
the Queensferry Crossing over the Firth 
of Forth. It is the largest infrastructure 
project in Scotland for a generation and 
the single largest project let by Transport 
Scotland to date. We have worked with 
Transport Scotland for more than 30 
years, reflecting our desire and ability  
to form long-term partnerships with our 
clients and our ability to deliver schemes 
of national distinction.
Highways England Capital  
Delivery Framework
Manchester Airports Group  
Capital Delivery Framework
AMP6 – Yorkshire Water,  
Scottish Water and Southern Water
North East Procurement Organisation
Smart Motorways
Key framework positions  
in Infrastructure
Photo courtesy of FCBC
PERFORMANCE 42 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
During the year, we invested £6.6 million  
in equity and disposed of investments, 
generating an aggregate profit on disposal  
of £0.5 million, compared to a £6.6 million 
profit on disposal in 2015. 
The directors’ valuation of our PPP  
portfolio was £21.5 million at 30 June  
2016, compared with a value invested  
of £16.2 million (2015 valuation: £18. 1 million, 
value invested: £10.2 million). 
In addition to making its own investments, 
PPP Investments continued to generate  
new work for our Building, Infrastructure  
and facilities management businesses,  
with projects closed during the year adding 
over £300 million to their order books.  
These projects included Anderson High 
School in the Shetland Islands, and Kelso  
& Newbattle high schools.
Our positions on three Hub frameworks in 
Scotland produced a healthy pipeline of work 
due to our performance and collaborative 
approach. There were delays to closing a 
number of PPP contracts in Scotland in the 
first half of the financial year while a public 
sector accounting classification issue was 
resolved. We took the opportunity to review 
opportunities in other markets and have 
developed new models for the student 
housing, energy service company and 
private rented sectors, which positions  
us well for the future.
Outlook 
The construction market is positive, not least 
because of the substantial infrastructure 
renewal required in the UK. However, the 
speed of some work coming through in the 
public sector remains slower than expected. 
While it is too early to predict how the 
construction market will perform following  
the EU referendum, our solid order book and 
focus on the public and regulated sectors 
give us a strong position going forward.  
We will remain disciplined in our approach. 
While it is desirable to maintain some scale  
of operations, we will always prioritise the 
quality of the order book over the quantity. 
PPP Investments 
2016 2015
Revenue (£m) 25.0 28.8
Profit/(loss) from operations (£m) (1.4) 3.7
Directors’ valuation (£m) 21.5 18.1
01. 
Bringing award-winning schemes 
to fruition 
Galashiels Transport Interchange,  
which was delivered by Hub South East 
Scotland for Scottish Borders Council, 
was named ‘Town Centre Regeneration 
Project of the Year’ at this year’s Scottish 
Property Awards.
01. Galashiels Transport Interchange
Business review continued
Construction 43 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 43
Being sustainable brings value to our business and stakeholders, 
and underpins everything we do. Our approach is strategic,  
based on systematically identifying, managing and mitigating our 
impact. We set key targets at a Group level and combine these 
with stakeholder and business aligned divisional targets in our 
Sustainability Route Maps. For another year , we have retained  
our membership of the FTSE4Good Index. 
Health and safety Our people Resources and relationships
Embedding health  
and safety into the  
core of our culture
Attracting and  
retaining the  
very best talent
Optimising resource 
efficiency and building 
mutually positive 
relationships
44 46 48
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Operating sustainably 44 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Management
Keeping our people safe and healthy is our number one 
priority. Our centralised Health, Safety and Sustainability 
(HS&S) function is independent of our business units and 
reports directly to the Executive Board. Across the business 
we retain around 65 HS&S professionals and a BS OHSAS 
18001 certified management system that covers the entire 
Group. Every site is subject to a monthly HS&S review,  
which covers on-site performance and – crucially – planning 
for safety in the next four weeks. Our behavioural safety 
programme, ‘Challenging Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour’ ,  
is central to our approach.
Sadly , despite our proactive approach, there was a fatality  
on one of our joint venture sites. A full investigation of this is 
underway and we are co-operating fully with all enquiries. 
Strong business growth and employee churn mean that we 
continue to be challenged by large numbers of new people  
on our sites. However , we believe that continued training  
and effective supervision, along with initiatives such as our 
‘Golden Rules’ and our new health and safety database,  
will help us to improve. We will also focus increasingly on 
health and wellbeing, building on initiatives we are currently 
trialling in our business.
Embedding health 
and safety into the 
core of our culture
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 44
Health and safety
Actual
2016
Target
2016
Actual
2015
Target
2015
Accident Frequency Rate 
(RIDDORs per 100,000 hours worked)
0.14
0.09
0.14 0.14
0.09
Actual
2016
Target
2016
Actual
2015
Target
2015
Accident Incident Rate 
(RIDDORs per 1,000 hours worked)
3.47
2.16
3.47
3.25
2.16
66
reportable RIDDOR 
accidents 
(2015: 64)
98,805
Safe Behaviour 
Discussions 
(2015: 71,108)
911
employees 
completed 
‘Challenging  
Beliefs, Affecting 
Behaviour’ training 
(2015: 968)
Key Performance Indicators
75
executive-led  
health, safety and 
environmental 
assessments 
(2015: 64)
0
prohibition or 
improvement  
notices received 
(2015: 0) 45 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
One of the most important developments in 
the last 12 months was the introduction of our 
new health and safety database. This gives  
us complete transparency of our performance 
by recording all site visits and tracking any 
incidents or accidents, with the results 
available to all lines of management. Site 
managers are alerted of actions they need  
to take and the Executive Board is informed 
on the day if any accidents occur. The system 
allows us to analyse trends quickly and 
dynamically, so we can spot patterns and 
identify root causes. This ensures we address 
issues and share the lessons learnt to prevent 
incidents happening again.
Performance 
transparency  
and analysis
Staying safe includes ensuring our people  
are not subjected to the consequences of 
drug and alcohol abuse. We have therefore 
embedded formal and robust random testing 
across the Group, with a zero tolerance policy 
for failed tests. The testing applies to everyone 
who works on a Galliford Try site or in our 
offices. This capability also supports our 
whistleblowing policy, allowing us to test 
people who appear to be under the influence.
Ensuring a  
safe working 
environment
We know that certain activities carry  
a greater risk of incidents or accidents  
on site. For example, working at height, 
excavations and underground services all 
need particular care. To help us address 
these risks, this year we launched our Golden 
Rules, covering the right approach to eight 
activities that we have identified as most likely 
to cause harm. In support of these rules,  
we have created directors’ guidance,  
which provides a list of questions our 
Executive Board members should ask  
when carrying out site safety visits. This helps 
them to assess the safety culture on site and 
reinforces to our people and subcontractors 
that the rules must be observed. A breach of 
the rules can lead to serious consequences, 
including disciplinary action.
Introducing the 
Golden Rules
45 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Initiatives 46 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 46
Gender
1
Ethnicity
1
Male Female White BME
2
Unknown
Total Group 4,357 1,334 2,884 149 2,658
Senior grades
3
249 19 202 3 63
1  Gender and ethnicity figures are based on employee numbers at year end  
5,691 rather than monthly average 5,696. Please also refer to pages 50 and 51  
for further information on the Board’s composition and gender diversity.
2 Black and Minority Ethnic (BME).
3  Includes levels 1-3 on our scale which encompasses directors, heads of 
disciplines and business leaders.
Attracting and 
retaining the  
very best talent
Our people
Management
Our people are critical to achieving our strategy. Over the last 
1 2 months, we have focused on five core people-related 
areas – strong leadership, proactive resourcing, developing 
high-performing and engaged teams, ensuring an efficient 
organisation, and offering effective reward and recognition. 
Key initiatives have focused on talent identification and 
development to make sure that we secure and retain the  
right talent throughout the organisation. The introduction of 
our own resource capability has enabled us to adopt a more 
proactive approach to talent identification, by directly building 
talent networks and communities so that we are less reliant 
on external recruiters. We have also enhanced our induction 
programme to offer a more tailored on-boarding approach to 
ensure all our employees get off to the best start. Diversity will 
continue to be an area of focus in the year ahead, reflecting its 
importance to our business and to our clients.
Actual
2016
Actual
2015
Employee churn rate %
(voluntary turnover against a benchmark of 15%) 
17.9%
17.9 18.1
Actual
2016
Target
2016
Actual
2015
Target
2015
Training days per employee
2.2
2.0
2.2
1.8
2.0
5,696
employees 
(2015: 5,268)
12,685
training days 
delivered 
(2015: 9,328)
4.3%
of the workforce are 
graduates/trainees 
(2015: 4.3%)
Key Performance Indicators 47 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 47
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
We value the importance of reputation  
and our stakeholders’ trust. To maintain  
that reputation we must continue to act 
responsibly, both as a Group and as 
individuals. This year we therefore re-
launched our Code of Conduct, which  
sets out principles and policies that will 
ensure we behave legally and morally.  
It outlines what we value, what that means 
and how we behave. It explains our 
responsibilities as a business and as 
individuals to our colleagues, customers, 
partners, our supply chain, the community 
and the environment, while serving as  
a reference point for how we approach 
potentially contentious matters. The 
importance of our Code of Conduct has  
been reinforced to both our employees  
and our supply chain partners.
Doing the  
right thing
We are committed to protecting and 
respecting the human rights of our employees 
and those who work in our supply chain.  
As a company operating within the UK and 
UK territories, the key human rights issue  
we face is equality, which we address with 
training for employees and by promoting  
a culture of inclusion. We also recognise the 
increasing risk of illegal workers and modern 
slavery and this year, in response to the 
Modern Slavery Act, we have increased  
the scrutiny of our supply chain and published 
our first Modern Slavery Statement. We 
believe that we have effective policies on 
social, community and human rights issues.
Protecting 
human rights
In an industry with high churn, succession 
planning and talent management were 
among the most important areas for us this 
year. Our succession planning runs from 
Board level down to our business units, 
ensuring we identify up-and-coming people 
and have a robust talent pipeline. This will 
allow us to run structured assessments so  
we can deliver the right training and provide 
suitable career paths. We have introduced  
a 360-feedback review and an outstanding 
leaders programme, and will soon launch  
our programme for emerging leaders.  
We continue to run Institute of Leadership 
Management courses and promote learning 
and development opportunities through  
The Galliford Try Academy, an online learning 
platform. In total, we provided over 12,000 
days of training in the year. New talent is  
also a major focus and we take up to 100 
graduates or trainees each year. In 2016,  
our graduate programme achieved an intake 
of 22% females and 31% from minority 
backgrounds. Over the last two years, 
Galliford Try has ranked in TheJobCrowd  
‘Top 100 Graduate Companies to Work for’. 
We also focus on apprentice and school-
leaver opportunities, which we aspire to  
build on in the next year.
Developing  
our talent
Initiatives 48 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 48
Optimising resource 
efficiency and 
building mutually 
positive relationships
Resources and 
relationships
1.6
tonnes of Scope 1 
and 2 carbon  
dioxide equivalent 
emissions per 
£100,000 revenue 
(2015: 1.7 tonnes)
94.2%
of construction and 
demolition waste 
diverted from landfill 
(2015: 92.3%)
760
employees 
completed 
environmental 
training 
(2015: 660)
Key Performance Indicators
0
environmental 
prosecutions or  
fixed penalties 
(2015: 0)
88.1%
of timber supplied 
with FSC/PEFC 
certification 
(2015: 86.8%)
99.7%
of timber verified  
as coming from  
legal and  
sustainable sources 
(2015: 99.2%)
1  Carbon dioxide equivalent emissions are reported by calendar year and since 
2014 have been externally certified to ISO 14064-3. Emissions cover all those 
arising from our fleet, gas and electricity in all offices and sites and all other fuel 
used directly (eg diesel on site etc) as per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol definitions 
of Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
Resources
Efficient management of our materials, energy , water and 
other resources reduces our operational costs and benefits 
the environment. We manage our environmental impact at  
all stages of our projects through our ISO 1 4001 certified 
management system, and this year we were one of the first 
construction companies to achieve certification to the new 
ISO 1 4001 :2015 standard. 
We continue to focus on initiatives to reduce our greenhouse 
gas emissions and although we have seen an increase in 
emissions this year , this reflects our business growth, as 
demonstrated by a reduction in our normalised emissions.  
In November 2015, we achieved compliance with the  
Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme regulations and we  
also improved our carbon disclosure score with CDP –  
an organisation that encourages companies to measure 
environmental impact – achieving 98 for disclosure and  
B for performance, considerably ahead of the industry 
average (87 and C respectively). Our priorities for 201 7  
are to use technology solutions to reduce our travel-related 
emissions, along with our ongoing commitment to  
reducing material waste.
Actual
2015
Actual
2014
Actual
2013
Carbon dioxide equivalent emissions (tonnes)
1
 
42,222
42,222
11,257
22,051
8,914
38,291
9,463
20,755
7,508
26,694
41,011
6,809
8,073
Scope 1: ﬂeet fuel
Scope 1: non-ﬂeet fuel
Scope 2: electricity
Actual
2016
Target
2016
Actual
2015
Target
2015
Waste per £100,000 revenue 
(tonnes of construction and demolition waste) 
6.6
12.0
6.6
10.8
14.0 49 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 49
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
We recognise the impact our supply chain has on the sustainability  
of our projects, as well as our own resource use, and therefore have 
partnered with the Supply Chain Sustainability School for the past 
three years. The school provides free, construction-specific education 
and training resources on all aspects of sustainability. We are board 
members of the school and actively support its work by hosting 
workshops, participating in its forums, and encouraging both our 
suppliers and subcontractors to join.
Supply Chain  
Sustainability School
Relationships
Strong relationships with our employees, customers, clients, 
supply chain, communities and other stakeholders are vital  
for the delivery of our strategy , our projects and ultimately 
being a sustainable business.
We keep our employees informed of our business strategy 
and performance through a multi-layered approach to 
communication, including face-to-face briefings and briefing 
notes, employee magazine, emails, posters and the intranet. 
As active members of the communities in which we operate, 
we extensively support community and charitable causes  
at all levels of the organisation. Our sites are externally 
evaluated under the Considerate Constructors Scheme,  
for which we consistently score highly. 
T o promote our leadership and awareness of best practice  
we actively participate in a number of trade and industry 
organisations, including Build UK, Business in the Community , 
Constructing Excellence, CIRIA (the construction industry 
research and information association) , Civil Engineering 
Contractors Association, Green Construction Board, Home 
Builders Federation, NextGeneration, National House Building 
Council, Scottish Contractors Group and the Supply Chain 
Sustainability School.
More information about how we engage with our  
customers, supply chain and communities can be  
found in our business reviews.
Actual
2016
Actual
2015
Actual
2014
Charitable donations (time, materials and financial) 
£512,098
£146k
£512k
£218k
£100k
£194k
£95k
£232k
£440k
£348k
£66k
£136k
£113k
Time
Materials
Financial
Actual
2016
Target
2016
Actual
2015
Target
2015
Considerate Constructors Scheme (average score) 
37.1
37.0 37.1
38.0
35.0 50 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Greg Fitzgerald 
Non-executive Chairman
Greg Fitzgerald was appointed to the Board 
in July 2003 and was Managing Director  
of the Housebuilding division before being 
appointed Chief Executive on 1 July 2005.  
He served as Executive Chairman from  
21 October 2014 to 31 December 2015 
before relinquishing his executive 
responsibilities and assuming the role of 
Non-executive Chairman with effect from  
1 January 2016. He was a founder of  
Midas Homes in 1992 and was its Managing 
Director when it was acquired in 1997 , 
subsequently chairing Midas Homes and 
Gerald Wood Homes. He was appointed  
a Governor of South Devon College in July 
2015 and Chairman of Ardent Hire Solutions 
Limited in January 2016. 
Aged 52.
N
Peter Ventress 
Deputy Chairman and  
Senior Independent Director
Peter Ventress joined the board on 30 April 
2015. Peter also holds non-executive 
directorships with Premier Farnell plc,  
Softcat Plc and BBA Aviation Plc. He was 
Chief Executive Officer of European textile 
service business, Berendsen plc, from 2010 
to 2016. Prior to this, Peter spent 10 years  
in senior management positions in Europe 
and Canada in the office products  
distribution industry with Corporate Express 
N.V., becoming Chief Executive in 2007 .  
In 2008, he was appointed head of all 
Staples’ activities outside the United  
States and Canada. 
Age 55.
A N R
Directors and  
Executive Board
Graham Prothero 
Finance Director
Graham Prothero joined Galliford Try  
as Finance Director on 1 February 2013.  
He was previously with Development 
Securities plc, a listed property developer  
and investor in the UK, where he was Finance 
Director from November 2008. From 2001 
until 2008, Graham was a partner with Ernst 
& Young. Graham is a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants and previously held 
the position of Finance Director with Blue 
Circle Properties and Taywood Homes.
Aged 54.
E
Peter Truscott 
Chief Executive
Peter Truscott was appointed to the Board  
as Chief Executive on 1 October 2015.  
He was formerly Divisional Chairman,  
South at Taylor Wimpey plc and a member  
of its Group Management team. Peter joined 
George Wimpey in 1984 and worked at CALA 
Homes from 1993 to 1996, before re-joining 
George Wimpey, where he held a succession 
of senior management positions. 
Aged 54.
E
Andrew Jenner 
Non-executive Director 
Andrew Jenner was appointed to the Board 
in January 2009. Andrew was Group Chief 
Financial Officer of Serco Group plc from 
2002 to 2014. Prior to joining Serco in 1996 
he worked for Unilever and Deloitte & Touche 
LLP . Andrew is a member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants.
Aged 47.
A N R
Ken Gillespie 
Chief Operating Officer 
Ken Gillespie joined the Group and the 
Executive Board in March 2006 on the 
acquisition of Morrison Construction,  
of which he was Managing Director. He joined 
Morrison in 1996 having spent the previous 
13 years holding senior positions with George 
Wimpey. Ken was appointed as an Executive 
Director of Galliford Try plc on 1 March 2013, 
and Chief Operating Officer on 30 April 2015, 
having previously been Construction division 
Chief Executive. Ken was appointed as 
Chairman and Director of the Scottish 
Contractors Group Limited in 2013.
Aged 51.
E 51 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Bill Hocking 
Managing Director of Construction  
& Investments
Bill Hocking joined the Executive Board  
as Managing Director of Construction on  
1 September 2015 and assumed additional 
responsibilities for Investments, Facilities 
Management and other specialist businesses 
on 1 March 2016. He joined the Group  
from Skanska UK plc, where he held the 
position of Executive Vice President on the 
Executive Management Team of Skanska  
UK from 2008, having initially joined the 
company in 1990. 
Age 52.
Kevin Corbett CEng MICE MIStructE 
General Counsel and Company Secretary 
Kevin Corbett joined the Executive Board  
of Galliford Try plc on 1 February 2012  
and was appointed General Counsel and 
Company Secretary on 1 March 2012.  
Kevin was previously Chief Counsel Global  
for AECOM.
Aged 56.
Board composition
Executive Board
Nomination 
Committee
Audit Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Key
E A
N R
Gavin Slark 
Non-executive Director
Gavin Slark joined the Board on 13 May 2015. 
He is currently Chief Executive Officer of 
Grafton Group plc, an independent company 
operating in the merchanting, DIY retailing 
and mortar manufacturing markets in Britain, 
Ireland and Belgium. He joined Grafton  
Group in April 201 1 and was appointed  
Chief Executive Officer in July 201 1. He was 
previously Group Chief Executive of BSS 
Group plc, a leading UK distributor to 
specialist trades including the plumbing, 
heating and construction sectors.
Aged 51.
A N R
E E
Balance of 
Non-executive vs 
Executive Directors
Non Executive 6
Executive 3
Length of appointment
0-2 years 3
2-5 years 4
5-10 years 1
10+ years 1
Diversity
Male 7
Female 2
Ishbel Macpherson 
Non-executive Director
Ishbel Macpherson was appointed to  
the Board on 1 February 2014. She is  
Senior Independent Director of both Dechra 
Pharmaceuticals plc and Bonmarché 
Holdings plc. She has previously served  
as Non-executive Director, Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee, Senior 
Independent Director and Chair of Speedy 
Hire plc, as well as Non-executive Director  
of GAME Group plc, MITIE Group plc, 
Synthomer plc, May Gurney Integrated 
Services plc, Dignity plc, and Hydrogen 
Group plc. Ishbel has over 20 years’ 
experience in investment banking with 
Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, Hoare 
Govett and Barclays.
Aged 56.
A N R
Terry Miller 
Non-executive Director
Terry Miller was appointed to the Board on  
1 February 2014. Terry was previously 
General Counsel for The London Organising 
Committee of the Olympic Games and 
Paralympic Games, and is currently an 
independent Non-executive Director of the 
British Olympic Association, a Director and 
Trustee of the Invictus Games Foundation, 
and a Non-executive Director of Goldman 
Sachs International Bank. Prior to her LOCOG 
appointment, Terry was International General 
Counsel for Goldman Sachs, having spent  
17 years with Goldman Sachs in London.
Aged 64.
A N R
As at 30 June 2016 52 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Effective compliance and strong governance
The appointment of Peter Truscott as Chief Executive on 1 October 
2015 and the transition to a Non-executive Chairman role by Greg 
Fitzgerald on 1 January 2016 have seen the Group begin its return  
to full compliance with corporate governance best practice, following 
the significant Board changes of the previous year. In addition, new 
Board members have quickly established themselves, with the Board 
as a whole leading the continuation of the existing strategy to 2018, 
and providing an effective sounding board for, and challenge to,  
the development of the strategy beyond that date. 
The Group has made good progress, including enhancing targets 
where appropriate, and will continue its progression towards 
achievement of its 2018 strategy objectives as well as considering  
the longer term aims.
Board and Executive Board composition
Biographical summaries for each of the directors as at 30 June 2016, 
their respective Committee responsibilities and their external 
directorships are set out on pages 50 and 51.
All directors continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles,  
and will stand for re-election at the 2016 AGM in November 2016  
save as described below.
Peter Truscott was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 October  
2015 while Ken Gillespie has indicated his intention to retire as  
Chief Operating Officer in 2017 and stepped down from the Board  
on 31 July 2016. As announced on 12 July 2016, Greg Fitzgerald  
has said that he will step down from the Board at the AGM on  
1 1 November 2016. Peter Ventress, Deputy Chairman and Senior 
Independent Director, will, as previously announced, become 
Chairman on Greg Fitzgerald stepping down. 
There have been no other changes to the Board, either during or  
since the end of the financial year.
With effect from 6 September 2016, Andrew Hammond (Divisional 
Chairman West for Linden Homes), Tom Nicholson (Divisional 
Chairman East for Linden Homes), and Stephen Teagle (Chief 
Executive, Partnerships and Regeneration) joined the Executive Board.
“I am pleased to report on the effective 
compliance and high standards that have been 
maintained across the Group. This year, after  
a short interim period, the Group reverted to  
a Non-executive Chairman and separate Chief 
Executive leadership structure.” 
Greg Fitzgerald 
Chairman
Governance 
Governance review 53 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Chairman and Chief Executive
The duties of the Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly specified  
to ensure proper division of responsibilities and balance of power.  
The key responsibilities of the Chairman include leadership of and 
communication with the Board, value setting, shareholder liaison, 
governance and performance evaluation and appraisal. The key 
responsibilities of the Chief Executive include developing Group 
strategy, operational performance and executive management, 
including chairing the Group’s Executive Board. 
There was a similar division of responsibility in place during the period 
in which the Group had an Executive Chairman, with the Deputy 
Chairman proving the independent check and balance to the 
executive leadership. During that time, the Executive Chairman held 
responsibility for strategy, business performance and management  
of the Group, while the Deputy Chairman held responsibility for 
governance, the performance of the Board and for monitoring the 
effectiveness of the Executive Chairman. Copies of the respective role 
descriptions of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman 
are available on the Group’s website. 
Senior Independent Director
Peter Ventress was the Group’s Senior Independent Director,  
having held the post throughout the year, and since his appointment  
to the Board on 30 April 2015. 
The Senior Independent Director was available to shareholders 
throughout the year, in accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. He was not contacted in that capacity by 
shareholders during the year. On Greg Fitzgerald assuming the role  
of Non-executive Chairman on 1 January 2016, major shareholders 
were reminded that the Chairman and/or the Deputy Chairman were 
available to meet to discuss any matters.
Non-executive directors
Other than the changes referenced, the roles and responsibilities  
of each of the non-executive directors, which are detailed in their 
individual letters of appointment, have not changed from the previous 
financial year. The letters of appointment are available for inspection  
on request at the Company’s registered office and will be available 
immediately prior to the AGM.
Diversity
In 2013 the Board stated its commitment to addressing the 
expectations of the Davies Report ‘Women on Boards’ where 
appropriate and possible, and women hold 25% of Board positions  
as at the date of this report. Furthermore, it is anticipated that the 
gender ratio may improve in subsequent years following the planned 
retirement of Greg Fitzgerald and future Board refreshes. 
The Nomination Committee considers a diverse range of candidates, 
including those from backgrounds not currently represented at Board 
level, for positions as and when they become available, while basing 
recruitment decisions on merit. 
Further diversity disclosures can be found in the Strategic Report  
on page 46. 54 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
GOVERNANCE ACTION EXPLANATION GOVERNANCE IMPLICATIONS
The table below summarises the main governance 
challenges faced by the Group during the year,  
their implications, mitigating actions and the results 
thereof, together with other material governance 
initiatives undertaken. 
The UK Corporate Governance Code 
recommends that the roles of Chairman and  
Chief Executive should not be exercised by  
the same individual, that a Chief Executive  
should not go on to chair the same company,  
and that a Chairman should be independent  
on appointment, unless the company explains  
why these principles should not apply.
Succession planning at Board level is now 
replicated at Executive Board and divisional  
board levels, ensuring talent and potential are 
nurtured and development needs are met,  
enabling quality internal candidates to be  
available to progress to Executive Board and  
main Board level positions, and ensuring  
a progressive refreshing of those boards. 
The UK Governance Code states that new 
directors are to receive a full, formal and tailored 
induction on joining the Board. As part of this, 
directors should avail themselves of opportunities 
to meet major shareholders.
Board composition 
and succession: 
implications of an 
Executive Chairman
Succession planning: 
Executive Board and 
divisional board level
Board induction
Full, formal and  
tailored induction
While Greg Fitzgerald relinquished his executive 
responsibilities on 1 January 2016, his former role 
as Chief Executive and Executive Chairman have 
governance and independence implications. 
The Group is now enacting the findings of the 
review and refresh of the talent mapping and 
succession planning process commenced in  
the previous year, ensuring succession planning  
is an evolving and dynamic process, rather than  
a static annual compliance exercise. 
An effective induction programme is vital to  
Peter Truscott, an external candidate, to support 
him in his role as CEO leading the Group. 
Governance review continued 55 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
MITIGATING ACTIONS AND RESULT
Greg Fitzgerald’s tenure was for a limited transition 
period while the new CEO was recruited and 
established in post. During that time, the Deputy 
Chairman assumed responsibility for performance 
of the Board. Greg Fitzgerald has announced that 
he will step down as Chairman at the 2016 AGM. 
Greg Fitzgerald is not considered independent, 
therefore, the number of Board Committees on 
which he may sit or chair is limited. There are, 
however, sufficient independent non-executive 
directors to ensure the size and composition of  
the Committees are appropriate and comply  
with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
Each executive director and senior manager  
is directly responsible for their own succession 
plans and the development plans of their 
successors. A report on progress and changes  
to their plans is made to the main Board and 
Nomination Committee. 
Building on the successful induction programmes 
delivered to new non-executive directors during  
the previous financial year, a comprehensive 
programme was developed for Peter Truscott, 
which included a three-month handover period 
with the Executive Chairman, before Greg 
Fitzgerald relinquished his executive responsibilities. 
Board: attendance
All meetings were led by the Chairman, including a specific 
performance assessment day at which individual appraisals were 
completed. The General Counsel and Company Secretary was in 
attendance. The Deputy Chairman/Senior Independent Director 
separately led a meeting of the non-executive directors to assess the 
performance of the Chairman, without him present. A summary of 
Board and Committee attendance appears on the next page. 
Board: remit
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for authorisation by  
the Board, the specifics of which have not materially changed from 
those disclosed in previous years. The Board held its annual strategy 
awayday in October 2015 where it reviewed progress against the 
Group business plan to 2018; was updated on market conditions  
and investor expectations, and succession planning initiatives 
undertaken during the year; and where it assessed the impact of  
the Miller Construction and Shepherd Homes acquisitions after 12  
and six months respectively. A session was also dedicated to the  
initial thoughts of the new Chief Executive. 
The Board continues to benefit from its established reporting 
mechanisms, which are designed to ensure crucial management and 
project-specific information, and significant Group-wide developments 
are reported quickly and accurately, and facilitate prompt approval of 
further actions. Throughout the year the Board also received regular 
Group, divisional and business unit-specific presentations, covering all 
aspects of the Group’s operations.
Board: information, advice, insurance and indemnity
Well-established Board procedures for the timely provision of 
information in advance of all Board and Committee meetings,  
and for the provision of independent professional advice, have 
remained in operation throughout the financial year. 
All directors have access to the advice and services of the General 
Counsel and Company Secretary. No director sought independent 
advice during the financial year.
The Group maintains appropriate Directors’ and Officers’ Liability 
Insurance on behalf of, and provides individual indemnities to,  
the directors, and General Counsel and Company Secretary,  
which complies with the provisions of Section 234 of the  
Companies Act 2006. 
Board evaluation: 2015 update and 2016 external evaluation
As reported in the 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements,  
the 2015 Board evaluation, which was performed internally using 
specialist performance evaluation software, focused on Board 
mechanics and effectiveness; Group performance and delivery of the 
enhanced strategy; and governance and sustainability. The findings 
were presented to the May 2015 Board meeting, from which the 
following substantial action points were developed and agreed at  
the September 2015 meeting: 
 5 Board dinners: occasional pre-meeting dinners have been 
scheduled to conduct management presentations and provide 
Board exposure to the next tier of management, especially  
when held in conjunction with site visits. 
 5 Succession planning: the Board as a whole has continued to 
receive six-monthly updates on the refreshed succession planning 
process (as reported in the 2015 Annual Report and Financial 
Statements) as well as the succession plans themselves.  56 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Group 
undertook an externally facilitated performance evaluation in 2016.  
The planning process began several months ahead of the evaluation 
with the General Counsel and Company Secretary researching 
evaluation service providers and seeking recommendations from  
Board members, especially the non-executive directors. From this list  
a shortlist of three firms was developed, which were then interviewed  
by the Chairman and General Counsel and Company Secretary, 
resulting in the appointment of Independent Audit. There is no other 
connection between Independent Audit and the Group. 
The 2016 evaluation was conducted by way of interviews with each 
Board member, Executive Board members and the General Counsel 
and Company Secretary preceded by a review of Board packs and 
other materials and observing proceedings at a Board meeting.  
The evaluation as a whole looked at Board processes, Board 
dynamics, and the Group’s governance structures, as well as  
meeting practicalities. The interviews focused on Board composition 
and experience, succession planning, dynamics and relationships, 
strategy, risks and quality of information. 
Individual performance evaluations focused on the effectiveness of  
the contributions made by directors. Consideration was given to  
the aggregate time commitments of the non-executive directors.  
The Board is satisfied that each director is committed to his or her role. 
The findings and recommendations were presented to, and approved 
by, the Board in May 2016, with recommendations being addressed 
over the forthcoming financial year. 
Overall, the external evaluation confirmed that the Board is operating 
effectively and has the appropriate balance of skills and experience  
to draw on, with recommendations being made, among other matters,  
in relation to transitioning of leaving directors, continuing to have 
ongoing discussions on long-term strategy and succession planning, 
and continuing to embed culture and ethics within the Group.
Governance review continued
2015/16 Board focus
In addition to the standing items discussed at each Board meeting, which include health, safety and sustainability performance, Group risk 
register reviews, divisional updates, Group financial performance and institutional investor issues and feedback, the calendar of 2015/16 
Board activities and areas of focus were as follows:
2015/16 Board and Committee attendance table
Number of meetings (scheduled/attended) Board
Executive 
Board
Audit 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Greg Fitzgerald
1
 Chairman 8 5 by invitation 2 by invitation
Peter Ventress Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 8 n/a 3 2 4
Andrew Jenner Non-executive Director 8 n/a 3 2 4
Ishbel Macpherson Non-executive Director 8 n/a 3 2 4
Terry Miller
2
 Non-executive Director 7 n/a 3 2 4
Gavin Slark Non-executive Director 8 n/a 3 2 4
Peter Truscott
3
 Chief Executive 6 8 by invitation by invitation by invitation
Ken Gillespie
4
 Chief Operating Officer 8 11 n/a n/a n/a
Graham Prothero Finance Director 8 11 by invitation n/a n/a
Kevin Corbett General Counsel and Company Secretary 7 9 2 2 3
1  Greg Fitzgerald ceased to be Executive Chairman on 31 December 2015 and, accordingly, ceased to be a member of or to attend Executive Board meetings  
on this date. 
2 Terry Miller attended the AGM by telephone but was unable to attend the Board meeting prior to the AGM due to a prior family commitment. 
3 Peter Truscott was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015.
4 Ken Gillespie was unable to attend one meeting for its full duration due to an urgent operational matter and participated in part by telephone.
July 
2015
September October November December February 
2016
April May
Approval of 
2015/16  
Group budget
Presentation –  
risk review 
Interim 
governance 
review 
Review of 
insurance 
renewals 
Major contracts 
and compliance 
review
Full year results 
and Annual 
Report
New CEO 
induction and 
transitional 
arrangements 
Annual corporate 
governance 
review
2015 Board 
evaluation 
feedback
Strategy meeting 
– progress 
against the Group 
business plan to 
2018, market 
conditions and 
investor 
expectations, 
succession 
planning and 
post-acquisition 
and integration 
analysis
Broker 
presentation 
– HSBC and  
Peel Hunt
AGM
Cyber security
Final salary 
pension scheme 
buy-in
2015 Board 
evaluation action 
points update  
and 2016 external 
evaluation 
planning 
Major contracts 
and compliance 
review update
2016–2019 
business plan
Executive 
Chairman’s 
committee 
memberships 
following 
assumption of 
non-executive 
role 
Implementation  
of findings of 
major contracts 
and compliance 
review
Presentation  
and review –  
IT and Oracle, 
Procurement, HR
Half year results
Institutional 
feedback 
following CEO 
appointment and 
assumption of 
Non-executive 
Chairman role
Site visit –  
St Clements, 
London  
(Linden Homes)
Presentations 
– Linden Homes, 
Partnerships, 
Affordable 
Housing & 
Regeneration
EU referendum
Presentation 
– Investments  
and facilities 
management 
Outline strategy 
beyond 2018
Results of 
externally-
facilitated Board 
performance 
evaluation
Succession 
planning 57 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Executive Board report
Membership of the Executive Board is detailed on pages 50 and 51. 
The Group HR Director also attends each meeting of the Executive 
Board. From 6 September 2016, Stephen Teagle, Chief Executive  
of Partnerships and Regeneration; Tom Nicholson, Linden Homes 
Divisional Chairman East, and Andrew Hammond, Linden Homes, 
Divisional Chairman West, joined the Executive Board. Executive 
management is the responsibility of the Chief Executive. He chairs the 
Executive Board, which in turn takes responsibility for the operational 
management of the Group under terms of reference delegated by  
the main Board. From October 2014 to December 2015, the Executive 
Board was chaired by the Executive Chairman. The Executive Board 
also has further delegated responsibility for making recommendations 
to the main Board on all items included in the formal schedule of 
matters reserved for main Board authorisation. The Executive Board 
receives and considers regular performance and operational reports 
and presentations from divisional management. The Assistant 
Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Executive Board.  
The minutes of Executive Board meetings are included as part  
of the Group Board pack. 
The Executive Board meets on a monthly basis and additional 
meetings are convened when necessary to consider and authorise 
specific operational or project matters. Following the appointment  
of Peter Truscott and the assumption of a non-executive role by  
Greg Fitzgerald, the Executive Board has increased its focus on 
considering long-term strategic issues and matters of Group-wide 
policy. The meeting agenda has been reorganised to this effect,  
with health, safety and sustainability as the first agenda item at every 
meeting, which highlights the importance of such matters to the 
Group. Executive responsibility for operational matters of each 
business has been devolved to a greater extent to the executive 
boards of each business, which are also held on a monthly basis,  
in the preceding week to the Executive Board. 
Group governance structure
plc Board  
Directors: 9 
Meetings annually: 8
Remuneration Committee 
Directors: 5 
Meetings annually: 4
Nomination Committee  
Directors: 6 
Meetings annually: 2
Construction and 
Investments  
Divisional Board  
Members: 8 
Meetings annually: 1 1
Building North &  
Scotland Board 
Members: 8 
Meetings annually: 8
Risk Committee 
Members: 14 
Meetings annually: 4
Building Midlands &  
South Board 
Members: 6 
Meetings annually: 8
Other Group and 
functional committees 
and forums
Infrastructure Board 
Members: 9 
Meetings annually: 1 1
Investments Board 
Members: 6 
Meetings annually: 8
Audit Committee  
Directors: 5 
Meetings annually: 3
Partnerships and 
Regeneration  
Executive Board  
Members: 8 
Meetings annually: 12
Partnerships and 
Regeneration  
Divisional Board  
Members: 1 1 
Meetings annually: 8
Executive Board 
Members: 5 
Meetings annually: 1 1
Linden Homes 
Executive Board 
Members: 8 
Meetings annually: 1 1
As at 30 June 2016 58 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
As disclosed in note 5 to the financial statements, no significant 
non-audit related services were provided by the incumbent  
external auditor, PwC during the financial year, although the Group  
did receive non-audit-related advice and services covering general 
corporate matters. 
Policies and review mechanisms governing the provision of  
material non-audit services, and safeguarding the objectivity and 
independence of the external auditor, remained in force throughout  
the financial year. The policy specifies the types of non-audit services 
for which the use of the external auditor is pre-approved (ie approval 
has been given in advance as a matter of policy); the services for 
which specific approval from the Audit Committee is required before 
the auditor is contracted; and the services from which the external 
auditor is excluded. In respect of pre-approved services, a financial 
threshold is in place, applicable to individual and aggregated services 
in any year. Furthermore, should the total value of non-audit service 
engagements exceed a defined percentage of the total Group  
audit fee for the previous financial period, the Audit Committee  
shall consider and give specific prior approval for any subsequent 
non-audit service engagements. 
Each year, the Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external 
audit process which includes discussing feedback from the members 
of the Committee and key senior management within the Group.  
The Committee is satisfied that PwC is fully independent and 
accordingly has recommended to the Board that a resolution to 
re-appoint PwC is proposed at the 2016 AGM. PwC has been  
an auditor of the Group since its initial appointment in 2001 and 
retained this appointment following a competitive tender completed  
in 2014. The PwC team under its current partner, Jonathan Hook,  
is considered by the Committee to have the appropriate balance of 
involvement with and knowledge of the Group and its operations,  
as well as independence and merit.
Audit Committee Report
Committee Chair’s annual statement
The Committee has continued to monitor and review the results,  
risk management and internal control framework of the Group, as it 
continues to grow each of its businesses. This included particular 
emphasis on those aspects of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance 
Code that were effective for the first time during the financial year.
The Committee considers that the 2016 Annual Report and Financial 
Statements are fair, balanced and understandable in terms of the form 
and content of the strategic, governance and financial information 
presented therein. The Group has evolved the format of the Annual 
Report and Financial Statements over recent financial years and this 
Annual Report represents an acceleration of that process as we move 
towards the concept of ‘Integrated Reporting’. 
Peter Ventress and Gavin Slark have established themselves as 
valuable members of the Committee, having joined us shortly  
before the beginning of this reporting period. We continue to work  
well with the PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) audit team.
Audit Committee: composition and attendance
Membership of the Audit Committee is detailed on pages 50 and  
51. The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director attend  
all Committee meetings by invitation, together with the Director  
of Risk & Internal Audit and the Group Financial Controller. The 
Committee Chair has a strong financial background and is  
a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants which  
satisfies the UK Corporate Governance Code requirement that  
the Committee’s membership has recent and relevant financial 
experience. The General Counsel and Company Secretary  
or his nominee act as secretary to the Committee. 
Audit Committee: remit and activities
The Committee meets at least three times a year, this number being 
deemed appropriate to the Audit Committee’s role and responsibilities. 
The Committee’s delegated authorities and calendar of prioritised 
work have not changed substantially from those disclosed in previous 
years. The key responsibilities of the Committee are: delegated 
responsibility from the Board for financial reporting; monitoring external 
audit, internal audit, risk and controls; and reviewing instances of 
whistleblowing. The terms of reference of the Committee are available 
on the Group’s website.
The authorities and calendar of work remain in line with the 
requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code. At each 
meeting, Committee members take time, in the absence of executive 
directors, to review separately and discuss any issues meriting their 
attention. The adjacent table summarises the key activities during  
the financial year.
The Committee also continues to meet with internal and external  
audit teams, without executive management present. 
During the financial year, the risk and internal audit team focused  
on delivering its agreed calendar of audit reviews, under its rolling 
three-year internal audit plan, and also on providing commercial and 
risk management support across the Group at the request of the 
Committee, the Executive Board and senior management. 
During the year, the Committee considered the changes to the  
UK Corporate Governance Code and the introduction of the viability 
statement, as part of its review of risk and controls. The wording of the 
viability statement and the period chosen was extensively discussed 
and agreed by the Committee. 
Governance review continued
“The Audit Committee has primarily focused its 
attention on the results of internal and external 
audits and maintaining appropriate processes  
to ensure the Annual Report is fair, balanced  
and understandable, together with assessing 
and implementing the requirements of the  
2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.”
Andrew Jenner 
Audit Committee Chair 59 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Calendar of 2015/16 Committee activities and areas  
of focus
Month Activity or area of focus
September 
2015
 5 Committee review of 2014/15 full year results, 
including external auditor presentation, going 
concern review and approval of ‘fair, balanced 
and understandable’ process
 5 Risk, internal audit and whistleblowing reports
 5 Review of 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code
 5 IFRS 15 (revenue recognition) update
February  
2016
 5 Committee review of 2015/16 half year results, 
including external auditor presentation, going 
concern review and approval of ‘fair, balanced 
and understandable’ process
 5 Risk, internal audit and whistleblowing reports
 5 Corporate governance and financial  
reporting update
May  
2016
 5 Risk, internal audit and whistleblowing reports
 5 Corporate governance and financial  
reporting update, with particular focus  
on the viability statement 
 5 Approval of external audit plan
 5 Approval of internal audit plan
The Financial Reporting Council (FRC) has amended the UK 
Corporate Governance Code to require audit tendering every  
10 years on a comply or explain basis for FTSE 350 companies.  
On 26 September 2014, the Competition Commission, now the 
Competition Markets Authority, published its final Order on  
mandatory audit tendering for FTSE 350 companies.
This Order came into effect on 1 January 2015 and applies to financial 
years beginning on or after 1 January 2015 and therefore applies  
to the year which is subject to this Annual Report. The Order confirms 
that FTSE 350 companies will need to undertake a tendering process 
in respect of their statutory audit services at least every 10 years. 
Furthermore, if a company has not completed a tendering 
appointment process of statutory auditors for five consecutive financial 
years, the Order requires the Audit Committee of such a company  
to state in its annual report when the company intends to conduct  
the tender and why such proposed date is in the best interests of the 
company (and such statement must be repeated in each subsequent 
report until a competitive tender is conducted).
The requirement for conducting mandatory audit tenders every  
10 years is subject to transitional arrangements set out in the Order 
and, accordingly, this requirement does not apply to PwC’s proposed 
re-appointment as auditor which will be proposed to the shareholders 
at the 2016 AGM. PwC was re-appointed as auditor following  
a competitive tender in 2014.
The Committee reviewed the integrity of the Group’s financial 
statements and all formal announcements relating to the Group’s 
financial performance. This included an assessment of each critical 
accounting policy, as set out in note 1, as well as review and debate 
over the following areas of significance:
 5 Contract revenue and provisions: in conjunction with the annual 
audit, the Committee reviewed a paper setting out key judgments  
in respect of revenue recognition and contract provisions, in relation 
to individually significant long-term construction contracts.
 5 Going concern: the Committee assessed the available bank 
facilities, and the associated covenants and sensitivities. The related 
paper also considered other commercial and economic risks to  
the Group’s going concern status. The Committee reported to the 
Board on its findings.
 5 Goodwill impairment review: during the year, the Committee 
considered the judgments made in relation to the valuation 
methodology adopted by management and the model input  
used, as well as the sensitivities used by management and the 
related disclosures.
 5 Accounting policy for land: the Committee assessed the 
appropriateness of the accounting policy for land and the 
associated disclosures in note 1 to the financial statements.
 5 Disclosure of significant transactions and non-GAAP  
accounting measures. 60 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Nomination Committee Report
Nomination Committee: composition and attendance
Membership of the Nomination Committee is detailed on pages  
50 and 51. Greg Fitzgerald joined the Committee with effect from  
1 January 2016. The Committee was chaired by Terry Miller 
throughout the year. The General Counsel and Company  
Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Nomination Committee: remit
The terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the  
Group’s website. The authorities delegated to the Committee by  
the Board comprise, among other matters: 
 5 reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board;
 5 evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity and experience 
of the Board, including the impact of new appointments;
 5 overseeing and recommending the recruitment of any  
new directors;
 5 ensuring appointments are appropriately made against objective 
criteria; and
 5 keeping the leadership and succession requirements of the  
Group under active review.
The principal task of the Committee during the year has been the 
monitoring and oversight of the previously agreed succession planning 
process, as well as the succession plans themselves. Towards the  
end of the previous year, the Group’s executive management 
comprehensively strengthened and refreshed the succession planning 
process, developing a common assessment framework for the main 
Board, Executive Board and divisional board levels. Recognising that 
succession planning over these senior levels within the Company is 
not static, the Committee has been receiving regular updates on  
both the ongoing succession planning and talent mapping process, 
together with the individuals identified, and any development 
requirements necessary to ensure effective succession. Succession 
planning and leadership requirements, including actions being taken  
to identify replacements for senior management roles, will continue  
to be the subject of direct focus and engagement by the Committee. 
The Committee is also committed to embedding diversity and 
inclusion at Board level and generally throughout the Group.
The Committee has also begun the process of reviewing the 
composition of the Board, and overseeing plans for recruitment of  
a new non-executive director, in light of the previously announced 
retirement of the Chairman (and succession of the current Deputy 
Chairman to that role) in November 2016 and the end of the term for 
the Chair of the Audit Committee in 2017 .
Additionally, while negotiations concerning their appointment to the 
Board and Executive Board were concluded in the previous financial 
year, the Committee oversaw the inductions of both Peter Truscott  
and Bill Hocking, building on the successful induction programme 
given to non-executive director appointments in the previous year. 
At the year end, the Committee comprised a majority of independent 
non-executive directors, complying with provision B.2. 1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. External consultants, The Zygos 
Partnership (Zygos) and Norman Broadbent plc (Norman Broadbent), 
who advised on Board appointments in the year.
There is no other connection between Zygos and the Group  
or Norman Broadbent and the Group. 
Governance review continued
“The Committee has been overseeing the 
strengthened and refreshed succession 
planning process, as well as the succession 
plans themselves.”
Terry Miller 
Nomination Committee Chair 61 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Other governance matters
The Group continues to operate a suite of governance and risk 
management policies, procedures and training programmes,  
all of which address obligations arising under the relevant legislation. 
The Group Corporate and Finance Manuals, which summarise the 
policies, procedures and authority matrices by which the central 
functions and divisions operate, were subject to ongoing update  
and refresh during the financial year. 
Shareholder relations
The Company continues to prioritise maintaining effective  
relationships with all its shareholders and seeks to engage with 
interested parties. The Board, and in particular the Chief Executive  
and Finance Director, continue to organise meetings with existing  
and prospective institutional shareholders. The Chairman also 
attended institutional shareholder meetings, especially during  
his tenure as Executive Chairman. 
The Board as a whole continues to engage actively with institutional 
shareholders in line with the UK Stewardship Code, whether on  
key matters of specific relevance to the Group and its operations or 
general market themes, and specific reports regarding shareholder 
views are provided to the Board for analysis and discussion. 
Separately, the Senior Independent Director and other non-executive 
directors are available to attend meetings with shareholders and 
address any significant concerns stakeholders may have.
The Group’s AGM, held in November each year, continues to be  
a popular means for private shareholders to receive updates on Group 
performance, including presentations from Board members and 
opinions on progress. All directors of the Company were in attendance 
in person or by phone at the 2015 AGM. All arrangements for the 
meeting including notice period and voting arrangements, including 
the poll voting procedure, followed the requirements of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code and related best practice. 
Reporting, risk, internal audit and controls
The governance review commencing on page 52 details the specific 
actions undertaken by the Group during the financial year, including 
those with a risk management focus. The Board’s approach to risk 
and internal audit, including its systems in relation to the preparation  
of consolidated accounts, and the material controls of the Group’s 
established internal control framework are disclosed in the ‘principal 
risks’ section on pages 18 to 21. 
The Group’s governance reporting structure shown on page 57 
clarifies the effective Group, business and operational board structures 
upon which the delegated authorities matrices and Corporate and 
Finance Manuals are overlaid, and reflects changes made in 2014. 
Effective from 1 July 2015, a further phase of a Group simplification 
project has effectively aligned the legal ownership structure of the 
Group with its operating and reporting structure, facilitating reporting 
and management. 
During the financial year, the Group implemented the findings of  
a substantial external compliance review of its policies and procedures 
relating to commercial operations and major projects, which was 
undertaken in the prior year. This included the launch of a substantially 
reinvigorated Code of Conduct. As well as rolling out the Code of 
Conduct throughout the Group, copies were sent to supply chain 
partners and joint venture partners, and are available on the  
Group’s website. 
There were no significant internal control failings or weaknesses  
during the year. Any matters of non-compliance with the provisions  
of the Group Corporate and Finance Manuals have been rectified 
either during the financial year or by the date of this Annual Report.  
A separate programme of 18 internal audits was also completed 
across the Group’s operations and progress checks were completed 
against previous recommendations. 
Compliance statement
The Group believes that the highest standards of corporate 
governance are integral to the delivery of its strategy, providing  
the means by which the Board may manage the expectations  
of stakeholders to optimise sustainable performance. 
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 (the Code), is the 
governance code to which the Group is subject, and which sets  
out principles relating to the good governance of companies.  
The Code is available at www.frc.org.uk. 
As a member of the FTSE 250, Galliford Try has committed to 
complying with the provisions of the Code and, in doing so, seeks 
both to support and foster the highest standards of corporate 
governance. Throughout the year, the Group has fully complied  
with the requirements of the Code, with the exception of provisions 
A.2. 1 (as regards to combining temporarily the roles of Chairman and 
Chief Executive) and A.3. 1 (as regards to independence of Chairman 
on appointment). In these areas of non-compliance, the temporary 
combination of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive was 
resolved by 31 December 2015 when Greg Fitzgerald became 
Non-executive Chairman following the arrival of Peter Truscott as  
Chief Executive on 1 October 2015. In respect of the independence  
on appointment of the Chairman, Greg Fitzgerald has announced his 
retirement at the 2016 AGM. Accordingly, the directors recognise that 
the situation is for a specific and limited time period, and consider that 
this temporary deviation from full compliance with the Code is in the 
best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole. 
The Group remains compliant with the UK Listing Authority’s 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules 7 .2.5 and 7 .2.6 and related 
information can be found in the Directors’ Report on pages 75 to 77 .
For and on behalf of the Board
Kevin Corbett 
General Counsel and Company Secretary 62 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Committee Chair’s annual statement
The principal work of the Committee this year has been to review the 
Group’s long-term incentive plans at executive and senior manager 
level to ensure they remain relevant to the needs of the Group. As our 
current Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) approaches the end of its 
10-year life, we will table a new LTIP to shareholders for approval at the 
AGM this November. The plan is broadly unchanged from the existing 
LTIP , with changes made to reflect current market and best practice. 
The Group performed well over the year, as highlighted elsewhere  
in this Annual Report, and accordingly we are confident that  
there remains a strong link between individual reward and  
business performance.
Details regarding the specific variable elements of pay received by  
the executive directors can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 67 to 7 4. These payments reflect another year of 
strong performance delivered for shareholders in pursuit of the 
strategy of disciplined and sustainable growth.
As to the application of the approved Remuneration Policy for  
the present financial year, the Committee continues to monitor and 
review pay and conditions across the Group, and in particular the 
wider executive population immediately beneath the senior team. 
Merit-based salary increases were awarded to all staff on review  
in July 2016, with an average rise across the Group of 2.62% with  
the intention that awards will be increased to an aggregate 3% over  
the year ahead. Further details regarding salary increases awarded  
to Peter Truscott and Graham Prothero (which were in line with 
average increases across the workforce), together with the  
changed arrangements following Greg Fitzgerald’s assumption  
of a Non-executive Chairman’s role, can be found in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. 
As a result of the outcome of the recent EU referendum, which has set 
the UK on a path to leave the EU, a degree of uncertainty prevails, and 
may continue to do so for some time. The Committee feels that it does 
not have sufficient clarity on the likely impact on the housebuilding and 
construction sectors to enable it to set meaningful three-year targets. 
Given that LTIP awards will not be made unless shareholders approve 
the Plan Rules at the AGM in November, the Committee has decided 
to delay setting targets for these awards until closer to the grant date.
The targets attached to the 2016/17 LTIP awards are therefore not  
set out in this report but will instead be disclosed in the relevant RNS 
announcement, as well as in the 2016/17 Directors’ Remuneration 
Report. The awards will be made in line with the shareholder-approved 
Remuneration Policy and the Committee will consult with major 
shareholders if any significant changes to the performance measures 
are proposed.
The Committee has also considered the structure of FY 2017  
Annual Bonus Plan in order to fairly balance the incentivisation of 
management and the interests of shareholders in this uncertain period. 
The targets have been simplified to focus purely on profit and cash 
and the stretch between threshold and target performance has  
been widened, as has the stretch between target and maximum 
performance. Target performance has not been changed in light  
of the outcome of the EU referendum. These targets will be fully 
disclosed in next year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The changes we are proposing under the new LTIP rules are all within 
the existing Remuneration Policy as approved by shareholders in 2014, 
and this preparatory work stands us in good stead for our review of 
the Policy for 2017-20, which we will commence in the coming year. 
This process will include any necessary consultation with shareholders 
before presentation of the Policy to shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Ishbel Macpherson 
Remuneration Committee Chair
Remuneration Policy 
and Report
“The principal work of the Committee  
this year has been to review the design of  
the Group’s long-term incentive plans at 
executive and senior manager level to ensure 
that the new plan proposed to shareholders 
is appropriate and in line with the market  
and best practice.”
Ishbel Macpherson 
Remuneration Committee Chair 63 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Remuneration: strategy
The Group’s remuneration strategy is to incentivise future executive 
performance appropriately, reward successful performance delivery 
and ensure that we recruit and retain our most talented and 
experienced executives.
Remuneration Policy
During the year, the Committee ensured the consistent operation  
of the Remuneration Policy as approved by shareholders at the 2014 
AGM. Full details of the Remuneration Policy can be found on pages 
52 to 57 of the 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements and  
we summarise the key aspects below. 
In summary, the Group’s Remuneration Policy is to:
 5 ensure that remuneration packages are structured so that they  
can attract, retain and motivate the executives required to achieve 
the Group’s strategic objectives;
 5 engender a performance culture which will position Galliford Try  
as an employer of choice and deliver shareholder value;
 5 deliver a significant proportion of total executive pay through 
performance related remuneration and in share-based form;
 5 position performance related elements of remuneration so that 
upper quartile rewards may be achieved in circumstances where 
outstanding results and peer sector outperformance have been 
delivered; and
 5 ensure that failure is not rewarded. 
The Policy is shaped by environmental, social and governance factors, 
which help determine the design of incentive structures to encourage 
responsible behaviour. Furthermore, recognising that even well 
designed incentives cannot cater for all eventualities, should any 
unforeseen issues arise that would make any payments unjustifiable, 
the Committee can use its discretion to address such outcomes by 
scaling back payments. The Committee operates clawback provisions 
within both the Annual Bonus Plan and LTIP which facilitate the 
retrieval of payments made to directors and executive management  
in circumstances of error, financial misstatement or misconduct.
Directors’ service contracts and policy for payments to 
departing executive directors
The service contracts and letters of appointment for the Board 
directors serving as at 30 June 2016 are detailed below: 
 
Contract  
date
1
Notice period 
2,3
 
(months)
Non-executive directors
Greg Fitzgerald 17 December 2015 6
Andrew Jenner 1 January 2009 6
Ishbel Macpherson 1 February 2014 6
Terry Miller 1 February 2014 6
Gavin Slark 13 May 2015 6
Peter Ventress 30 April 2015 6
Executive directors
Peter Truscott
4
30 April 2015 12
Graham Prothero 18 June 2012 12
Ken Gillespie
5
19 February 2013 12
1  Contract dates shown are the directors’ initial contract as an executive director  
or non-executive director of the Company. Executive directors have a rolling  
notice period as stated. Non-executive appointments are reviewed after a period 
of three years and their appointments are subject to a rolling notice period as 
stated. All serving directors apart from Greg Fitzgerald, who is retiring, will stand 
for re-election at the 2016 AGM.
2  There are no contractual provisions requiring payments to directors on loss of 
office or termination, other than payment of notice periods. The Remuneration 
Committee may seek to mitigate such payments where appropriate.
3  Subject to the discretion of the Nomination Committee, the Group’s practice is  
to agree notice periods of no more than six months for non-executive directors 
and no more than 12 months for executive directors. 
4 Peter Truscott joined the Group on 1 October 2015. 
5  Ken Gillespie stepped down from the Board on 31 July 2016 and will retire  
from the Group in 2017 . 
Executive directors’ service contracts are available at the Company’s 
registered office and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
For executive directors, at the Group’s discretion, a sum equivalent  
to 12 months’ salary and benefits may be paid in lieu of notice. In the 
contracts of Peter Truscott, Graham Prothero and Ken Gillespie there 
are mitigation provisions to pay any such lump in monthly instalments, 
subject to offset against earnings elsewhere. This will also be the case 
for any future appointments.
For the proportion of the financial year worked, bonuses may be 
payable pro rata at the discretion of the Committee. Depending upon 
the circumstances, the Committee may consider additional payments 
in respect of an unfair dismissal award, outplacement support and 
assistance with legal fees.
An executive director’s service contract may be terminated summarily 
without notice and without any further payment or compensation, 
except for sums accrued up to the date of termination, if they are 
deemed to be guilty of gross misconduct or for any other material 
breach of the obligations under their employment contract. 
The Group may suspend executive directors or put them on a period 
of gardening leave during which they will be entitled to salary, benefits 
and pension. 
Any share-based entitlements granted to an executive director under 
the Group’s share plans will be determined based on the relevant  
plan rules. The default treatment is that any outstanding awards  
lapse on cessation of employment. However, in certain prescribed 
circumstances, such as death in service, serious illness, injury, 
disability, retirement or other circumstances ‘good leaver’ status can  64 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Remuneration Policy and Report continued
be applied at the discretion of the Committee (taking into account the 
individual’s performance and the reasons for their departure).
For ‘good leavers’, awards may vest at the normal time (other than by 
exception) to the extent that the performance conditions have been 
satisfied. The level of vested awards will be reduced pro rata, based  
on the period of time after the grant date and ending on the date of 
cessation of employment relative to the three-year performance 
period, unless the Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, decides 
that such a scaling back is inappropriate in any particular case. 
Deferred bonus shares of ‘good leavers’ vest early.
The overriding principle will be to honour contractual remuneration 
entitlements and determine on an equitable basis the appropriate 
treatment of deferred and performance-related elements of 
remuneration, taking into account the circumstances. Failure will  
not be rewarded.
Policy on recruitment
In cases where the Group recruits a new executive director, the 
Committee will align the new executive’s remuneration with the 
approved Remuneration Policy. In arriving at a value for individual 
remuneration, the Committee will take into account the skills and 
experience of the candidate, the market rate for a candidate of that 
experience, and the importance of securing the preferred candidate.  
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee reserves the right to 
award additional remuneration (in cash and/or shares) in excess of 
Remuneration Policy at appointment, exclusively to replace lost 
rewards or benefits. The Committee also has the discretion to meet 
certain other incidental expenses (for example, relocation costs) to 
secure recruitment of preferred candidates. Further details of the 
Recruitment Policy are set out in the table below.
The Committee may, in exceptional and appropriate circumstances, 
make use of the flexibility provided in both the Listing Rules and  
the approved Remuneration Policy, to make awards outside the 
existing parameters of the LTIP , if it deems such an award to be 
appropriate to replace forfeited deferred variable pay, in order  
to secure the preferred candidate. 
For internal promotions to executive director positions, the 
Committee’s policy is for legacy awards or incentives to be capable  
of vesting on their original terms or, at the discretion of the Committee, 
they may be amended to bring them into line with the policy for 
executive directors. 
For a new non-executive chairman or non-executive director,  
the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the  
approved Remuneration Policy at that time. 
Legacy arrangements
Authority is contained within the approved Remuneration Policy for  
the Group to honour any commitments entered into with current  
or former directors (such as the payment of a pension or vesting  
and exercise of a past LTIP award) that have been disclosed to 
shareholders in previous Directors’ Remuneration Reports.
External directorships
With prior written approval of the Board in each case, executive 
directors are permitted to accept external appointments as 
non-executive directors and retain any associated fees. 
Shareholder consultation and voting analysis
The Committee actively consults with relevant institutional 
shareholders regarding, and in advance of, substantial changes  
to Remuneration Policy or individual executive salary packages.  
It has not been necessary to approach shareholders during the year, 
although in July 2016 the Committee wrote to major institutional 
shareholders inviting views and comments on the proposed new  
LTIP rules and confirming that the Committee will consult with major 
institutional shareholders as necessary on a new Remuneration  
Policy to be proposed at the 2017 AGM.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report from page 67 onwards has been 
subject to audit.
Policy on recruitment
Element General policy Specifics
Salary At a level required to attract the most  
appropriate candidate.
Discretion to pay lower base salary with  
incremental increases, as new appointee  
becomes established in the role.
Pension and benefits In line with policy for executive directors. 20% of basic salary.
Bonus In line with existing schemes. Specific targets could be introduced  
where necessary within the annual bonus  
limit (150% of base salary for the Chief Executive  
and 100% for other directors).
Pro-rating applied as appropriate for  
intra-year joiners.
Long Term Incentive Plan In line with Group policies and LTIP rules. An award may be made in the year of joining  
or can be delayed until the following year.  
Targets would normally be the same as for  
awards to other directors.
Other share awards The Committee may make an incentive award  
to replace deferred pay forfeited by an executive 
leaving a previous employer.
Awards would, where possible, be consistent with 
the awards forfeited in terms of structure, value, 
vesting periods and performance conditions. 65 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Components of executive reward
Component and link  
to strategy Operation
Framework to assess performance  
and maximum opportunity
Salary
To provide a 
competitive and 
appropriate level  
of basic fixed pay, 
sufficient to attract, 
motivate and retain 
executive directors of 
high calibre, able to 
develop and execute 
the Group’s strategy.
Normally reviewed annually, with any changes typically taking  
effect from 1 July.
The Committee sets salaries taking into consideration pay  
and employment conditions across the Group, the economic 
environment, the responsibilities and accountabilities of each role, 
the experience of each individual, his or her marketability and  
the Group’s key dependencies on the individual.
Reference is also made to salary levels among relevant 
housebuilder and construction peers and, other companies  
of equivalent size and complexity.
The Committee reserves the right to reduce salary levels  
(and has done so in the past) if the circumstances warrant it.
When reviewing salaries, both Group and 
individual performance are considered.
There is no prescribed maximum. The 
Committee’s policy on salary increases for 
executive directors is for increases to be broadly 
in line with the average across the workforce, 
unless there is a promotion or material change  
in role or business circumstances in which case 
increases may be higher.
Last year’s salaries are set out in the  
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Benefits
To provide cost-
effective and market-
competitive benefits.
Benefits provided to executive directors currently  
comprise entitlements to a company car or cash equivalent 
allowance, private medical and permanent health insurance,  
and life assurance.
The benefits provided may be subject to minor amendment from 
time to time by the Committee within the Remuneration Policy.
The cost of benefit provision varies from year  
to year, depending on the cost to the Group,  
and there is no prescribed maximum limit. 
Benefit costs are monitored and controlled  
to ensure that they remain appropriate  
and represent a small element of total 
remuneration costs.
Pension
To provide a  
market-competitive 
retirement benefit.
The executive directors may each receive contributions to  
a money purchase pension scheme or salary supplements  
in lieu of Company pension contributions.
20% of basic salary.
Annual Bonus Plan
Rewards the 
achievement of 
stretching annual goals 
that support the 
Group’s annual and 
strategic objectives.
Compulsory deferral  
of part of the bonus 
into shares provides 
alignment with 
shareholders.
Executive directors and selected senior management, subject to 
invitation and approval by the Committee, may participate in the 
Annual Bonus Plan.
Where the bonus earned and payable equates to over 50% of the 
recipient’s basic salary in any one financial year, two-thirds of the 
bonus earned in excess of that 50% salary threshold is required to 
be deferred into restricted shares. Although beneficially held by the 
participants, the restricted shares are legally retained by the trustee 
of the Galliford Try Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) for three years, 
and are subject to forfeiture provisions, unless otherwise agreed  
by the Committee. Subject to continued employment, the 
restricted shares are legally transferred to participants on the  
third anniversary of allocation.
The Committee operates clawback provisions within the Annual 
Bonus Plan, which facilitate the retrieval of payments made to 
directors and executive management in circumstances of error, 
financial misstatement or misconduct.
Dependent on achieving specified financial  
(no less than 50% of the bonus) and strategic 
targets, the bonus may be scaled back if certain 
non-financial targets are not achieved. Last 
year’s performance measures are described in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 69.
The maximum opportunity is 150% of salary for 
the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for other 
executive directors.
At least half of the annual bonus opportunity may 
be earned for on-target performance. Bonuses 
start to be earned from 0% of salary for achieving 
threshold performance. 66 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Remuneration Policy and Report continued
Component and link  
to strategy Operation
Framework to assess performance  
and maximum opportunity
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Rewards the 
achievement of 
sustained long-term 
financial and operational 
performance and is 
therefore aligned with 
the delivery of value  
to shareholders.
Facilitates share 
ownership to provide 
further alignment with 
shareholders.
Making of annual 
awards aids retention.
Under the rules of the 2006 LTIP (and the new LTIP rules which  
are proposed for shareholder approved at the 2016 AGM), the 
Committee is authorised to recommend that the trustee of the EBT 
grant provisional share allocations to invited participants annually.
The vesting of any award depends on the achievement of 
performance conditions linked to specific grants over an 
associated three-year plan cycle.
The Committee operates clawback provisions within the LTIP , 
which facilitate the retrieval of payments made to directors  
and executive management in circumstances of error, financial 
misstatement or misconduct.
The rules of the 2006 LTIP expire on 26 October 2016, and an 
updated set of LTIP rules will be presented to shareholders for 
approval at the 2016 AGM.
Measures have been based on EPS growth  
and relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR), 
measured against two unweighted industry  
peer groups.
The Committee may vary the measures and 
targets that are included in the plan and the 
weightings between them from year to year.  
Any material changes to the measures would  
be subject to prior consultation with the 
Company’s major shareholders.
Details of performance conditions are  
provided on page 70.
The maximum value of a base award that may 
be granted in any financial year to any individual 
will not exceed 100% of their basic annual salary 
as at the award date. In the event of outstanding 
performance there is the potential to achieve 
vesting of up to 200% of the base award.  
As noted elsewhere in this Annual Report,  
the Committee has deferred setting the criteria 
for the 2016 LTIP award until closer to the  
grant date.
The minimum level of vesting that may occur is 
7 .5% of basic salary. Dividends may accrue on 
LTIP awards over the vesting period and, subject 
to the discretion of the Committee, be paid out 
either as cash or shares on vesting, in respect  
of the number of shares that have vested.
All-employee schemes
To encourage employee 
share participation.
The Group may from time to time operate tax-approved share 
plans (such as an approved Save As You Earn scheme for the 
benefit of all staff) for which executive directors could be eligible.
The schemes are subject to the limits set by  
HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC), which may  
be further limited at the Committee’s discretion.
Shareholding guidelines
To ensure the interests 
of the executive 
directors are aligned to 
those of shareholders.
The Group’s share retention policy requires executive directors  
to build and maintain a shareholding over a five-year period 
equivalent in value to at least 100% of basic salary or, in the case  
of the Chief Executive, at least 150% of basic salary.
Non-executive fees
To provide a competitive 
and appropriate level  
of fees sufficient to 
attract, motivate and 
retain a Chairman  
and non-executive 
directors of high calibre.
The Chairman and Deputy Chairman are paid a single fixed fee. 
The remaining non-executive directors are paid a basic fee. The 
chairs of Board Committees and the Senior Independent Director 
are paid an additional fee to reflect their extra responsibilities.
The level of these fees is reviewed periodically by the Committee 
and Chief Executive for the Chairman, and by the Chairman  
and executive directors for the non-executive directors and the 
Deputy Chairman.
Fees are set taking into consideration market levels in comparably 
sized FTSE companies and relevant housebuilder and construction 
peers, the time commitment and responsibilities of the role and  
the experience and expertise required.
Non-executive directors, including the Chairman, are entitled to 
reimbursement of reasonable expenses.
Non-executive directors cannot participate in any of the Group’s 
annual bonus or share plans and are not eligible for any pension 
entitlements from the Group. The Chairman is eligible to participate 
in the Group’s medical assurance plan.
The Committee and the executive directors  
are guided by the general pay increase for the 
broader employee population, but on occasions 
may need to recognise, for example, changes in 
responsibility or time commitments.
Current fee levels are disclosed on page 73. 67 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Remuneration Committee: composition and attendance
Membership of the Remuneration Committee is detailed on pages 50 
to 51. The Committee was chaired by Ishbel Macpherson throughout 
the year. During the financial year the other members were Terry Miller, 
Andrew Jenner, Peter Ventress and Gavin Slark. The General Counsel 
and Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee. The 
Chairman, Chief Executive and Group HR Director have standing 
invitations to attend all Committee meetings, although each meeting 
commences with the non-executives meeting without executive 
management present. No director, or the General Counsel and 
Company Secretary, is present when his or her own remuneration  
is being considered.
During the financial year, the Committee prioritised the calendar of  
key activities and areas of focus set out below.
Calendar of 2015/16 Committee activities and areas of focus
Month Activity or area of focus
July 
2015
 5 Salary review outcome
 5 Update on EPS and TSR performance measures  
to 30 June 2015
 5 Preparatory approval of 2015/16 Annual Bonus  
Plan targets and metrics
 5 Consideration of the draft 2015 Directors’ 
Remuneration Report disclosures
September 
2015
 5 Approval of 2015 grants under the Annual Bonus 
Plan, LTIP , potential new participants in the Long 
Term Bonus Plan and awards to the new CEO  
under Listing Rule 9.4.2.(2)
 5 Consideration of SAYE invitation
 5 Consideration of EBT shareholdings and  
market purchases
 5 Approval of the 2015 Directors’ Remuneration Report
 5 Review and approval of Greg Fitzgerald’s 
remuneration and departure terms in advance  
of his transition to Non-executive Chairman
May 
2016
 5 Group and senior management remuneration review
 5 Review and approval of Ken Gillespie’s departure 
terms on his retirement in 2017
 5 Proposals for Annual Bonus Plan 2016/17
 5 Review of Annual Bonus Plan to 2015/16
 5 Proposals for new LTIP rules
 5 Review of LTIP performance conditions for  
2013, 2014 and 2015 awards
 5 Review of Long Term Bonus Plan participants  
and proposed additions
 5 Update on proposed new Long Term Bonus Plan
 5 Review of EBT shareholdings and future  
market purchases
 5 Review of NBS fees, services and conflicts
Remuneration advice and advisors
The Committee is informed of key developments and best practice  
in the field of remuneration and regularly obtains advice from 
independent external consultants, when required, on individual 
remuneration packages and on executive remuneration practices  
in general.
New Bridge Street (NBS) is the Committee’s sole remuneration 
consultant, having been appointed by the Committee in January 201 1 
following a competitive tender. Services provided to the Committee  
by NBS encompassed remuneration guidance, regulatory guidance 
and share plan-related consultancy. Fees paid to NBS for services 
provided to the Committee during the financial year were £51, 123.
NBS does not provide any other services to the Group, although  
NBS is part of Aon-Hewitt plc (Aon). Aon continues to provide advice 
to the Group specifically relating to private medical insurance policies. 
The Committee is satisfied that these services do not impinge on  
the independence of NBS. Furthermore, NBS is a signatory to the 
Remuneration Consultants’ Code of Conduct which requires that  
its advice be objective and impartial.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary, together with the 
Group HR Director, also advises the Committee as necessary and, 
where appropriate, makes arrangements for the Committee to receive 
independent legal advice at the request of the Committee Chair.
Recent Group performance
The Group continued its strong financial performance during the year 
despite volatility ahead of and after the EU referendum. The closing 
mid-market quotation for the Company’s shares on 30 June 2016  
was £9. 13 (2015: £17 .37). The high and low during the year were 
£18. 13 and £8.58 respectively (2015: £17 .83 and £1 1. 19).
Comparative TSR performance over the last three financial years, 
reflecting share price movements plus dividends reinvested, ranked 
the Company between eigth and ninth place, and above first place 
against its dual comparator groups drawn from the housebuilding  
and construction industries. 
The Company’s TSR over the last six financial years, based on the  
30 trading day average values, is shown below.
0
100
200
300
400
500
Galliford Try plc
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
FTSE 250
FTSE All Share
This graph shows the value, by 30 June 2016, of £100 invested in Galliford Try plc shares on 
30 June 2011 compared with £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index or the FTSE All Share 
Index on the same date. The other points plotted are the values at intervening ﬁnancial year 
ends on 30 June.
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 68 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Remuneration Policy and Report continued
The FTSE 250 Index was chosen as it includes companies of  
a comparable size and complexity and the FTSE All Share Index  
was chosen as it gives a wider perspective of performance. 
Profit before tax, earnings per share and total dividend per share 
growth for the financial year ended on 30 June 2016 was 18%,  
17% and 21% against the prior year respectively. Those increases 
compare to a 7% annualised increase in total Group remuneration  
to £290 million, for the year ended 30 June 2016.
The total gross remuneration of the Chief Executive and the 
percentage achieved of the maximum Annual Bonus Plan and LTIP 
awards, is shown below for the last six financial years. Peter Truscott 
was appointed Chief Executive on 1 October 2015. His predecessor, 
Greg Fitzgerald was Chief Executive until 21 October 2014, and 
Executive Chairman until 31 December 2015.
 
Year ended 30 June
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Chairman
Chief 
Executive
Total remuneration (£000) 2,559 2,468 4,114 3,212 2,811 1,262 1,461
2
Annual bonus (% of maximum) 94% 88% 94% 97% 79% 72% 72%
LTIP (% of maximum) 75% 93% 87% 63% 63% 47%
1
–
3
1  LTIP value estimated based on average share price of £12.79 in the last quarter of the financial year (1 April 2016 to 30 June 2016).
2  Single remuneration figure for Peter Truscott includes the value of any compensatory bonus payments or LTIP awards made during the year as further explained in  
the table below.
3 Peter Truscott’s LTIP award that vested in April 2016 was in compensation for lost share plan award in his previous position and did not relate to performance of the Group.
 
Directors’ remuneration and single figure annual remuneration
The remuneration of the directors serving during the financial year was as follows (together with 2015 comparative figures):
Salary and fees 
£000
Annual bonus 
£000
Taxable benefits
1
 
£000
Pension
2
 
£000
LTIP
3
 
£000
Sharesave 
£000
Total 
£000
2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
4
2016 2015 2016 2015
Peter Truscott
5
375 – 709 – 9 – 75 – 293 – – – 1,461 –
Graham Prothero 375 349 271 277 16 16 75 70 390 814 – – 1,127 1,526
Ken Gillespie 390 351 227 309 13 13 78 71 385 959 33 – 1,126 1,703
Greg Fitzgerald
6
369 550 300 656 23 26 55 110 515 1,469 – – 1,262 2,811
Andrew Jenner 47 46 – – – – – – – – – – 47 46
Ishbel Macpherson 47 46 – – – – – – – – – – 47 46
Terry Miller 47 46 – – – – – – – – – – 47 46
Gavin Slark 40 5 – – – – – – – – – – 40 5
Peter Ventress 69 11 – – – – – – – – – – 69 11
1 Includes benefits such as car allowance and medical insurance.
2 This is a salary supplement paid to the directors in lieu of direct pension contributions.
3  Estimate based on average price of £12.79 for the last quarter of the financial year (1 April 2016 to 30 June 2016). Pursuant to the 2013 LTIP , 40,232, 30,532 and  
30,076 shares, respectively, will vest to Greg Fitzgerald, Graham Prothero and Ken Gillespie on 30 September 2016. 
4  LTIP figures reported in 2015 for that year were based on an estimated value. These have now been updated with the actual value as at the date of vesting.
5  Peter Truscott joined the Group on 1 October 2015 and his remuneration, including previous employment forfeited bonus and performance share plan awards,  
has been pro-rated accordingly. The bonus figure for Peter Truscott in this table is an aggregate figure which includes: (i) a payment of circa £406,000 under the  
Group’s Annual Bonus Plan as disclosed in the table on page 69; and (ii) a compensatory payment of £303,396 paid in lieu of forfeit Taylor Wimpey plc bonus for  
the period 1 January to 30 September 2015 as described on page 74.
6 Greg Fitzgerald became Non-executive Chairman on 1 January 2016 and his remuneration has been pro-rated accordingly. 69 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Annual Bonus Plan
For the financial year to 30 June 2016, Group targets and performance against those targets were as set out in the table below. The Executive 
Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director’s targets were based wholly on Group targets, whereas the Chief Operating Officer’s targets 
were based on 50% Group targets and 50% Construction division targets. Senior management has been subject to similar targets, which  
were applied to their respective divisional or business unit performance. The bonus outcome was subject to a scale back if certain non-financial 
targets in relation to health and safety, and HR, were not achieved.
Measure
% of bonus
Actual performance
Payout % of 
bonus Threshold On-target Maximum 
Group targets (Executive Chairman
1
, Chief Executive, Finance Director)
Group profit
2
 0% 30% 60% Above target 40.6
Group cash management
3
 0% 10% 20% Above target 15.5
Group margin enhancement
4
3.5% 3.5% 8% Above target 5.5
Housebuilding division gross profit shortfall
5
3.5% 3.5% 3.5% At maximum 3.5
Construction division work secured
6
3.5% 3.5% 3.5% At maximum 3.5
Succession planning
8
5% 5% 5% At maximum 5.0
Total 15.5% 55.5% 100% 73.6
Chief Operating Officer targets
Group profit
2
 0% 15% 30% Above target 20.3
Group cash management
3 
0% 5% 10% Above target 7.75
Group margin enhancement
4
1.75% 1.75% 4% Above target 2.75
Housebuilding division gross profit shortfall
5
1.75% 1.75% 1.75% At maximum 1.75
Succession planning
8
5% 5% 5% At maximum 5.0
Construction division profit
7
15% 16.5% 30% Above threshold 15.3
Construction division cash management
3
0% 5% 10% Above threshold 1.15
Construction division margin enhancement 1.75% 1.75% 4% Below threshold 0
Construction division work secured
6
2.625% 2.625% 5.25% At maximum 5.25
Total 27.875% 54.375% 100% 59.25
1  Greg Fitzgerald participated in the Annual Bonus Plan during his tenure as Executive Chairman for the period 1 July 2015 – 31 December 2015, and received a pro-rated 
entitlement under the Annual Bonus Plan accordingly. 
2  Threshold for any bonus to be paid on Group profit before tax was £129 million and £49 million for the full year and half year respectively. On-target was £131 million  
and £50 million respectively and maximum was £144 million and £55 million respectively. Actual performance was £135 million and £53 million respectively.
3  Cash management related to monthly month end cash/debt figures in accordance with a predetermined cash budget schedule. Monthly cash threshold at which bonus 
started to be paid was budget. Maximum bonus was paid at 10% improvement on cash budget with a further increment in December 2015 and June 2016. The average 
monthly month end target was £235 million net debt for Group and £121 million cash for Construction compared to an achieved average of £204 million in Group and  
£93 million in Construction respectively. 
4  Margin enhancement relates to division-specific margin enhancement targets as determined on a management accounts basis. Threshold and target was budget  
(being 16.4% for Linden Homes, 3.2% for Partnerships and 1.0% for Construction) with maximum paid on 20bps enhancement. Actual performance was at maximum  
for Linden Homes and Partnerships but below threshold for Construction.
5  Target performance was zero gross profit shortfall (required land acquisitions) for 2017 as measured at end February 2016. There were no additional threshold or  
maximum targets. Actual performance met the target.
6  Target performance was for 80% of work secured as at June 2016 for the new financial year. There were no additional threshold or maximum targets. Actual performance 
was 82%.
7  Threshold for any bonus to be paid on Construction division profit/(loss) before tax on a management account basis was £12.5 million and £4.5 million for the full year  
and half year respectively. On target performance was £13.6 million and £4.7 million for the full year and half year respectively. Maximum was £22.0 million and £8.0 million 
respectively. Actual performance was £12.5 million and £4.9 million respectively.
8  This target requires each participant to have implemented succession planning measures in relation to his or her own position as well as the positions of their immediate 
reports. The Committee was satisfied that these targets were met.
The Committee determined that in respect of the year to 30 June 2016, the resulting Annual Bonus Plan awards were as follows:
 
On-target 
bonus  
(% of salary)
Maximum 
bonus 
(% of salary)
Actual bonus 
payable for 
2015/16 
(% of salary)
Actual bonus 
payable for 
2015/16 
(£000)
Cash 
(£000)
Shares 
(£000)
Greg Fitzgerald
1
82.5 150 108.5 300 300 –
Peter Truscott
2
82.5 150 108.5 406 260 146
Graham Prothero 55.5 100 72.3 271 215 56
Ken Gillespie 54.375 100 58.3 227 205 22
1  Greg Fitzgerald participated in the Annual Bonus Plan during his tenure as Executive Chairman for the period 1 July 2015 – 31 December 2015, and received a pro-rated 
entitlement under the Annual Bonus Plan accordingly. Greg Fitzgerald will receive the full Annual Bonus payment in cash prior to his retirement in November 2016.
2 Similarly, Peter Truscott joined the Group on 1 October 2015 and received a pro-rated entitlement under the Annual Bonus Plan. 70 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
The Committee considered the performance against targets set at  
the start of the year for profit before tax, margin, cash flow and other 
performance metrics, and looked at a broader assessment of 
management, key strategic decisions taken during the year and 
business performance. Bonus deductors were also considered: first 
based on a health and safety matrix in force across the entire Group 
that reduces bonus by specified percentages relating to the number  
of accidents, incidents and other reportable events, and second an 
HR-related target based on the completion of an annual performance 
and target setting appraisal. Targets were met to the extent shown  
in the table on the previous page.
Two-thirds of the bonus earned in excess of the 50% of salary 
threshold is required to be deferred into restricted shares. Although 
beneficially held by the participants, the allocated restricted shares are 
legally retained by the EBT for a period of three years, and are subject 
to forfeiture provisions, unless otherwise agreed by the Committee. 
Subject to continued employment, the restricted shares are legally 
transferred to participants on the third anniversary of allocation.
Long Term Incentive Plan performance conditions
Date of grant Performance conditions Comparator group
September  
2012
 5 Vesting based on TSR and EPS performance over the three years to 30 June 2015.
 5 Vesting of up to 50% of the base award will be based on EPS performance. 15% will 
vest for aggregate earnings per share of 203 pence over the period, increasing to  
50% vesting for aggregate EPS of 248 pence.
 5 Vesting of up to 75% of the base award will be based on achieving: 7 .5% for median 
performance against the housebuilding comparator group, increasing to 25% vesting  
if the Company’s TSR is 24% (8% per annum) higher than that of the median ranked 
comparator company. Vesting can increase to a maximum of 75% of base award  
(25% per annum) for achieving a TSR that is 75% (25% per annum) higher than the 
median ranked comparator company. Any vesting above 25% also requires the 
maximum EPS target to have been achieved.
 5 Vesting of up to 75% of the base award is subject to TSR performance relative to  
a comparator group of construction companies on the same basis as for  
housebuilding companies.
 5 Actual performance achieved for the 2012 LTIP performance period ending 30 June 
2015 was: EPS of 279. 1 pence and TSR of 196. 1% which was below the median  
against its housebuilding comparator group and higher than 75% in excess of the 
median against the construction comparator group. This resulted in vesting of 125%  
of base awards.
Housebuilding 
Barratt Developments plc; 
Bellway plc; The Berkeley Group 
Holdings plc; Bovis Homes 
Group plc; M J Gleeson plc; 
Persimmon plc; Redrow plc; 
and Taylor Wimpey plc.
Construction 
Balfour Beatty plc;  
Carillion plc; Costain Group plc; 
Henry Boot plc; Keller Group 
plc; Kier Group plc; and  
Morgan Sindall Group plc.
September  
2013
 5 Vesting based on TSR and EPS performance over the three years to 30 June 2016.
 5 Vesting of up to 50% of the base award will be based on EPS performance. 15% will 
vest for aggregate EPS of 258 pence over the period, increasing to 50% vesting for 
aggregate EPS of 315 pence.
 5 Vesting of up to 75% of the base award based on the same TSR and EPS conditions  
for 2012 awards for each of the housebuilding and construction comparator groups.
 5 Actual performance achieved for the 2013 LTIP performance period ending 30 June 
2016 was: EPS of 343.4 pence and TSR of 54% which was below median against its 
housebuilding comparator group and 29% above the median ranked company against 
the construction comparator group. This resulted in vesting of 93.4% of base awards.
Housebuilding 
Barratt Developments plc; 
Bellway plc; The Berkeley Group 
Holdings plc; Bovis Homes 
Group plc; Crest Nicolson 
Holdings plc; M J Gleeson plc; 
Persimmon plc; Redrow plc; 
and Taylor Wimpey plc.
Construction 
Balfour Beatty plc;  
Carillion plc; Costain Group plc; 
Henry Boot plc; Keller Group 
plc; Kier Group plc; and  
Morgan Sindall Group plc.
September  
2014
 5 Vesting based on TSR and EPS performance over the three years to 30 June 2017 .
 5 Vesting of up to 50% of the base award will be based on EPS performance. 15% will 
vest for aggregate EPS of 334 pence over the period, increasing to 50% vesting for 
aggregate EPS of 408 pence.
 5 Vesting of up to 75% of the base award based on the same TSR and EPS conditions  
for the 2013 awards for each of the housebuilding and construction comparator groups.
Same as for the  
September 2013 grant.
September  
2015
 5 Vesting based on TSR and EPS performance over the three years to 30 June 2018.
 5 Vesting of up to 50% of the base award will be based on EPS performance. 15% will 
vest for aggregate EPS of 410 pence over the period, increasing to 50% vesting for 
aggregate EPS of 500 pence.
 5 Vesting of up to 75% of the base award based on the same TSR and EPS conditions  
for the 2013 awards for each of the housebuilding and construction comparator groups.
Same as for the  
September 2013 grant.
Remuneration Policy and Report continued 71 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Directors’ share plan interests
Further detail regarding the proportion of LTIP awards subject to the three-year performance period ending 30 June 2016, and vesting in 
September 2016, is given in the preceding table on page 70. Outstanding awards held by directors are detailed in the table below. 
Director Plan Date
Share price  
at grant
Base award 
quantum at 
1 July 2015 Awarded
Face value 
of award
2
 
£000
Vested 
(125.0%  
of base 
awards  
for LTIP)
Base 
award 
quantum 
at 30  
June 2016
Value of 
awards 
vested 
during 
financial 
year  
£000
Actual or 
anticipated 
vesting date
Greg 
Fitzgerald
Long Term Incentive Plan
1
26.09.12 £6.67 73,013 – 974 91,266 – 1,469 26.09.15
Long Term Incentive Plan 30.09.13 £10.40 51,690 – 1,075 – 40,232
4
– 30.09.16
Long Term Incentive Plan 30.09.14 £12.49 – 44,035 1,100 – 22,017
4
– 30.09.17
Annual Bonus Plan 26.09.12 £7.10 17,133 – – 17,133 – 276 26.09.15
Annual Bonus Plan 30.09.13 £10.40 32,571 – – 32,571 – 497 31.12.15
Annual Bonus Plan 30.09.14 £12.31 27,577 – – 27,577 – 421 31.12.15
Annual Bonus Plan 25.09.15 £16.81 – 15,095 – 15,095 – 230 31.12.15
Peter 
Truscott 
Long Term Incentive Plan
1
21.10.15 £15.03 – 22,304 335
3
22,304 – 293 18.04.16
Long Term Incentive Plan 21.10.15 £16.43 – 22,884 752
5
– 22,884 – 30.09.17
Long Term Incentive Plan 25.09.15 £17.36 – 26,400 917 – 26,400 – 25.09.18
Graham 
Prothero
Long Term Incentive Plan
1
01.02.13 £6.67 40,458 – 540 50,572 – 814 26.09.15
Long Term Incentive Plan 30.09.13 £10.40 32,690 – 680 – 30,076 – 30.09.16
Long Term Incentive Plan 30.09.14 £12.49 27,902 – 697 – 27,902 – 30.09.17
Long Term Incentive Plan 25.09.15 £17.36 – 21,601 750 – 21,601 – 25.09.18
Annual Bonus Plan 30.09.13 £10.40 2,971 – – – 2,971 – 30.09.16
Annual Bonus Plan 30.09.14 £12.31 8,572 – – – 8,572 – 30.09.17
Annual Bonus Plan 25.09.15 £16.81 – 4,073 – – 4,073 – 25.09.18
Sharesave 21.10.15
Exercise 
price  
£13.72 – 1,500 – – 1,500 – 01.01.21
Ken 
Gillespie
Long Term Incentive Plan
1
26.09.12 £6.67 47,646 – 636 59,557 – 959 26.09.15
Long Term Incentive Plan 30.09.13 £10.40 32,202 – 670 – 30,532 – 30.09.16
Long Term Incentive Plan 30.09.14 £12.49 27,485 – 687 – 24,431
4
– 30.09.17
Long Term Incentive Plan 25.09.15 £17.36 – 22,465 780 – 12,481
4
– 25.09.18
Annual Bonus Plan 26.09.12 £7.10 6,942 – – 6,942 – 112 26.09.15
Annual Bonus Plan 30.09.13 £10.40 6,866 – – – 6,866 – 30.09.16
Annual Bonus Plan 30.09.14 £12.31 4,665 – – – 4,665 – 30.09.17
Annual Bonus Plan 25.09.15 £16.81 – 5,445 – – 5,445 – 25.09.18
Sharesave 19.11.10
Exercise 
price  
£2.71 2,876 – – 2,876 – 41 19.01.16
Sharesave 21.10.15
Exercise 
price  
£13.72 – 900 – – 900 – 01.01.19
1  Each LTIP award is a provisional allocation of a number of shares which is equal in value as at the date of grant to 100% of the individual’s basic salary as at the date  
of grant. The award is subject to performance conditions over a three-year period as described on page 70.
2  The face values of the LTIP awards are calculated on the basis of the share price at grant of a base award, and assumes maximum vesting at 200% of award,  
as per the rules of the LTIP .
3  The face value of this award is calculated on the basis of the share price at grant of a base award, and actual vesting at 100% of award, as per the rules of the  
Taylor Wimpey 2013 PSP , on which the performance conditions were based. Please also refer to page 74 for more information.
4  Awards pro-rated pursuant to good leaver provisions as per the plan rules. These awards remain subject to the performance conditions attached to each award  
at the time of grant.
5 Please refer to page 74 for more information on this award.  72 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Directors’ share interests
As at 30 June 2016, the directors held the following beneficial, legal and unvested bonus share plan interests in the Company’s ordinary  
share capital:
Director
Legally Beneficially
1
Total As at 30 June 2015 As at 30 June 2016 As at 30 June 2015 As at 30 June 2016
Greg Fitzgerald 632,818 806,146 77,281 – 806,146
Peter Truscott
2
– 11,821 – – 11,821
Graham Prothero – 26,803 11,543 15,616 42,419
Ken Gillespie 129,802 167,922 18,473 16,976 184,898
Andrew Jenner 13,433 13,433 – – 13,433
Ishbel Macpherson – 2,125 – – 2,125
Terry Miller – 200 – – 200
Gavin Slark – 1,200 – – 1,200
Peter Ventress – 4,250 – – 4,250
1  Greg Fitzgerald’s, Ken Gillespie’s and Graham Prothero’s respective beneficial interests are held by the EBT in connection with the Annual Bonus Plan. Further details  
in relation to interests in LTIP , Annual Bonus Plan and sharesave schemes are provided in the share plans table above.
2 Peter Truscott joined the Group on 1 October 2015. 
There were no changes in the directors’ interests from 30 June 2016 to the date of this Annual Report.
Compliance with executive shareholding policy
As at 30 June 2016, Ken Gillespie was compliant with the minimum 
shareholding policy referred to on page 66, having shareholdings in 
market value on 30 June 2016 representing 392% of his base salary. 
Following their appointments in February 2013 and October 2015, 
Graham Prothero and Peter Truscott (respectively) have five years to 
acquire the required shareholding and have undertaken to retain future 
shares vesting to them (net of shares sold for tax) for this purpose. 
External directorships
During the year, Greg Fitzgerald served as a Non-executive Director  
of the NHBC, for which he received and retained an annual fee of 
£36, 125, and as a Chairman of Ardent Hire Solutions Limited, for which 
he received and retained a fee of £56,666. Greg Fitzgerald stepped 
down as a Non-executive Director of the NHBC on 31 July 2016. Ken 
Gillespie remained a non-fee-earning Director of the Scottish 
Contractors Group, a non-profit industry body.
Implementation of Policy on exit payments in year
The Committee has undertaken to disclose in full any exit payments  
to executive directors triggered during the financial year. None were 
payable in the 2015/16 financial year.
It was also not necessary for the Committee to operate the clawback 
provisions integrated into the Group’s main executive incentive plans 
during the financial year.
Payments for loss of office and payments to former directors
In the year to 30 June 2016, the Group made no payments to any 
director for loss of office. 
Percentage change in remuneration of Executive Chairman/
Chief Executive and across workforce for 2015/16
% change
Average across 
workforce
Executive 
Chairman/ 
Chief Executive
1
Salary 3.3 (6.8)
Bonus (22)
2
(15.2)
Benefits 7.9
3
(42.6)
1  The figures have been calculated by: (a) combining (i) the Chief Executive’s salary, 
bonus (for performance only and excluding any ‘compensatory’ bonus) and 
benefits for the period 1 October 2015 to 30 June 2016; and (ii) the Executive 
Chairman’s salary, performance bonus and benefits for the period between 1 July 
2015 and 30 September 2015; and then (b) comparing these aggregate figures 
against the Executive Chairman’s figures for the year to 30 June 2015. 
2  Based on comparison of average aggregate bonus awards divided by average 
numbers of staff.
3  Based on comparison of cost to the Group of benefits for the tax years ending  
in April 2015 and April 2016. 
Relative importance of spend on pay
 2014/15 2015/16 % change
Total overall spend 
on pay (£m) 271.0 289.9 7
Dividends (£m) 55.8 67.9 22
Share buyback (£m) – – –
Group profit before 
tax (£m) 114.0 135.0 18
Group corporation 
tax expense (£m) 21.7 26.1 20
Effective tax rate (%) 19.0 19.3 2
The equivalent total overall spend on pay in 2016 is disclosed in note 3 
to the financial statements. The total overall spend on pay equates to 
average remuneration per staff member of £50,900 per annum as at 
30 June 2016 (2015: £51,400). 
Remuneration Policy and Report continued 73 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Forward-looking implementation of Policy 
Base salaries
At the 2016 salary review completed in May, the directors carefully 
scrutinised pay and employment conditions across the Group. Against 
the backdrop of strong financial performance, industry-wide salary 
increases and a need to continue to retain key operational staff to 
deliver the enhanced 2018 strategy, average salary increases of 2.62% 
were accordingly approved for all staff across the Group’s divisions 
and central functions, subject to individual personal performance.  
The overall pay budget increased by 3%, of which 0.5% related to 
discretionary increases above the average pay increase, awarded  
to selected staff to reflect market adjustments and promotions.
With effect from 1 July 2016, Peter Truscott was awarded an annual 
salary increase of 3% (£15,000) to £515,000. Graham Prothero was 
awarded an annual salary increase of 3% (£1 1,250) to £386,250.  
Ken Gillespie was not awarded a salary increase, as he stepped  
down from the Board on 31 July 2016 and intends to leave the  
Group’s employment in 2017 . These increases were in line with  
the average 2.62% pay increase across the workforce which is 
expected to rise to 3% throughout the year ahead.
Annual bonus
The Committee has decided that for the financial year to 30 June 2017 , 
the existing bonus structure remains appropriately aligned to corporate 
strategy. It will therefore remain in its current form, subject to 
adjustment of targets, with an opportunity of 150% of salary for the 
Chief Executive and an opportunity of 100% of salary for the other 
executive directors.
As noted on page 62, the Committee has sought to simplify the 
Annual Bonus targets so that the level of award will be based solely  
on performance against a combination of Group targets for profit  
and cash management.
The Committee has chosen not to disclose, in advance, the 
performance targets for the forthcoming year, as these include items 
which the Committee considers commercially sensitive. Information on 
the targets and the level of bonuses earned will be disclosed next year. 
LTIP 
As stated earlier in this report, the current LTIP rules expire in  
October 2016, and a new set of rules will be proposed at the 2016 
AGM, to be held in November 2016. The revised rules are in line with 
the Group’s current Remuneration Policy and no changes have been 
made to the maximum limits under the plan, although dividend 
equivalents may be payable under the revised rules in line with the 
Remuneration Policy. A summary of the proposed new rules is 
contained in the 2016 Notice of AGM. 
It is anticipated that awards to be granted in 2016 will be made under 
the new LTIP rules. Subject to shareholder approval, it is intended  
that awards will be granted following the 2016 AGM for a three-year 
performance period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2019. The base 
award levels under the 2016 LTIP will continue to be 100% of base 
salary, with a stretch vesting opportunity of up to 200% of the base 
award. The former Chief Operating Officer, Ken Gillespie, will not 
participate in the 2016 LTIP as he intends to retire prior to the 
completion of the performance period.
Due to the inevitable uncertainty in the wake of the UK’s decision  
to leave the EU, the Committee has decided to delay setting the 
targets attached to the 2016/17 LTIP award until closer to the grant 
date. The agreed targets will be disclosed in the relevant RNS 
announcement, as well as in the 2016/17 Directors’ Report on 
Remuneration. The awards will be made in line with the shareholder-
approved Remuneration Policy and the Committee will consult with 
major shareholders if any significant changes to the performance 
measures are proposed.
All-employee share schemes
The Group operates an HMRC approved sharesave scheme for  
the benefit of all staff. During the year, eligible employees were invited 
to participate in a three-or-five-year scheme which granted options  
to purchase shares at a 20% discount to the share price as at the 
grant date. The rules of the sharesave scheme were renewed for  
a further 10-year period at the 2015 AGM. 
Chairman and non-executive fees
Following his assumption of the role of Non-executive Chairman  
from 1 January 2016, the fee level for Greg Fitzgerald has been set  
at £190,000 per annum, together with membership of the Group’s 
medical assurance plan. 
The standard non-executive fee has remained at £40,000 per annum 
throughout the financial year and to date, and this is not anticipated  
to change for 2016/17 . The fee supplement for the three chairs of 
Board Committees is £7 ,500. The Deputy Chairman receives a fee  
of £65,000 per annum, with a fee supplement of £4,000 for the role  
of Senior Independent Director.  74 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
New Chief Executive
Peter Truscott was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015, and 
received a pro-rata salary of £500,000 per annum for the financial year 
ended on 30 June 2016. He participates in the Annual Bonus Plan 
(with a maximum of 150% of salary per annum pro-rated for the year 
ended 30 June 2016) and LTIP (with a base award of 100% of salary 
per annum) in line with the Remuneration Policy, and as disclosed 
elsewhere in this Report. His entitlement to other benefits, including 
pension provision, medical benefits, and membership of the Group’s 
Life Assurance scheme is the same as other executive directors. 
In recognition of remuneration forfeited on termination of his previous 
employment with Taylor Wimpey plc, and as determined by the 
Remuneration Committee in accordance with the Group’s current 
Recruitment Policy, certain compensation payments have been 
awarded to Peter Truscott as described below.
 5 Bonus forfeited for the period 1 January to 30 September 2015:  
this bonus would have been payable in April 2016 based on Taylor 
Wimpey’s performance as disclosed in its Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and determined with reference to the level of bonus (in 
percentage terms, as against a maximum of 150%) earned by the 
Taylor Wimpey Chief Executive Officer. The percentage was 78%, 
and accordingly, Peter Truscott has received a sum of £303,396. 
 5 Two awards in respect of forfeited 2013 and 2014 Taylor Wimpey 
Performance Share Plan awards: the value of the awards forfeited 
was determined by the Remuneration Committee based on an 
average of the Taylor Wimpey plc and Galliford Try plc share prices 
in a five-day period prior to the announcement of Peter Truscott’s 
appointment to the Group. The first award of 22,304 Galliford Try  
plc shares, representing Taylor Wimpey Performance Share Plan 
awards made in 2013, vested 30 days after the publication of Taylor 
Wimpey’s Directors’ Remuneration Report in April 2016, and was 
based on the actual level of vesting disclosed in that report, which 
was 100%. The second award of 22,884 Galliford Try plc shares, 
representing Taylor Wimpey awards made in 2014 shall vest on  
30 September 2017 , subject to the same performance conditions  
as awards made in 2014 under the Galliford Try plc LTIP . 
The value of these awards has been calculated to be the same value 
and form as those forfeited.
Employee Benefit Trust and dilution
The EBT is the primary mechanism by which shares required to  
satisfy the executive incentive plans are provided. During the financial 
year, the EBT purchased 465, 176 shares in the market at an average 
price of £14.76, which resulted in a balance held at 30 June 2016  
of 540,480 shares.
Including the purchase of shares, the Group provided net additional 
funds to the EBT during the financial year of £1 1.9 million, by extending 
the existing EBT loan facility. 
In only issuing 582, 147 new shares during or since the financial  
year, the Company has complied with the dilution guidelines of the 
Investment Association. Applying the guidelines, the Group has  
6.9% headroom against ‘the 10 percent in 10 years’ rule and  
3.8% headroom against the ‘five percent in 10 years’ rule for 
discretionary plans.
Shareholder voting on the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
The Committee takes account of annualised shareholder voting  
trends in connection with the Directors’ Remuneration Report votes. 
Votes cast in support of the annual advisory resolution to approve  
the Directors’ Remuneration Report during the last five AGMs are as 
follows: 99.26% (2015), 99.46% (2014), 98.52% (2013), 99. 16% (2012), 
and 87 .66% (201 1). Votes withheld in each of those years represented: 
2.21% (2015), 0.32% (2014), 3. 16% (2013), 2.78% (2012), and 1.91% 
(201 1). In 2015, 0.7 4% of the votes cast were against the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
In 2014 the vote was split into two resolutions: an advisory vote  
relating to the Directors’ Remuneration Report for that year, together 
with a binding vote on the Remuneration Policy for the three-year 
period 2014-17 . Shareholders voted in support of the Remuneration 
Policy by 98. 13% in favour, with 0.08% of votes withheld. A further 
resolution in respect of the Remuneration Policy for the period 2017-20 
will be proposed at the 2017 AGM, following disclosure of the policy  
in the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ending  
30 June 2017 . 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports)  
Regulations (Amended) 2013 and the Financial  
Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules
The Directors’ Remuneration Report has been prepared in 
accordance with the Directors Remuneration Regulations 2013,  
the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts  
and Reports) Regulations (Amended) 2013 and the Financial Conduct 
Authority’s Listing Rules. The auditors are required to report on the 
remuneration data disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
section and state whether, in their opinion, that part of the Report  
had been properly prepared in accordance with relevant provisions  
of the Companies Act 2006 (as amended).
The Committee is governed by formal terms of reference agreed  
by the Board and is composed solely of non-executive directors,  
each of whom the Board considers to be independent. The latest 
terms of reference are available on the Group’s website.
For and on behalf of the Board
Ishbel Macpherson 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
14 September 2016
Remuneration Policy and Report continued 75 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
The directors present their Annual Report and audited financial 
statements for the Group for the year ended 30 June 2016.
Principal activities
Galliford Try is a housebuilding and construction group, primarily 
operating in the UK. Galliford Try plc, registered in England and Wales 
with company number 00836539, is the Group Parent Company. 
More detailed information regarding the Group’s activities during the 
year under review, and its future prospects, is provided on pages 1  
to 49. The principal subsidiaries and joint ventures operating within the 
Group’s divisions are shown in notes 12 and 35 to the financial 
statements.
Strategic Report
The Group is required by section 414A of the Companies Act 2006  
to present a Strategic Report in the Annual Report. This can be found 
on pages 1 to 49. 
The Strategic Report contains, where appropriate, an indication of  
the directors’ view on likely future developments in the business of  
the Group.
The Corporate Governance Report on pages 52 to 61 is a statement 
for the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7 .2. 1. 
The Annual Report and Financial Statements use financial and 
non-financial KPIs wherever possible and appropriate.
Results, dividends and capital
The profit for the year, net of tax, of £108.9 million is shown in the 
consolidated income statement on page 84. The directors have 
recommended a final dividend of 56 pence per share, which together 
with the interim dividend of 26 pence declared in February, results in  
a total dividend for the financial year of 82 pence. The total dividend  
for the financial year will distribute a total of £67 .9 million. Subject to 
approval by shareholders in general meeting, the final dividend will  
be payable on 23 November 2016, to shareholders on the register  
at close of business on 28 October 2016.
Please refer to page 28 for an overview of the Group’s capital structure 
and funding.
Share capital, authorities and restrictions
The Company has one class of ordinary share capital, having a 
nominal value of 50 pence. The ordinary shares rank pari passu in 
respect of voting and participation and are listed for trading on the 
main market of the London Stock Exchange. At 30 June 2016, the 
Company had 82,872,012 ordinary shares in issue (2015: 82,289,865). 
The directors are authorised on an annual basis to issue shares, to 
allot a limited number of shares in the Company for cash other than  
to existing shareholders, and to make market purchases of shares 
within prescribed limits. The current authorities are set out in 2015 
AGM notice. Resolutions to be proposed at the 2016 AGM will renew 
all three of the directors’ standing authorities relating to share capital, 
which are further explained in the Notice of AGM sent separately  
to shareholders. Other than usual activity in connection with the 
Group’s share plans, no shares have been issued or purchased by  
the Company under the relevant authorities either during the financial 
year or to the date of this Annual Report.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Company’s shares,  
with the exceptions that certain shares held by the Galliford Try 
Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) are restricted for the duration of the 
applicable performance periods under relevant Group share plans, 
and directors and persons discharging managerial responsibilities  
are periodically restricted in dealing in the Company’s shares under  
the Group’s share dealing policy which reflects the requirements of  
the now superseded Model Code and the Market Abuse Regulation 
which came into effect on 3 July 2016. In certain specific 
circumstances, the directors are permitted to decline to register  
a transfer in accordance with the Company’s articles of association. 
There are no other limitations on holdings of securities, and no 
requirements to obtain the approval of the Company, or other holders 
of securities in the Company, prior to the share transfer. The Company 
is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may 
result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights. 
There are no securities carrying specific rights with regard to control  
of the Company, with the exception that the EBT holds shares in the 
Company in connection with Group share plans which have rights with 
regard to control of the Company that are not exercisable directly by 
the employee. The EBT abstains from voting in respect of any shares 
so held. The EBT currently holds 0.65% of the issued share capital of 
the Company for the purposes of satisfying employee share options  
or share awards (2015: 0.55%).
Articles of Association
The Articles of Association, adopted in 2009 to reflect the Companies 
Act 2006, set out the internal regulations of the Company, and define 
various aspects of the Company’s constitution including the rights  
of shareholders, procedures for the appointment and removal of 
directors, and the conduct of both directors and general meetings.
In accordance with the Articles, directors can be appointed or 
removed either by the Board or shareholders in general meeting. 
Amendments to the Articles require the approval of shareholders in 
general meeting expressly by way of special resolution. Copies of  
the Articles are available by contacting the General Counsel and 
Company Secretary at the registered office.
Significant direct and indirect holdings
As at 14 September 2016, being the date of this Annual Report, the 
Company had been made aware, pursuant to the FCA’s Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules, of the following beneficial interests in 3%  
or more of the Company’s ordinary share capital:
Shareholder Interest % capital
Standard Life Investments 5,754,388 6.95
Brewin Dolphin Ltd 4,293,613 5.18
Aberforth Partners LLP 3,535,408 4.27
There were no material changes in any of the significant holdings 
between the financial year end and the date of this Annual Report.
Directors’ Report 76 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Change of control provisions
The only agreements likely to have a material impact on the Group’s 
operations in the event of any change of control over the Group 
continue to relate to the Group’s revolving credit facility and surety 
arrangements, details of which are set out in the notes to the  
Financial Statements. 
All of the Group’s share plans contain provisions relating to a change  
of control. The respective plan rules permit outstanding awards to vest 
on a proportional basis and then become exercisable in the event of  
a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable 
performance conditions and the prior approval of the Remuneration 
Committee. Other than in relation to share schemes as described 
above, the Group has not entered into any agreements with its 
directors or employees which provide for compensation in the event  
of a takeover or change of control in the Group.
The agreements governing the Group’s joint ventures all have 
appropriate change of control provisions, none of which is material  
in the context of the wider Group. 
Board and directors’ interests and indemnities
Summary biographies of the Board directors as at 30 June 2016  
are on pages 50 and 51. Peter Truscott was appointed as Chief 
Executive on 1 October 2015 and Ken Gillespie stepped down from 
the Board on 31 July 2016. Andrew Richards, who was not a member 
of the Board but was a member of the Executive Board, left the  
Group in April 2016. Greg Fitzgerald announced his retirement from 
the Board with effect from the conclusion of the 2016 AGM on  
1 1 November 2016.
There have been no other changes to the Board, either during or  
since the financial year end. 
With effect from 6 September 2016, each of Andrew Hammond 
(Divisional Chairman West for Linden Homes), Tom Nicholson 
(Divisional Chairman East for Linden Homes), and Stephen Teagle 
(Chief Executive, Partnerships and Regeneration) joined the  
Executive Board.
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company  
are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 72, where 
details of executive directors’ service contracts and non-executive 
directors’ letters of appointment can also be found. 
The Company operates a formal ongoing procedure for the disclosure, 
review and authorisation of directors’ actual and potential conflicts  
of interest, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. In addition, 
conflicts of interest are reviewed, and as necessary further authorised, 
by the Board on an annual basis. Details of Directors’ and Officers’ 
Liability Insurance and qualifying third party indemnities are given  
on page 55 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Employees 
The Group is committed to employment policies, which follow best 
practice, based on equal opportunities for all employees, irrespective 
of sex, race, age, ethnicity, disability or marital status. We value 
everyone as an individual, recognising that everyone is different and 
has different needs at work. We respect people’s differences and  
treat everyone with dignity and respect. We aim to create a culture in 
which everyone feels valued as an individual and is motivated to give 
their best in their jobs.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for 
employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular 
aptitudes and abilities. We carry out regular workplace assessments, 
and provide occupational health checks and advice to support  
both employees and line managers. Appropriate arrangements are 
made for the continued training and employment, career development 
and promotion of disabled persons. If members of staff become 
disabled, the Group endeavours to continue employment, either in  
the same or alternative position, with appropriate retraining being  
given if necessary. 
Employee engagement and consultation is encouraged through  
the use of regular informal discussions/feedback, formal annual 
appraisals, business unit staff forums, periodic employee surveys  
and the new 360 feedback programme mentioned on page 47 .
Further information on the Group’s employees, employment practices 
and employee involvement is provided in the Strategic Report on 
pages 1 to 49 and the Remuneration Policy and Report on pages 62 
to 7 4. Information on the Group’s approach to environmental, social 
and community matters, including a consideration of the impact of  
the Group’s business on the environment, is provided in the Strategic 
Report on pages 48 to 49. 
Significant agreements
Except for the agreements underpinning the Group’s revolving credit 
facility, there are no persons with which it has contractual or other 
arrangements which are essential to its business. 
Charitable and political donations
For information regarding charitable donations made in time or 
materials please refer to the Strategic Report on page 49.
It is Group policy to avoid making political donations of any nature and 
accordingly none were made during the year. The Group notes the 
wide application of Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006, but does not 
consider the housebuilding and construction industry bodies of which 
it is a member to be political organisations for the purposes of the Act.
Directors’ Report continued 77 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Emissions
Details of the Group’s carbon dioxide emissions for the financial  
year have been included on page 48 and are included by reference  
in this report.
Creditor payment policy
Group policy regarding creditor payment is to agree payment terms 
contractually with suppliers and land vendors, ensure the relevant 
terms of payment are included in contracts, and to abide by those 
terms when satisfied that goods, services or assets have been 
provided in accordance with the agreed contractual terms. In 
November 2013, the Group became a signatory to the Prompt 
Payment Code which contains, among other things, commitments  
to pay suppliers within agreed contract terms. 
Financial instruments
Further information regarding the Group’s financial instruments 
including interest rate hedges, related policies and a consideration  
of its liquidity and other financing risks can be found in the financial 
review from page 26, and in note 25 to the financial statements.
Important developments since year end 
Other than changes to the market conditions, outlined in the Strategic 
Report, there have been no material events or developments affecting 
the Company or any of its operating subsidiaries since 30 June 2016.
Going concern 
In accordance with the Financial Reporting Council’s Guidance on 
Going Concern and Liquidity published in 2009, the requirements of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code and Listing Rule 9.8.6R(3), the 
directors have conducted a rigorous and proportionate assessment  
of the Group’s ability to continue in existence for the foreseeable future. 
This has been reviewed during the financial year and the directors 
have concluded that there are no material uncertainties that may cast 
significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern. Furthermore, the Group has adequate resources and visibility 
as to its future workload, as explained in this Annual Report. It is 
therefore justified in using the going concern basis in preparing these 
financial statements.
Independent auditor
Each of the directors at the date of approval of this Annual Report 
confirms that:
 5 so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information 
of which the auditor is unaware; and
 5 the director has taken all steps that he/she ought to have taken as  
a director in order to make himself/herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is 
aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
A resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM for the 
re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditor of  
the Company, at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the  
Audit Committee.
AGM
The AGM will be held at the offices of Royal Bank of Scotland,  
3rd Floor Conference Centre, 250 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4AA 
on 1 1 November 2016 at 1 1.30 am. The notice convening the  
AGM, sent to shareholders separately, explains the items of  
business which are not of a routine nature.
Fair, balanced and understandable 
In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and as further described on pages 58 and 59, the Group has 
arrangements in place to ensure that the information presented in  
this Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable. The directors 
consider, on the advice of the Audit Committee, that the Annual 
Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
Approval of Report
This Directors’ Report, the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 49 and  
the Corporate Governance and Directors’ Remuneration Reports  
on pages 52 to 7 4, were approved by the Board of directors on  
14 September 2016.
For and on behalf of the Board
Kevin Corbett 
General Counsel and Company Secretary
14 September 2016 78 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report,  
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under company law the directors have prepared 
the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted  
by the European Union. Under company law, the directors must not 
approve the financial statements, unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the 
Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to:
 5 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
 5 make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;
 5 state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
 5 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis,  
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will  
continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time  
the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable  
them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and,  
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps 
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the directors whose names and functions are listed on  
pages 50 and 51, confirms that to the best of their knowledge:
 5 the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and  
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of  
the Group; and
 5 the Strategic Report contained in pages 1 to 49 includes a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business  
and the position of the Group, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
For and on behalf of the Board
Peter Truscott 
Chief Executive
14 September 2016
Forward looking statements
Forward looking statements have been made by the directors in good 
faith using information up until the date on which they approved this 
Annual Report. Forward looking statements should be regarded with 
caution due to uncertainties in economic trends and business risks. 
The Group’s businesses are generally not affected by seasonality.
Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities 79 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Report on the financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion:
 5 Galliford Try plc’s Group financial statements and Company  
financial statements (the ‘financial statements’) give a true and fair 
view of the state of the Group’s and of the Company’s affairs as  
at 30 June 2016 and of the Group’s profit and the Group’s and 
Company’s cash flows for the year then ended;
 5 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the EU;
 5 the Company financial statements have been properly prepared  
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
 5 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with  
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report  
and Financial Statements (the ‘Annual Report’), comprise:
 5 the Balance sheets as at 30 June 2016;
 5 the Consolidated income statement and the Consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
 5 the Statements of cash flows for the year then ended;
 5 the Consolidated and Company statement of changes in equity  
for the year then ended; and
 5 the Notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the 
Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are 
identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the  
EU, and applicable law and, as regards the Company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006 and applicable law.
Our audit approach
Overview
Materiality
 5 Overall Group materiality: £6,750,000 which represents 5% of  
profit before tax.
Audit scope
 5 The Group is structured in six principal segments, being Linden 
Homes, Partnerships and Regeneration, Building, Infrastructure, 
PPP Investments and Central Costs. In establishing the overall 
approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work  
that needed to be performed at these segments. Of the Group’s six 
segments, we identified that Linden Homes, Building, Infrastructure, 
Partnerships and Regeneration and Central Costs, in our view, 
required an audit of their complete financial information, either due 
to their size or their risk characteristics.
 5 Taken together, the reporting units in scope accounted for 99.7%  
of Group revenue and 98.8% of Group profit before tax.
Areas of focus
 5 Fraud in revenue recognition.
 5 Linden Homes developments may not be appropriately valued.
 5 Construction contracts may not be appropriately valued.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (ISAs (UK & Ireland)).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the 
risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, 
we looked at where the directors made subjective judgments, for 
example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved 
making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently 
uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of 
management override of internal controls, including evaluating  
whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented  
a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our 
audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified 
as ‘areas of focus’ in the table below. We have also set out how we 
tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide  
an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments 
we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this 
context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 
Independent auditors’ report  
to the members of Galliford Try plc 80 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Fraud in revenue recognition 
Most businesses face a risk of fraud in revenue 
recognition. Construction contract accounting  
is inherently complex and we focused on this 
area because there is judgment involved in 
estimating the costs to complete of projects 
which increases the inherent risk of fraud. 
Revenue from fixed price construction contracts 
is recognised based upon management’s 
assessment of the value of works carried  
out considering performance against the 
programme of works, measurement of the 
works, detailed evaluation of the costs incurred 
and comparison to external certification of the 
work performed. Profit is not recognised until the 
outcome of the contract is reasonably certain.
Refer to note 1 : Accounting policies on pages  
90 and 91 of the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements (Annual Report), and Audit Committee 
Report on page 59 of the Annual Report.
 5 For Construction revenue, we identified and assessed key judgments inherent in the 
estimation of significant construction contract projects, by validating stage-of-completion  
and costs to completion on significant projects using surveyors’ latest valuations, as well  
as evaluating the final outcome on projects completed in the year in relation to previous 
estimates made.
 5 We agreed revenue recognised on a sample of major projects to supporting documentation 
such as customer contracts and signed variations.
 5 We tested the timing of construction contract revenue recognition, taking into account 
contractual obligations, the percentage of the contract completed, third-party certifications 
and the timing of cash receipts.
 5 For Linden Homes’ revenue, we tested a sample of sales by examining legal completion 
documents. We also considered the third-party release of mortgage finance, where 
appropriate, to check building work was complete.
 5 We performed data analysis to identify potentially unusual journal entries impacting revenue 
and performed testing on those items.
We found no material misstatements from our testing.
Linden Homes developments may not be appropriately valued 
The valuation of developments is dependent 
upon the correct estimation and allocation of 
common costs on Linden Homes’ sites. 
Common costs are allocated proportionately 
across the site using projected site margin to 
give a common gross profit margin on all units 
on that site, therefore changes in the total 
common costs incurred on a site over the life  
of the development can cause the profit margin 
to fluctuate. There is risk that costs may be 
incorrectly estimated and allocated, resulting  
in developments not being recoverable.
Older or slower-moving developments can  
be an indication of potential impairment.
Refer to note 1: Accounting Policies on  
page 93 of the Annual Report.
 5 We identified and tested the operating effectiveness of key controls around the estimation 
and allocation of common costs on sites, estimation of costs to complete and calculation  
of projected site margins.
 5 We compared management’s assumptions on future sales prices for a sample of sites to 
completed sales and available industry data.
 5 We identified and assessed a sample of key judgments inherent in estimates of site and 
project margins, particularly around changes in the allocation of common costs on sites  
and any disputes or unresolved negotiations with subcontractors.
 5 We agreed a sample of costs incurred on sites, including common costs,  
to supporting documentation.
 5 We evaluated the ageing of developments and investigated large, older and slower-moving 
items by obtaining and corroborating explanations for the levels of provisions held against 
such developments.
We found no material misstatements from our testing.
Construction contracts may not be appropriately valued 
The valuation of amounts recoverable on 
construction contracts is dependent on 
judgments around stage of completion  
and remaining costs to complete, as well as  
the associated provisions. In some of the 
Group’s projects there are assumptions about 
recovery of values from clients, designers, 
subcontractors or insurers, and value is  
recorded within work in progress which is  
not yet agreed. There is risk surrounding the 
recoverability of the work in progress and the 
completeness of provisions in place.
Refer to note 1: Accounting Policies on  
page 91 of the Annual Report and the  
Audit Committee Report on page 59 of  
the Annual Report.
 5 We assessed the evidence provided by management regarding recovery of the un-agreed 
value on projects. This included external expert and legal advice and correspondence from 
clients, subcontractors and insurers. We considered the adequacy of provisions held.
 5 We tested the operating effectiveness of key controls around stage-of-completion,  
costs to complete and forecast margin calculations.
 5 We identified and assessed a sample of key judgments inherent in estimation of significant 
projects, particularly around stage of completion, costs to complete and provisions  
on loss-making contracts through our testing of contract review meetings, reading 
correspondence with the customer and subcontractors, and obtaining audit evidence  
on customer/supplier disputes and insurance claims.
 5 We compared the final outcome on projects completed in the year to previous estimates 
made on those projects to assess the reliability of management’s estimates.
 5 We tested whether valid contractual agreements or other documentation was in place  
to support a sample of balances.
 5 We identified, and obtained and corroborated explanations for, unusual fluctuations  
in margins on significant projects.
We found no material misstatements from our testing.
Independent auditors’ report to the members of  
Galliford Try plc continued 81 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed 
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements 
as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the  
Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in 
which the Group operates. 
In identifying these areas of focus and in ensuring that we performed 
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements 
as a whole, we took into account: the segmental structure of the 
Group; the accounting processes and controls; and the industry  
in which the Group operates, and tailored the scope of our audit 
accordingly. The Group is structured in six principal segments,  
being Linden Homes, Partnerships and Regeneration, Building, 
Infrastructure, PPP Investments and Central Costs. The Group 
financial statements are a consolidation of these six segments in 
total. The business segmental reporting also reflects the Group’s 
management and internal reporting structure.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined 
the type of work that needed to be performed at these reporting units. 
Of the group’s six reporting units, we identified that Linden Homes, 
Building, Infrastructure, Partnerships and Regeneration and centralised 
functions, in our view, required an audit of their entire financial 
information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.  
Taken together, the reporting units in scope accounted for 99.7%  
of Group revenue and 98.8% of Group profit before tax.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group 
level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the group 
financial statements as a whole. The Group consolidation, financial 
statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited 
by the Group engagement team at the head office. These included 
assessment of the valuation of goodwill and legacy defined benefit 
pension scheme balances.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. 
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together 
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of 
our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures  
on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in 
evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the 
financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality for the 
financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £6,750,000 (2015: £5,550,000).
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for  
benchmark applied
Consistent with last year, we applied  
this benchmark as a generally accepted 
auditing practice applicable for a trading 
group of companies.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to  
them misstatements identified during our audit above £300,000  
(2015: £277 ,000) as well as misstatements below that amount that,  
in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ 
statement, set out on page 77 , in relation to going concern. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report if we have anything 
material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors’ 
statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. We have 
nothing material to add or to draw attention to. 
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded  
that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing  
the financial statements. The going concern basis presumes that the 
Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, 
and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from 
the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we 
have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis is 
appropriate. However, because not all future events or conditions can 
be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s 
and Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 82 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 reporting
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements  
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 5 information in the Annual Report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge  
of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 – otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report.
 5 the statement given by the directors on page 77 , in accordance with provision C. 1. 1 of the  
UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code), that they consider the Annual Report taken as  
a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for  
members to assess the Group’s and Company’s position and performance, business model  
and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired  
in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report.
 5 the section of the Annual Report on pages 58 and 59, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code,  
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters  
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report.
The directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity 
of the group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
 5 the directors’ confirmation on page 20 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2. 1  
of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, 
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing material to add  
or to draw attention to.
 5 the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being  
managed or mitigated.
We have nothing material to add  
or to draw attention to.
 5 the directors’ explanation on page 19 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2  
of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they  
have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to  
whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation  
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related 
disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to add  
or to draw attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks 
facing the Group and the directors’ statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group. Our review was substantially less in scope than 
an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors’ process supporting their statements; checking that the statements 
are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired  
by us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Independent auditors’ report to the members of  
Galliford Try plc continued 83 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Adequacy of accounting records and information  
and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion:
 5 we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit; 
 5 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
 5 the company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with  
the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report  
to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from  
this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to 10 further provisions  
of the Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements  
and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
set out on page 78, the directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only  
for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.  
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is 
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed 
by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes  
an assessment of: 
 5 whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s  
and the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; 
 5 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made  
by the directors; and
 5 the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ 
judgments against available evidence, forming our own judgments, 
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other  
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide  
a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit 
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in  
the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.  
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Jonathan Hook  
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London
14 September 2016 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 84
Notes
2016 2015
Total 
£m
Pre-exceptional 
items 
£m
Exceptional  
items 
£m
Total 
£m
Group revenue 2 2,494.9 2,348.4 – 2,348.4
Cost of sales (2,223.2) (2,081.2) – (2,081.2)
Gross profit 271.7 267.2 – 267.2
Administrative expenses (152.3) (144.2) (3.7) (147.9)
Profit on disposal of property plant and equipment 5 5.2 – – –
Share of post tax profits from joint ventures 13 19.2 5.0 – 5.0
Profit before finance costs 143.8 128.0 (3.7) 124.3
Profit from operations 2 157.5 138.9 (3.7) 135.2
Share of joint ventures’ interest and tax (9.4) (6.6) – (6.6)
Amortisation of intangibles 9 (4.3) (4.3) – (4.3)
Profit before finance costs 143.8 128.0 (3.7) 124.3
Finance income 4 7.6 4.6 – 4.6
Finance costs 4 (16.4) (14.9) – (14.9)
Profit before income tax 5 135.0 117.7 (3.7) 114.0
Income tax expense 6 (26.1) (22.5) 0.8 (21.7)
Profit for the year 29 108.9 95.2 (2.9) 92.3
Earnings per share 
– Basic 8 132.5p 1 16.3p 112.8p
– Diluted 8 131.3p 114.4p 110.9p
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 30 June 2016 Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 85
Notes
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Profit for the year 108.9 92.3
Other comprehensive (expense)/income:
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Actuarial (losses) recognised on retirement benefit obligations 30 (11.9) (5.8)
Deferred tax on items recognised in equity that will not be reclassified 24 1.0 1.2
Current tax through equity 6 2.3 0.5
Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (8.6) (4.1)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Movement in fair value of derivative financial instruments:
 – Movement arising during the financial year 25 (5.4) (0.4)
 – Reclassification adjustments for amounts included in profit or loss 25 1.2 0.1
Deferred tax on items recognised in equity that may be reclassified 6 (1.0) 1.0
Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (5.2) 0.7
Other comprehensive (expense) for the year net of tax (13.8) (3.4)
Total comprehensive income for the year 95.1 88.9
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
for the year ended 30 June 2016 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 86
Notes
Group Company
2016 
£m
2015 
£m 
(Restated – note 1)
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 9 16.7 20.9 – –
Goodwill 10 135.5 135.5 – –
Property, plant and equipment 11 19.1 20.8 – –
Investments in subsidiaries 12 – – 69.4 68.4
Investments in joint ventures 13 24.8 9.2 – –
Financial assets 
 – Available for sale financial assets 14 16.9 11.0 – –
Trade and other receivables 18 75.8 28.3 – –
Retirement benefit asset 30 – 1.2 – –
Deferred income tax assets 24 2.2 3.0 1.4 3.2
Total non-current assets 291.0 229.9 70.8 71.6
Current assets
Inventories 15 0.1 0.3 – –
Developments 16 820.8 813.3 – –
Trade and other receivables 18 718.0 711.5 252.8 263.5
Current income tax assets – – 3.5 1.7
Cash and cash equivalents 19 166.3 164.9 498.4 456.1
Total current assets 1,705.2 1,690.0 754.7 721.3
Total assets 1,996.2 1,919.9 825.5 792.9
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
 – Borrowings 22 (0.3) (0.3) – –
Trade and other payables 20 (1,059.2) (984.2) (270.0) (248.1)
Current income tax liabilities (12.2) (14.5) – –
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 21 (0.3) (0.4) – –
Total current liabilities (1,072.0) (999.4) (270.0) (248.1)
Net current assets 633.2 690.6 484.7 473.2
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
 – Borrowings 22 (174.7) (181.9) (171.6) (170.9)
 – Derivative financial liabilities 25 (4.5) (0.3) (4.5) (0.3)
Retirement benefit obligations 30 (4.3) – – –
Other non-current liabilities 23 (139.1) (167.2) – –
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 21 (1.6) (1.9) – –
Total non-current liabilities (324.2) (351.3) (176.1) (171.2)
Total liabilities (1,396.2) (1,350.7) (446.1) (419.3)
Net assets 600.0 569.2 379.4 373.6
Equity
Ordinary shares 26 41.4 41.1 41.4 41.1
Share premium 26 194.4 191.8 194.4 191.8
Other reserves 28 4.8 4.8 3.0 3.0
Retained earnings 29 359.4 331.5 140.6 137.7
Total equity attributable to owners of the Company 600.0 569.2 379.4 373.6
The financial statements on pages 84 to 127 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board on 14 September 2016 and signed on its 
behalf by:
Peter Truscott    Graham Prothero  Galliford Try plc
Chief Executive    Finance Director  Registered number: 00836539 
Balance sheets
at 30 June 2016 Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 87
Notes
Ordinary  
shares 
£m
Share  
premium 
£m
Other  
reserves 
£m
Retained  
earnings 
£m
Total 
shareholders’ 
equity 
£m
Consolidated statement
At 1 July 2014 41.1 191.8 4.8 296.5 534.2
Profit for the year – – – 92.3 92.3
Other comprehensive (expense) – – – (3.4) (3.4)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 88.9 88.9
Transactions with owners:
Dividends 7 – – – (49.3) (49.3)
Share-based payments 27 – – – 3.9 3.9
Purchase of own shares 29 – – – (8.5) (8.5)
At 1 July 2015 41.1 191.8 4.8 331.5 569.2
Profit for the year – – – 108.9 108.9
Other comprehensive (expense) – – – (13.8) (13.8)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 95.1 95.1
Transactions with owners:
Dividends 7 – – – (59.3) (59.3)
Share-based payments 27 – – – 4.0 4.0
Purchase of own shares 29 – – – (11.9) (11.9)
Issue of shares 26 0.3 2.6 – – 2.9
At 30 June 2016 41.4 194.4 4.8 359.4 600.0
Company statement
At 1 July 2014 41.1 191.8 3.0 87.4 323.3
Profit for the year – – – 103.4 103.4
Other comprehensive income – – – 0.8 0.8
Total comprehensive (expense) – – – 104.2 104.2
Transactions with owners:
Dividends 7 – – – (49.3) (49.3)
Share-based payments 27 – – – 3.9 3.9
Purchase of own shares 29 – – – (8.5) (8.5)
At 1 July 2015 41.1 191.8 3.0 137.7 373.6
Profit for the year – – – 74.2 74.2
Other comprehensive income – – – (4.1) (4.1)
Total comprehensive income – – – 70.1 70.1
Transactions with owners:
Dividends 7 – – – (59.3) (59.3)
Share-based payments 27 – – – 4.0 4.0
Purchase of own shares 29 – – – (11.9) (11.9)
Issue of shares 26 0.3 2.6 – – 2.9
At 30 June 2016 41.4 194.4 3.0 140.6 379.4
Consolidated and Company 
statements of changes in equity
for the year ended 30 June 2016 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 88
Notes
Group Company
2016 
£m
2015  
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Continuing operations
Profit before finance costs 143.8 124.3 72.6 101.6
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation 1 1 & 9 8.6 8.4 – –
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 5 (5.2) – – –
Profit on sale of available for sale financial assets 14 (0.5) (7.0) – –
Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings – – (75.7) (112.3)
Share-based payments 27 4.0 3.9 3.0 3.6
Share of post-tax profits from joint ventures 13 (19.2) (5.0) – –
Movement on provisions (0.4) (0.6) – –
Other non-cash movements 0.4 0.7 – 5.6
Net cash generated from/(used in) operations before  
pension deficit payments and changes in working capital 131.5 124.7 (0.1) (1.5)
Deficit funding payments to pension schemes 30 (6.6) (6.2) – –
Net cash generated from/(used in) operations before 
changes in working capital 124.9 118.5 (0.1) (1.5)
Decrease in inventories 0.2 – – –
(Increase) in developments (7.5) (101.6) – –
(Increase) in trade and other receivables (54.0) (190.0) – –
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 46.1 240.9 (1.5) 0.4
Net cash generated from/(used in) operations 109.7 67.8 (1.6) (1.1)
Interest received 7.6 3.6 – –
Interest paid (14.6) (11.7) – –
Income tax (paid)/received (25.3) (20.1) 1.7 3.1
Net cash generated from operating activities 77.4 39.6 0.1 2.0
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends received from joint ventures 13 3.6 0.4 – –
Acquisition of available for sale financial assets 14 (6.6) (1.4) – –
Proceeds from available for sale financial assets 14 1.2 12.8 – –
Purchase of intangible assets 9 (0.1) – – –
Business combinations – (21.6) – –
Cash acquired with acquired subsidiary undertakings – 23.6 – –
Loan with subsidiary companies – – 34.1 30.7
Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings – – 75.7 52.4
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 11 (7.8) (6.7) – –
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 11 10.4 0.1 – –
Net cash generated from investing activities 0.7 7.2 109.8 83.1
Cash flows from financing activities
Net proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 26 2.9 – 2.9 –
Purchase of own shares 29 (11.9) (8.5) (11.9) (8.5)
Increase in borrowings 22 (8.4) 35.5 0.7 0.4
Dividends paid to Company shareholders 7 (59.3) (49.3) (59.3) (49.3)
Net cash (used in) financing activities (76.7) (22.3) (67.6) (57.4)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1.4 24.5 42.3 27.7
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 July 19 164.9 140.4 456.1 428.4
Cash and cash equivalents at 30 June 19 166.3 164.9 498.4 456.1
Statements of cash flows
for the year ended 30 June 2016 Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 89
1 Accounting policies
General information
Galliford Try plc (the Company) is a public limited company 
incorporated, listed and domiciled in England and Wales. The address 
of the registered office is Galliford Try plc, Cowley Business Park, 
Cowley, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL. Galliford Try is a housebuilding and 
construction group (the Group).
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because 
that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the 
Group operates. The amounts stated are denominated in millions (£m).
Basis of accounting
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with EU adopted International Accounting Standards 
(IASs), International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), IFRS 
Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) interpretations and with those 
parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting 
under IFRS. The consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost 
convention, as modified by the revaluation of available for sale 
investments, retirement benefit obligations, share-based payments 
and financial assets and liabilities (including derivative financial 
instruments) at fair value through profit and loss. The Group has 
consistently applied all accounting standards and interpretations 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and IFRS IC, 
and endorsed by the EU, relevant to its operations and effective on 
1 July 2015, other than updating its policy on timing of recognition of 
conditional land acquisitions as set out in the inventories and 
developments policy below. 
The Company has elected to take the exemption under section  
408 of the Companies Act 2006 to not present the Parent Company 
income statement and statement of comprehensive income.  
The profit for the Parent Company for the year was £7 4.2 million  
(2015: profit £103.4 million).
New amendments to standards that became mandatory for the  
first time for the financial year beginning 1 July 2015 are listed below. 
The new amendments had no significant impact on the Group’s 
results other than certain revised disclosures.
 – Annual improvements 2010-2012 and 201 1-2013.
 – Amendment to IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’ on defined benefit plans.
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not 
effective or yet to be endorsed by the EU are as follows:
 – IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ and the amendment on general 
hedge accounting (effective 1 January 2018).
 – IFRS 14 ‘Regulatory deferral accounts’ (effective 1 January 2016).
 – IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ and subsequent 
amendments/clarifications (effective 1 January 2018).
 – IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ (effective 1 January 2019).
 – Amendment to IFRS 1 1 ‘ Joint arrangements on acquisition of  
an interest in a joint operation’ (effective 1 January 2016).
 – Amendment to IAS 16 ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’ and  
IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ (effective 1 January 2016).
 – Amendment to IAS 27 ‘Separate financial statements’ on  
equity accounting (effective 1 January 2016).
 – Amendment to IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ on general hedge 
accounting (effective 1 January 2018).
 – Amendment to IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’  
and IAS 28 ‘Investments in associates and joint ventures’  
(effective 1 January 2016).
 – Amendments to IAS 1,’Presentation of financial statements’ 
disclosure initiative (effective 1 January 2016).
 – Amendments to IAS 12,’Income taxes’ on Recognition of deferred 
tax assets for unrealised losses (effective 1 January 2017).
 – Amendments to IAS 7 , Statement of cash flows  
(effective 1 January 2017).
 – Other changes recommended in ‘Annual Improvements 2014’ 
(effective from 1 January 2016).
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring 
financial assets and is likely to affect the Group’s accounting for its 
financial assets. The Group is yet to assess IFRS 9’s full impact. 
However, initial indications are that it may affect the Group’s 
accounting for its available for sale financial assets, as IFRS 9  
only permits the recognition of fair value gains and losses in other 
comprehensive income if they relate to equity or certain debt 
investments that are not held for trading. Fair value gains and losses  
on available for sale debt investments, for example, will therefore  
have to be recognised directly in profit or loss.
The Group is currently reviewing the impact of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16  
to determine both the accounting and disclosure implications. Initial 
impact assessments are underway in respect of each standard.
The Group has yet to assess the full impact of the remainder of these 
new standards and amendments. Initial indications are that they will 
not significantly impact the financial statements of the Group.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires 
management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that 
affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets  
and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated 
assumptions are based on historical experience and various other 
factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, 
the results of which form the basis of making judgments about the 
carrying value of assets and liabilities which are not readily apparent 
from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.  
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an 
ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised  
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects  
only that period, or in the period of revision and future periods if the 
revision affects both current and future periods. 
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 90
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Critical accounting estimates and judgments (continued)
Material estimates and assumptions are made in particular with 
regards to establishing the following policies: 
(i) Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets
The determination of the value of any impairment of goodwill and 
intangible assets requires an estimation of the value in use of the  
Cash Generating Units (CGUs) to which goodwill has been allocated. 
The value in use calculation requires an estimate of the future cash 
flows expected from these CGUs, including the anticipated growth 
rate of revenue and costs, and requires the determination of a suitable 
discount rate to calculate the present value of the cash flows. Details of 
the goodwill impairment review calculations and sensitivity analysis 
performed are included in note 10.
(ii) Estimation of costs to complete and contract provisions
In order to determine the profit and loss that the Group is able  
to recognise on its developments and construction contracts  
in a specific period, the Group has to allocate total costs of the 
developments and construction contracts between the proportion 
completing in the period and the proportion to complete in a future 
period. The assessment of the total costs to be incurred and final 
contract value requires a degree of estimation, as does the 
assessment of a development’s valuation. However, Group 
management has established internal controls to review and  
ensure the appropriateness of estimates made on an individual 
contract basis, including any necessary contract provisions.
(iii) Retirement benefit obligation valuations
In determining the valuation of defined benefit schemes’ assets  
and liabilities, a number of key assumptions have been made.  
The key assumptions, which are given below, are largely dependent 
on factors outside the control of the Group:
 – inflation rate;
 – life expectancy;
 – discount rate; and
 – salary and pension growth rates.
The Group is exposed to risks through its defined benefit schemes  
if actual experience differs to the assumptions used and through 
volatility in the plan assets. Details of the assumptions used, and 
associated sensitivities, are included in note 30.
Basis of consolidation 
The Group financial statements incorporate the results of Galliford Try 
plc, its subsidiary undertakings and the Group’s share of the results  
of joint ventures. Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has 
control. The exposure or right to variable returns from its involvement 
with an investee, and the ability to influence those returns, are 
considered when assessing whether the Group controls another 
entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which 
control is transferred to the Group, until the date that control ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the 
acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an acquisition  
is measured at the fair value of the assets transferred, equity 
instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date  
of exchange. Costs directly attributable to the acquisition are 
expensed to the income statement. The identifiable assets acquired 
and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in the business 
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition 
date, irrespective of any non-controlling interest. The excess of cost  
of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable 
net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. 
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on 
transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised 
losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator  
of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of acquired subsidiaries 
are changed where necessary, to ensure consistency with policies 
adopted by the Group.
In addition to total performance measures, the Group discloses 
additional information including profit from operations and,  
if applicable, performance before exceptional items and earnings  
per share before exceptional items. The Group believes that this 
additional information provides useful information on underlying  
trends. This additional information is not defined under IFRS,  
and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled profit 
measures reported by other companies. It is not intended to be  
a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures of profit.
Exceptional items
Material non-recurring items of income and expense are disclosed in 
the income statement as exceptional items. Examples of items which 
may give rise to disclosure as exceptional items include gains and 
losses on the disposal of businesses, investments and property, plant 
and equipment, cost of restructuring and reorganisation of businesses, 
asset impairments and pension fund settlements and curtailments. 
The Group also classifies certain inventory provision reversals as 
exceptional to the extent that they relate to provisions previously 
recognised as exceptional losses.
Segmental reporting
Segmental reporting is presented in the consolidated financial 
statements in respect of the Group’s business segments, which are 
the primary basis of segmental reporting. The business segmental 
reporting reflects the Group’s management and internal reporting 
structure. Segmental results include items directly attributable to the 
segment, as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. 
Revenue and profit
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of 
ownership have been transferred to the purchaser. Revenue 
comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable  
net of rebates, discounts and value added tax. Sales within the  
Group are eliminated. Revenue also includes the Group’s proportion  
of work carried out under jointly controlled operations and the disposal 
of equity investments by our PPP Investments division.
Revenue and profit are recognised as follows:
(i) Housebuilding and land sales
Revenue from private housing sales is recognised at legal completion, 
net of incentives. Revenue from land sales is recognised on the 
unconditional exchange of contracts. Profit is recognised on a site by 
site basis by reference to the expected result of each site. Contracting 
development sales for affordable housing are accounted for as 
construction contracts.
(ii) Facilities management contracts 
Revenue is recognised on an accruals basis once the service  
has been performed, with reference to value provided to the  
customer. Profit is recognised by reference to the specific costs 
incurred relating to the service provided. Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 91
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Revenue and profit (continued)
(iii) Construction contracts
Revenue comprises the value of construction executed during the  
year and contracting development sales for affordable housing.  
The results for the year include adjustments for the outcome of 
contracts, including jointly controlled operations, executed in both  
the current and preceding years. 
(a) Fixed price contracts – revenue is recognised based upon an 
internal assessment of the value of works carried out. This assessment 
is arrived at after due consideration of the performance against the 
programme of works, measurement of the works, detailed evaluation 
of the costs incurred and comparison to external certification of the 
work performed. The amount of profit to be recognised is calculated 
based on the proportion that costs to date bear to the total estimated 
costs to complete. Profit is not recognised in the income statement 
until the outcome of the contract is reasonably certain. Adjustments 
arise from claims by customers or third parties in respect of work 
carried out and claims and variations on customers or third parties  
for variations on the original contract. Provision for claims against the 
Group is made as soon as it is believed that a liability will arise, but 
claims and variations made by the Group are not recognised in the 
income statement until the outcome is capable of being reliably 
measured. Provision will be made against any potential loss as  
soon as it is identified.
(b) Cost plus contracts – revenue is recognised based upon costs 
incurred to date plus any agreed fee. Where contracts include  
a target price consideration is given to the impact on revenue of the 
mechanism for distributing any savings or additional costs compared 
to the target price. Any revenue over and above the target price is 
recognised once the outcome is virtually certain. Profit is recognised 
on a constant margin throughout the life of the contract. Provision  
will be made against any potential loss as soon as it is identified.
Amounts recoverable on construction contracts and payments  
on account on construction contracts are calculated as cost plus 
attributable profit less any foreseeable losses and cash received to 
date and are included in receivables or payables as appropriate.
Housing grants and Government funding
Grants are recognised when there is reasonable assurance that the 
Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them and the grants 
will be received. The grants are recognised in the income statement 
over the periods necessary to match them with the related costs 
which they are intended to compensate, on a systematic basis.
Interest bearing loans received from the Government, for example 
under the Homes & Communities Agency (HCA) programmes,  
are recorded at proceeds plus accrued interest and reported within 
Financial Liabilities – Borrowings.
Grants and Government funding received by the Group include  
direct capital grant funding awards under the HCA’s Affordable  
Homes Programme; Infrastructure loan finance under the Large  
Sites Infrastructure Fund; and equity loans provided to house buyers 
under the Help to Buy home ownership initiative.
Bid costs for PFI/PPP contracts
Bid costs relating to PFI/PPP projects are not carried in the balance 
sheet as recoverable until the Group has been appointed preferred 
bidder or has received an indemnity in respect of the investment or 
costs, and regards recoverability of the costs as virtually certain.  
Costs that are carried on the balance sheet are included within 
amounts recoverable on construction contracts, within trade and  
other receivables.
Rent receivable 
Rental income represents income obtained from the rental of 
properties and is credited to revenue within the income statement  
on a straight-line basis over the period of the operating lease.
Interest income and expense
Interest income and expense is recognised on a time proportion  
basis using the effective interest method.
Income tax
Current income tax is based on the taxable profit for the year.  
Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation recorded in the  
income statement because it excludes items of income or expense 
that are taxable or deductible in other years or that are never taxable  
or deductible. The liability for current tax is calculated using rates  
that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance 
sheet date.
Deferred income tax is provided using the balance sheet liability 
method, providing for all temporary differences between the carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and  
the amounts used for taxation purposes with the exception of the  
initial recognition of goodwill arising on an acquisition. Deferred tax is 
measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the 
periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based 
on rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the balance sheet date. A deferred tax asset is only recognised when  
it is more likely than not that the asset will be recoverable in the 
foreseeable future out of suitable taxable profits from which the 
underlying temporary differences can be deducted. 
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on 
investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing  
of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset 
when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and when there is an intention to settle  
the balances on a net basis.
Deferred income tax is charged or credited through the income 
statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited  
through the statement of comprehensive income or to equity,  
when it is charged or credited there. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 92
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair 
value of the consideration given over the fair value of the net assets 
acquired. It is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment  
at least annually or when there is a triggering event, by considering  
the net present value of future cash flows. For purposes of testing  
for impairment, the carrying value of goodwill is compared to its 
recoverable amount, which is the higher of the value in use and the  
fair value less costs to sell. Any impairment is charged immediately  
to the income statement. 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS 
has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts following 
impairment tests. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP 
prior to 1998 has not been restated.
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing. 
The allocation is made to those CGUs or groups of CGUs that are 
expected to benefit from the business combination in which the 
goodwill arose.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets include brands, customer contracts and customer 
relationships acquired on acquisition of subsidiary companies, and 
computer software developed by the Group. The intangible assets  
are reviewed for impairment at least annually or when there is  
a triggering event. Intangible assets are stated at cost less 
accumulated amortisation and impairment. Cost is determined  
at the time of acquisition as being directly attributable costs or,  
where relevant, by using an appropriate valuation methodology.
Intangible assets are being amortised over the following periods:
(a) Brand – on a straight-line basis over four to 10 years.
(b) Customer contracts – in line with expected profit generation, 
varying from one to nine years.
(c) Customer relationships – on a straight-line basis over three years.
(d) Computer software – once the software is fully operational, 
amortisation is on a straight-line basis over up to 10 years.
Property, plant and equipment 
All property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment. Cost includes expenditure that is  
directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Land and buildings 
comprise mainly offices.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of each asset to 
estimated residual value over its expected useful life. Freehold land  
is not depreciated. The annual rates of depreciation, applied on  
a straight line basis, are as follows: 
Freehold buildings   2% on cost
On cost or reducing balance: 
Plant and machinery  15% to 33% 
Fixtures and fittings   10% to 33%
In addition to systematic depreciation the book value of property,  
plant and equipment would be written down to estimated recoverable 
amount should any impairment in the respective carrying values  
be identified.
The asset residual values, carrying values and useful lives are  
reviewed on an annual basis and adjusted if appropriate at each 
balance sheet date.
Repairs and maintenance expenditure is expensed as incurred on  
an accruals basis.
Joint ventures and joint operations
The Group applies IFRS 1 1 to all joint arrangements. Investments  
in joint arrangements are classified as either joint ventures or joint 
operations, depending on the contractual rights and obligations  
of each investor. 
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group 
undertakes an economic activity that is subject to joint control with 
third parties and these parties have rights to the net assets of the 
arrangement. The Group’s interest in joint ventures is accounted  
for using the equity method. Under this method the Group’s share  
of profits less losses after taxation of joint ventures is included in  
the consolidated income statement and its interest in their net assets  
is included in investments in the consolidated balance sheet. Where 
the share of losses exceeds the Group’s interest in the entity and  
there is no obligation to fund these losses, the carrying amount is 
reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued.  
Future profits are not recognised until unrecognised losses are 
extinguished. Unrealised gains on transactions with the Group’s  
joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in  
the joint venture. Accounting policies of joint ventures have been 
changed on consolidation where necessary, to ensure consistency 
with policies adopted by the Group. Where joint ventures do not  
adopt accounting periods that are coterminous with the Group’s, 
results and net assets are based upon unaudited accounts drawn  
up to the Group’s accounting reference date.
A joint operation is a joint arrangement that the Group undertakes  
with third parties whereby those parties have rights to the assets  
and obligations of the arrangement. The Group accounts for joint 
operations by recognising its share of profits and losses in the 
consolidated income statement. The Group recognises its share of 
associated assets and liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
Available for sale financial assets
Available for sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either 
designated in this category or not classified in any of the other 
categories. They are included in non-current assets unless 
management intends to dispose of the assets within 12 months  
of the balance sheet date. On initial recognition the asset is recognised 
at fair value plus transaction costs. Available for sale financial assets 
are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value subject to 
the exemption in paragraph 46 of IAS 39. Gains and losses arising 
from changes in fair value are recognised directly in other 
comprehensive income, until the asset is disposed of or is determined 
to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously 
recognised in other comprehensive income is included in the net  
profit or loss for the period.
The Group operates schemes under which part of the agreed sales 
price for a residential property can be deferred for up to 25 years.  
The fair value of these assets is calculated by taking into account 
forecast inflation in property prices and discounting back to present 
value using the effective interest rate. Provision is also made for 
estimated default to arrive at the initial fair value. The unwinding of  
the discount included on initial recognition at fair value is recognised  
as finance income in the year.  Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 93
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of 
ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating  
leases. Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Inventories and developments
Inventories and developments are valued at the lower of cost and  
net realisable value. Work in progress is valued at the lower of cost, 
including direct costs and directly attributable overheads, and net 
realisable value. On initial recognition, land is included within 
developments at its fair value, which is its cost to the Group.
Land inventory is recognised at the time a liability is recognised. 
Previously the Group generally recognised land inventory after  
the exchange of conditional contracts, when it was considered  
virtually certain the contract would be completed. Having completed  
a review of the policy in the year, and a comparison of our sector  
peer group, the Group has determined it is more appropriate to 
recognise land inventory on unconditional exchange of contract or 
once the acquisition has completed. This had the effect of reducing 
land inventory and development land payables at 30 June 2016 by 
£105 million, and reducing the interest charge on discounted payables 
by £0.6 million in the year. The Group has restated its 30 June 2015 
land inventory and development land payables figures accordingly,  
by £166 million, but determined that the impact on previous period 
results and reserves was not material.
Where a development is in progress net realisable value is assessed 
by considering the expected future revenues and the total costs  
to complete the development, including direct costs and directly 
attributable overheads. To the extent that the Group anticipates selling 
a development in its current state, then net realisable value is taken  
as its open market value at the balance sheet date less any anticipated 
selling costs.
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method,  
less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade 
receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the 
Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the 
original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the 
debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial 
reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments (typically  
more than 30 days overdue) are considered indicators that the trade 
receivable may be impaired. The amount of the provision is the 
difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present  
value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original 
effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced 
through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the  
loss is recognised in the income statement within cost of sales. 
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the 
impairment provision for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries  
of amounts previously written off are credited against cost of sales  
in the income statement. Short-term trade receivables do not carry 
any interest and are stated at their amortised cost, as reduced by 
appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at nominal 
value. For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash 
equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, including bank 
deposits with original maturities of three months or less. Bank 
overdrafts are also included, as they are an integral part of the  
Group’s cash management.
Bank deposits with an original term of more than three months are 
classified as short-term deposits where the cash can be withdrawn  
on demand and the penalty for early withdrawal is not significant.  
Cash held in escrow accounts is classified as a short-term deposit 
where the escrow agreement allows the balance to be converted  
to cash, if replaced by a bond repayable on demand.
Bank and other borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts and other loans are 
originally recognised at fair value net of transaction costs incurred. 
Such borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost, with the 
difference between initial fair value and redemption value recognised  
in the income statement over the period to redemption.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or 
redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals 
basis in the income statement, using the effective interest rate method. 
Refinancing costs associated with new borrowing arrangements are 
included within the borrowing amount and amortised over the period 
of the loan.
Trade payables
Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are 
stated at their nominal value. Trade payables on extended terms, 
particularly in respect of land, are recorded at their fair value at the  
date of acquisition of the asset to which they relate and subsequently 
held at amortised cost. The discount to nominal value is amortised 
over the period of the credit term and charged to finance costs using 
the effective interest rate. Changes in estimates of the final payment 
due are taken to developments (land) and, in due course, to cost of 
sales in the income statement.
Provisions for liabilities and charges
Provisions for liabilities and charges are recognised when the Group 
has a present legal or constructive obligation, as a result of past 
events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required  
to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably estimated. 
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures 
expected to be required to settle the obligation using the pre-tax rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision 
due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 94
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Derivative financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance 
sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provision  
of the instrument.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its 
exposure to interest rate risks. In accordance with its treasury policy, 
the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments  
for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as 
cash flow hedges, comprising interest rate swaps, are measured at  
fair value. The effective portion of changes in the fair value is 
recognised directly in reserves. Amounts accumulated in equity are 
recycled to the income statement in the periods when the hedged 
items will affect profit or loss. Any gains or losses relating to an 
ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement. 
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge 
accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge 
accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative gain or  
loss previously recognised in equity remains there until the forecast 
transaction occurs.
Derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge 
accounting are initially accounted for and measured at fair value at  
the point the derivative contract is entered into and subsequently 
measured at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement is taken  
to the income statement. 
Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the 
date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the 
balance sheet date. All differences are taken to the income statement.
Retirement benefit obligations
For defined contribution schemes operated by the Group, amounts 
payable are charged to the income statement as they accrue.
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is 
calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit 
method. The retirement benefit asset/(obligation) recognised in the 
balance sheet represents the excess/(deficit) of the fair value of the 
schemes’ assets over the present value of scheme liabilities, with a net 
asset recognised to the extent that the employer can gain economic 
benefit as set out in the requirements of IFRS IC 14. The present value 
of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the 
estimated future cash flows, using interest rates of high quality 
corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the 
terms of the related pension liability. Actuarial gains and losses are 
recognised in full in the period in which they occur, in the statement  
of comprehensive income. Gains and losses arising on curtailment 
and settlements are taken to the income statement as incurred.
Accounting for Employee Share Ownership Plan
Own shares held by the Galliford Try Employee Share Trust (the Trust) 
are shown, at cost less any permanent diminution in value, as a 
deduction from retained earnings. The charge made to the income 
statement for employee share awards and options is based on the  
fair value of the award at the date of grant, spread over the 
performance period. Where such shares subsequently vest to the 
employees under the terms of the Group’s share option schemes  
or are sold, any consideration received is included in equity. 
Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based 
compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received 
in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense 
over the vesting period. The total amount to be expensed over the 
vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the 
options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting 
conditions such as growth in earnings per share. Non-market vesting 
conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options 
that are expected to vest. 
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the 
number of options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact 
of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, 
with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction 
costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium 
when the options are exercised. The grant by the Company of  
options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary 
undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution. 
Dividend policy
Final dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is 
recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the 
period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s 
shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments, such as ordinary share capital, issued by the 
Company are recorded at the proceeds received net of directly 
attributable incremental issue costs. Consideration paid for shares  
in the Group held by the Trust are deducted from total equity.
Investments in subsidiaries
The Company’s investments in subsidiaries are recorded in  
the Company’s balance sheet at cost less any impairment.  
The directors review the investments for impairment annually.
2 Segmental reporting
Segmental reporting is presented in the consolidated financial 
statements in respect of the Group’s business segments, which are 
the primary basis of segmental reporting. The business segmental 
reporting reflects the Group’s management and internal reporting 
structure. Segmental results include items directly attributable to  
the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable 
basis. As the Group has no material activities outside the UK,  
segment reporting is not required by geographical region.
The chief operating decision-makers (CODM) have been identified  
as the Group’s Chief Executive and Finance Director. The CODM 
review the Group’s internal reporting in order to assess performance 
and allocate resources. Management has determined the operating 
segments as Linden Homes; Partnerships & Regeneration; 
Construction, including Building and Infrastructure; and PPP 
Investments. The business of each segment is described in the 
Strategic Report.
The CODM assess the performance of the operating segments based 
on a measure of adjusted earnings before finance costs, amortisation, 
exceptional items and taxation. This measurement basis excludes  
the effects of non-recurring expenditure from the operating segments, 
such as restructuring costs and impairments when the impairment  
is the result of an isolated, non-recurring event. Interest income and 
expenditure are included in the result for each operating segment  
that is reviewed by the CODM. Other information provided to them is 
measured in a manner consistent with that in the financial statements. Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 95
2 Segmental reporting (continued)
Primary reporting format – business segments
Linden 
Homes 
£m
Partnerships & 
Regeneration 
£m
Construction
PPP  
Investments 
£m
Central  
costs 
£m
Total 
£m
Building 
£m
Infrastructure 
£m
Total  
£m
Year ended 30 June 2016
Group revenue and share of  
joint ventures’ revenue 840.8 300.6 1,013.8 489.6 1,503.4 25.0 0.6 2,670.4
Share of joint ventures’ revenue (132.3) (15.5) (0.7) (9.8) (10.5) (17.2) – (175.5)
Group revenue 708.5 285.1 1,013.1 479.8 1,492.9 7.8 0.6 2,494.9
Segment result:
Profit/(loss) from operations before  
share of joint ventures’ profit 120.8 9.6 8.9 6.8 15.7 (1.4) (15.8) 128.9
Share of joint ventures’ profit 26.4 2.1 0.1 – 0.1 – – 28.6
Profit/(loss) from operations * 147.2 11.7 9.0 6.8 15.8 (1.4) (15.8) 157.5
Share of joint ventures’ interest and tax (8.7) (0.7) – – – – – (9.4)
Profit/(loss) before finance costs, 
amortisation and taxation 138.5 11.0 9.0 6.8 15.8 (1.4) (15.8) 148.1
Finance income 6.4 0.3 – 0.5 0.5 0.8 (0.4) 7.6
Finance (costs) (46.6) (0.8) (0.2) – (0.2) (1.1) 32.3 (16.4)
Profit/(loss) before amortisation and taxation 98.3 10.5 8.8 7.3 16.1 (1.7) 16.1 139.3
Amortisation of intangibles (1.0) – (2.2) – (2.2) – (1.1) (4.3)
Profit before taxation 97.3 10.5 6.6 7.3 13.9 (1.7) 15.0 135.0
Income tax expense (26.1)
Profit for the year 108.9
Year ended 30 June 2015
Group revenue and share of  
joint ventures’ revenue 779.0 329.4 906.9 386.3 1,293.2 28.8 0.3 2,430.7
Share of joint ventures’ revenue (47.4) (10.8) (1.1) (9.9) (11.0) (13.1) – (82.3)
Group revenue 731.6 318.6 905.8 376.4 1,282.2 15.7 0.3 2,348.4
Segment result:
Profit/(loss) from operations before  
share of joint ventures’ profit 113.9 8.5 7.7 7.7 15.4 3.7 (14.2) 127.3
Share of joint ventures’ profit 10.4 0.9 0.3 – 0.3 – – 11.6
Profit/(loss) from operations * 124.3 9.4 8.0 7.7 15.7 3.7 (14.2) 138.9
Exceptional items – – (3.7) – (3.7) – – (3.7)
Share of joint ventures’ interest and tax (6.0) (0.5) – – – (0.1) – (6.6)
Profit/(loss) before finance costs, 
amortisation and taxation 118.3 8.9 4.3 7.7 12.0 3.6 (14.2) 128.6
Finance income 4.2 – – 0.8 0.8 – (0.4) 4.6
Finance (costs) (42.7) (0.3) (0.8) – (0.8) (0.6) 29.5 (14.9)
Profit/(loss) before amortisation and taxation 79.8 8.6 3.5 8.5 12.0 3.0 14.9 118.3
Amortisation of intangibles (1.0) – (2.2) – (2.2) – (1.1) (4.3)
Profit before taxation 78.8 8.6 1.3 8.5 9.8 3.0 13.8 114.0
Income tax expense (21.7)
Profit for the year 92.3
* Profit from operations is stated before finance costs, amortisation, exceptional items, share of joint ventures’ interest and tax and taxation.
Inter-segment revenue, which is priced on an arm’s length basis, is eliminated from Group revenue above. In the year to 30 June 2016 this 
amounted to £79.9 million (2015: £97 .9 million) of which £35.7 million (2015: £43. 1 million) was in Building, £42.9 million (2015: £53.5 million)  
was in Infrastructure and £1.3 million (2015: £1.3 million) was in central costs. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 96
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
2 Segmental reporting (continued)
Balance Sheet
Notes
Linden  
Homes 
£m
Partnerships & 
Regeneration
£m
Construction
PPP  
Investments 
£m
Central  
£m
Total 
£m
Building 
£m
Infrastructure 
£m
Total  
£m
30 June 2016
Goodwill & intangible assets 53.4 6.0 47.7 37.2 84.9 – 7.9 152.2
Working capital employed 601.7 38.0 (81.6) (74.0) (155.6) 15.4 (43.0) 456.5
Net cash/(debt) 19 (525.0) (12.1) 90.1 71.0 161.1 (7.8) 375.1 (8.7)
Net assets 130.1 31.9 56.2 34.2 90.4 7.6 340.0 600.0
Total Group liabilities (1,396.2)
Total Group assets 1,996.2
30 June 2015
Goodwill & intangible assets 54.4 6.0 49.9 37.2 87.1 – 8.9 156.4
Working capital employed 615.5 2.4 (126.6) (54.0) (180.6) 8.0 (15.2) 430.1
Net cash/(debt) 19 (560.1) 15.0 127.6 45.1 172.7 1.0 354.1 (17.3)
Net assets 109.8 23.4 50.9 28.3 79.2 9.0 347.8 569.2
Total Group liabilities (1,350.7)
Total Group assets 1,919.9
Return on net assets for Linden Homes is calculated as Linden Homes EBITA divided by average of the aggregate of Linden Homes  
and Central net assets.
Other segmental information
Notes
Linden  
Homes 
£m
Partnerships & 
Regeneration
£m
Construction
PPP  
Investments 
£m
Central  
£m
Total 
£m
Building 
£m
Infrastructure 
£m
Total  
£m
Year ended 30 June 2016
Investment in joint ventures 13 20.9 2.9 0.1 – 0.1 0.9 – 24.8
Contracting revenue 0.6 268.6 958.9 479.1 1,438.0 2.2 – 1,709.4
Capital expenditure –  
property, plant and equipment 11 1.3 – 0.1 1.4 1.5 – 5.0 7.8
Depreciation 11 0.3 0.1 0.1 1.8 1.9 – 2.0 4.3
(Decrease)/increase in  
provision for receivables 5 (0.5) – (0.3) – (0.3) – – (0.8)
Share-based payments 3 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.3 – 3.4 4.0
Amortisation of  
intangible assets 9 1.0 – 2.2 – 2.2 – 1.1 4.3
Year ended 30 June 2015
Investment in joint ventures 13 4.1 4.0 0.3 – 0.3 – 0.8 9.2
Contracting revenue 0.1 312.8 851.4 375.0 1,226.4 1.5 – 1,540.8
Capital expenditure –  
property, plant and equipment 11 0.8 – – 1.5 1.5 – 4.4 6.7
Depreciation 11 0.1 0.1 0.8 1.7 2.5 – 1.4 4.1
(Decrease)/increase in  
provision for receivables 5 (0.2) – 0.4 – 0.4 – – 0.2
Share-based payments 3 0.1 – 0.1 0.1 0.2 – 3.6 3.9
Acquisition of intangible assets 9 – – 12.1 – 12.1 – – 12.1
Amortisation of  
intangible assets 9 1.0 – 2.2 – 2.2 – 1.1 4.3 Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 97
3 Employees and directors
Employee benefit expense during the year
Notes
Group Company
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Wages and salaries 243.9 229.7 – –
Social security costs 28.7 26.9 – 2.1
Other pension costs 30 17.3 14.4 – –
Share-based payments 27 4.0 3.9 3.0 3.6
Total 293.9 274.9 3.0 5.7
Average monthly number of people (including executive directors) employed
2016 
Number
2015 
Number
2016 
Number
2015 
Number
By business group:
Linden Homes 1,104 1,068 – –
Partnerships & Regeneration 509 451 – –
– Building 1,871 1,617 – –
– Infrastructure 1,745 1,734 – –
Construction 3,616 3,351 – –
PPP Investments 64 53 – –
Group 403 345 9 8
Total 5,696 5,268 9 8
Remuneration of key management personnel
The key management personnel comprise the Executive Board and non-executive directors. The remuneration of the key management 
personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures. Further information 
about the remuneration of individual directors, including any interests in the Company’s shares, is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Salaries and short-term employee benefits 5.8 4.1
Retirement benefit costs 0.4 0.1
Share-based payments 1.2 1.5
Total 7.4 5.7 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 98
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
4 Net finance costs
Group
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Interest receivable on bank deposits 0.1 0.1
Interest receivable from joint ventures 7.0 3.5
Net finance income on retirement benefit obligations 0.2 0.2
Unwind of discount on shared equity receivables – 0.8
Other 0.3 –
Finance income 7.6 4.6
Interest payable on borrowings (15.5) (12.3)
Unwind of discounted payables (0.8) (2.0)
Other (0.1) (0.6)
Finance costs (16.4) (14.9)
Net finance costs (8.8) (10.3)
5 Profit before income tax 
The following items have been included in arriving at profit before income tax:
Notes
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Employee benefit expense 3 293.9 274.9
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11 4.3 4.1
Amortisation of intangible assets 9 4.3 4.3
(Profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment (5.2) –
Operating lease rentals payable 25.8 26.6
Developments recognised as an expense 525.3 565.9
Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 1.4 1.1
(Decrease)/increase in provision for receivables 18 (0.8) 0.2
Restructuring cost 2.5 –
Exceptional cost – 3.7
In addition to the above, the Group incurs other costs classified as cost of sales relating to labour, materials and subcontractors’ costs.
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment in 2016 includes amounts in relation to the sale of the Galliford Try plant accommodation 
portfolio during the year. The restructuring cost in the year to June 2016 related to a restructuring of Linden Homes carried out during the year.
The exceptional cost in 2015 of £3.7 million related to the integration of Miller Construction and comprised mainly redundancy and other 
restructuring costs. There were no exceptional items in 2016. 
Services provided by the Group’s auditors and network firms
During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Group’s auditors at costs as detailed below:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Fees payable to Company’s auditor for the audit of Parent Company and consolidated financial statements 0.2 0.2
Total audit services 0.2 0.2
The audit of financial statements of the Company’s subsidiaries 0.4 0.3
Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1
Other non-audit services – 0.2
Total other services 0.5 0.6
Total 0.7 0.8
A description of the work of the Audit Committee in respect of auditors’ independence is set out in the Governance Report.  Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 99
6 Income tax expense
Group Note
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Analysis of expense in year
Current year’s income tax
 Current tax 24.4 26.2
 Deferred tax 24 – (3.4)
Adjustments in respect of prior years
 Current tax 0.9 (3.5)
 Deferred tax 24 0.8 2.4
Income tax expense 26.1 21.7
Tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income
Deferred tax expense/(credit) for share-based payments 24 1.8 (1.0)
Current tax (credit) for retirement benefit obligations (1.3) –
Current tax (credit) for share-based payments (1.0) (0.5)
Deferred tax (credit) on derivative financial instruments 24 (0.8) –
Deferred tax (credit) on retirement benefit obligations 24 (1.0) (1.2)
Tax recognised in other comprehensive income (2.3) (2.7)
Total taxation 23.8 19.0
The total income tax expense for the year of £26. 1 million (2015: £21.7 million) is lower (2015: lower) than the blended standard rate of  
corporation tax in the UK of 20.0% (2015: 20.75%). The differences are explained below:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Profit before income tax 135.0 114.0
Profit before income tax multiplied by the blended standard corporation tax rate in the UK of 20.0%  
(2015: 20.75%) 27.0 23.6
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.1 0.1
Non-taxable income (1.0) (0.8)
Joint ventures (1.7) (0.1)
Change in rate of current income tax – (0.1)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.7 (1.0)
Income tax expense 26.1 21.7
The standard rate of Corporation Tax in the UK changed from 21% to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. Accordingly, the Group’s profits for  
the accounting period to 30 June 2015 were taxed at a blended standard rate of 20.75%; and for the period to 30 June 2016 are taxed at the 
standard rate of 20.0%. 
Further changes to the UK corporation tax system were announced in the July 2015 UK Budget Statement. The main rate of corporation tax  
will reduce to 19% from April 2017 and was scheduled to reduce to 18% from April 2020. These rate reductions had been substantively enacted 
at the balance sheet date. A further reduction to 17% from April 2020 was announced in the March 2016 UK Budget Statement but this rate 
reduction had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, the relevant deferred tax balances have not been 
remeasured. Due to the uncertainty of the rate that will apply from April 2020, deferred tax has been recognised at 19%. The effect on the 
deferred tax balances, had the new rates been applied at 30 June 2016, would not have been significant. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 100
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
7 Dividends
Group and Company 
2016 2015
£m
pence  
per share £m
pence  
per share
Previous year final 37.8 46.0 31.3 38.0
Current period interim 21.5 26.0 18.0 22.0
Dividend recognised in the year 59.3 72.0 49.3 60.0
The following dividends were declared by the Company in respect of each accounting period presented:
2016 2015
£m
pence  
per share £m
pence  
per share
Interim 21.5 26.0 18.0 22.0
Final 46.4 56.0 37.8 46.0
Dividend relating to the year 67.9 82.0 55.8 68.0
The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2016 of 56 pence per share, bringing the total  
dividend in respect of 2016 to 82 pence per share (2015: 68 pence). The final dividend will absorb approximately £46.4 million of equity.  
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM to be held on 1 1 November 2016, the dividend will be paid on 23 November 2016 to shareholders 
who are on the register of members on 28 October 2016.
8 Earnings Per Share
Basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS)
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
outstanding during the year, excluding those held by the Trust, which are treated as cancelled.
Under normal circumstances, the average number of shares is diluted by reference to the average number of potential ordinary shares held 
under option in the period. The dilutive effect amounts to the number of ordinary shares which would be purchased using the aggregate 
difference in value between the market value of shares and the share option price. Only shares that have met their cumulative performance 
criteria are included in the dilution calculation. The Group has two classes of potentially dilutive ordinary shares: those share options granted to 
employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year and the contingently 
issuable shares under the Group’s long-term incentive plans. A loss per share cannot be reduced through dilution, hence this dilution is only 
applied where the Group has reported a profit. 
The earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below.
2016 2015
Earnings  
£m
Weighted 
average  
number of 
shares
Per share 
amount  
pence
Earnings  
£m
Weighted  
average  
number of  
shares
Per share  
amount  
pence
Basic EPS – pre-exceptional
Earnings attributable to ordinary 
shareholders pre-exceptional items 108.9 82,166,065 132.5 95.2 81,833,586 116.3
Basic EPS
Earnings attributable to ordinary 
shareholders post-exceptional items 108.9 82,166,065 132.5 92.3 81,833,586 112.8
Effect of dilutive securities:
Options 748,016  1,400,331 
Diluted EPS 108.9 82,914,081 131.3 92.3 83,233,917 110.9 Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 101
9 Intangible assets
Group
Customer 
contracts and 
relationships 
£m
Computer 
software 
£m
Brand 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 July 2014 – 10.8 10.8 21.6 
Additions 12.1 – – 12.1 
At 1 July 2015 12.1 10.8 10.8 33.7 
Additions – 0.1 – 0.1 
At 30 June 2016 12.1 10.9 10.8 33.8 
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 July 2014 – (0.6) (7.9) (8.5)
Amortisation in year (2.2) (1.1) (1.0) (4.3)
At 1 July 2015 (2.2) (1.7) (8.9) (12.8)
Amortisation in year (2.2) (1.1) (1.0) (4.3)
At 30 June 2016 (4.4) (2.8) (9.9) (17.1)
Net book amount
At 30 June 2016 7.7 8.1 0.9 16.7
At 30 June 2015 9.9 9.1 1.9 20.9
At 30 June 2014 – 10.2 2.9 13.1
The increase in customer contracts and relationships in the year to 30 June 2015 arose from the acquisition of Miller Construction. The acquired 
intangible assets are being amortised over periods ranging from two to 10 years.
All amortisation charges in the year have been included in administrative expenses. Computer software relates to the introduction of the  
Group’s reporting systems. The remaining period of amortisation on computer software is seven years and six months. The remaining period  
of amortisation on brand is one year and on customer contracts and relationships is eight years.
10 Goodwill
Group £m
Cost
At 1 July 2014 115.7
Additions in year to 30 June 2015 20.5
At 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2016 136.2
Aggregate impairment at 1 July 2014, 1 July 2015 and 30 June 2016 (0.7)
Net book amount
At 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2016 135.5
30 June 2014 115.0
The increase in goodwill in the year to 30 June 2015 arose from the acquisition of Miller Construction and Shepherd Homes. This was allocated 
to the Building and Linden Homes segments respectively. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 102
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
10 Goodwill (continued)
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s CGUs identified according to business segment. The goodwill is attributable to the following  
business segments:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Linden Homes 52.5 52.5
Partnerships & Regeneration 5.8 5.8
Building 40.0 40.0
Infrastructure 37.2 37.2
135.5 135.5
Impairment review of goodwill and key assumptions
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value in use calculations.  
These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on future financial budgets approved by the Board, based on past performance  
and its expectation of market developments. The key assumptions within these budgets relate to revenue and the future profit margin achievable, 
in line with our strategy as set out in the Strategic Report. Future budgeted revenue is based on management’s knowledge of actual results from 
prior years and latest forecasts for the current year, along with the existing secured works, management’s expectation of the future level of  
work available within the market sector and expected changes in selling volumes and prices for completed houses. In establishing future profit 
margins, the margins currently being achieved are considered in conjunction with expected inflation rates in each cost category and to reflect  
the current market value of land being acquired. 
Cash is monitored very closely on a daily, weekly and monthly basis for the purposes of managing both treasury and the business as  
a whole. Details of the Group’s treasury management are included within the financial review in the Strategic Report of the Annual Report.  
The assumptions used are reviewed regularly and differences between forecast and actual results are closely monitored with variances being 
investigated fully. The knowledge gained from this past experience is used to ensure that the future assumptions used are consistent with  
past actual outcomes and are management’s best estimate of the future cash flows of each business unit. 
Cash flows beyond the budgeted three-year period are extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 2% per annum within each segment.  
The growth rate used is the Group’s estimate of the average long-term growth rate for the market sectors in which the CGU operates. A pre-tax 
discount rate of 13.7% (2015: 12. 1%) in Linden Homes, 10. 1% (2015: 9.9%) in Partnerships & Regeneration, 10. 1% (2015: 9.3%) in Building and 
1 1.6% (2015: 10. 1%) in Infrastructure has been applied to the future cash flows, based on a estimate of the weighted average cost of capital of 
each division. 
Sensitivities
The recoverable value of all CGUs are substantially in excess of the carrying value of goodwill. Sensitivity analysis has been undertaken on each 
goodwill impairment review, by changing the discount rates, profit margins, growth rates and other variables applicable to each CGU. Taking into 
account current market conditions within the construction and housebuilding markets, none of these sensitivities, either individually or combined, 
resulted in the recoverable amount of the goodwill being reduced to below its current carrying value.
The detailed sensitivity analysis indicates that an increase of more than 22% (2015: 17%) in the pre-tax discount rate or a reduction of 27%  
(2015: 21%) in the forecast operating cash flows of the Linden Homes CGU could give rise to an impairment. The goodwill in the other segments 
is less sensitive to the detailed assumptions used and hence no additional disclosure is considered necessary. Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 103
11 Property, plant and equipment
Group
Land and  
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Fixtures  
and fittings 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 July 2014 2.2 11.9 13.7 27.8
Additions 0.5 4.5 1.7 6.7
Acquisitions 5.5 0.4 0.2 6.1
Disposals – (0.3) – (0.3)
At 1 July 2015 8.2 16.5 15.6 40.3
Additions – 4.6 3.2 7.8
Disposals – (10.3) (1.2) (11.5)
At 30 June 2016 8.2 10.8 17.6 36.6
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2014 (0.8) (5.7) (9.1) (15.6)
Charge for the year (0.6) (1.7) (1.8) (4.1)
Disposals – 0.2 – 0.2
At 1 July 2015 (1.4) (7.2) (10.9) (19.5)
Charge for the year (0.2) (1.8) (2.3) (4.3)
Disposals – 5.1 1.2 6.3
At 30 June 2016 (1.6) (3.9) (12.0) (17.5)
Net book amount
At 30 June 2016 6.6 6.9 5.6 19.1
At 30 June 2015 6.8 9.3 4.7 20.8
At 30 June 2014 1.4 6.2 4.6 12.2
There has been no impairment of property, plant and equipment during the year (2015: £Nil). Fixed assets included £0.9 million net book value, 
and £0.6 million depreciation, for assets held under finance leases (2015: £1.5 million and £0.5 million, respectively).
The Company has no property, plant or equipment. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 104
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
12 Investments in subsidiaries
Company
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Cost
At 1 July 75.2 197.8
Transfers to other subsidiary undertakings – (143.8)
Capital contributions 1.0 21.2
At 30 June 76.2 75.2
Aggregate impairment
At 1 July (6.8) (1.6)
Impairments – (5.2)
At 30 June (6.8) (6.8)
Net book value
At 30 June 69.4 68.4
The capital contribution in 2016 of £1.0 million (2015: £0.3 million) related to share based payments for share options granted by the Company  
to employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group (note 27). The capital contribution in 2015 also included a further £20.9 million contribution 
from the Company to Galliford Try Construction & Investments Holdings Limited.
The carrying value of investments has been reviewed and the directors are satisfied that there is no further impairment required.
The subsidiary undertakings that principally affected profits and net assets of the Group were:
Galliford Try Building Limited
Galliford Try Homes Limited
1
 
Galliford Try Infrastructure Limited
2
Galliford Try Investments Limited
Galliford Try Partnerships Limited
Galliford Try Services Limited
1
Linden Limited
1  Shares of these subsidiary companies are owned directly by the Company.
2  Incorporated in Scotland. 
Unless otherwise stated, each subsidiary has a 30 June year end, operates as a housebuilding or construction company, is incorporated in 
England & Wales and 100% of ordinary shares and voting rights are held by the Group. Galliford Try Services Limited operates as central 
administration company to the Group.
A full list of the Group’s undertakings is set out in note 35. Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 105
13 Investments in joint ventures
Group
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
At 1 July 9.2 4.6
Dividend received from joint ventures (3.6) (0.4)
Share of post tax profit 19.2 5.0
At 30 June 24.8 9.2
Joint ventures
At 30 June 2016 the Group held interests in joint ventures, all of which are incorporated in England and Wales or in Scotland, as set out  
in note 35.
In relation to the Group’s interest in joint ventures, the assets, liabilities, income and expenses are shown below:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Current assets 467.4 353.4
Non-current assets 0.4 0.3
Current liabilities (322.6) (290.2)
Non-current liabilities (120.4) (54.3)
24.8 9.2
Amounts due from joint ventures 197.5 189.0
Amounts due to joint ventures (15.5) (15.9)
Revenue 175.5 82.3
Expenses (146.9) (70.7)
28.6 11.6
Finance cost (7.7) (6.3)
Income tax (1.7) (0.3)
Share of post tax profits from joint ventures 19.2 5.0
The Group’s share of unrecognised losses of joint ventures is £29.5 million (2015: £24.7 million), of which net £4.8 million arose during the period.
As at 30 June 2016, amounts due from joint ventures of £197 .5 million (2015: £189 million) were considered for impairment. The impairment 
reviews were based on future financial budgets based on past performance and expectation of market developments. The key assumptions 
used were consistent with those applied in the goodwill impairment reviews as described in note 10. No impairment has been provided for  
these balances in the year ended 30 June 2016 (2015: £Nil).
The Group has no commitments (2015: £Nil) to provide further of subordinated debt to its joint ventures.
The joint ventures had external bank funding of £65 million at 30 June (2015: £68 million). The joint ventures have no significant contingent 
liabilities to which the Group is exposed (2015: £Nil). The joint ventures had no capital commitments as at 30 June 2016 (2015: £Nil).
Details of related party transactions with joint ventures are given in note 33. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 106
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
14 Available for sale financial assets
Group
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
At 1 July 11.0 23.4
Additions 6.6 11.7
Unwind of discount on shared equity receivables – 0.8
Impairment – (0.5)
Disposals (0.7) (24.4)
At 30 June 16.9 11.0
The available for sale assets comprise equity securities, being PPP/PFI investments, and shared equity receivables. The shared equity 
receivables largely have repayment dates that can vary and variable repayment amounts, provided as part of the sales transaction and are 
secured by a second legal charge on the related property. The assets are recorded at fair value, being the estimated future receivable by the 
Group, discounted back to present values. The fair value of the future anticipated receipts takes into account the directors’ view of future house 
price movements, the expected timing of receipts and credit risk. These assumptions are reviewed at the end of each financial reporting period. 
The difference between the anticipated future receipt and the initial fair value is credited over the estimated deferred term to finance income,  
with the financial asset increasing to its full expected cash settlement value on the anticipated receipt date. Credit risk, which is largely mitigated 
by holding a second charge over the property, is accounted for in determining the fair values and appropriate discount rates that are applied.  
The directors review the financial assets for impairment at each balance sheet date. 
The Group has sold the majority of its shared equity portfolio. During the year the Group’s net investment in shared equity receivables decreased 
by £0. 1 million (2015: £21.5 million). There was £Nil million new shared equity receivables in the period and £Nil million (2015: £0.8 million) arose 
on the unwind of the discount applied on initial recognition of the receivables at fair value, which has been shown as finance income in the 
income statement. An impairment of £Nil million (2015: £0.5 million) arose due to the variation in current assumptions compared to the original 
calculations. There were disposals in the year of £0. 1 million (2015: £21.8 million), relating to the repayment of shared equity receivables and  
the sale of the portfolio, generating a profit on disposal of £0. 1 million (2015: £0.4 million).
None of the financial assets are past their due dates (2015: Nil) and the directors expect an average maturity profile of 10 years.
During the year additional subordinated loans and other investments of £6.6 million (2015: £1.4 million) were made to its PPP/PFI investments, 
and the Group disposed of interests held at £0.6 million (2015: £2.6 million), generating a profit on disposal of £0.5 million (2015: £6.6 million).  
The additions in 2015 include £10.3 million of equity securities acquired with Miller Construction. The fair value of these unlisted investments is 
based on future expected cash flows discounted using an average rate of 9% (2015: 9%) based on the type of investment and stage of 
completion of the underlying assets held.
15 Inventories
Group
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Materials and consumables 0.1  0.3 
No inventories have been written off during the year.
16 Developments
Group
2016 
£m
2015 
£m 
(Restated – note 1)
Land 538.7 579.3
Work in progress 282.1 234.0
820.8 813.3
2016 2015
Movement on development provisions £m £m
Balance at 1 July 1.0 1.4 
Utilised on sales (0.3) (0.3)
Reversed in the year – (0.1)
Created in the year 1.5 –
Balance at 30 June 2.2 1.0 
£28.7 million (2015: £27 .4 million) of developments are carried at fair value less costs to sell rather than at historic cost. 
Further information on Group developments, including sales in hand and landbank information, can be found in the Strategic Report.  
The restatement in 2015 is explained in note 1. Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 107
17 Construction contracts
Group
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Contracts in progress at balance sheet date:
Amounts recoverable on construction contracts included in trade and other receivables 283.7 260.4 
Payments received on account on construction contracts included in trade and other payables (77.8) (32.1)
205.9 228.3 
Contracting revenue is disclosed in note 2. The aggregate amount of cost incurred plus recognised profits (less recognised losses) for all 
contracts in progress at the balance sheet date was £3,832.5 million (2015: £3,794.8 million). 
Retentions held by customers for contract work amounted to £76.9 million (2015: £72.5 million).
18 Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade receivables 162.6 178.2 – –
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (0.8) (1.6) – –
Trade receivables – net 161.8 176.6 – –
Amounts recoverable on construction contracts 283.7 260.4 – –
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – – 252.8 263.5
Amounts due from joint ventures 125.3 161.2 – –
Other receivables 49.6 46.4 – –
Prepayments and accrued income 97.6 66.9 – –
718.0 711.5 252.8 263.5
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Amounts falling due in more than one year:
Amounts due from joint ventures 75.4 27.8 – –
Other receivables 0.4 0.5 – –
75.8 28.3 – –
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivable are as follows:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
At 1 July (1.6) (1.4)
Decrease/(increase) in provision for receivables impairment 0.8 (0.2)
At 30 June (0.8) (1.6)
Provisions for impaired receivables have been included in cost of sales in the income statement. Amounts charged to the impairment provision 
are generally written off, when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
Provisions for amounts due from joint venture undertakings are set out in note 13. The other classes within trade and other receivables do not 
contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the book value of each class of receivable mentioned above, along with the  
Group’s investment in shared equity receivables (note 14) and its cash and cash equivalents. The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Management believes that the concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited due to the Group’s customer base being 
large and unrelated. Major water industry customers accounted for in total 3% (2015: 4%) of Group revenue in the year. However, the customers 
involved comprise a variety of entities including those both in the public and commercial sectors. In addition, within the commercial sector each 
customer has an unrelated ultimate parent company.  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 108
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
18 Trade and other receivables (continued)
The maturity of non-current receivables is as follows:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
In more than one year but not more than two years 0.9 0.5
In more than two years but not more than five years 31.2 0.5
In more than five years 43.7 27.3
75.8 28.3
Of the amounts due in more than five years £10.2 million is due within 14 years and £33.4 million is due within six years (2015: £27 .3 million  
within seven years). These amounts are unsecured and interest rates vary from bank base rate plus 1.75% to 10%.
As of 30 June 2016, trade receivables of £37 . 1 million (2015: £32. 1 million) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of 
independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default and there are no indications that they will not meet their payment 
obligations in respect of the trade receivables recognised in the balance sheet that are past due and unprovided. The ageing analysis of  
these trade receivables is as follows:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Number of days past due date
Less than 30 days 16.6 8.6
Between 30 and 60 days 4.9 3.1
Between 60 and 90 days 3.0 3.1
Between 90 and 120 days 3.4 2.5
Greater than 120 days 9.2 14.8
37.1 32.1
As of 30 June 2016, trade receivables of £2.2 million (2015: £4.5 million) were considered for impairment based on management’s judgment  
and review of the trade receivables listings. The amount provided for these balances was £0.8 million (2015: £1.6 million). No other amounts that 
are neither past due not impaired required additional provisions. The allocation of the provision is as follows:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Number of days past due date:
Greater than 120 days 0.8 1.6 
0.8 1.6 
19 Cash and cash equivalents
Group Company
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 166.3 164.9 498.4 456.1
Cash and cash equivalents for cash flow purposes 166.3 164.9 498.4 456.1 
Cash at bank above includes £2.2 million (2015: £2.5 million) of restricted cash. The effective interest rate received on cash balances is 0.6% 
(2015: 0.8%).
Group
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Net (debt)
Cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts 166.3 164.9
Current borrowings (note 22) (0.3) (0.3)
Non-current borrowings (note 22) (174.7) (181.9)
Net (debt) (8.7) (17.3) Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 109
20 Trade and other payables 
Group Company
2016 
£m
2015 
£m 
(Restated – note 1)
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Payments received on account on construction contracts 77.8 32.1 – –
Trade payables 296.6 270.6 – –
Development land payables 104.2 94.6 – –
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings – – 269.1 245.7
Amounts due to joint ventures 31.9 15.9 – –
Other taxation and social security payable 17.0 25.2 – –
Other payables 7.0 3.3 – –
Accruals and deferred income 524.7 542.5 0.9 2.4
1,059.2 984.2 270.0 248.1
Developments of £106.4 million (2015: £170.0 million) have been pledged as security for current and non-current development land payables. 
Other payables are unsecured. Accruals and deferred income includes £12.2 million (2015: £9. 1 million) deferred income. The restatement in 
2015 is explained in note 1.
21 Provisions for other liabilities and charges
Group
 Property  
related  
£m
 Total  
£m
At 1 July 2015 2.3 2.3
Utilised in year (0.4) (0.4)
At 30 June 2016 1.9 1.9 
Analysis of total provisions
Current 0.3 0.3 
Non-current 1.6 1.6 
At 30 June 2016 1.9 1.9 
Property related provisions
The property related provisions relate primarily to the excess profit generated when properties, which continue to be occupied by the  
Group, were previously sold and leased back. The provision for the excess profit deferred will be utilised over the remaining term of the  
leases, which expire between 2020 and 2021. The remaining property related provision is in relation to properties sublet by the Group at 
amounts below the level of rental being paid by the Group.
22 Financial liabilities – borrowings
Group Company
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Current
Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 0.3 0.3 – –
Non-current
Bank loans
1
174.1 180.8 171.6 170.9
Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 0.6 1.1 – –
174.7 181.9 171.6 170.9
1  The bank loans and overdrafts are unsecured. They currently incur interest at 2.0 – 2.3% (2015: 2.0 – 2.3%) over LIBOR. The Group has entered into interest rate  
swaps as set out in note 25. The bank loans are classified as non-current as the Group expects to, and has the discretion to, roll over the obligations under its  
existing bank facility. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 110
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
23 Other non-current liabilities
Group Company
2016 
£m
2015 
£m 
(Restated – note 1)
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Development land payables 98.6 130.2 – –
Other payables 0.6 3.4 – –
Accruals and deferred income 39.9 33.6 – –
139.1 167.2 – –
Developments of £106.4 million (2015: £170.0 million) have been pledged as security for current and non-current development land payables. 
Other payables are unsecured. Accruals and deferred income includes £30.0 million (2015: £25.7 million) deferred income. The restatement  
in 2015 is explained in note 1.
The maturity profile of the anticipated undiscounted future cash flows of non-derivative financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which  
the Group can be required to pay financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis, is as follows:
Financial liabilties at amortised cost
Development 
land payables 
£m
 Amounts due  
to joint venture 
undertakings  
£m
 Other financial 
liabilities  
at amortised 
cost  
£m
 Total  
£m
Within one year 104.2 31.9 816.1 952.2
More than one year and less than two years 87.5 – 10.5 98.0
More than two years 11.1 – – 11.1
30 June 2016 202.8 31.9 826.6 1,061.3
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Development  
land payables 
£m 
(Restated – note 1)
 Amounts due  
to joint venture 
undertakings  
£m
 Other financial 
liabilities  
at amortised  
cost  
£m
 Total  
£m 
(Restated – note 1)
Within one year 94.6 15.9 807.3 917.8
More than one year and less than two years 80.8 –  1 1.3 92.1
More than two years 49.4 –  – 49.4
30 June 2015 224.8 15.9 818.6 1,059.3
24 Deferred income tax 
Deferred income tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method, using a tax rate of 19% (2015: 20%). 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current income tax assets against  
current income tax liabilities. The net deferred tax position at 30 June was:
Group Company
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Deferred income tax assets – non-current 5.7 7.1 1.4 3.2
Deferred income tax assets 5.7 7.1 1.4 3.2 
Deferred income tax liabilities – non-current (3.5) (4.1) – –
Deferred income tax liabilities (3.5) (4.1) – –
Net deferred income tax 2.2 3.0 1.4 3.2  Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 111
24 Deferred income tax (continued)
The movement for the year in the net deferred income tax account is as shown below:
Group Company
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
At 1 July 3.0 2.4 3.2 2.1
Current year’s deferred income tax – 3.4 (0.8) –
Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.8) (2.5) – –
Income/(expense) recognised in equity – 2.2 (1.0) 1.1
Change in rate of deferred income tax – 0.1 – –
On acquisition of subsidiaries – (2.6) – –
At 30 June 2.2 3.0 1.4 3.2
Deferred income tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred income  
tax assets, as it is probable that these assets will be recovered.
Movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year are shown below:
Deferred income tax assets 
Group
Retirement benefit 
obligations
£m
Share-based 
payments 
£m
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 July 2014 – 2.1 2.7 4.8 
Income taken to income statement – – 3.7 3.7 
Adjustment in respect of prior years – – (2.4) (2.4)
Income recognised in equity – 1.0 – 1.0 
At 30 June 2015 – 3.1 4.0 7.1 
(Expense) taken to income statement – (0.8) (0.4) (1.2)
(Expense)/income recognised in equity – (1.8) 0.8 (1.0)
Transfer from deferred income tax liabilities 0.8 – – 0.8
At 30 June 2016 0.8 0.5 4.4 5.7
Deferred income tax liabilities 
Group
Fair value 
adjustments 
£m
Retirement  
benefit  
obligations 
£m
Accelerated tax 
depreciation 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 July 2014 (1.6) (0.2) (0.6) (2.4)
Income/(expense) taken to income statement 1.3 (1.2) (0.4) (0.3)
On acquisition of subsidiaries (2.6) – – (2.6)
Income recognised in equity – 1.2 – 1.2 
At 30 June 2015 (2.9) (0.2) (1.0) (4.1)
Income taken to income statement 0.9 – 0.3 1.2 
Adjustment in respect of prior years (1.2) – 0.4 (0.8)
Income recognised in equity – 1.0 – 1.0 
Transfer to deferred income tax assets – (0.8) – (0.8)
At 30 June 2016 (3.2) – (0.3) (3.5)
Deferred income tax assets  
Company
Share-based 
payments 
£m
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 July 2014 2.1 – 2.1 
Income recognised in equity 1.0 0.1 1.1 
At 30 June 2015 3.1 0.1 3.2 
(Expense) taken to income statement (0.8) – (0.8)
(Expense)/income recognised in equity (1.8) 0.8 (1.0)
At 30 June 2016 0.5 0.9 1.4 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 112
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
25 Financial Instruments
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including foreign exchange risk, price risk and interest rate risk),  
credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to 
minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported 
when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset  
and settle the liability simultaneously. Cash and cash equivalents comprise £599.8 million of bank accounts in credit offset against £433.5 million 
overdrafts with the same counterparty (2015: £578. 1 million and £413.2 million respectively).
The Group and Company operate within financial risk policies and procedures approved by the Board. It is, and has been throughout the  
year, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken. The Board provides written principles for overall risk 
management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative 
financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity. The Group’s and Company’s financial 
instruments principally comprise bank borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, receivables and payables, available for sale financial assets  
and interest rate swaps that arise directly from its operations and its acquisitions. 
Capital risk management
The Group is funded by ordinary shares, retained profits and a single bank facility. The Group’s and Company’s objectives when managing 
capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other 
stakeholders, and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. The capital requirements of the Group’s divisions differ, 
with housebuilding (including Linden Homes and the mixed-tenure developments of Partnerships & Regeneration) typically requiring debt and 
construction typically being cash generative, and the economic cycle of each business is also different. The Group manages its capital taking 
these differing requirements into account.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group and Company may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return 
capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. In 2016, the Group increased its bank facilities to £450 million, following  
a review of its future capital requirements undertaken in the context of the Group’s strategy to 2018, and the Group is targeting period-end 
gearing of no more than 30%.
Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided  
by total equity. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including current and non-current borrowings as shown in the consolidated balance 
sheet) less cash and cash equivalents. The Group held net debt at 30 June 2016 and had gearing of 1%. The Group also held net debt at  
30 June 2015, with gearing of 3%. The Group also has capital requirements in the covenants in its bank facilities, as set out later in this note.  
The Group has complied with all bank covenants during the year.
Financial risk factors
(a) Market risk
(i) Foreign exchange risk
All material activities of the Group take place within the UK and consequently there is little direct exchange risk other than payments to overseas 
suppliers who require settlement in their currency. If there is any material foreign exchange exposure, the Group’s policy is to enter into forward 
foreign currency contracts. The Group and Company have no material currency exposure at 30 June 2016 (2015: Nil). 
(ii) Price risk
The Group is affected by the level of UK house prices. These are in turn affected by factors such as mortgage availability, employment  
levels, interest rates, consumer confidence and availability of land with planning. While it is not possible to fully mitigate such risks the Group 
continues to monitor its geographical spread within the UK concentrating its operations in areas that management believes minimise the effect  
of local microeconomic fluctuations. As at 30 June 2016, the Group’s house price linked financial instruments consisted entirely of shared  
equity receivables held as available for sale financial assets and the sensitivity to house price inflation and discount rates was not significant.  
The concentration of the financial risk lies within price risk as a result of these financial instruments being linked to house prices. 
The Group has no quoted investments that are exposed to equity securities price risk. The Group and Company are not exposed to commodity 
price risk. 
(iii) Interest rate risk
The Group’s income and operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from movement in cash and cash equivalents and long-term borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable  
rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. The Group’s policy is to accept a degree of interest rate risk as long as the effect of  
various changes in rates remains within prescribed ranges. Details of the interest rate swaps entered into by the Group are set out below.
The Group analyses its interest rate exposure on a dynamic basis. On a regular basis the Group calculates the impact on the income statement 
of a defined interest rate shift on the Group’s borrowing position. 
Based on the forecasts performed, the impact on post tax profit and equity of a 1% decrease or increase in interest rates for a year would be  
a maximum increase of £0.8 million (2015: £0.7 million) or decrease of £1.0 million (2015: £0.8 million), respectively.  Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 113
25 Financial Instruments (continued)
Financial risk factors (continued)
(b) Credit risk
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, deposits and 
borrowings with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables (including shared 
equity receivables) and committed transactions. The Group has a credit risk exposure to the providers of its banking facilities. These are  
primarily provided by HSBC Bank plc, Abbey National Treasury Services plc (Santander), The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Barclays Bank plc, 
being four of the UK’s leading financial institutions. Further details of credit risk relating to trade and other receivables are disclosed in note 18.  
No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period, and management does not expect any material losses from non-performance of  
any counterparties, including in respect of receivables not yet due.
(c) Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities and the availability of funding through an 
adequate amount of committed credit facilities. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Group treasury maintains flexibility  
in funding by maintaining availability under committed credit lines.
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings. The contracting operations of the Group generally 
generate cash. The housebuilding operations, however, utilise cash and any future downturn in the housebuilding market may require additional 
borrowings, in addition to retained earnings, to finance the maintenance of the landbank and associated work in progress. Management 
monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity reserve, which comprises undrawn borrowing facilities (see below) and cash and cash 
equivalents (note 19) on the basis of expected cash flow. This is generally carried out at local level in the operating companies of the Group,  
in accordance with practices and limits set by the Group. These limits vary by location to take into account the liquidity of the market in which  
the entity operates. On a daily basis throughout the year, the bank balances or borrowings in all the Group’s operating companies are 
aggregated into a total cash or borrowings figure, in order that the Group can obtain the most advantageous interest rate.
In accordance with IAS 39 ‘Financial instruments: recognition and measurement’, the Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives 
that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements set out in the standard. No such embedded derivatives 
have been identified.
Financial liabilities – derivative financial liabilities
The fair value of interest rate swaps is detailed below:
Group and Company
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
At 30 June 2015
Non-current liabilities (4.5) (0.3)
During the year ending 30 June 2012 the Group entered into a five-year interest rate swap contract that expires in May 2017 . The notional 
principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contract at 30 June 2016 was £75 million (2015: £75 million) and the fixed interest rate  
is 1.5% (2015: 1.5%). During the year ending 30 June 2015 the Group entered into a five-year interest rate swap contract that expires in February 
2020. The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contract at 30 June 2016 was £100 million (2015: £100 million) and  
the fixed interest rate is 1.4% (2015: 1.4%). Each swap is designated as a cash flow hedge and changes in fair value are recognised directly  
in reserves. A loss of £4.2 million (2015: £0.3 million) was recognised in other comprehensive income in the period. Gains and losses  
recognised in reserves will be released to the income statement within finance costs over the period to maturity of the contract,  
and £1.2 million (2015: £0. 1 million) was recognised in the current year.
Fair values of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities
Where market values are not available, fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected  
future cash flows at the prevailing interest rate. The fair value of current borrowings equals their carrying amounts as the impact of discounting  
is not significant.
Fair value of non-current borrowings Note
2016 2015
Book value 
£m
Fair value 
£m
Book value 
£m
Fair value 
£m
Non-current borrowings 22 174.7 174.7 181.9 181.9  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 114
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
25 Financial Instruments (continued)
Fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities
Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Group’s operations:
Note
2016 2015
Book value 
£m
Fair value 
£m
Book value 
£m 
(Restated – note 1)
Fair value 
£m 
(Restated – note 1)
Financial liabilities:
Current borrowings 22 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 
Current financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 23 952.2 952.2 917.8 917.8
Non-current financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 23 109.1 109.1 141.5 141.5
Financial assets:
Available for sale financial assets 14 16.9 16.9 11.0 11.0 
Loans and receivables 18 620.4 620.4 644.6 644.6 
Non-current loans and receivables 18 75.8 75.8 28.3 28.3
Cash and cash equivalents 19 166.3 166.3 164.9 164.9 
Prepayments and accrued income are excluded from the loans and receivables balance; and statutory liabilities, deferred income and  
payments received on account on construction contracts are excluded from financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. A maturity analysis  
of the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilties is given in note 23.
There is no difference between the book value and the fair value of the Company’s other financial assets and financial liabilities.
Borrowing facilities
The Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 30 June:
2016 
Floating rate 
£m
2015 
Floating rate 
£m
Expiring:
In more than two years 259.7 211.4
259.7 211.4
In February 2014 the Group agreed a five-year £400 million unsecured revolving credit facility with HSBC Bank plc, Abbey National Treasury 
Services plc (Santander), Barclays Bank plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc. In February 2015, the Group agreed a one-year extension  
on the facility, to 2020, and in March 2016 agreed an increase in the facility to £450 million. The facility provides long-term finance and bonding 
facilities and is subject to covenants over interest cover, gearing (adjusted to take account of development land payables) and minimum 
consolidated tangible net assets. Interest is calculated by aggregating margin, LIBOR and relevant costs.  Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 115
25 Financial Instruments (continued)
Fair value estimation
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments are defined as:
 – Level 1 – quoted market prices or dealer quotes in active markets for similar instruments.
 – Level 2 – the fair value of equity securities and interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows,  
based on observable yield curves, as set out in note 14. 
 – Level 3 – other techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.  
The fair value of available for sale financial assets is set out in note 14.
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 30 June:
30 June 2016 30 June 2015
Level 2 
£m
Level 3 
£m
Total 
£m
Level 2 
£m
Level 3 
£m
Total 
£m
Assets
Available for sale financial assets
– Shared equity receivables – 0.7 0.7 – 0.8 0.8
– Equity securities 16.2 – 16.2 10.2 – 10.2
Total 16.2 0.7 16.9 10.2 0.8 11.0
Liabilities
Liabilities at fair value through  
income statement
– Derivatives used for hedging (4.5) – (4.5) (0.3) – (0.3)
There we no transfers between levels during the period.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is determined by using 
valuation techniques. These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible  
on entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in Level 2. If one 
or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3. 
The Company’s only liabilities that are measured at fair value are derivatives used for hedging, as shown in the table above.
Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3)
30 June 2016 30 June 2015
Opening balance 0.8 22.3 
Unwinding of discount on shared equity receivables – 0.8 
Impairment – (0.5)
Disposals (0.1) (21.8)
Closing balance 0.7 0.8 
The key assumptions used in Level 3 valuations include future house price movements, the expected timing of receipts, credit risk and discount 
rates. The typical repayment period is 10-15 years and the timing of receipts is based on historical data. The discount rate of 5.5% and future 
house price movements used to compute the fair value (typically 2.5%) are based on local market conditions. The sensitivity to house price 
inflation and discount rates is set out earlier in this note. If receipts were to occur earlier than expected, the fair value would increase.
The total impact in the period of Level 3, taken to the income statements, is a net charge of £Nil million (30 June 2015: £0. 1 million) in cost of  
sales and £Nil million (30 June 2015: £0.8 million) finance income. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 116
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
26 Ordinary shares and share premium
Group and Company
Number of 
shares
Ordinary  
shares 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 July 2014 82,274,395  41.1  191.8  232.9 
Allotted under share option schemes 15,470  –  –  – 
At 1 July 2015 82,289,865  41.1  191.8  232.9 
Allotted under share option schemes 582,147  0.3  2.6  2.9 
At 30 June 2016 82,872,012  41.4  194.4  235.8 
Number of shares refers to 50 pence ordinary shares, which are issued and fully paid. There are no shares issued but not fully paid.
At 30 June 2016 the total number of shares outstanding under the SAYE share option scheme was 1,230,395 (2015: 1,352,517) and under  
the LTIPs was 885,819 (2015: 1, 169,309) as detailed below:
Shares under option
SAYE share option scheme LTIPs
Year of grant
Exercise price  
per share
Exercise  
period ending
Shares  
awarded Year of grant
Share price  
at grant Vesting date
808 2011 271p 30.06.16 313,839 2014 1040p 30.09.16
657 2013 657p 30.06.16 295,694 2015 1266p 30.09.17
155,500 2013 657p 30.06.18 253,402 2016 1641p 26.09.18
348,363 2015 931p 30.06.18 22,884 2016 1562p 30.09.17
151,494 2015 931p 30.06.20
431,535 2016 1,372p 30.06.19
142,038 2016 1,372p 30.06.21
1,230,395 885,819
27 Share-based payments
The Company operates performance-related share incentive plans for executives, details of which are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report. The Company also operates sharesave schemes. The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payment plans  
was £4.0 million (2015: £3.9 million), all of which related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions. After deferred tax, the total charge 
was £1.4 million (2015: £4.9 million).
Savings related share options 
The Company operates an HMRC approved sharesave scheme under which employees are granted an option to purchase ordinary shares  
in the Company at up to 20% less than the market price at grant, in either three or five years’ time, dependent on their entering into a contract  
to make monthly contributions into a savings account over the relevant period. These funds are used to fund the option exercise. This scheme  
is open to all employees meeting the minimum employment period. No performance criteria are applied to the exercise of sharesave options. 
The options were valued using the binomial option-pricing model. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation 
are as follows:
Grant date
Share price 
at grant date 
Exercise 
price
Contract 
date
Expected 
volatility
Option life 
(years)
Risk free  
rate
Dividend 
yield
Employee 
turnover 
before 
vesting
Fair value  
per option
19.11.10 280p 271p 01.01.11 47% 5 2.4% 4.5% 10% 90.0p
14.11.12 711p 657p 01.01.13 31% 3 0.5% 4.2% 10% 135.5p
14.11.12 711p 657p 01.01.13 46% 5 0.9% 4.2% 10% 222.2p
10.11.14 1175p 931p 01.01.15 23% 3 1.2% 4.5% 10% 214.4p
10.11.14 1175p 931p 01.01.15 28% 5 1.6% 4.5% 10% 254.5p
21.10.15 1562p 1372p 01.01.16 22% 3 0.8% 4.4% 10% 217.6p
21.10.15 1562p 1372p 01.01.16 25% 5 1.2% 4.4% 10% 259.2p Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 117
27 Share-based payments (continued)
Savings related share options (continued)
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility in the movement in the share price over the last three or five years up to the date of  
grant depending on the option life. The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk free rate is the yield on zero-coupon  
UK Government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life. A reconciliation of savings related share awards over the year to  
30 June 2016 is shown below:
2016 2015
Number
Weighted 
average 
exercise price Number
Weighted  
average  
exercise price
Outstanding at 1 July 1,352,517 704p 822,522 530p
Awards 638,457 1372p 640,176 931p
Forfeited (72,000) 1074p (39,014) 759p
Cancelled (93,262) 1068p (46,348) 747p
Expired (13,170) 958p (9,349) 621p
Exercised (582,147) 488p (15,470) 560p
Outstanding at 30 June 1,230,395 1101p 1,352,517 704p
Exercisable at 30 June – – – –
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was 228 pence (2015: 227 pence). There were 582, 147 share options 
exercised during the year ended 30 June 2016 (2015: 15,470) and the weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 1,476 pence 
(2015: 1,361 pence). The weighted average remaining contractual life is two years 1 1 months (2015: two years five months).
Performance-related long-term incentive plans 
The Company operates performance-related share incentive plans for executives, details of which are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report. The awards that vest are satisfied by the transfer of shares for no consideration.
The options were valued using a Monte Carlo model. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are  
as follows:
Grant date
Share price  
at grant date
Vesting period/
option life 
(months) Risk free rate Dividend yield
Fair value  
per option
26.09.12 728.5p 36 0.3% 4.1% 771p
01.02.13 843.0p 32 0.5% 3.6% 936p
30.09.13 1040.0p 36 0.9% 3.6% 1005p
30.09.14 1266.0p 36 1.3% 4.2% 885p
26.09.15 1641.0p 36 0.8% 4.1% 831p
21.10.15 1562.0p 6 0.4% 4.4% 1495p
21.10.15 1562.0p 23 0.5% 4.4% 1069p
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility in the movement in the share price of the Company and its comparator group and the 
correlations between them over the last three years. The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk free rate is the yield  
on zero-coupon UK Government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life. A reconciliation of performance-related share awards 
over the year to 30 June is shown below:
2016 
Number
2015 
Number
Outstanding at 1 July 1,164,312 1,522,842 
Granted 415,122 514,573 
Forfeited (93,637) (81,613)
Exercised (604,978) (791,490)
Outstanding at 30 June 880,819 1,164,312 
Exercisable at 30 June – –
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was 831 pence (2015: 852 pence). There were 604,978 options exercised 
during the year ended 30 June 2016 (2015: 791,490). The weighted average remaining contractual life is Nil as the shares are exercised on  
the day that they vest (2015: Nil).  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 118
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
28 Other reserves
Group 
£m
Company 
£m
At 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2016 4.8 3.0 
The Group’s other reserves relates to a merger reserve amounting to £4.7 million (2015: £4.7 million) and the movement on available for sale 
financial assets amounting to £0. 1 million (2015: £0. 1 million).
29 Retained earnings
Notes
Group 
£m
Company 
£m
At 1 July 2014 296.5 87.4
Profit for the year 92.3 103.4
Actuarial gains recognised related to retirement benefit obligations 30 (5.8) –
Deferred and current tax on movements in equity 24 2.7 1.1
Dividends paid 7 (49.3) (49.3)
Share-based payments 27 3.9 3.9
Purchase of own shares (8.5) (8.5)
Movement in fair value of derivative financial instruments (0.3) (0.3)
At 30 June 2015 331.5 137.7
Profit for the year 108.9 74.2
Actuarial gains recognised related to retirement benefit obligations 30 (11.9) –
Deferred and current tax on movements in equity 24 2.3 0.1
Dividends paid 7 (59.3) (59.3)
Share-based payments 27 4.0 4.0
Purchase of own shares (11.9) (11.9)
Movement in fair value of derivative financial instruments (4.2) (4.2)
At 30 June 2016 359.4 140.6
The cumulative amount of goodwill arising on acquisition and written off directly against reserves is £9.5 million (2015: £9.5 million).
At 30 June 2016, the Galliford Try Employee Share Trust (the Trust) held 540,480 (2015: 475,405) shares. The nominal value of the shares held  
is £0.3 million (2015: £0.2 million). 465, 176 shares were acquired during the year (2015: 240,000) at a cost of £6.9 million (2015: £3.3 million)  
and a further £5.0 million (2015: £5.2 million) was paid in relation to other share related transactions. 400, 101 (2015: 442,775) shares were 
transferred during the year. The cost of funding and administering the Trust is charged to the income statement of the Company in the period  
to which it relates. The market value of the shares at 30 June 2016 was £4.9 million (2015: £8.3 million). No shareholders (2015: None) have 
waived their rights to dividends.  Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 119
30 Retirement benefit obligations
All employees are entitled to join the Galliford Try Pension Scheme, a defined contribution scheme established as a stakeholder plan, with a 
company contribution based on a scale dependent on the employee’s age and the amount they choose to contribute. Since 1 July 2013  
all non-participating and newly employed staff have been auto-enrolled into the separate stakeholder plan and are entitled to increase their 
contribution rates in line with existing members. Since 1 April 2009, the Group has operated a pension salary sacrifice scheme which means  
that all employee pension contributions are paid as employer contributions on their behalf. 
The Group also operates three defined benefit pension schemes, as detailed below.
Pension costs for the schemes were as follows:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Defined benefit schemes – expense recognised in the income statement 0.2 0.2 
Defined contribution schemes 17.1 14.2 
Total included within employee benefit expenses (note 3) 17.3 14.4 
Of the total charge for all schemes £6.7 million (2015: £8.0 million) and £10.4 million (2015: £6.2 million) were included, respectively, within cost  
of sales and administrative expenses. £0.2m (2015: £0.2 million) was included within net finance costs.
Defined benefit schemes
The Group operates three defined benefit pension schemes under the UK regulatory framework that pay out pensions at retirement based on 
service and final pay, each with assets held in separate trustee administered funds: the Galliford Try Final Salary Pension Scheme, the Galliford 
Group Special Scheme and the Kendall Cross (Holdings) Ltd Assurance & Pension Scheme. The financial statements include all three of these 
arrangements. The Group’s principal funded pension scheme is the Galliford Try Final Salary Pension Scheme which was closed to all future 
service accrual on 31 March 2007 . 
The Trustees of each scheme are required to act in the best interests of the plans’ beneficiaries and responsible for the investment strategy of the 
Scheme. For the Galliford Try Final Salary Pension Scheme the Trustee is Galliford Try Pension Trustee Limited. The appointment of the Directors 
to the Board is determined by the plan’s Trust documentation. Currently the Trustee Board includes member-nominated, Company-nominated 
and independent directors. The Group is ultimately responsible for making up any shortfall in the Scheme over a period agreed with the Trustees. 
To the extent that actual experience is different to that assumed, the contributions required by the Group could vary in the future. The two key 
risks faced by pension schemes are longevity (i.e. members living longer than expected) and investment risk (i.e. the scheme’s assets perform 
poorly relative to the liabilities).
An independent actuary performs detailed triennial valuations together with periodic interim reviews. The most recent completed formal actuarial 
valuation for the Galliford Try Final Salary Pension Scheme was as at 1 July 2012 and was prepared by Mercer the scheme actuary. The latest 
valuation, as at 1 July 2015, is ongoing. The Galliford Try Final Salary Pension Scheme closed to future accrual with effect from 31 March 2007 .  
In June 2016 the Galliford Try Final Salary Pension Scheme completed a £95 million insurance buy-in transaction. The IAS 19 accounting result 
for the Galliford Try Final Salary Pension Scheme has been calculated using a roll forward approach based on the liabilities calculated for the  
1 July 2012 actuarial valuation, and incorporates the insurance buy-in referred to above. 
The deficit recovery funding plan agreed with the Trustees in 2013 requires the Company to pay contributions of £466,667 per calendar month 
until February 2019, with potential additional payments being linked to dividend payments of the Company.
The latest actuarial valuations for the Galliford Group Special Scheme and the Kendall Cross (Holdings) Ltd Assurance & Pension Scheme  
were as at 1 April 2013 and 13 November 2014, respectively. 
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Galliford Group Special Scheme was prepared using the attained age method as at 1 April 2013.  
A deficit recovery funding plan was agreed with the Trustees to meet the funding shortfall, which required the Company to pay contributions  
of £16,000 per calendar month until September 2014.
The Kendall Cross (Holdings) Limited Scheme is funded and provides benefits based on final pensionable salaries. The scheme was closed to 
new members and to future accrual for existing members prior to the date of the acquisition by Galliford Try plc in November 2007 . The most 
recent actuarial valuation of the Scheme was prepared as at 13 November 2014. A deficit recovery funding plan was agreed with the Trustees 
which requires the Company to pay contributions of £15,300 per month.  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 120
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
30 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
Principal assumptions
The valuation of the Group’s pension schemes have been updated to 30 June 2016 and all three schemes are consolidated for disclosure 
purposes below. The principal actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the disclosure items are as follows:
2016 2015
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries n/a n/a
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.90% 3.25%
Discount rate 3.00% 3.75%
Retail price inflation 3.00% 3.35%
Consumer price inflation 2.00% 2.35%
For the Galliford Try Final Salary Pension Scheme, the life expectancies as at 30 June 2016 and 2015 are based on S1PA tables (90% scaling 
factor applied for males), with a future improvement in mortality assumption in line with CMI 2012 tables, with a long-term rate of improvement  
of 1.5% p.a. 
2016 2015
Male member age 65 (current life expectancy) 23.9  23.9 
Male member age 45 (life expectancy at age 65) 26.2  26.1 
Female member age 65 (current life expectancy) 25.6  25.5 
Female member age 45 (life expectancy at age 65) 28.0  27.8 
At 1 July 2012, the date of the last valuation, the scheme had 1,537 deferred members and 716 pensioners.
Assets in the Scheme
The fair value of the assets and present value of the obligations at 30 June of the Group’s defined benefit arrangements are as follows:
2016 2015
Value 
£m
Value 
£m
Equities
1
34.1 15% 31.3 14%
Gilts
1
37.4 16% 49.7 23%
Bonds
1
5.3 2% 68.7 31%
Diversified growth funds
1
27.9 12% 28.5 13%
Liability driven investments
1
34.4 15% 39.4 18%
Cash 1.2 1% 1.0 0%
Unquoted insured annuities
2
91.1 39% 1.5 1%
231.4 100% 220.1 100%
Present value of defined benefit obligations (235.7) (218.9)
(Deficit)/surplus in scheme recognised as non-current (liability)/asset (4.3) 1.2
1  Equities, gilts, bonds and the diversified growth funds are quoted assets. The asset classes are intended to minimise the volatility of the funding position.
2   Unquoted insured annuities include £90.0 million in respect of the pensioner buy-in transaction completed by the Galliford Try Final Salary Pension Scheme in June 2016, 
and other annuities held by the Kendall Cross (Holdings) Limited Scheme. Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 121
30 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
Sensitivity analysis of scheme liabilities
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations at 30 June 2016 was 19 years. The sensitivity of the present value of scheme 
liabilities at 30 June 2016 to changes in the principal assumptions is set out below.
Change in assumption
1
 Impact on scheme liabilities
Discount rate Increase by 0. 1% Decrease by £4.5 million 
Rate of inflation Increase by 0. 1% Increase by £2.5 million 
Growth rate in pension payments Increase by 0. 1% Increase by £2. 1 million 
Life expectancy Increase by one year Increase by £6.5 million 
1  Based on change in assumption while holding all other assumptions constant, which in practice may be unlikely as assumptions may be correlated.
Accounting results
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Net interest (income) on net defined benefit asset (0.2) (0.2)
Expenses 0.4 0.4 
Expense recognised in the income statement 0.2 0.2 
The actual return on scheme assets was £16.7 million (2015: £20.2 million).
The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are as follows:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Total amount of actuarial (losses) in the year (11.9) (5.8)
Cumulative actuarial (losses) (57.4) (45.5)
Movement in present value of defined benefit obligations
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
At 1 July 218.9 201.7 
Interest cost 8.0 8.3 
Experience losses 0.9 0.1 
Actuarial loss arising from changes in financial assumptions 20.7 17.0 
Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from changes in demographic assumptions (1.2) 0.4 
Benefit payments (11.6) (8.6)
At 30 June 235.7 218.9 
Movement in fair value of scheme assets
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
At 1 July 220.1 202.7 
Interest income 8.2 8.5 
Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 8.5 11.7 
Employer contributions 6.6 6.2 
Expenses (0.4) (0.4)
Benefit payments (11.6) (8.6)
At 30 June 231.4 220.1  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 122
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
30 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
Accounting results (continued)
Movement in fair value of net asset/(liability)
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
At 1 July 1.2 1.0 
Net interest income 0.2 0.2 
Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 8.5 11.7 
Experience (losses) (0.9) (0.1)
Actuarial (losses) (19.5) (17.4)
Employer contributions 6.6 6.2 
Expenses (0.4) (0.4)
At 30 June (4.3) 1.2 
The contributions expected to be paid to the defined benefit schemes during the year ended 30 June 2017 are £6.9 million.
31 Financial and capital commitments 
The Group had no commitments for subordinated debt to joint ventures or other investments at 30 June 2016 (2015: £Nil), nor any commitment 
for other capital expenditure.
Galliford Try plc, together with certain of its subsidiaries, has entered into non-cancellable contracts for the operational leasing of land and 
buildings and plant and machinery. The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The leases do not impose restrictions 
on the Group’s ability to pay dividends or obtain other financing. The minimum commitments for payments under these contracts are as follows:
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Amounts due:
Within one year 14.7 13.4
Later than one year and less than five years 26.7 26.5
After five years 6.4 11.1
47.8 51.0
Galliford Try plc, together with certain of its subsidiaries, has entered into arrangements with HSBC Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, 
Abbey National Treasury Services plc and Barclays Bank plc to guarantee the borrowings of Group companies. 
32 Guarantees and contingent liabilities
Galliford Try plc has entered into financial guarantees and counter indemnities in respect of bank and performance bonds issued in the  
normal course of business on behalf of Group undertakings, including joint arrangements and joint ventures, amounting to £313.8 million  
(2015: £312.3 million).
Disputes arise in the normal course of business, some of which lead to litigation or arbitration procedures. The directors make proper provision  
in the financial statements when they believe a liability exists. While the outcome of disputes and arbitration is never certain, the directors believe 
that the resolution of all existing actions will not have a material adverse effect on the Group’s financial position. Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 123
33 Related party transactions
Group
Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and jointly controlled operations are disclosed as follows:
Sales to related parties
Purchases from  
related parties
Amounts owed by 
related parties
Amounts owed to  
related parties
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Trading transactions
Joint ventures 28.7 97.6 0.4 – 23.7 86.4 15.5 6.7
Jointly controlled operations 60.1 22.4 0.8 1.5 3.2 8.5 16.4 7.9
Interest and dividend 
income from related parties Loans to related parties Loans from related parties Injection of equity funding
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Non-trading transactions
Joint ventures 10.6 3.3 173.8 94.1 – – – –
Sales to related parties are based on terms that would be available to unrelated third parties. Receivables are due within seven years  
(2015: seven years) and are unsecured, with interest rates varying from bank base rate plus 1.75% to 10%. Payables are due within one  
year (2015: one year) and are interest free.
Company
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries which are related parties, which are eliminated on consolidation, are disclosed  
as follows:
Interest and dividend 
income from  
related parties
Amounts due to  
related parties
Amounts due from  
related parties
Capital contributions to 
related parties
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
2016 
£m
2015 
£m
Non-trading transactions
Subsidiary undertakings 75.7 52.4 269.1 245.7 252.8 263.5 0.7 21.2
The Company has provided performance guarantees in respect of certain operational contracts entered into between joint ventures and  
a Group undertaking.
The Company has entered into financial guarantees in respect of its Linden/Downland Graylingwell LLP joint venture. The maximum amount 
payable under the terms of this guarantee is £7 .5 million.
34 Post balance sheet events
No matters have arisen since the year end that require disclosure in the financial statements. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 124
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
35 Group undertakings
In accordance with section 409 of the Companies Act, the following is a list of all of the Group’s undertakings as at 30 June 2016.
(i) Subsidiary undertakings
Entity name
1
Registered office or principal place of business
Shareholding 
(direct or indirect)
Alumno GT Camberwell LLP PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
Alumno GT Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
Alumno GT Management Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
AM (Leasing) Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
Birch Construction Division Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
Chancery Court Business Centre Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Charles Gregory (Civil Engineering) Limited Miller House, Pontefract Road, Normanton, WF6 1RN 100%
Charles Grip Surfacing Limited Miller House, Pontefract Road, Normanton, WF6 1RN 100%
Chartdale Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Construction Holdco 1 Limited 2 Centro Place, Pride Park, Derby, Derbyshire, DE24 8RF 100%
Construction Holdco 2 Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Enhance Interiors Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Fairfield Redevelopments Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Galliford Brick Factors Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Galliford Try Affordable Homes Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Galliford Try Building Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Galliford Try Construction & Investments Holdings Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Galliford Try Construction (UK) Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
Galliford Try Construction Holdco Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
Galliford Try Corporate Holdings Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
Galliford Try Employment Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Galliford Try Homes Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Galliford Try HPS Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
Galliford Try Infrastructure Limited Atholl House, 51 Melville Street, Edinburgh, EH3 7HL 100%
Galliford Try International Limited Atholl House, 51 Melville Street, Edinburgh, EH3 7HL 100%
Galliford Try Investments Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Galliford Try Investments NEPS Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
Galliford Try Partnerships Limited 50 Rainsford Road, Chelmsford, Essex CM1 2XB 100%
Galliford Try Partnerships North Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Galliford Try Pension Trustee Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Galliford Try Plant Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Galliford Try Properties Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Galliford Try Qatar Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Galliford Try Secretariat Services Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Galliford Try Services Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
Galliford Try Supplies Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Graylingwell Energy Services Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
GT (Barking and Havering) Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
GT (Buidheann) Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
GT (Leeds) Lift Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
GT (Leicester) Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
GT (North Hub) Investments Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
GT (North Tyneside) Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
GT (Scotland) Construction Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
GT Asset 24 Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
GT Camberwell (Holdings) Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
GT Camberwell Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
GT Emblem Investments Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
GT Integrated Services Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
GT Inverness Investments Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
GT PPP Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
GT Telford (Holdings) Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
GT Telford Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
GT TMGL Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
Galliford Try Investments Consultancy Services Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Hill Place Farm Developments Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100% Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 125
35 Group undertakings (continued)
(i) Subsidiary undertakings (continued)
Entity name Registered office or principal place of business
Shareholding 
(direct or indirect)
Horton Retail Investments Limited Crest House, Pyrcroft Road, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9GN 100%
Kendall Cross Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Kingseat Development 1 Limited Morrison House, Kingseat Business Park, Kingseat, Newmachar,  
Aberdeenshire, AB21 0AZ 100%
Kingseat Development 3 Limited 13 Queen’s Road, Aberdeen, AB15 4YL 100%
Linden (Ashlar Court) Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden (St Bernard’s) Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden Barnet LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden Cornwall Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden Devon Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden First Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden Guildford Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden Holdings Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden Homes Chiltern Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden Homes Eastern LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden Homes South-East Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden Homes Southern Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden Homes Western Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden London LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden London (Hammersmith) Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden London Developments Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden Midlands Limited Ashurst, Southgate Park, Bakewell Road, Orton Southgate, Peterborough, PE2 6YS 100%
Linden North Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden Partnerships Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden (Pontefract) LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden Properties Western Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden South West Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden St Albans LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Linden (Summerstown) LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Morrison (Falklands) Limited 56 John Street, Stanley, Falkland Islands FIQQ 1ZZ (incorporated in Falkland Islands) 100%
Morrison Construction Limited Atholl House, 51 Melville Street, Edinburgh, EH3 7HL 100%
Morrison Highway Maintenance Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Oak Dry Lining Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Oak Fire Protection Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Pentland Estate Management Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Pentland Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Primaria Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Rasen Estates Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Redplay Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Regeneco (Services) Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Regeneco Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Rissington Management Company Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Rock & Alluvium Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Rosemullion Homes Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
SM16 Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Schools for the Community Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 100%
The Ricardo Community Foundation Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Try Accord Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Try Construction Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Try Group Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Try Homes Central Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
Try Homes Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 100%
All subsidiary undertakings are incorporated in the UK unless otherwise specified and are included in the consolidated financial statements of  
the Group as a majority of voting rights are held in each case.
1   No company is dormant and exempt from preparing individual accounts by virtue of s394A of Companies Act 2006 and/or from filing individual accounts with the 
registrar by virtue of s448A of Companies Act 2006. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 126
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
35 Group undertakings (continued)
(ii) Joint venture undertakings
Entity name Registered office or principal place of business
Proportion of 
capital held
Financial  
year end
ACP: North Hub Limited Miller House, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 50% 31-Dec
Cedar House Securities Limited Cedar House, 91 High Street, Caterham, Surrey CR3 5UH 50% 31-Dec
Community Ventures (Management) Limited 4340 Park Approach, Thorpe Park, Leeds, LS15 8GB 60% 30-Sep
Community Ventures Investments Limited 4340 Park Approach, Thorpe Park, Leeds, LS15 8GB 60% 30-Sep
Community Ventures Partnerships Limited 4340 Park Approach, Thorpe Park, Leeds, LS15 8GB 60% 30-Sep
Crest/Galliford Try (Epsom) LLP Crest House, Pyrcroft Road, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9GN 50% 31-Oct
ELCH DBFM Limited Atholl House, 51 Melville Street, Edinburgh, EH3 7HL 83% 31-Mar
ELCH DBFM Holdco Limited Atholl House, 51 Melville Street, Edinburgh, EH3 7HL 83% 31-Mar
Evolution Gateshead Developments LLP 2 Esh Plaza, Sir Bobby Robson Way, Great Park, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NE13 9BA 50% 31-Mar
Evolution Morpeth LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Mar
Evolution Newhall LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Mar
Evolution (Shinfield) LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Dec
Gateshead Regeneration LLP 2 Esh Plaza, Sir Bobby Robson Way, Great Park, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NE13 9BA 25% 31-Mar
GBV JV Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 30-Jun
Grange Walk LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Mar
GT Equitix Inverness Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 50% 31-Mar
GT Equitix Inverness Holdings Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 50% 31-Mar
Kent EHFA Holdco Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Dec
Kent EHFA Projectco Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Dec
Kingseat Development 2 Limited
Morrison House, Kingseat Business Park, Kingseat, Newmachar,  
Aberdeenshire AB21 0AZ 50% 30-Jun
Leicester GT Education Company Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 80% 31-Mar
Leodis Community Ventures Limited 4340 Park Approach, Thorpe Park, Leeds, LS15 8GB 45% 30-Sep
Linden (Battersea Bridge Road) LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 30-Sep
Linden (Biddenham) LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 30-Jun
Linden Borley Green LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 30-Jun
Linden (Vencourt) LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 30-Jun
Linden and Dorchester Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 30-Jun
Linden and Dorchester Portsmouth Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 30-Jun
Linden (Hartfield Road) LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 30-Jun
Linden Homes (Sherford) LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 30-Jun
Linden Homes Westinghouse LLP 99 Bartholomew Street, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 5EE 50% 31-Mar
Linden Wates (Cranleigh) Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Dec
Linden Wates (Dorking) Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Dec
Linden Wates (Horsham) LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 30-Jun
Linden Wates (Kempshott) Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Dec
Linden Wates (Ravenscourt Park) Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Dec
Linden Wates (Ridgewood) Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Dec
Linden Wates (The Frythe) Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Dec
Linden Wates (West Hampstead) Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Dec
Linden Wates Developments (Chichester) Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Dec
Linden Wates Developments  
(Folders Meadow) Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Dec
Linden (York Road) LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Mar
Linden/Downland Graylingwell LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Mar
Morrison Robertson JV Company Limited Atholl House, 51 Melville Street, Edinburgh, EH3 7HL 50% 31-Mar
Ninth Avenue LLP 2 Ogstonmill, Mill of Fintray, Aberdeen, AB21 0LW 50% 31-Mar
Opal (Earlsfield) LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Mar
Opal (Silvertown) LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Mar
Opal (St Bernards) LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Mar
Opal Land LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Mar
Ramsden Regeneration LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Mar
Shoo 22 Limited Duncan House, Clipston Road, Sibbertoft, Market Harborough,  
Leicestershire LE16 9UB 38% 30-Jun
Solutions 4 North Tyneside (Finance) Plc 30 Warwick Street, London, W1B 5NH 30% 31-Dec
Solutions 4 North Tyneside (Holdings) Limited 30 Warwick Street, London, W1B 5NH 30% 31-Dec
Solutions 4 North Tyneside Limited 30 Warwick Street, London, W1B 5NH 30% 31-Dec
Space Scotland Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 83% 31-Mar
The Piper Building Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Dec
Urban Vision Partnership Limited Emerson House, Albert Street, Eccles, Manchester, M30 0TE 30% 31-Dec
White Rock Land LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Mar
Whiterock (Kingsmere) LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Dec
Wilmington Regeneration LLP Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 50% 31-Mar
The above entities are all incorporated in the UK and considered to be joint ventures based on the shareholding agreements in place. Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 127
35 Group undertakings (continued)
(iii) Associated and other significant undertakings
Entity name Registered office or principal place of business
Proportion of 
capital held 
by class
Aberdeen Community Health Care Village Limited 1 1 Thistle Place, Aberdeen, AB10 1UZ 30%
Aberdeen Roads (Finance) PLC Dean House, 24 Ravelston Terrace, Edinburgh, E4 3TP 33%
Aberdeen Roads Holdings Limited Dean House, 24 Ravelston Terrace, Edinburgh, E4 3TP 33%
Aberdeen Roads Limited Dean House, 24 Ravelston Terrace, Edinburgh, E4 3TP 33%
Alliance Community Partnership Limited Suite 1A Strathclyde Business Park, Willow House, Bellshill, Lanarkshire, ML4 3PB 6%
Galliford Try Qatar LLC PO Box 1 1726 Doha, State of Qatar (incorporated in Qatar) 49%
GT NEPS (Holdings) Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 45%
GT NEPS Limited Cowley Business Park, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL 45%
Hub North Scotland (Alford) Limited 1 1 Thistle Place, Aberdeen, AB10 1UZ 30%
Hub North Scotland (Anderson) Limited Miller House, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 30%
Hub North Scotland (Anderson) Holdings Limited 1 1 Thistle Place, Aberdeeen, AB10 1UZ 30%
Hub North Scotland (Elgin High School) Limited Miller House, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 30%
Hub North Scotland (Elgin High School) Holdings Limited 1 1 Thistle Place, Aberdeeen, AB10 1UZ 30%
Hub North Scotland (FWT) Limited 1 1 Thistle Place, Aberdeen, AB10 1UZ 30%
Hub North Scotland (New Academy – SOTC) Ltd 1 1 Thistle Place, Aberdeeen, AB10 1UZ 30%
Hub North Scotland (New Academy – SOTC) Holdings Ltd 1 1 Thistle Place, Aberdeeen, AB10 1UZ 30%
Hub North Scotland (O&C) Limited 1 1 Thistle Place, Aberdeeen, AB10 1UZ 30%
Hub North Scotland (O&C) Holdings Limited 1 1 Thistle Place, Aberdeeen, AB10 1UZ 30%
Hub North Scotland (Wick) Limited 1 1 Thistle Place, Aberdeen, AB10 1UZ 30%
Hub North Scotland Limited 1 1 Thistle Place, Aberdeen, AB10 1UZ 30%
Hub South East Scotland Limited Atholl House, 51 Melville Street, Edinburgh EH3 7HL 50%
Hub South West Scotland Limited Suite 1A Strathclyde Business Park, Willow House, Bellshill, Lanarkshire ML4 3PB 6%
HUB SW Greenfaulds Holdco Limited Suite 1A Strathclyde Business Park, Willow House, Bellshill, Lanarkshire ML4 3PB 6%
HUB SW Greenfaulds Sub Hub Co Limited Suite 1A Strathclyde Business Park, Willow House, Bellshill, Lanarkshire ML4 3PB 6%
James Gillespie’s Campus Subhub Holdings Limited Atholl House, 51 Melville Street, Edinburgh, EH3 7HL 50%
James Gillespie’s Campus Subhub Limited Atholl House, 51 Melville Street, Edinburgh, EH3 7HL 50%
KHS DBFM Holdco Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 50%
KHS Subhub Holdings Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 50%
KHS Subhub Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 50%
LBP DBFM Holdco Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 50%
LBP Subhub Holdings Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 50%
LBP Subhub Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 50%
Newbattle DBFM Holdco Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 50%
Newbattle Subhub Holdings Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 50%
Newbattle Subhub Limited PO Box 17452, 2 Lochside View, Edinburgh, EH12 1LB 50%
REH Phase 1 Subhub Holdings Limited Atholl House, 51 Melville Street, Edinburgh, EH3 7HL 50%
REH Phase 1 Subhub Limited Atholl House, 51 Melville Street, Edinburgh, EH3 7HL 50%
S4B (Holdings) Limited 30 Warwick Street, London, W1B 5NH 8%
S4B (Issuer) plc 30 Warwick Street, London, W1B 5NH 8%
S4B Limited 30 Warwick Street, London, W1B 5NH 8%
UUGM Limited 5th Floor, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London, N1 9AG 20%
The above entities are all incorporated in the UK. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 128
2012 
£m
2013 
£m
2014 
£m
2015 
£m 
(Restated – note 1)
2016 
£m
Group revenue 1,504.1 1,467.3 1,767.8 2,348.4 2,494.9 
Profit before exceptional items 63.1 73.6 94.9 117.7 135.0
Exceptional items – 0.5 0.3 (3.7) –
Profit before taxation 63.1 74.1 95.2 114.0 135.0
Tax (13.8) (15.9) (18.0) (21.7) (26.1)
Profit after taxation attributable to shareholders 49.3 58.2 77.2 92.3 108.9
Fixed assets, investments in joint ventures and available  
for sale financial assets 41.9 42.5 40.2 41.0 60.8
Intangible assets and goodwill 126.8 128.4 128.1 156.4 152.2 
Net current assets 354.2 379.0 586.5 690.6 633.2
Long-term receivables 43.6 48.4 61.2 32.5 78.0
Long-term payables and provisions (88.1) (96.9) (281.8) (351.3) (324.2)
Net assets 478.4 501.4 534.2 569.2 600.0
Share capital 40.9 40.9 41.1 41.1 41.4 
Reserves 437.5 460.5 493.1 528.1 558.6
Shareholders’ funds 478.4 501.4 534.2 569.2 600.0
Dividends per share (pence) 30.0 37.0 53.0 68.0 82.0
Basic earnings per share (pence) 60.9 71.7 94.6 112.8 132.5
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 59.7 69.8 93.0 110.9 131.3
Five-year record Our Business Governance Financial Information
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 129
Financial calendar 2016
Half year results announced 25 February
Interim dividend paid 7 April
Full year results announced 14 September
Ex dividend date 27 October
Final dividend record date 28 October
Annual General Meeting 1 1 November
Final dividend payment 23 November
Shareholder enquiries
The Company’s registrars are Equiniti Limited. They will be pleased  
to deal with any questions regarding your shareholding or dividend 
payments. Please notify them if you change your address or  
other personal information. Call the shareholder contact centre  
on 0371 384 2202. Lines open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday  
to Friday; overseas shareholders should call +44 121 415 7047 or, 
alternatively, write to them at:
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA
You can find a number of shareholder services online via their  
website at www.shareview.co.uk, including the portfolio service  
which gives you access to more information on your investments  
such as balance movements, indicative share prices and information 
on recent dividends. You can also register your email address to 
receive shareholder information and Annual Report and Financial 
Statements electronically.
Share dealing service
A telephone and internet dealing service is available through  
Equiniti which provides a simple way of buying and selling Galliford  
Try shares. Commission is currently 1.5% with a minimum charge  
of £50 for telephone dealing and a minimum charge of £45 for  
internet dealing. For telephone sales call 0845 603 7037 between 
8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet sales  
log on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. You will need your 
shareholder reference number as shown on your share certificate. 
Share dealing services are also widely provided by other organisations. 
The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange under the  
code GFRD and the SEDOL and ISIN references are B3Y2J50  
and GB00B3Y2J508.
Group website
You can find out more about the Group on our website  
www.gallifordtry.co.uk which includes a section specifically  
prepared for investors. In this section you can check the  
Company’s share price, find the latest Company news, look at  
the financial reports and presentations as well as search frequently 
asked questions and answers on shareholding matters. There is  
also further advice for shareholders regarding unsolicited boiler  
room frauds. 
The Company’s up-to-date share price can also be obtained by  
calling the voice activated Cityline on 09058 171690 (calls charged  
at 75 pence per minute from a landline).
Company contact
Contact with existing and prospective shareholders is welcomed by 
the Company. If you have any questions please contact the General 
Counsel and Company Secretary, either at the registered office or  
via email (kevin.corbett@gallifordtry.co.uk).
Analysis of shareholdings at 30 June 2016
Size of shareholding
% of  
holders
Number of 
holders
% of  
shares
Number of 
shares
1 – 10,000 92.35 4,503 5.43 4,496,504
10,001 – 50,000 3.77 184 5.00 4,142,646
50,001 – 500,000 3.16 154 31.74 26,308,383
500,001 – highest 0.72 35 57.83 47 ,924,479
Total 100.00 4,876 100.00 82,872,012
Registered office
Galliford Try plc 
Cowley Business Park 
Cowley 
Uxbridge UB8 2AL
Stockbrokers
Peel Hunt LLP 
HSBC Bank plc
Bankers
HSBC Bank plc 
Barclays Bank plc 
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
Abbey National Treasury Services plc
Registration
England and Wales 00836539
Financial advisors
Rothschild
Independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Shareholder information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 130
Notes Printed on GalerieArt Satin, an FSC
®
  
Mixed Sources paper manufactured  
using pulp from well managed forests  
at a mill accredited with EMAS and  
ISO 14001 environmental standards.
Printed by CPI Colour.
CPI Colour are ISO 14001 certified, 
CarbonNeutral
®
 and FSC
®
 chain of  
Custody certified. The inks used are  
vegetable oil based.
Designed and produced by Friend.  
www.friendstudio.com. Galliford T ry plc 
Cowley Business Park 
Cowley , Uxbridge 
UB8 2AL
T 01 895 855 001
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements  2016
