 Shipbroking   +  Technical   +   Logistics  +  Environmental
Braemar Shipping Services plc
Annual Report 2009 At any moment in time, 
across the globe, Braemar’s 
businesses are ensuring 
that goods and materials 
are delivered efﬁ ciently and 
safely for their clients.
Our clients are located all over 
the world and we serve them 
from an international network 
of ofﬁ ces.
The Group is divided into 
four operating divisions: 
Shipbroking, Technical, 
Logistics and Environmental. 
These work together to offer a 
unique combination of skills for 
clients, at any time, anywhere 
in the world.
Braemar is constantly looking 
for new ways to help clients 
by expanding geographically 
and by adding complementary 
services that make us an 
increasingly valuable partner.
Contents
1 Highlights
2 How our business works
4 Chairman’s statement
6 Chief Executive’s review 
18 Financial review
20 Board of Directors
21 Report of the Directors
26 Corporate Governance
29 Remuneration Report
33 Independent auditors’ report
34 Consolidated income statement
35 Balance sheets
36 Cash ﬂ ow statements
37 Statements of changes in equity
38 Notes to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements
64 Five year ﬁ nancial summary
66 Shareholder information
67 Ofﬁ ces and contacts
For more information:
www.braemarplc.com
GMT-6
Houston
Braemar Steege receives 58% 
more instructions
-12 0 -1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 -7 -8 -9 -11 -10 Highlights
Results for the year ended 28 February 2009
Pre-tax proﬁ t
Up 10%
£16.2m
2008: £14.7m
Basic EPS 
Up 16%
56.70p
2008: 48.99p
Cash
£25.2m
2008: £21.6m
Cash generated from 
operating activities
£21.0m
2008: £21.2m
Final dividend
Up 3%
 15.5p
2008: 15.0p
Full year: 24.0p
2008: 23.0p
Forward order book
£29.0m
2008: 27.0m
Adjusted proﬁ t before tax £m*
Dividends pence
Adjusted earnings per share pence
Employee numbers
 09
 08
 07
 06
 05
24.0 
23.0 
19.0 
18.0 
16.0 
 09
 08
 07
 06
 05
688 
535 
413 
328 
264 
 09
 08
 07
 06
 05
16.2 
14.7 
11.0 
10.3 
9.0 
 09
 08
 07
 06
 05
56.70 
48.99 
36.90 
36.85 
33.11 
* Proﬁ ts and earnings in 2005 and 2007 are adjusted to 
exclude an exceptional impairment charge
0 +12 +11 +10 +9 +7 +6 +5 +4 +3 +1 +2
1 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009
GMT+0
London
Cory Brothers handles 33% more 
ships in their agency business
GMT+7
Vietnam
Braemar Falconer undertakes 
20% more surveys for clients
+8 Braemar Seascope is one 
of the largest and most 
respected chartering and 
sale & purchase shipbroking 
companies in the world. 
It operates from a network 
of ofﬁ ces established in 
all of the main shipping 
centres serving clients with 
interests in oil & gas, raw 
materials, containers, grain, 
petrochemicals, mining, 
banking, demolition and 
many other industries. 
 
Chartering – deep sea tankers, 
clean, LPG, chemicals, dry bulk LNG 
Offshore – chartering and sale 
& purchase 
Containers – chartering and sale 
& purchase 
Sale & Purchase – secondhand, 
newbuilding, demolition
We have a wide range of 
in-house design, engineering, 
loss adjusting and other 
technical skills which are 
applicable to the shipping 
and energy (oil & gas) 
markets. Braemar Falconer, 
Wavespec and Braemar 
Steege operate around 
the globe and are all 
internationally renowned 
for their expertise and 
professionalism.
 
Marine Engineering
Naval Architecture
Marine Consultancy
Vessel and Condition Surveys
Ship Construction Supervision
Energy Loss Adjusting
Cory Brothers is a leading 
ship agency, freight 
forwarding and logistics 
company represented in 
all of the large ports in the 
UK and Europe and in 
Singapore. The freight 
forwarding and logistics 
division operates worldwide. 
Cory is internationally 
renowned for attention to 
detail and providing excellent 
service to clients in this 
competitive environment.
 
Port and Liner Agency
Customs Clearance
Supply Chain Management
Freight Forwarding
Cruise Ship Support
Braemar Howells provides 
environmental incident 
response, consultancy 
and training services primarily 
from a network of bases 
around the UK. It is also fast 
establishing an industrial 
services business for tank 
cleaning, remediation 
and similar services. 
 
Pollution control and incident 
response Salvage support, 
marine and port services 
Accredited training and 
environmental consultancy 
Crisis management and 
emergency response advisers
Industrial services and tank 
cleaning technologies
MARPOL waste reception facilities
Shipbroking Technical Logistics Environmental
Braemar Shipping Services plc 
(the Group) provides management, 
strategic oversight and support 
to our four divisions.
It also sees that information and 
insights gained and relationships 
made in one division are shared 
with the other three. It is listed on 
the main market of the London 
Stock Exchange under the 
Industrial Transportation sector.
How our business works
2 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009
Braemar Shipping 
Services plc
Shipbroking
Technical
Logistics
Environmental Getting close to our clients
0 +12 +11 +10 +9 +8 +7 +6 +5 +4 +3 +1 +2 -12 -1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 -7 -8 -9 -11 -10
0 +2 +1 -2 -1
 Ofﬁ ces Worldwide 
 Shipbroking 
 Technical 
 Logistics 
 Environmental 
 UK ofﬁ ce locations
 Shipbroking 
 Technical 
 Logistics 
 Environmental 
GMT+2
Russia 
Wavespec awarded 
LNG consultancy 
contract
GMT-5
Peru 
Braemar Steege opens 
an ofﬁ ce in Lima
GMT+8
Singapore
Cory Brothers 
awarded major 
agency contract
GMT-5
Bahamas 
Braemar Seascope 
assists the Admiralty 
Marshall with ship sales
GMT+0
Aberdeen 
Rates for supply boats 
reach an all time high
GMT+0
Liverpool 
Braemar Howells sets 
up pilot project for 
chemical response 15.0 
4.2 
1.1 
 (0.2)
Chairman’s statement
2008/9 was an excellent year for 
the Group and these results are the 
best that Braemar has reported. 
Revenue increased by 26% from £101.0 million to 
£127.1 million, proﬁ t before tax from continuing operations 
increased by 10% from £14.7 million to £16.2 million and 
earnings per share from continuing operations rose by 16% 
to 56.70 pence from 48.99 pence in 2007/8. The Group is 
ﬁ nancially strong, with cash balances increasing over the 
year from £21.6 million to £25.2 million at 28 February 2009.
Shipping has enjoyed an unprecedented boom over the past 
three years. Since August 2008, with the contraction of credit 
and weaker economies, freight rates and vessel values have 
reverted to pre-boom levels. Our activity is higher than we 
might have expected with transaction volumes remaining 
steady and the strength of the US dollar has a positive effect 
on our results. Our non-broking businesses have begun the 
new ﬁ nancial year strongly and demand for their services 
remains good. Overall the prospects for the year are positive. 
Shipbroking enjoyed a very strong ﬁ rst half in buoyant markets 
which rapidly changed from August 2008 with the onset of the 
credit crisis and global recession. Global trade experienced 
a signiﬁ cant slowdown in the ﬁ nal calendar quarter of 2008, 
since when there has been a stabilisation in shipping rates 
at pre-boom levels. The dry bulk and container markets, 
which are driven by the demand for raw materials and 
consumer goods, both suffered large falls and more 
recently the reduction in oil demand has led to a fall in the 
demand for tankers. While we are seeing renegotiations 
and cancellations of some charters and newbuildings in 
the wider market place, to date our forward order book 
has not suffered signiﬁ cantly. We anticipate expanding our 
shipbroking ofﬁ ce network overseas.
Braemar business model Group performance by business segment
2008/09
Braemar’s strategy is to grow by increasing its geographical presence in 
shipbroking and by investing in other related marine services businesses.
60.4 
21.2 
40.8 
4.7 
Shipbroking
Technical
Logistics
Environmental
218 
178 
232 
60 
Group revenue £m
Operating proﬁ t £m*
Group employees Number
Broking Non-broking
Geography
Other services
 Complementary
acquisitions
Working capital
Investment Re-investment
* Before amortisation and central costs
4 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 The performance of our Technical division has been particularly 
pleasing following the investments made in acquiring Braemar 
Falconer in July 2007 and Braemar Steege in March 2008, 
both of which were rebranded to include the Braemar name 
during the year. Together with Wavespec, these businesses 
have contributed annual operating proﬁ ts before amortisation 
of £4.2 million and have signiﬁ cantly expanded the Group’s 
global reach and skill sets within the marine services sector.
The Logistics division – Cory Brothers – had a busy year 
in both forwarding and ship agency and successfully 
amalgamated the forwarding businesses in one building in 
Felixstowe following the purchase of Fred. Olsen Freight 
in December 2007. 
The Environmental division – Braemar Howells – recorded a 
small loss following the exceptionally strong year in 2007/8, 
as a result of weak activity levels in its incident response 
business, which offset good performances in the industrial 
and international services sections of the business.
The Directors are recommending for approval at the Annual 
General Meeting a ﬁ nal dividend of 15.5 pence per ordinary 
share, to be paid on 28 July 2009 to shareholders on the 
register at the close of business on 3 July 2009. Together 
with the 8.5 pence interim dividend the Company’s dividend 
for the year is 24.0 pence (2008: 23.0 pence), a rise of 4%. 
The dividend is covered 2.4 times by earnings.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all of our staff 
around the world for their combined hard work and skill. 
In a year of such economic change their experience and 
commitment has been and will continue to be invaluable.
Sir Graham Hearne CBE
Chairman 
11 May 2009
Sir Graham Hearne CBE
Chairman
5 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009
Final dividend
2008: 15.0p
15.5p
Cash balances
2008: £21.6m
£25.2m Chief Executive’s review
We have maintained, and in many 
areas increased our market share 
and we are well-structured to perform 
positively in the current climate. 
Strategy
The strategy for the Group over the past few years has been to 
extend the range of services offered beyond pure shipbroking 
into other related marine services. These services contributed 
25% of the Group’s operating proﬁ ts before amortisation and 
central costs in 2008/9 and have created a broader base to 
the Group. This investment has been ﬁ nanced predominantly 
from operating cash ﬂ ow without placing undue strain on the 
balance sheet. The Group has remained debt-free throughout 
the past ﬁ ve years.
Performance
One might characterise this as a year of two halves given the 
huge changes in the prices of almost every asset, commodity 
and currency since the summer of 2008. Shipping has been 
severely affected with reductions in both rates and vessel 
values, but I believe that throughout this period we have 
maintained, and in many areas increased our market share 
and that we are well-structured to perform positively in the 
current climate. Our estimate of the shipbroking forward order 
book deliverable over the course of the ﬁ nancial year 2009/10 
stands at £29 million (US$42 million) as at 1 March 2009 
(2008: £27 million, US$53 million), with the appreciation of 
the dollar offsetting an underlying reduction.
In challenging conditions, our non-broking businesses 
have performed well, especially in Technical Services, and 
increasingly found ways to work together. Their assimilation 
into the Group has been assisted by them taking on the 
Braemar brand where appropriate. I am encouraged by the 
overall performance in 2008/9 and by the good start to the 
new ﬁ nancial year.
Staff
The blend of skills we have is unique and I am very pleased 
by the way that new staff have whole-heartedly embraced 
the opportunity to work with other group colleagues on new 
projects. We are fortunate to have teams with great ability 
and experience and I am grateful for their hard work and 
application which will continue to stand us in good stead 
for the future.
A divisional review of business performance and the markets 
we operate in is set out on pages 8 to 17.
Alan Marsh
Chief Executive
11 May 2009
Strategy 2008/09
Shipbroking
Technical
To expand the geographical network of ofﬁ ces and 
disciplines within each ofﬁ ce
Harness the combined skill sets across the globe 
and maximise the beneﬁ t of the ofﬁ ce network
Division strategy
Logistics Enhance international links and grow ofﬁ ce network
Environmental Grow customer base both internationally and 
in the UK
Operating divisions
6 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Alan Marsh
Chief Executive
–  Established Container, Offshore and Capesize chartering 
desks in Singapore and a Container desk in Shanghai
–  Building a presence in FFAs
–  Establishment of a gas cargo broking arm – LPG Connect
–  Braemar Steege acquired in March 2008
–  Braemar name adopted by Technical companies and 
Technical management board formed
–  New ofﬁ ces in Florida, Brazil, Venezuela, Peru
–  Increase geographical footprint
–  Widening of London disciplines into 
overseas ofﬁ ces
–  Acquisition opportunities likely to arise
–  Gain market share, particularly through
new ofﬁ ces
–  Expansion of technical skill base
–  Enhance services through cross-selling
Achievements Opportunities
–  Continuing to build the forwarding business through the 
purchase of Freight Action
–  Integration of Fred. Olsen Freight into a new purpose built 
ofﬁ ce in Felixstowe
–  Establishing our ﬁ rst overseas ship agency ofﬁ ce in Singapore
–  Awarded the BP hub contract for all of Europe
– International development
– Expansion of overseas business in Nigeria and Angola
– Development of Industrial services
– Opened Liverpool ofﬁ ce
– International development
– Broaden consultancy services offered
7 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Chief Executive’s review
continued
Revenues increased by 14% to £60.4 million 
(2008: £52.8 million) and operating proﬁ ts before 
amortisation were 14% higher at £15.0 million 
(2008: £13.1 million) which was an excellent 
performance in a year of great upheaval in the 
market, but with no signiﬁ cant changes in either 
staff numbers or the ofﬁ ce network during the year. 
The network is headquartered in London which 
is a multi-disciplinary ofﬁ ce with branch ofﬁ ces in 
Aberdeen for offshore chartering, Shanghai for sale & 
purchase and newbuilding and Beijing and Italy for dry 
bulk chartering. We also conduct dry bulk chartering 
from Melbourne, Perth and Singapore which also 
serves as a base for further container and offshore 
activities. There are joint venture ofﬁ ces in Delhi and 
Mumbai specialising in wet and dry chartering, and in 
Singapore for gas and chemicals chartering. With this 
network we are able to provide international coverage 
and a ﬂ exible, top-quality service for our clients based 
on the sharing of market information and research. 
At 1 March 2008 the Baltic Dry Index stood at 
7,613 and by the end of our ﬁ nancial year it was 
1,986 having reached a high of 11,793 on 20 
May 2008 and a low of 663 on 5 Dec 2008. After 
the unprecedented mid-year high, the dry cargo 
market started a rapid decline in September 2008 
with the onset of the global credit crunch and 
plunging commodity prices. Chinese demand for 
dry bulk commodities fell quickly bringing the freight 
market down with it. For a time during November 
and December, all dry cargo earnings were below 
operating costs, which was a clear over-reaction 
as evidenced by the recovery in January 2009. 
The rapid change in freight and commodity values 
resulted in a series of well publicised defaults on both 
physical and derivative contracts. The freight market 
has picked up since, driven by increased grain and 
ore movements in the Atlantic, which has stimulated 
Ofﬁ ces
London
Aberdeen
Beijing
Melbourne
Mumbai
New Delhi
Perth
Sarzana
Shanghai
Singapore
Shipbroking – Braemar Seascope
Revenue up 14%
£60.4m
2008: £52.8m
Operating proﬁ t up 14%
£15.0m
2008: £13.1m
the Paciﬁ c and Indian Ocean markets. The volatility 
of commodity prices has shifted the emphasis in the 
market towards spot ﬁ xing. 
While economic forecasts for the balance of 2009 
remain gloomy there is an expectation that the 
freight market will be assisted by large government-
sponsored infrastructure projects especially in China 
and India. However, the substantial order book of 
new shipping due for delivery in the next two years 
will only be partially offset by the scrapping of older 
ships and the growth in the ﬂ eet is likely to stiﬂ e the 
beneﬁ t of any growth in demand.
There is growth potential for spot ﬁ xtures brought 
about by an increase in Capesize demand due to iron 
ore import substitution for China which is the world’s 
largest consumer of iron ore for steel production. 
A signiﬁ cant drop in the annual benchmark price for 
iron ore is forecast for 2009/10, and this, coupled with 
a low freight market, will result in the delivered price of 
iron ore from Brazil and Australia being much less than 
the production cost of large volumes of domestically 
produced iron ore. Almost a third of China’s domestic 
output is vulnerable to import substitution as steel 
mills continue to reduce overall costs.
The deep sea tanker chartering department continued 
to grow their market share over the past 12 months 
and in combination with the strong freight rates of 
2008, the department produced a signiﬁ cant increase 
in revenue over the ﬁ nancial year. However, since the 
beginning of our year the rates in all sectors have 
fallen quite dramatically due to lower demand for 
crude oil and its products as a result of the global 
economic downturn. The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index 
started the ﬁ nancial year at 1,164 and averaged 
1,415 during the ﬁ nancial year closing at 601. To 
indicate the volatility of the markets the highest 
reached was 2,347 in July 2008 and lowest point 
was 573 early February 2009; currently it stands at 
480. The delivery of new building tonnage will exceed 
market requirements in the short- to medium-term 
and this combined with reduced crude volumes, 
have lowered the returns for owners. 
1. The Deep Sea Tanker 
department continues to 
be at the forefront of spot 
chartering whilst exploiting 
the opportunities for 
period business in the 
volatile tanker market.
2. There are considerable 
opportunities for the Dry 
Cargo department to 
expand spot business.
1. 2.
8 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 29% of all goods moved in the European 
Union are carried in short sea vessels. 
Short sea shipping is deﬁ ned as maritime 
transport that does not involve an ocean 
crossing and includes coastal transport 
and sea-river transport. Braemar 
Seascope has a dedicated team of 
brokers working exclusively in this 
area and are active in the chartering 
market of tankers on short sea routes. 
Our clients are major oil companies 
and traders who the brokers assist in 
fulﬁ lling their shipping requirements.
 12:00
 London
GMT+0 
UK
0
9 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009
+12 +11 +10 +9 +8 +7 +6 +5 +4 +3 +1 +2 -12 -1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 -7 -8 -9 -11 -10 Australia exported approx 380 million 
tons of iron ore in 2008. In the same 
period Australian producers shipped large 
volumes of other ferrous products such 
as manganese and non-ferrous products 
such as alumina, copper and zinc. These 
exports are all seaborne and Braemar 
Seascope’s shipbroking ofﬁ ces in Perth 
and Melbourne are strategically placed 
to provide their clients with a unique 
view on the different factors affecting 
dry cargo demand and are active in 
assisting their clients’ requirements for 
tonnage and contracts to service these 
important commodities.
 19:45
 Perth
GMT+8 
 Australia
+8
10 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009
0 +12 +11 +10 +9 +7 +6 +5 +4 +3 +1 +2 -12 -1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 -7 -8 -9 -11 -10 Chief Executive’s review
continued
demolition, achieving a good, diverse mix across the 
ship categories. Having reached very high levels in 
the summer of 2008, vessel values and transaction 
volumes fell substantially in the ﬁ nal calendar quarter 
in response to the contraction of credit and the 
falling freight markets. Against the overall trend, our 
newbuilding department has continued to conclude 
new business. Some contract cancellation and/or 
renegotiation is taking place, although our own 
business has been affected less than the overall 
market. With the reduction in ship prices, we are 
already seeing many of our clients who have not 
recently been active in the sale and purchase 
market, looking at opportunities, and we are 
therefore optimistic that sale and purchase activity 
will be good over the coming year.
Our commitment to maintaining a ship recycling and 
demolition department through the boom years when 
demolition activity was low is now being repaid with 
the signiﬁ cant levels of activity. Many international 
clients are now seeking our expertise in this area. 
The container market suffered a steep decline 
during 2008 brought about by excess capacity 
and the deteriorating international economies. 
These conditions are not necessarily adverse for our 
broking team which has concluded good chartering 
and sale and purchase business throughout the year, 
with the number of period charters we have broked 
now at a record level. In addition to London the team 
now has a presence in Singapore and Shanghai and 
is well-placed to gain market share.
The offshore desk enjoyed another ﬁ ne year of 
chartering and project activity driven by high 
worldwide exploration. The demand for supply and 
anchor handling vessels meant that rates reached 
an all-time high during 2008 and substantial 
additions to our forward order book were achieved. 
In the ﬁ rst calendar quarter of 2009 rates have 
softened and look like remaining at these levels for 
the immediate future.
Shipbroking – Braemar Seascope
continued
However, at these current rate levels both owners 
and charterers are considering longer-term period 
cover with a view to managing earnings and costs 
over a period of time and our team of project brokers 
are involved in these strategic discussions and well 
placed to execute further deals albeit at lower levels. 
We also entered the FFA (forward freight agreement) 
broking market with a team based at our London 
headquarters, which has added another tool in 
freight management service provided for our clients.
In the LNG sector our reputation as leading market 
information providers has helped us secure additional 
consultancy contracts as well as an increase in 
broking short-term period and spot shipments. 
As in the other tanker markets the overall volumes 
transported have reduced but we do anticipate 
utilisation of surplus LNG tonnage as and when 
the larger projects are completed over the next 
24 months. 
The specialised tanker sections continue to grow 
their ﬁ xing volumes and we are now operating 
signiﬁ cant tonnage on the spot markets and under 
signiﬁ cant oil company contracts throughout 
northwest and continental Europe. Petrochemical 
gas and Liquid Petroleum Gas (LPG) transportation 
rates remained consistent during the past year but 
the excess tonnage in relation to the requirement 
has diminished the returns for the owners and 
operators alike.
LPG is also a bi-product of LNG production and 
we have taken a further step to expand our market 
position in the VLGC markets by establishing 
Braemar LPG Connect as a gas product broking 
business. Together with our dedicated VLGC 
brokers we expect our business volumes to grow 
in this segment. 
The sale and purchase department had a successful 
year across all aspects of business – second hand, 
newbuilding including resale, and more recently in 
1. The LNG department 
has gained a reputation 
as a market leader in 
information provision 
and consultancy.
2. The Container 
department have record 
numbers of period ﬁ xtures 
in their books in a very 
challenging market.
1. 2.
11 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Chief Executive’s review
continued
Revenues increased from £9.5 million to £21.2 million 
and operating proﬁ ts before amortisation were up 
from £0.8 million to £4.2 million. The inclusion of 
Braemar Steege, which was acquired on 3 March 
2008, added £6.8 million to revenue and £1.3 million 
to operating proﬁ t before amortisation.
Braemar Falconer’s revenue and proﬁ ts for the 
past ﬁ nancial year grew substantially on the back 
of strong activity across their ofﬁ ces in Southeast 
Asia. Generally there has been little change in 
either work or revenue as a result of the ﬁ nancial 
crisis. Within marine warranty surveying ship 
construction remains active but rig movements 
have reduced since the beginning of the year with 
lower drilling activity resulting in some clients’ 
rigs being “stacked”. The Company’s engineering 
consultancy arm was very active through the year 
although chargeable rates have stabilised. Much of 
our consulting and design work is part of large oil 
companies’ long-term projects. The new ﬁ nancial 
year has begun well and all of the ofﬁ ces are busy 
with no reduction in workload.
Wavespec’s revenue and operating proﬁ ts grew 
with the addition of a number of offshore projects 
to supplement their core LNG business where the 
continuation of the Qatargas project has delivered 
a steady return. More recently they have been 
appointed technical consultants for the shipping 
aspects of a major LNG Project. There are two 
phases to the project, the ﬁ rst phase was to develop 
the optimum vessel size, propulsion system and 
containment system. The second phase is to 
develop the vessel’s speciﬁ cation for the vessel 
acquisition programme. It is planned to establish an 
ofﬁ ce in Houston during 2009.
Braemar Steege is one of the leading international 
players in the energy loss adjusting market and its 
client base covers insurance underwriters, captive 
insurance companies and the legal community. 
At acquisition it operated from ofﬁ ces in London, 
Houston, Singapore, Calgary, and Mexico City 
and since then it has established a new ofﬁ ce 
in Miami from which it has expanded into South 
America with additional ofﬁ ces in Caracas, Lima 
and Rio de Janeiro to develop additional business 
streams in infrastructure and pollution insurance 
claims to complement their core energy-related 
business. In particular, a number of cases have 
been handled using the resources available through 
Braemar Howells. It has on-going business from 
loss adjusting instructions on claims caused by 
hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008 and it has also 
seen an increase in the provision of expert technical 
assistance to lawyers dealing with non-insurance 
disputes – a development which could increase 
as the current economic climate generates more 
commercial disputes. They have also beneﬁ ted 
from a steady ﬂ ow of instructions throughout the 
Southeast Asia region, aided by the presence of 
Braemar Falconer’s ofﬁ ces in a number of key 
locations such as China, Vietnam and Australia.
Ofﬁ ces
Maldon
Singapore
London
Batam
Calgary
Houston
Jakarta
Kuala Lumpur
Lima
Mexico
Miami
Mumbai
Shanghai
Shenzhen 
Vung Tau
West Perth
Technical – Wavespec, Braemar Falconer and Braemar Steege
Revenue up 124%
£21.2m
2008: £9.5m
Operating proﬁ t up 392%
£4.2m
2008: £0.8m
1. Braemar Falconer have 
had an excellent year with 
a substantial increase in 
surveys undertaken.
2. Wavespec continue to 
grow as a leader in LNG 
technical consultancy.
1. 2.
12 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 There are about 3,800 oil platforms in 
the Gulf of Mexico and on average, a 
major hurricane (Category 3 or above) 
currently strikes approximately once 
every three years. In 2008, hurricanes 
Gustav and Ike, destroyed or seriously 
damaged some 91 platforms, and in 
2005, upstream losses due to hurricanes 
Katrina and Rita exceeded US$12.7 billion. 
Braemar Steege’s Houston ofﬁ ce is at the 
forefront of assisting clients in establishing 
hurricane losses and facilitating the 
settlement of insurance claims.
 05:40
 Houston
GMT- 6 
USA
-6
13 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009
0 +12 +11 +10 +9 +8 +7 +6 +5 +4 +3 +1 +2 -12 -1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -7 -8 -9 -11 -10 Chief Executive’s review
continued
Revenue increased by 46% to £40.8 million 
(2008: £27.9 million) and operating proﬁ ts before 
amortisation were down slightly at £1.1 million 
(2008: £1.2 million). The results would have been 
signiﬁ cantly better had it not been for the need 
to recognise a contract dispute which we remain 
conﬁ dent we can see resolved in our favour. 
The integration of Cory Logistics and Fred. Olsen 
Freight culminated in the bringing together of 
90 Cory and Fred. Olsen staff in new leasehold 
premises in Felixstowe in March 2009. Export 
forwarding and one-off projects continue to be the 
mainstay of the performance to date. However, 
the addition of the Fred. Olsen import business 
has increased the services offered to customers. 
We further expanded our service with the addition 
of Freight Action Limited in October 2008 – this 
being a niche logistics and project forwarder 
of outsize equipment for a predominantly UK 
client base. 
Port agency has maintained its leading position 
having successfully won a major European hub 
contract within the competitive UK market handling 
in excess of 10,000 port calls annually (including 
hub managed calls – 2008: 7,642) with some 
signiﬁ cant new activity especially within LNG. In 
July 2008 we established our ﬁ rst overseas agency 
ofﬁ ce in Singapore following the acquisition of 
the business of Sealion Shipping Pte Ltd. With 
eight employees it provides the full range of port, 
liner agency and logistics services and to date 
the performance has been above expectations. 
Morrison Tours, the seasonal excursion business 
linked closely to the cruise industry added to its 
customer base and performed above expectations.
Ofﬁ ces
Tilbury Docks
Felixstowe
Bebington
Billingham
Edinburgh
Falmouth
Grangemouth
Hull
Immingham
Invergordon
Ipswich
Isle of Grain
Jarrow
Liverpool
Lutterworth
Milford Haven
Newport
Portbury
Sheerness Docks
Singapore
Southampton
Teesport
Logistics – Cory Brothers
Revenue up 46%
£40.8m
2008: £27.9m
Operating proﬁ t down 2%
£1.1m
2008: £1.2m
1. Cory Logistics 
specialise in reliable 
and practical solutions.
2. Project cargoes are 
handled with meticulous 
attention to detail ensuring 
they arrive safely and 
on time.
3. Cory cruise agency 
is proud of its record 
in handling passengers 
efﬁ ciently and securely 
at the London Cruise 
Terminal.
4. Cory port agency 
bring experience and 
local knowledge to all 
jobs ensuring efﬁ cient 
turnaround.
1. 2.
3. 4.
14 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Singapore is the world’s busiest port, 
situated at the crossroads of maritime 
trafﬁ c between east and west. More 
than 50,000 ships pass through the 
Straits of Malacca and Singapore every 
year. Singapore Port handles about 
one-ﬁ fth of the world’s total container 
transhipments. Cory Brothers has 
established an ofﬁ ce in Singapore to 
maximise the business opportunities 
available in the area in both their port 
agency and logistics businesses. 
Signiﬁ cant business is undertaken there 
with major and diverse customers such 
as The World Food Program and The 
Red Cross, oil companies and major 
industrial organisations.
 20:00
 Straits of Malacca
GMT+8 
Singapore
+8 +7
15 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009
0 +12 +11 +10 +9 +6 +5 +4 +3 +1 +2 -12 -1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 -7 -8 -9 -11 -10 Chief Executive’s review
continued
Braemar Howells’ revenues decreased to 
£4.7 million from £10.8 million in the previous 
year and operating proﬁ ts before amortisation 
decreased from a proﬁ t of £1.9 million to a small 
loss of £0.2 million. The reduction in revenue and 
proﬁ t was mainly attributable to the conclusion of 
the single incident work related to the MSC Napoli 
container ship which contributed signiﬁ cantly 
in 2007/8. During the year under review a new 
response base was established in Liverpool.
The Company has retained its ISO 9001 Quality 
standard accreditation and its ISO 14001 
Environmental accreditation whilst gaining an 
International Safety Award for the third year 
running as a class leading company, on its way 
to achieving OHSAS 18001 Safety standard.
Ofﬁ ces
Milford Haven
Falmouth
Belfast
Bristol
Crawley
Didcot
Harlow
Huddersﬁ eld
Lagos
Luanda
Madrid
Merseyside
Perth
Portland
Portlaoise
Rotherham
Environmental – Braemar Howells
Revenue down 56%
£4.7m
2008: £10.8m
Operating (loss)/proﬁ t
 (£0.2m)
2008: £1.9m
1. Braemar Howells 
undertake a wide variety 
of environmental work.
2. Health and safety 
are paramount in 
these environments.
3. Braemar Howells 
are renowned for their 
professionalism in dealing 
with oil spills both on 
land and at sea.
4. Land remediation work 
has been undertaken for 
a variety of clients with 
great success.
1. 2.
3. 4.
16 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Waste management is an important part 
of awareness of the damage that may be 
done to our environment from shipping.
Braemar Howells have assisted a major 
West African shipping organisation 
to design install and operate a waste 
management facility which can safely 
and cleanly handle the waste matter 
from ships which arrive in the four 
major shipping areas in Nigeria. 
The entire operation complies fully 
with all international legislation and 
is in full compliance with the 
internationally established Marine 
Pollution regulations covering the 
disposal of waste from ships. 
 13:15
 Lagos
GMT+1 
Nigeria
0
17 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009
+12 +11 +10 +9 +8 +7 +6 +5 +4 +3 +2 -12 -1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 -7 -8 -9 -11 -10 +1 Financial review
disallowable trading expenses. Excluding the share of net 
proﬁ ts from joint ventures, the underlying rate was 29.4% 
(2008: 33.4%) and has beneﬁ ted from the reduction to the 
standard UK tax rate from 30.0% to 28.0% in April 2008.
Balance Sheet
Goodwill and intangible assets
Goodwill and intangible assets have increased by £3.9 million 
during the year as a result of acquisitions made, principally 
Steege Kingston Partnership Limited. This acquisition 
increased goodwill and intangible assets by £4.1 million 
prior to amortisation charges of £0.5 million in line with the 
accounting policy to spread the cost of these assets over 
their useful life.
Goodwill totals £28.1 million, of which £21.2 million relates 
to the shipbroking businesses, £3.8 million relates to the 
acquisition of businesses included in the Technical segment 
(£3.6 million arising from the acquisitions of Braemar Falconer 
in 2007 and Braemar Steege in 2008); and £3.1 million arising 
in respect of acquisitions in the Logistics segment.
Current assets
Trade and other receivables have increased signiﬁ cantly during 
the year mainly due to the inclusion of amounts relating to 
Braemar Steege (£6.7 million), a business which by its nature 
has high levels of trade receivables and accrued income. In 
addition, the value of trade receivables has increased due to 
the marked appreciation of the US dollar against sterling.
Cash
Cash balances have increased by £3.6 million to £25.2 million 
at the end of the year. This balance includes amounts that 
will be used to pay the ﬁ nal dividend to shareholders and 
the bonuses which have been awarded to staff, the latter of 
which has been provided for in the balance sheet at the end 
of the year.
Acquisitions
During the year the Group has made one signiﬁ cant acquisition 
as well as two smaller acquisitions. The principal acquisition 
has been that of Steege Kingston Partnership Limited on 
3 March 2008 for a consideration of £8.1 million. This business 
has added £6.8 million of revenue and £1.3 million of operating 
proﬁ t (before amortisation of £0.5 million) to the results of the 
Group’s Technical segment in the current year.
Revenue
Revenue from continuing operations increased 26% from 
£101.0 million to £127.1 million with three out of four of the 
Group’s segments reporting growth from last year. In particular, 
Shipbroking revenue has increased by 14% reﬂ ecting a strong 
market in the ﬁ rst half of the year and revenue from Logistics 
has increased by 46%, beneﬁ ting from a full year’s income 
from Fred. Olsen Freight which was acquired in December 
2007. Technical has increased 124% with the inclusion of a 
full year’s results and strong organic growth from Braemar 
Falconer which was acquired in July 2007 and Braemar 
Steege which was acquired in March 2008. The acquisitions 
of these businesses have broadened the services that the 
Group provides and support the strategy of investing in closely 
related businesses. The expected decrease in revenue in 
the Environmental segment followed the conclusion of the 
business’s involvement in the clean-up of the MSC Napoli, 
the work being carried out in 2007/8.
Costs
Cost of sales includes amounts which are directly attributable 
to revenue, in particular the cost of freight and haulage 
associated with the Logistics business, amounts paid for the 
use of external contractors in the Technical and Environmental 
segments and the costs of materials used for work carried out 
by the Environmental business. The increase in operating costs 
of £17.7 million is largely due to the inclusion of a full year’s 
results for Braemar Falconer and Fred. Olsen Freight Limited, 
the ﬁ rst year of including Braemar Steege, higher bad debt 
provisions and higher incentive payments made to staff.
Foreign exchange
The average rate of exchange for the US dollar denominated 
shipbroking earnings was $1.85/£ (2008: $1.99/£) and at 
28 February 2009 the balance sheet rate for conversion was 
$1.43/£ (29 February 2008: $1.99/£). At 28 February 2009 the 
Group held forward currency contracts to sell US$22.0 million 
at an average rate of $1.49/£ and a variable forward window 
agreement to sell US$1.0 million per month with upper and 
lower limits of $1.2975 - $1.4895 for the months March 2009 
to February 2011.
Taxation
The effective rate of tax on continuing operations is 29.0% 
(2008: 32.6%). The overall tax rate for the Group is higher 
than the standard UK tax rate primarily due to the effect of 
Financial performance by division
   2009 2008 2007
Shipbroking  £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue  60,409 52,794 40,530
Operating proﬁ t before 
 amortisation and central costs 14,990 13,093 10,656
Operating proﬁ t margin  24.8% 24.8% 26.3%
Employee numbers  218 211 205
   2009 2008 2007
Logistics  £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue  40,797 27,874 23,449
Operating proﬁ t before 
 amortisation and central costs 1,130 1,153 1,099
Operating proﬁ t margin  2.8% 4.1% 4.7%
Employee numbers  232 176 149
   2009 2008 2007
 Technical  £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue  21,193 9,467 6,623
Operating proﬁ t before 
 amortisation and central costs 4,156 844 553
Operating proﬁ t margin  19.6% 8.9% 8.3%
Employee numbers  178 82 18
   2009 2008 2007
Environmental  £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue  4,745 10,829 3,229
Operating (loss)/proﬁ t before 
 amortisation and central costs (165) 1,871 259
Operating proﬁ t margin  (3.5%) 17.3% 8.0%
Employee numbers  60 65 39
18 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 During the year the Group included a full year of results for the 
businesses acquired in 2007, in particular Braemar Falconer 
Pte Limited in the Technical segment and Fred. Olsen Freight 
Limited in the Logistics segment.
Risk management
Operational risk
The Group seeks to reduce the level of operational risk, 
occurring as a result of ineffective internal systems or controls, 
staff errors and/or omissions, external factors and any other 
factors where possible. A review of risks affecting all areas 
of the Group is prepared for consideration by the Board 
annually and appropriate actions are taken to combat those 
risks identiﬁ ed. In addition, the Group maintains appropriate 
insurance cover for its size and potential exposure.
Foreign exchange risk
The most signiﬁ cant trading currency of the Group is the 
US dollar. Changes in the rate of exchange relative to other 
currencies can have an effect on the reported results and net 
assets. From time to time the Group enters into forward foreign 
exchange contracts and currency options to limit the effect of 
currency ﬂ uctuations.
Liquidity risk
The Group has no net debt and did not have at any time 
during the year. An overdraft facility of £5.0 million with 
the Group’s principal relationship bank, the Royal Bank 
of Scotland plc, is maintained for ﬁ nancial ﬂ exibility and 
in order to improve treasury efﬁ ciency and performance. 
In the current economic climate the Group regularly reviews 
with which institutions its cash resources are held to ensure 
they are held with those with strong credit ratings.
Credit risk
The concentration of credit risk with respect to trade 
receivables are to some extent reduced due to the diversity 
of the Group’s customer base. However, current economic 
conditions have increased the risk that certain debts may not
be recovered. Management at group and local levels monitors 
the level of debts closely and provides against amounts if it is 
deemed they are irrecoverable.
Interest rate risk
The Group minimises its exposure to interest rate risk by 
pooling sterling cash balances across the UK group. Cash
balances are generally held on overnight deposits at ﬂ oating 
rates depending on cash requirements and the prevailing 
market rates for the amount of funds deposited.
James Kidwell FCA
Group Finance Director
11 May 2009
James Kidwell FCA
Group Finance Director
Pre-tax proﬁ t 
before amortisation
up 1 4%
Cash generated 
from operations
£21.0m
Cash balances
£25.2m
19 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Sir Graham Hearne CBE (71)
Chairman
Appointed a Director on 7 October 
1999 and Chairman on 26 November 
2002. A qualiﬁ ed solicitor, he was 
formerly Chairman of Enterprise Oil plc.
He is non-executive Chairman of Catlin 
Group Limited and Stratic Energy Corp, 
and non-executive Director of N M 
Rothschild and Sons Limited, Rowan 
Companies Inc and Wellstream 
Holdings plc.
R.D. Agutter (67)
Non-executive Director
Appointed a Director on 6 November 
2001. A qualiﬁ ed chartered accountant, 
he was a senior corporate ﬁ nance 
partner in KPMG, a ﬁ rm of public 
accountants. He is the senior 
independent non-executive Director.
J.S. Denholm (52)
Non-executive Director
Appointed a Director on 25 July 2002. 
A qualiﬁ ed chartered accountant, he 
is Chairman of J&J Denholm Limited 
and the Anglo Eastern Management 
Group Limited. He is a member of 
the executive committee of the 
Baltic International Maritime Council 
and a director of the Chamber of 
Shipping Limited.
D.G. Moorhouse CBE (62)
Non-executive Director
Appointed a Director on 19 January 
2005. He is currently Chairman of 
Lloyd’s Register and a trustee of 
the National Maritime Museum. 
Until recently he was an advisor on 
technology exports to the DTI and 
deputy Chairman of the UK’s Foundation 
for Science and Technology. Formerly 
he was Chairman and Chief Executive 
Ofﬁ cer of Kvaerner Process, Chairman 
and Chief Executive of Trafalgar, John 
Brown and a director of John Brown plc.
Non-executive Directors
Board of Directors
A.R.W. Marsh (59)
Chief Executive
He was a founder member of Braemar 
Shipbrokers Limited in 1983 and on 
7 March 2001 he was appointed 
Chief Executive of Braemar Seascope 
Group plc and Chairman of Braemar 
Seascope Limited. He is a Fellow of the 
Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers and a 
director of ITIC Limited, the professional 
and indemnity club for ship agents, ship 
brokers and ship managers.
J.R.V. Kidwell (47)
Finance Director
Appointed a Director on 1 August 2002. 
He qualiﬁ ed as a chartered accountant 
with Price Waterhouse in 1988, and then 
worked in a number of ﬁ nancial roles for 
Carlton Communications plc between 
1989 and 2001, leaving as Group 
Financial Controller. He was Finance 
Director of Boosey and Hawkes Music 
Publishers Limited until June 2002.
D. Petropoulos (52)
Executive Director
Appointed a Director on 10 January 
2007. He has worked in tanker 
chartering all his professional life and 
was a founding director of Braemar 
Tankers Limited, which was acquired 
by Braemar Seascope in 2001. He is 
joint Managing Director of Braemar 
Seascope Limited, the Group’s 
principal shipbroking subsidiary and 
has speciﬁ c responsibility for the 
Group’s tanker chartering activity 
encompassing deep sea crude and 
clean product, gas, chemicals and 
specialised tanker chartering.
Q.B. Soanes (54)
Executive Director
Appointed a Director on 10 January 
2007. He has worked as a sale and 
purchase shipbroker for most of his 
professional life and was a founding 
director of Braemar Shipbrokers 
Limited, which merged with Seascope 
Shipping Holdings plc in 2001 to form 
Braemar Seascope Group plc. He is 
joint Managing Director of Braemar 
Seascope Limited and has responsibility 
for business development in the Group 
and for the non-broking subsidiary 
companies. He is Chairman of the 
Group’s wholly-owned subsidiaries, 
Wavespec Limited, Cory Brothers 
Shipping Agency Limited and Braemar 
Howells Limited. He is also a Director of 
The Baltic Exchange Limited.
Executive Directors
20 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Report of the Directors
for the year ended 28 February 2009
The Directors, submit their report and the audited accounts for 
the year ended 28 February 2009, which were approved by the 
Board on 11 May 2009.
Principal activities and review of business
The Company operates through a number of subsidiaries 
and joint ventures. A review of the Group’s activities including 
risks, business drivers, key performance indicators and future 
prospects is contained in the Chief Executive’s review of the 
business on pages 6 to 17 and the Financial review on pages 
18 and 19. The Group’s business segments and their activities 
are described below.
Shipbroking
The shipbroking market is both international and fragmented. 
While there are only a small number of broking houses that 
provide the full range of services we provide there are many 
private brokers specialising in niche areas of the shipping 
market, which makes market share difﬁ cult to assess. Few, 
if any, contractual or exclusive client relationships exist, 
but many relationships have been created and developed 
over a long time based on the quality of service and advice 
provided. We represent a signiﬁ cant number of major ship 
owners, charterers, shipyards, trading houses, banks, mining 
and commodities houses, demolition businesses and other 
commercial ventures based around the globe. There is no 
particular bias or theme to our client base. Income is derived 
from commissions earned on shipping transactions in which 
the Group has acted as a broker, and is therefore a function of 
the number of transactions concluded for delivery in the year 
and the average freight rates or vessel values applicable to 
those transactions.
Transaction numbers are inﬂ uenced by a combination of 
the supply and demand for ships, the number of skilled, 
experienced brokers operating in the Group, and the 
competition from other broking houses (both for transactions 
and brokers). The demand for ships is related among other 
factors to world trade, economic growth particularly in the 
major economies, interest and exchange rates, and the price 
and supply of raw materials, mainly for oil, iron ore and coal. 
The supply of available ships for a particular market is affected 
by factors such as shipyard capacity, order backlog, the 
propensity for yards to build ships of a certain type, speed of 
vessels, and regulations on ships’ ages which may accelerate 
scrapping. In recent months the availability of bank ﬁ nance 
has become a constraint on world trade, particularly where 
letters of credit are required to be put up to allow business 
to take place. In addition the banks’ willingness to fund ship 
purchases (both second hand and newbuilding) is much 
diminished and is serving to reduce activity.
A signiﬁ cant part of the income in any particular year is derived 
from business that has already been concluded but has yet 
to complete, because for example, the delivery of the vessel 
has not occurred. Similarly at the end of the year some of the 
transacted spot business may not have been completed and 
was therefore not invoiced at year-end. This forward book of 
business comprises newbuilding transactions, time (or period) 
charters where income is earned over the life of the charter 
and uncompleted spot transactions. The recent falls in freight 
rates and in vessel values has driven a trend of renegotiation 
and cancellation of some orders which could impact our 
forward book.
The majority of shipping transactions are concluded in US 
dollars with our commission income also being derived in 
US dollars.
Technical
There are now three businesses within the Technical division, 
Wavespec, Braemar Falconer (acquired in July 2007) and 
Braemar Steege (acquired in March 2008). Together they 
provide a complimentary range of independent technical 
services to the marine and oil and gas energy sectors.
Wavespec offers expertise in all types of vessel construction 
but has built up a reputation as a market leader for technical 
services in the construction of LNG carriers. Generally the 
business is divided between ships’ plan approval work which 
is normally quoted for on a project basis, and site supervisory 
work covering the vessel’s construction at the shipyard. This 
is operated on an agreed day rate basis for each engineer 
provided under contract to the client. Many construction 
projects will involve both plan approval and site supervisory 
services during the life of the project. The shipping engineering 
skills that Wavespec has access to mean that it is well placed 
to play a leading role in the development of new designs and 
technologies. In addition Wavespec also acts as consultants in 
the offshore sector carrying out FMEA (Failure Mode and Effect 
Analyses) and DP (Dynamic Positioning) assessments.
Braemar Falconer provides specialised marine and offshore 
services from a network of ofﬁ ces in Asia and Australia. It 
has a highly qualiﬁ ed team which includes master mariners, 
chief engineers, naval architects and structural engineers who 
together can offer expertise ranging from independent marine 
warranty loss prevention surveys, surveys for marine and 
offshore vessels to naval architectural/marine consultancy for 
design and construction, rig moving and offshore installation 
engineering. It has a wide client base and the amount of 
business undertaken is partly related to the activity of its 
clients and more generally to factors such as the growth and 
age proﬁ le of the shipping ﬂ eet, regional exploration activity 
and the availability of skilled staff.
Braemar Steege provides specialist loss adjusting and other 
expert services to the energy, marine and related industrial 
sectors. It operates from ofﬁ ces in London, Houston, 
Singapore, Calgary and Mexico City and is one of the leading 
international players in the energy adjusting market. Its 
client base covers insurance underwriters, industry mutuals 
and the legal profession; strong working relationships are 
also maintained with all major insurance brokers as well as 
the insured parties in the oil and gas industry and it has a 
particularly strong reputation and presence in the offshore/
upstream sector where business is inﬂ uenced by natural 
catastrophes (particularly North American windstorms), 
the insurance market cycle and oil ﬁ eld exploration and 
development activity driven by oil price. 
Logistics
This activity is undertaken by Cory Brothers which has 20 
ofﬁ ces most of which are based in UK ports. Its income is 
fee-based and substantially £ sterling denominated. Fees are 
earned every time a ship makes a call into port, when Cory 
Brothers is the appointed agent. Agency services provided 
include settlement of port dues, handling customs clearance 
and making ad-hoc arrangements for the vessel as required. 
Fees are normally determined under multi-year contracts which 
are often long-standing but technically terminable at short 
notice. Cory Brothers is agent for a number of major oil, gas 
and chemical companies and other ship owners. Its income is 
therefore driven by the number of clients it has and their level 
of port call activity.
21 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 The freight forwarding and logistics business operates both 
in tandem with the agency business and separately in its own 
right. In some instances the business is conducted under 
contract on the basis of an agreed tariff per shipment with 
the shipment volumes determined by the client, while in other 
cases Cory Brothers receives a fee per box handled either as 
an import or an export. There are also individual forwarding 
projects which are negotiated separately. In all cases volumes 
and client activity levels are a key factor in driving income and 
proﬁ ts, along with Cory Brothers’ ability to ﬁ nd cost-effective 
solutions to suit the logistics needs. Volumes are difﬁ cult to 
predict and Cory Brothers must seek and win a regular ﬂ ow 
of new business to grow.
Environmental
Braemar Howells provides a wide variety of environmental 
services from nine bases around the UK, principally for 
customers operating in the UK in the shipping, transport and 
oil industries, and other customers whose activities interface 
with ports, motorways, railways and airports. Services 
provided include carrying out the post-incident clean up of oil, 
chemical, biological and radiological incidents; tank cleaning; 
environmental surveys; contingency planning; consultancy 
and training for customers including the IMO, overseas 
governments, coastguards, ports, harbours and international 
oil companies. As part of its role Braemar Howells maintains 
a response network with full UK coverage, comprising 
emergency equipment and a team of incident staff on 
permanent 24-hour standby.
Some of its business is provided under multi-year contracts 
typically including a retainer fee and an agreed incident call 
out rate. Key contracts of this type are with the Maritime 
Coastguard Agency, Network Rail and the MOD. Other 
business arises on a one-off basis as incidents occur and 
Braemar Howells is invited to tender and respond. Since 
most income is related to the number of incidents or the 
time required for post-incident services to be completed, the 
predictability of income above a core level is not easy. As 
part of the Group, Braemar Howells is well placed to grow its 
customer relationships and this development should see the 
beneﬁ t of a greater predictive pattern to the overall business.
Report of the Directors
for the year ended 28 February 2009
continued
Employment Policies
The Group recognises that recruiting, motivating and retaining 
the best employees plays a vital role in its future success. 
The Group lays great emphasis on training and is committed 
to ensuring that all employees are empowered to realise 
their potential within the Group. This approach to human 
capital informs decisions within the Group. The involvement 
of employees in the Group’s performance is encouraged 
where appropriate through participation in the annual 
discretionary bonuses and share option scheme. The Group 
keeps its employees informed of all matters affecting their 
interests through regular managerial consultation and internal 
memoranda. 
The Group is dedicated to providing a fair and professional 
workplace for all of its Employees and has a range of policies 
covering issues such as equal opportunities, bullying, 
harassment and whistle-blowing to support this commitment. 
The Group is committed to ensuring consistency in its 
employment policies although differences in local conditions 
and legal requirements can arise due to the international nature 
of the business. The Group aims to provide equal opportunities 
for all employees so they can work without discrimination 
on the grounds of race, religion, marital status, age, gender, 
sexual orientation or disability. The Group does not tolerate 
any sexual, racial, physical or mental harassment of staff in 
the workplace. The Group gives full and fair consideration to 
applications for employment from persons with a disability. 
If an employee were to become disabled while in employment 
of a Group company, it is the Group’s policy to make every 
effort to ﬁ nd continuing employment and arrange appropriate 
training for that employee where possible.
Health and Safety
The Group is committed to operating high standards of health 
and safety, designed to minimise the risk of injuries and ill 
health of employees, contractors, visitors and any other 
persons who come into contact with the Group. In many 
parts of the Group, employees are ofﬁ ce-based and the 
health and safety risks are managed in the ofﬁ ces locally. In the 
Technical and Environmental divisions, our employees may be 
ﬁ eld-based and the risks associated with these activities are 
actively monitored and managed by appropriate health and 
safety professionals. Regular audits are undertaken in order to 
comply with legal requirements and the Group’s procedures.
Training
Braemar Shipping Services is committed 
to training its employees to ensure not 
only that they are equipped with the 
skills required to undertake the diverse 
work done within the Group but also 
to ensure that they can realise their 
potential. All new shipbrokers employed 
are encouraged to take the Institute of 
Chartered Shipbrokers examinations, 
Braemar Howells employees receive 
regular health and safety training 
essential to their business and Braemar 
Steege are well known in the industry for 
the training lectures they organise.
22 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Results and dividends
The Group proﬁ t before taxation for the year amounted to 
£16.2 million (2008: £14.7 million). Details of the results are 
set out in the consolidated income statement on page 34 
and in the related notes. Details of dividends paid during the 
period are set out in note 9 to the Accounts. The Directors are 
recommending the payment of a ﬁ nal dividend of 15.5 pence 
per share on 28 July 2009 to shareholders on the register at 
the close of business on 3 July 2009.
Post balance sheet event
On 2 March 2009 the Group acquired 100% of the share 
capital of Cagnoil Limited. The initial consideration was 
£0.7 million satisﬁ ed by cash from existing resources and a 
further £0.2 million is due over the next four years. The total 
consideration represents the fair value of the net assets of 
the business.
Share Capital
During the year ended 28 February 2009 the Company issued 
98,853 new shares pursuant to the exercise of employee 
share options. 
At 28 February 2009 the total issued ordinary share 
capital was 21,036,413 shares of 10 pence each. All of 
the Company’s shares are fully paid up and quoted on the 
London Stock Exchange Plc’s Ofﬁ cial List. The rights and 
obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares as 
well as the powers of the Company’s directors, are set out 
in the Company’s articles of association, copies of which 
can be obtained from Companies House, or by writing to the 
Company Secretary. There are no restrictions on the voting 
rights attaching to or the transfer of the Company’s issued 
ordinary shares.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special 
rights with regard to control of the Company. The Company 
is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities 
that may result in restrictions in the transfer of securities or 
voting rights. The Company’s articles of association may be 
amended by special resolution of the Company’s shareholders. 
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or 
terminate upon a change of control of the Company, such as 
commercial contracts and joint venture agreements. None is 
considered to be signiﬁ cant in terms of their potential impact 
on the business of the Group as a whole. 
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, shareholders 
will be asked to consider a renewal of the Directors’ authority 
to allot shares. Shareholders will also be asked to adopt new 
articles of association of the Company to reﬂ ect the ﬁ nal 
Companies Act 2006 changes which will be implemented 
on 1 October 2009. Details are contained in the Notice of 
Annual General Meeting.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The Group recognises that it is in a position to make a 
contribution to its local community in the areas where it has 
ofﬁ ces. The Group has a continuing commitment to education 
whereby it provides sponsorship to a merchant navy cadet for 
his or her three years of training. This support recognises the 
need for training in the merchant navy which is indispensible 
in ensuring the future of shipping professionals. Braemar 
Seascope in London continues its support for a state school of 
multi-denominational faiths, for which the Company has given 
funds to improve facilities. Braemar Seascope also actively 
encourages its employees to volunteer in a reading scheme 
with the school’s pupils and to be involved in the school’s 
governance. Group companies actively support and encourage 
youth sport where possible.
Environment
The Group recognises the importance of ensuring that the 
Group’s businesses are conducted with respect and care 
for the environment. The differing nature and location of its 
operations makes an all-embracing group policy difﬁ cult to 
apply uniformly, but Group companies are responsible for 
devising environmental policies that are appropriate to their 
businesses. Management monitors the way in which Group 
companies manage their approach to the environment to 
ensure their activities have minimal adverse impact on the 
environment. Recycling and energy efﬁ ciency are actively 
encouraged where it is practical and efﬁ cient to do so. At the 
Group’s London headquarters the premises’ air conditioning 
has been upgraded with a view to greater efﬁ ciency.
As part of our broking services we have been actively engaged 
in supporting and encouraging the shipbreaking communities 
within the Indian Sub Continent to establish ‘green’ yards 
for the dismantling and recycling of ships. We are pleased to 
conﬁ rm that every year we are seeing more and more such 
facilities. Similarly various multinational ship owners with 
whom we work are entrusting us to act for them in selling 
their tonnage instructing us to only sell their tonnage to these 
‘green’ shipbreaking yards.
Braemar Howells has accreditation to ISO 9001 for oils 
spill response and is an ISO 14001 registered ﬁ rm which 
underlines their commitment to the protection of the 
environment. They play a central part in assisting clients 
to manage and safeguard their environmental risks. This is 
achieved through the provision of training and advice on 
procedures and policies. 
Environmental
Braemar Howells were commissioned 
to undertake the decontamination 
of a laboratory in a major London 
hospital. A full survey was undertaken 
to detect any radiological or 
hazardous substances which were 
not detected. The work consisted of 
full decontamination of all outer and 
inner surfaces and the removal of 
chemicals was arranged in a safe 
and secure manner in accordance 
with all applicable regulations. A 
ﬁ nal survey was carried out after all 
decontamination work was complete.
23 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Report of the Directors
for the year ended 28 February 2009
continued
Purchase of Own Ordinary Shares
The Directors are authorised to make market purchases of the 
Company’s ordinary shares under an authority granted by the 
Annual General Meeting held on 18 June 2008. No purchases 
were made under this authority during the year. In accordance 
with ABI Investor Protection Guidelines, the maximum number 
of ordinary shares which may be acquired is 10% or less of 
the Company’s issued ordinary shares as at 11 May 2009. 
The Directors will seek the renewal of this authority at the 2009 
Annual General Meeting in Resolution 10 in accordance with 
the Company’s Articles of Association. The Directors have no 
immediate intention of exercising the authority but they will 
keep the matter under review. Purchases will only be made if 
they result in an expected increase in earnings per share and 
will take into account other available investment opportunities, 
appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the 
Company. Any shares purchased in accordance with this 
authority will subsequently be cancelled. The total number of 
options to subscribe for shares that were outstanding as at 
11 May 2009 was 727,714, being 3.5% of the issued share 
capital. If the authority to purchase shares is used in full, the 
proportion of issued share capital represented by this number 
of options would amount to 3.8%.
Directors and their interests
The Directors of the Company during the year and at the 
date of this report are shown on page 20. The Directors’ 
beneﬁ cial interests, including family interests in the shares 
of the Company at 28 February 2009, were as follows:
   28 February 2009 29 February 2008
R.D. Agutter  5,000 5,000
J.S. Denholm  7,000 7,000
Sir Graham Hearne  2,500 2,500
J.R.V. Kidwell  89,750 72,250
A.R.W. Marsh  1,237,739 1,170,002
D.G. Moorhouse  – –
D. Petropoulos  573,191 568,191
Q.B. Soanes  1,174,010 1,164,010
Directors’ interests in share options are set out on page 32.
The Directors, in common with other employees of the Group 
also have an interest in 962,914 (2008: 685,014) ordinary 
10 pence shares held by Close Trustees Guernsey Limited 
on behalf of the Employee Share Ownership Plan. During the 
year the Board resolved to acquire additional shares in the 
market to be used for employee share awards. 340,900 shares 
were acquired at an average price of 330 pence (see note 24).
The Directors held no material interest in any contract of 
signiﬁ cance entered into by the Company or its subsidiaries 
during the period. There have been no changes in Directors’ 
interests between 28 February 2009 and 11 May 2009.
Substantial shareholdings
The Directors have been notiﬁ ed or are aware of the following 
persons who directly or indirectly are interested in 3% or more 
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
Directors   %
A.R.W. Marsh   5.88%
Q.B. Soanes   5.58%
Others
Majedie Asset Management    6.49%
AXA Framlington   5.87%
Legal & General   4.24%
JP Morgan Asset Management   3.22%  
As far as the Company is aware there are no other persons 
with signiﬁ cant direct or indirect holdings in the Company. 
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial 
Services Authority’s (FSA) Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
(DTRs) is published on a Regulatory Information Service and 
the Company’s website.
Payments to suppliers
Group companies are responsible for agreeing the terms 
and conditions under which business transactions with their 
suppliers are conducted. It is Group policy that payments to 
suppliers are made in accordance with these terms, provided 
that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and 
conditions. The Company has no trade creditors (see note 21).
Donations
During the year the Group made charitable donations 
amounting to £46,877 (2008: £28,567) to a range of different 
charities. No political donations were made during the period.
Financial instruments
The Group’s ﬁ nancial risk management objectives and policies 
are set out in the Corporate Governance statement on pages 
27 and 28 and in the Financial review on page 19.
24 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Statement of Director’s Responsibilities in respect 
of ﬁ nancial statements
Company law requires the Directors to prepare ﬁ nancial 
statements for each ﬁ nancial year. Under that law the Directors 
have prepared the Group and Company ﬁ nancial statements 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. In preparing these 
ﬁ nancial statements, the Directors have also elected to comply 
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The ﬁ nancial statements 
are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the proﬁ t or 
loss of the Group for that period. In preparing those ﬁ nancial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
•  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
•  Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
•  State that the ﬁ nancial statements comply with IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union; and
•  Prepare the ﬁ nancial statements on the going concern 
basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group 
will continue in business, in which case there should be 
supporting assumptions or qualiﬁ cations as necessary.
The Directors conﬁ rm that they have complied with the 
above requirements in preparing the ﬁ nancial statements. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
ﬁ nancial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the ﬁ nancial statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985 
and, as regards the Group ﬁ nancial statements, article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
The Directors, whose names are listed on page 20, conﬁ rm to 
the best of their knowledge that:
•  The Group ﬁ nancial statements, which have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁ nancial position and 
proﬁ t of the Group; and
•  The Chief Executive’s review and the Financial review 
include a fair review of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the Group, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that it faces.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors
In the case of each of the persons who are Directors at the 
time when the report is approved, the following applies:
•  So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s auditors are 
unaware; and
•  He has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken 
as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
 
A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 
auditors to the Company at remuneration to be agreed by the 
Directors will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting. A resolution will also be proposed authorising the 
Directors to determine the auditors’ remuneration.
Annual General Meeting
The 2009 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be 
held at 12 noon on 24 June 2009 in The Grand Ballroom II 
at The Landmark Hotel, 222 Marylebone Road, London 
NW1 6JQ. A separate document accompanying the Annual 
Report and Accounts contains the Notice convening the 
Annual General Meeting and a description of the business 
to be conducted thereat.
By Order of the Board
James Kidwell
11 May 2009
25 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Braemar Shipping Services PLC is committed to ensuring high 
standards of Corporate Governance. This statement together 
with the Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 32 describes 
how the Company has applied the principles of good 
corporate governance during the year ended 28 February 
2009. The Board endorses the main principles and provisions 
set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 
of the Financial Reporting Council (“the Combined Code”), 
which was published in June 2006. The Board believes that 
the Company has been compliant with the Combined Code 
throughout the year as can be found on the FRC website 
(www.frc.org).
The Board
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the effective 
direction and control of the Group and it aims to provide 
entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of prudent and 
effective controls enabling risks to be assessed and managed.
The Board currently comprises four independent non-executive 
Directors and four executive Directors. There were no changes 
in the Board’s composition during the year. The Board believes 
that its current composition is appropriate having regard to the 
Company’s size and activities.
The non-executive Directors, none of whom has fulﬁ lled an 
executive role within the Company, are appointed for an initial 
three-year term serving under letters of engagement, which 
contain a formal one-month notice period. Sir Graham Hearne 
chairs the Board and is not a member of any of the Board’s 
sub-committees. Richard Agutter is the senior independent 
non-executive Director and he chairs the Audit Committee; 
John Denholm chairs the Remuneration Committee and 
David Moorhouse chairs the Nominations Committee.
The executive Directors are engaged under service agreements, 
each of which can be terminated on 12 months’ notice.
The Board requires all non-executive Directors to act with 
independence of judgement. The structure of the Board 
ensures that no individual or group exercises any dominance 
over the Board’s decision-making processes.
The Board met seven times during the year and the 
attendance by the Directors is set out below. Board meetings 
include reviews of ﬁ nancial and business performance 
and consideration and monitoring of business risks and 
opportunities. The following matters are speciﬁ cally reserved 
for the Board’s consideration and approval:
• Group strategy;
• The Group budget;
•  Major capital expenditure, disposals or leasing 
arrangements;
• Choice of key corporate advisors;
• Acquisitions and disposals;
•  Group ﬁ nancial and treasury policy including dividends 
and borrowing;
•  Establishing Board committees and setting their terms 
of reference; and
• Internal control arrangements.
Corporate Governance 
for the year ended 28 February 2009
On a periodic basis the Board receives reports on its activities 
from the senior management of a subsidiary company or 
a head of department. The Group has also undertaken 
a strategy process involving the Board and some senior 
divisional managers. All Directors are provided with appropriate 
and timely information and are properly briefed on Board 
matters. In the furtherance of his duties any Director may 
take independent professional advice or receive training, 
if necessary, at the Company’s expense. 
During the year the Board conducted a review of the 
effectiveness of their operations. The review process was 
led by a non-executive Director and entailed each Director 
completing an assessment questionnaire the results of 
which were summarised for consideration by the Board. 
The Chairman and non-executive Directors meet without the 
presence of executive Directors from time to time and the 
senior independent non-executive Director held a meeting 
with the Chairman to consider his effectiveness as Chairman.
Under the Company’s Articles of Association, Directors should 
submit themselves for re-election every three years. The 
Directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting 
and offering themselves for re-election are Sir Graham Hearne 
and James Kidwell. The Nominations Committee and the 
Board all unanimously support these elections. Biographical 
information on the Directors can be found on page 20 of this 
Annual Report.
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining 
good communications with both institutional and private 
shareholders. For several years the Group has pursued an 
active investor relations programme conducted primarily 
through regular meetings of the Chief Executive and Finance 
Director with existing and potential institutional investors 
following both the interim and preliminary announcements of 
the results of the Group. Feedback on shareholder meetings 
is provided via the Group’s corporate stockbroker or public 
relations advisor. Corporate announcements are also made 
available on the Group’s website.
The Board exercises care to ensure that all information, 
including that which is potentially price-sensitive, is released 
to all shareholders at the same time in accordance with 
applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
The Company encourages attendance at its Annual General 
Meeting where each resolution is separately put to the meeting 
and where the Chairman and/or Chief Executive makes a 
statement on the current year’s performance to date and 
the near-term ﬁ nancial outlook.
26 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Board Committees
The number of meetings of the Board and its committees 
and the attendance of those meetings by each member is 
set out below:
     Audit Remuneration Nominations
Number of meetings  Board  Committee Committee Committee
Non-executive Directors        
Sir Graham Hearne  7/7     
Richard Agutter  7/7 3/3 4/4 1/1
John Denholm 7/7 3/3 4/4 1/1
David Moorhouse 7/7 3/3 4/4 1/1
Executive Directors      
Alan Marsh 7/7    
James Kidwell  7/7     
Denis Petropoulos 7/7   
Quentin Soanes   7/7     
Each of the Board committees comprises solely non-executive 
Directors. The composition and responsibilities for the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nominations Committee are as follows:
Audit Committee
Non-executive Directors: Richard Agutter (Chairman), 
John Denholm and David Moorhouse.
Although the Board as a whole has a statutory responsibility 
for the preparation and publication of the Company’s 
accounts, the Audit Committee reports to the Board and 
takes responsibility for the following matters:
•  Review of the internal control procedures and risk 
assessment process;
•  Overall appointment, reappointment and removal of 
external auditors;
•  Planning with the external auditors the half-year review 
and full-year audit programme including agreement with 
the external auditors of the nature and scope of the audit, 
together with the level of the audit fee set in the context 
of the overall audit plan;
•  Reviewing with the external auditors their audit ﬁ ndings 
and responses to the matters raised, including any issues 
or reservations the auditors may have;
•  Reviewing the half-year and annual ﬁ nancial statements 
before they are submitted to the Board;
•  Setting the policy on the appointment of the external 
auditors for the supply of non-audit services having regard 
to the level of fees for both audit and non-audit work;
• Reviewing the internal audit function; and
• Reviewing the insurance arrangements for the Group.
The Audit Committee places great emphasis on the cost-
effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the audit 
function. Company policy is that fees paid to auditors for non-
audit services do not exceed audit fees unless such non-audit 
services are reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
In addition to the Audit Committee meetings, the Chairman 
of the Committee has regular meetings with the group 
audit partner.
Nominations Committee
Non-executive Directors: David Moorhouse (Chairman), 
Richard Agutter and John Denholm.
The Nominations Committee considers the balance of 
skills and experience of the Board membership and makes 
recommendations to the Board on the appointment of 
new Directors. For each new appointment the Nomination 
Committee considers, amongst other things, the 
appropriateness of the qualiﬁ cations and experience of the 
candidate for the role to be fulﬁ lled and their availability 
to devote time to the job. Details of the Directors’ other 
professional commitments are set out in the biographical 
details on page 20.
The Nominations Committee also reviews the appointment of 
non-executive Directors at the expiration of their three-year 
service letter of engagement.
Remuneration Committee
Non-executive Directors: John Denholm (Chairman), Richard 
Agutter and David Moorhouse. A report of the Remuneration 
Committee is set out on pages 29 to 32.
Risk management and internal control
The Directors acknowledge the requirements of the Combined 
Code and seek to review all aspects of risk management 
in relation to each part of the Group. These risks include, 
but are not limited to, staff errors and/or omissions, non-
compliance with industry standard procedures, loss of broker 
teams, effectiveness of internal control systems, industry 
sector consolidation, currency exposure, credit risk and the 
effectiveness of ﬁ nancial control. Management monitor these 
risks through internal management meetings, subsidiary 
board meetings and regular dialogue with departmental 
heads. A summary of key risks and internal controls is 
prepared for consideration at the Audit Committee on an 
annual basis. The Company also holds professional indemnity 
insurance to an amount considered adequate for its size and 
potential exposure.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the 
implementation and effectiveness of the Group’s system of 
internal controls in accordance with the Turnbull guidance. 
These are designed to identify and manage the particular 
risks to which the Group is exposed. By their very nature 
these controls can only provide reasonable but not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. The 
effectiveness of the system of internal controls has been 
reviewed by the Audit Committee during the year and action 
taken to strengthen the controls if necessary. The Group 
is in the process of developing its internal audit programme 
which is overseen by the Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
A Group budget is prepared annually and approved by the 
Board. The performances of the Group and the individual 
operating units are monitored against budget throughout 
the year and signiﬁ cant variances are investigated. Regular 
re-forecasts for the remainder of the ﬁ nancial year are 
prepared during the year. 
27 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance 
for the year ended 28 February 2009
continued
An internal system of checks and authorisations is operated 
and independent audits are conducted in relation to the ISO 
9001:2000 certiﬁ cation which Braemar Seascope Limited, 
Cory Brothers Shipping Agency Limited, Braemar Howells 
Limited and Braemar Falconer Pte all undertake. 
There is also an internal whistleblowing procedure through 
which any member of staff may raise, in conﬁ dence, any 
concerns they may have about the way the Group is run or 
business is conducted.
The Group has foreign currency exposure which arises as 
a result of the majority of its shipbroking earnings being 
denominated in US dollars while the majority of its costs are 
denominated in £ sterling and also from the carrying values 
of its overseas subsidiaries being denominated in foreign 
currencies. The treasury policy and objective in relation 
to foreign currencies is to limit the exposure to currency 
risk by covering a proportion of expected foreign currency 
denominated future income up to two years forward. This 
exposure is managed through the use of treasury instruments; 
principally forward foreign exchange contracts and currency 
options. The Group manages its exposure to ﬂ uctuations in 
interest rates by pooling its UK bank accounts under an offset 
agreement. The Board monitors treasury activity through 
regular reporting by the Finance Director. The Group does 
not enter into speculative transactions.
Accountability and audit
A statement of the Directors’ responsibilities for preparing 
the ﬁ nancial statements is included in the Report of the 
Directors on page 25.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and Group have adequate 
resources to continue to trade for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the accounts.
28 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 This report to shareholders provides the information required 
by the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. A 
resolution will be put to shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting on 24 June 2009 inviting them to approve this report.
The Remuneration Committee comprises the following non-
executive Directors:
John Denholm (Chairman), Richard Agutter and David 
Moorhouse. The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance 
Director attend by invitation.
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are:
•  To determine on behalf of the Board and shareholders 
the Group’s overall policy for executive remuneration;
•  To determine individual remuneration packages for each 
of the executive Directors of the Company, including 
their base salary and all performance-related elements 
including bonus arrangements, proﬁ t share schemes, 
equity participation schemes, other long-term incentive 
schemes, pension and other beneﬁ ts;
•  To review the introduction and to determine the terms of 
all bonus, proﬁ t share or equity participation schemes or 
any other schemes intended to reward and incentivise 
employees of the Group and to review the participation 
of the executive Directors and senior executives in such 
schemes, including the award of any bonuses and the 
grant of rights or options thereunder; and 
•  To maintain an overview of policy in relation to the 
remuneration and conditions of service of other senior 
executives within the Group.
In discharging these responsibilities the Remuneration 
Committee may call for information and advice from advisers 
inside and outside the Group. In 2008, the Remuneration 
Committee took advice from the Chief Executive, Alan Marsh. 
Remuneration policy
The remuneration of the executive Directors is determined 
after a review of each individual’s performance and after 
taking account of comparable arrangements for other 
companies of similar size and activity. The Remuneration 
Committee has adopted a remuneration policy based on 
the following principles:
a)  that the executive Directors should be rewarded fairly, 
competitively and at a level that will attract, motivate 
and retain directors of an appropriate calibre; and
b)   that the executive Directors’ remuneration should be 
aligned, as far as possible, with the performance of 
the Group. 
The Remuneration Committee will continue to apply this 
policy in the coming year. No Director is involved in deciding 
his own remuneration.
The executive Directors’ remuneration packages are reviewed 
on a regular basis and presently comprise:
• A competitive base salary;
• Annual bonus based on performance;
•  Deﬁ ned contribution scheme pension contributions linked 
to base salary;
• Life and medical insurance and similar beneﬁ ts; and
• Share options and long-term incentive plan awards.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the individual 
elements of the executive Directors’ remuneration packages 
constitute an appropriate balance between ﬁ xed and variable 
remuneration. The individual elements are described below:
Base salary
Each executive Director’s base salary is reviewed annually 
on performance, achievement of objectives and comparative 
salaries. The base salaries of the executive Directors were 
increased with effect from 1 March 2008 following the 2008 
review. The base salary adjustments for Alan Marsh and 
Quentin Soanes include an in lieu of pension contribution 
increment. Quentin Soanes’ increase also takes account of 
his responsibility for the non-broking businesses.
Annual bonus
The Remuneration Committee believes that a signiﬁ cant 
proportion of the executive Directors’ overall remuneration 
packages should be an annual bonus based on the 
performance of the Group, in order to provide an incentive 
to management and to align their interests with those of the 
shareholders. The bonus policy, which was established four 
years ago, rewards executive Directors based on achieving 
earnings per share in excess of a hurdle ﬁ gure. This excess 
is then applied to a weighting selected for each participant. 
The weighting for each participant may be adjusted to reﬂ ect 
performance. The hurdle ﬁ gure for the year ended 28 February 
2009 was 20.65 pence giving an excess of 36.05 pence. 
The Remuneration Committee raised the hurdle by 20% over 
the prior year taking into account factors such as the relative 
strength and cyclical nature of the shipping markets and their 
inﬂ uence on the base hurdle ﬁ gure, the relative importance 
of less cyclical non-broking businesses and the general rate 
of inﬂ ation. 
Where an executive Director has speciﬁ c responsibilities for a 
subsidiary company or section of the Group, the Remuneration 
Committee believes it appropriate that an element of the 
executive Director’s annual bonus should be determined by 
reference to that responsibility. In the year to 28 February 2009 
the annual bonuses awarded to Alan Marsh, James Kidwell 
and Denis Petropoulos were determined solely with reference 
to the performance of the Group and a component of the 
annual bonus awarded to Quentin Soanes was determined 
with reference to the performance of the Group, with the 
balance being determined by reference to his contribution to 
the shipbroking business.
The Group also operates the Braemar Seascope Group PLC 
Deferred Bonus Plan (“the Plan”) whereby part of the annual 
performance-related bonus is delivered in share awards, on 
a discretionary basis, to staff including executive Directors. 
Under the Plan the shares subject to the awards are held 
in an employee trust for three years after which the 
employee beneﬁ ciary will become absolutely entitled to 
the shares provided they remain in employment with the 
Group (or have ceased to be employed in certain speciﬁ ed 
circumstances). At 28 February 2009 unvested awards over 
a total of 600,775 shares were outstanding under this plan 
(2008: 443,250). In respect of the year to 28 February 2009 
awards over 221,525 shares were made at an estimated 
total cost of £565,771.
The annual bonus is not pensionable. Executive Directors 
may elect to sacriﬁ ce some or all of their bonus entitlement 
in favour of a contribution equal to the sum sacriﬁ ced 
being made by the Company to the executive Director’s 
pension scheme.
Remuneration Report 
for the year ended 28 February 2009
29 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Pensions
The Group’s trading subsidiaries operate a number of 
deﬁ ned contribution pension schemes or make other similar 
arrangements for individual members as appropriate. The 
assets of the scheme are held separately from those of 
the Company in an independently administered fund. The 
pension cost charge represents contributions payable by the 
Company to the fund and the various individual employees’ 
retirement plans. 
The principal scheme in the UK is the Braemar Seascope 
Pension Scheme which is a company sponsored money 
purchase scheme. This scheme is administered by trustees 
and an indemnity in relation to their services as a trustee is 
given by the sponsoring company.
Alan Marsh and Quentin Soanes do not receive an employer’s 
pension contribution. 
Beneﬁ ts
Beneﬁ ts provided relate mainly to the provision of medical, 
life and permanent health insurance.
Share options
The Company operates a discretionary share option scheme, 
the Braemar Seascope Group 1997 Executive Option Scheme 
(“the 1997 Scheme”) and two all-employee save-as-you-earn 
option schemes called the Braemar Seascope Group PLC 
2003 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (“the SAYE 
Scheme”) and the Braemar Shipping Services Plc 2008 
International Savings Related Share Option Scheme (“the 
International SAYE Scheme”). No option may be granted under 
any of the schemes which would result in the total number of 
shares issued or remaining issuable under all of the schemes 
(or any other Group share schemes), in the 10-year period 
ending on the date of grant of the option, exceeding 10% of 
the Company’s issued share capital (calculated at the date of 
grant of the relevant option).
The SAYE Scheme
Under the SAYE Scheme options may be granted to UK 
employees (including executive Directors) to acquire a number 
of shares at a future date at a price that is up to 20% below 
the share price at the time the option is granted. The grant 
of the option is linked to a contract to make monthly savings 
to enable the employee to build up the amount required to 
fund the option exercise price. Exercise of options granted 
under the SAYE scheme is not subject to the achievement of 
a performance target. This scheme operates within UK tax 
legislation. The SAYE Scheme was ﬁ rst launched in July 2003 
and options have been granted once each year since then. 
Options over 569,230 shares under the SAYE Scheme were 
granted on 1 February 2009. These options were granted at a 
20% discount to the prevailing market price. All UK employees 
who participate in the SAYE Scheme are entitled to do so 
on the same terms. The rules of the SAYE Scheme (which 
are approved by HM Revenue and Customs) do not permit 
performance conditions to be applied to the options.
The Remuneration Committee believes the SAYE Scheme, 
which offers staff a tax effective way of saving money and 
acquiring an equity interest in the Company, both helps 
attract and retain staff and aligns the interests of staff and 
shareholders. As at 28 February 2009, there were options 
outstanding over 609,276 shares under the UK SAYE Scheme 
(2008: 295,966 shares) of which options over 19,548 shares 
were held by executive Directors (2008: 11,729 shares).
The International SAYE Scheme
During the year the Company established the International 
SAYE Scheme to enable share options to be granted 
to employees resident in Australia and Singapore. The 
International SAYE Scheme closely resembles the SAYE 
Scheme (as described above) in its operation. On 1 February 
2009 options over 47,295 shares were granted under the 
International Scheme to employees resident in Australia 
and options over 31,943 shares were granted under the 
International Scheme to employees resident in Singapore.
Discretionary options
Under the 1997 Scheme the Remuneration Committee may 
grant options to employees (including executive Directors) 
to acquire shares in the Company at a price equal to the 
market value of a share at the time of grant of the options. 
Options granted under the 1997 Scheme can normally only 
be exercised if the performance conditions attached to the 
options have been met. Under the 1997 Scheme no employee 
can hold, in any 10-year period, options over shares with 
a total market value (measured at the date of grant of the 
options), which exceeds four times his remuneration (excluding 
beneﬁ ts in kind).
Options granted under the 1997 Scheme have, since July 
2002, been subject to a performance condition that the growth 
in the Company’s average adjusted earnings per share over a 
period of no less than three ﬁ nancial years must exceed the 
growth in the retail prices index (“RPI”) over the corresponding 
period by no less than 3% per annum compounded. None 
of the options granted prior to 2002 remain outstanding. The 
performance condition was chosen to test whether or not 
there had been a sustained and signiﬁ cant improvement in the 
Group’s ﬁ nancial performance over a continuous period. There 
is no retesting of performance conditions.
The Remuneration Committee determines whether the 
performance condition has been met using earnings per 
share information contained in the Group’s Annual Report and 
Accounts, after obtaining conﬁ rmation from the auditors that 
the calculation has been performed in accordance with the 
terms of the scheme. 
The Remuneration Committee considers that discretionary 
share options can be an appropriate method of incentivising 
senior executives. While it is the intention to use the Braemar 
Seascope Group PLC 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (“the 
LTIP”) to incentivise executive Directors (see below), the grant 
of options to executive Directors under the 1997 Scheme will 
remain a possibility. However the Remuneration Committee 
proposes to bring the performance conditions attached to 
any future grant of options under the 1997 Scheme into line 
with the performance conditions attached to the LTIP awards 
by raising the required rate of growth in average adjusted 
earnings per share from RPI plus 3% to RPI plus 4%. As at 
28 February 2009 there were options over 39,200 shares 
outstanding under the 1997 Scheme (2008: 97,150 shares), 
none of which were held by a Director (2008: 10,000 shares).
Remuneration Report 
for the year ended 28 February 2009
continued
30 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan
The Company established the LTIP in 2006. Participation in the 
LTIP is intended to be limited to executive Directors and senior 
managers of the Group. In May 2007 awards were made under 
the LTIP over 20,000 shares to each of the four executive 
Directors of the Company.
The LTIP is designed to deliver beneﬁ ts to participants in the 
form of either an option to subscribe for shares at nominal 
value or a conditional right to receive shares at nil cost. The 
awards will normally vest over a period of three years, provided 
there has been sustained and signiﬁ cant improvement in the 
Group’s ﬁ nancial performance over the corresponding period. 
No award may be granted under the LTIP which would result in 
the total number of shares issued or remaining issuable under 
the LTIP (or any other Group share schemes) in the 10-year 
period ending on the date of grant of the award exceeding 
10% of the Company’s issued share capital (calculated at the 
date of grant of the relevant award).
The performance condition applied to the awards is based on 
the Group’s earnings per share over a period of three years. 
The awards will vest as to 50% of the shares subject to the 
awards if the Group’s average adjusted earnings per share 
have increased by RPI plus 4% and will vest as to 100% 
of the shares subject to the awards if the Group’s average 
adjusted earnings per share have increased by RPI plus 10%. 
The awards will vest as to between 50% and 100% of the 
shares subject to the awards on a sliding scale if the Group’s 
average adjusted earnings per share has increased by RPI plus 
more than 4% but less than 10%. Providing the performance 
condition has been met, the awards will vest in three tranches: 
one third on each of the third, fourth and ﬁ fth anniversaries of 
the date of grant of the awards. 
The table showing the Directors’ share incentives is set out 
on page 32.
Service Contracts
The Company’s policy on executive Directors’ service 
contracts is that they should be rolling contracts terminable 
on no more than 12 month’s notice by either party. The 
non-executive Directors do not have service contracts but 
serve under letters of engagement. The policy on the terms 
that the non-executive Directors serve under is that they are 
appointed for a ﬁ xed three-year term renewable by mutual 
consent, but terminable by either party on one month’s notice. 
In the event of early termination of service contracts (or letters 
of engagement as applicable), each Director is entitled to 
compensation equal to their basic salary/fee and contractual 
beneﬁ ts for the notice period as set out below. The policy 
on termination payments to Directors is that the Company 
does not normally make payments beyond its contractual 
obligations. In exceptional circumstances, an ex-gratia 
payment may be considered based on the circumstances 
of the Director’s departure and their past contribution.
Details of Directors’ service contracts/letters of engagement 
are as follows:
    Date of Service
    Contract/Letter Unexpired Notice
  of engagement term Period
Executive        
Alan Marsh 5 Jan 2009  12 months 12 months
James Kidwell 20 Feb 2003 12 months 12 months
Denis Petropoulos  10 Oct 2001 12 months 12 months
Quentin Soanes 18 Mar 2008  12 months 12 months
Non-executive
Sir Graham Hearne 2 May 2006 12 months 1 month
Richard Agutter 19 Feb 2008 19 months 1 month
John Denholm 6 June 2008 35 months 1 month
David Moorhouse 19 Feb 2008 19 months 1 month
Non-executive Directors 
The remuneration of the non-executive Directors is determined 
by the Board with reference to comparable organisations and 
roles.
Performance graph
Set out below is the Company’s total shareholder return 
performance over the last ﬁ ve years rebased to be compared 
with the FTSE All Share index. The index has been chosen as it 
represents the overall return achieved in the UK equity market.
0
50
100
150
200
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Braemar Shipping Services plc
FTSE All Share
31 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Remuneration Report 
for the year ended 28 February 2009
continued
Directors’ emoluments (audited)
For the year ended 28 February 2009 the individual emoluments by Director are as follows:
       Performance-   Year ended  Year ended 
    Salary/ fees related bonus Beneﬁ ts
(1)
 Pension 29 Feb 2009 29 Feb 2008
    £ £ £ £ £ £
Executive Directors
Alan Marsh   500,000 508,277 4,892 – 1,013,169 1,007,744
James Kidwell   230,000 317,222 2,827 34,500 584,549 513,015
Denis Petropoulos    180,000 317,222 2,735 27,000 526,957 392,465
Quentin Soanes    260,000 380,000 3,599 – 643,599 619,678
Non-executive Directors
Sir Graham Hearne   100,000 – – – 100,000 85,000
Richard Agutter   35,000 – – – 35,000 35,000
John Denholm   35,000 – – – 35,000 35,000
David Moorhouse   35,000 – – – 35,000 35,000
     1,375,000 1,522,721 14,053 61,500 2,973,274  2,722,902
(1) Beneﬁ ts principally related to private medical cover.
Directors share incentives (audited)
The numbers of ordinary shares subject to options held by Directors and granted under the 1997 Scheme, the SAYE Scheme and 
the LTIP are set out below:
    Number of Exercised/   Number of   
    ordinary shares lapsed during Granted during ordinary shares  
   Date of under option the year to the year to under option Exercise Date options Date options
   Grant at 1 Mar 08 28 Feb 09 28 Feb 09 at 28 Feb 09 price (pence) exercisable expire
James Kidwell 1997 Scheme 15 Jun 04 10,000 (10,000) – – 245  
  SAYE 5 Dec 06 3,009 (3,009) – – 314  
  SAYE 1 Feb 09 – – 4,887 4,887 196.4 1 Feb 12 1 July 12
  LTIP 11 May 07 20,000 – – 20,000 – 11 May 10 11 May 17
    33,009 (13,009) 4,887 24,887
         
Alan Marsh SAYE 21 Nov 07 2,702 (2,702) – – 355.2  
  SAYE 1 Feb 09 – – 4,887 4,887 196.4 1 Feb 12 1 July 12
  LTIP 11 May 07 20,000 – – 20,000 – 11 May 10 11 May 17
    22,702 (2,702) 4,887 24,887
         
Denis Petropoulos SAYE 5 Dec 06 3,009 (3,009) – – 314  
  SAYE 1 Feb 09 – – 4,887 4,887 196.4 1 Feb 12 1 July 12
  LTIP 11 May 07 20,000 – – 20,000 – 11 May 10 11 May 17
    23,009 (3,009) 4,887 24,887
         
Quentin Soanes SAYE 5 Dec 06 3,009 (3,009) – – 314  
  SAYE 1 Feb 09 – – 4,887 4,887 196.4 1 Feb 12 1 July 12
  LTIP 11 May 07 20,000 – – 20,000 – 11 May 10 11 May 17
    23,009 (3,009) 4,887 24,887
No consideration was payable on the grant of any of the options which were outstanding during the year ending 28 February 
2009. The performance conditions applying to options and awards outstanding under the 1997 Scheme and the LTIP are set out 
in the descriptions of those schemes above. No performance targets apply to the options outstanding under the SAYE scheme.
The closing mid-market share price on 28 February 2009 was 244.75 pence and the range of closing prices during the year 
ended 28 February 2009 was 226 pence to 552.5 pence. 
At the date of James Kidwell’s 1997 Scheme option exercise the share price was 527 pence giving an unrealised gain of £28,200 
after deduction of the exercise price.
No other Director who served during the year held any share options. Directors’ interests are set out on page 24.
Non-executive Directors are not permitted to participate in the 1997 Scheme, the SAYE scheme or the LTIP.
The Directors’ remuneration report above was approved by the Board on 11 May 2009 and signed on its behalf by:
John Denholm
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
11 May 2009
32 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of Braemar Shipping Services plc
We have audited the Group and Parent Company ﬁ nancial 
statements (the ‘‘ﬁ nancial statements’’) of Braemar Shipping 
Services plc for the year ended 28 February 2009 which 
comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Group 
and Parent Company Balance sheets, the Group and Parent 
Company Cash ﬂ ow statements, the Group and Parent 
Company Statements of changes in equity and the related 
notes. These ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared under 
the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited 
the information in the Remuneration Report that is described 
as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, 
the Remuneration Report and the ﬁ nancial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities in the Report of the Directors.
Our responsibility is to audit the ﬁ nancial statements and 
the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited in 
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This 
report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only 
for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other 
purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to 
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come 
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the ﬁ nancial 
statements give a true and fair view and whether the ﬁ nancial 
statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be 
audited have been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group ﬁ nancial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to 
you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report 
of the Directors is consistent with the ﬁ nancial statements. The 
information given in the Report of the Directors includes that 
speciﬁ c information presented in the Chief Executive’s Review 
that is cross referred from the principal activities and review of 
business of the Report of the Directors. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company 
has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not 
received all the information and explanations we require for our 
audit, or if information speciﬁ ed by law regarding Directors’ 
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement 
reﬂ ects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions 
of the Combined Code (2006) speciﬁ ed for our review by 
the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and 
we report if it does not. We are not required to consider 
whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all 
risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of 
the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and 
control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report 
and consider whether it is consistent with the audited ﬁ nancial 
statements. The other information comprises only the Report 
of the Directors, the unaudited part of the Remuneration 
Report, the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s 
review of the business, the Financial review, the Corporate 
Governance Statement, the Highlights, How our business 
works and the ﬁ ve year ﬁ nancial summary. We consider 
the implications for our report if we become aware of any 
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the 
ﬁ nancial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any 
other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing 
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test 
basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures 
in the ﬁ nancial statements and the part of the Remuneration 
Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the 
signiﬁ cant estimates and judgments made by the directors in 
the preparation of the ﬁ nancial statements, and of whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and 
Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all 
the information and explanations which we considered 
necessary in order to provide us with sufﬁ cient evidence to 
give reasonable assurance that the ﬁ nancial statements and 
the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other 
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated 
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the 
ﬁ nancial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report 
to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
•  the Group ﬁ nancial statements give a true and fair view, in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, 
of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 28 February 2009 
and of its proﬁ t and cash ﬂ ows for the year then ended;
•  the Parent Company ﬁ nancial statements give a true and fair 
view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent company’s 
affairs as at 28 February 2009 and cash ﬂ ows for the year 
then ended;
•  the ﬁ nancial statements and the part of the Remuneration 
Report to be audited have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as 
regards the group ﬁ nancial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation; and
•  the information given in the Report of the Directors is 
consistent with the ﬁ nancial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
18 May 2009
(a)  The maintenance and integrity of the Braemar Shipping Services plc website is 
the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not 
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no 
responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the ﬁ nancial statements 
since they were initially presented on the website.
(b)  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination 
of ﬁ nancial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
33 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 28 February 2009
        Year ended Year ended
        28 Feb 2009 29 Feb 2008
Continuing operations    Notes   £’000 £’000
Revenue    2   127,144 100,964
Cost of sales    3   (35,038) (28,267)
        92,106 72,697
      
Operating costs       (76,419) (58,729)
Operating costs excluding amortisation      (75,345) (58,277)
Amortisation of intangible assets    13   (1,074) (452)
        
Operating proﬁ t    2, 3   15,687 13,968
      
Finance income    6   309 391
Finance costs    6   (18) (11)
Share of proﬁ t from joint ventures       246 370
        
Proﬁ t before taxation – continuing operations      16,224 14,718
Taxation    7   (4,704) (4,797)
Proﬁ t for the year – continuing operations      11,520 9,921
      
Loss for the period from discontinued operations   8   –  (3)
      
Proﬁ t for the year       11,520 9,918
      
Attributable to:      
Ordinary shareholders       11,463 9,772
Minority interest    26   57 146
Proﬁ t for the year       11,520 9,918
      
Earnings per ordinary share    10     
Basic – continuing operations       56.70p  48.99p
Diluted – continuing operations         55.72p  48.69p
      
Basic – proﬁ t for the year        56.70p  48.97p
Diluted – proﬁ t for the year         55.72p  48.68p
The notes on pages 38 to 63 form part of these accounts
34 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Balance sheets
As at 28 February 2009
 Group Company
      As at As at As at As at
      28 Feb 2009 29 Feb 2008 28 Feb 2009 29 Feb 2008
Assets    Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current assets     
Goodwill    12 28,137 25,826 – –
Other intangible assets    13 3,921 2,315 – –
Property, plant and equipment    14 6,189 5,820 – – 
Investments    15 2,344 1,890 50,198 41,832
Deferred tax assets    7 810 754 – –
Other long-term receivables    16 176 155 72 72
      41,577 36,760 50,270 41,904
Current assets     
Trade and other receivables    17 38,055 26,875 3,950 4,231
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments    18 160 107 – –
Restricted cash    19 – 3,952 – –
Cash and cash equivalents    20 25,194 21,635 377 3,506
      63,409 52,569 4,327 7,737
     
Total assets     104,986 89,329 54,597 49,641
     
Liabilities     
Current liabilities     
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments    18 649 49 – –
Trade and other payables    21 46,221 39,540 3,484 3,410
Current tax payable     2,689 3,017 – 15
Provisions    22 88 48 – – 
Client monies held as escrow agent     – 3,952 – –
      49,647 46,606 3,484 3,425
     
Non-current liabilities     
Deferred tax liabilities    7 2,255 681 – –
Trade and other payables    21 – 434 – –
Provisions    22 137 81 – –
      2,392 1,196 – –
         
Total liabilities     52,039 47,802 3,484 3,425
     
Total assets less total liabilities     52,947 41,527 51,113 46,216
     
Equity     
Share capital    23 2,104 2,061 2,104 2,061
Share premium     10,920 9,261 10,920 9,261
Shares to be issued    24 (3,479) (2,527) (3,479) (2,527)
Other reserves    25 25,020 20,687 21,742 21,742
Retained earnings     18,268 11,717 19,826 15,679
Group shareholders’ equity     52,833 41,199 51,113 46,216
Minority interest    26 114 328 –  –
Total equity     52,947 41,527 51,113 46,216
The accounts on pages 34 to 63 were approved by the Board of Directors on 11 May 2009 and were signed on its behalf by:
 
Sir Graham Hearne CBE, Chairman J.R.V. Kidwell FCA, Finance Director
The notes on pages 38 to 63 form part of these accounts 
35 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009  Group Company
      Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
      28 Feb 2009 29 Feb 2008 28 Feb 2009 29 Feb 2008
     Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash ﬂ ows from operating activities     
Cash generated from operations    27 20,959 21,158 7,190 15,517
Interest received     309 391 – 2
Interest paid     (18) (11) – – 
Tax paid     (6,245) (4,587) – –
Net cash generated from operating activities    15,005 16,951 7,190 15,519
     
Cash ﬂ ows from investing activities     
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired   28 (5,137) (4,270) (4,641) (5,927)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment    (1,189) (1,032) – –
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment   6 57 – –
Purchase of investments     (9) (38) – –
Proceeds from sale of investments     – 200 – 200
Other long-term assets     (21) (74) – 9
Net cash used in investing activities    (6,350) (5,157) (4,641) (5,718)
     
Cash ﬂ ows from ﬁ nancing activities     
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares    324 745 324 745
Dividends paid     (4,868) (4,053) (4,868) (4,053)
Dividends paid to minority interest     (45) (143) – –
Purchase of own shares     (1,134) (1,480) (1,134) (1,480)
Net cash used in ﬁ nancing activities    (5,723) (4,931) (5,678) (4,788)
     
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents   2,932 6,863 (3,129) 5,013
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period   21,635 14,634 3,506 (1,507)
Foreign exchange differences     627 138 – –
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period  20 25,194 21,635 377 3,506
Cash ﬂ ow statements
for the year ended 28 February 2009
36 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Statements of changes in equity 
for the year ended 28 February 2009
  Share Share Shares to Other Retained  Minority Total
  capital premium be issued reserves earnings Total interest equity
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 March 2007 2,023 8,554 (1,047) 21,020 5,390 35,940 309 36,249
Cash ﬂ ow hedges        
– Transfer to net proﬁ t  –  –  –  (16) –  (16) –  (16)
– Fair value gains in the period –  –  –  107 –  107 –  107
Exchange differences –  –  –  383 –  383 –  383
Net income recognised directly in equity –  –  –  474 –  474 –  474
Proﬁ t for the year –  –  –  –  9,772 9,772 146 9,918
Total recognised income in the year –  –  –  474 9,772 10,246 146 10,392
Acquisition –  –   –  –  –  16 16
Dividends paid –  –   –  (4,053) (4,053) (143) (4,196)
Issue of shares 38 707 –  –  –  745 –  745
Purchase of shares –  –  (1,480) –  –  (1,480) –  (1,480)
Consideration to be paid –  –  –  (782) –  (782) –  (782)
Credit in respect of share option schemes –  –  –  –  554 554 –  554
Deferred tax on items taken to equity –  –  –  (25) 54 29 –  29
At 29 February 2008 2,061 9,261 (2,527) 20,687 11,717 41,199 328 41,527
Cash ﬂ ow hedges        
– Transfer to net proﬁ t  –  –  –  3,034 –  3,034 –  3,034
– Fair value losses in the period –  –  –  (3,629) –  (3,629) –  (3,629)
Exchange differences –  –  –  3,597 –  3,597 15 3,612
Net income recognised directly in equity –  –  –  3,002 –  3,002 15 3,017
Proﬁ t for the year –  –  –  –  11,463 11,463 57 11,520
Total recognised income in the year –  –  –  3,002 11,463 14,465 72 14,537
Acquisition –  –   –  –  –  19 19
Dividends paid –  –  –  –  (4,868) (4,868) (45) (4,913)
Issue of shares 43 1,659 –  –  –  1,702 –  1,702
Purchase of shares –  –  (1,134) –  –  (1,134) –  (1,134)
Consideration paid –  –  –  900 –  900 (260) 640
Deferred consideration to be paid –  –  –  265 –  265 –  265
ESOP shares allocated –  –  182 –  (182) –  –  – 
Credit in respect of share option schemes –  –  –  –  299 299 –  299
Deferred tax on items taken to equity –  –  –  166 (161) 5 –  5
At 28 February 2009 2,104 10,920 (3,479) 25,020 18,268 52,833 114 52,947
        
    Share Share Shares to Other Retained
    capital premium be issued reserves earnings Total
Company   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 March 2007   2,023 8,554 (1,047) 21,742 10,828 42,100
Proﬁ t for the year   –  –  –  –  8,350 8,350
Dividends paid   –  –  –  –  (4,053) (4,053)
Issue of shares   38 707 –  –  –  745
Purchase of shares   –  –  (1,480) –  –  (1,480)
Credit in respect of share option schemes   –  –  –  –  554 554
At 29 February 2008   2,061 9,261 (2,527) 21,742 15,679 46,216
Proﬁ t for the year   –  –  –  –  8,898 8,898
Dividends paid   –  –  –  –  (4,868) (4,868)
Issue of shares   43 1,659 –  –  –  1,702
Purchase of shares   –  –  (1,134) –  –  (1,134)
ESOP shares allocated   –   182 –  (182) – 
Credit in respect of share option schemes   –  –  –  –  299 299
At 28 February 2009   2,104 10,920 (3,479) 21,742 19,826 51,113
37 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 General information
The Group and Company ﬁ nancial statements of Braemar 
Shipping Services plc for the year ended 28 February 2009 
were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of 
the Directors on 11 May 2009. Braemar Shipping Services plc 
is a Public Limited Company incorporated and domiciled 
in England and Wales, listed on the London Stock Exchange. 
The principal activities of the business are set out in the Report 
of the Directors on page 21.
The term ‘Company’ refers to Braemar Shipping Services plc 
and ‘Group’ refers to the Company and all its subsidiary 
undertakings and of the employee share ownership plan trust.
1. Accounting policies
a) Basis of preparation and forward looking statements
The ﬁ nancial statements of the Group and the Company have 
been prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) and IFRIC interpretations as 
adopted by the European Union and the Companies Act 1985 
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared under the historic 
cost convention except for the derivative ﬁ nancial instruments, 
which are measured at fair value.
Certain statements in this annual report are forward-looking. 
Although the Group believes that the expectations reﬂ ected 
in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can 
give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have 
been correct. Because these statements involve risks and 
uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those 
expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. 
We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking 
statements whether as a result of new information, future 
events or otherwise.
The Group and Company ﬁ nancial statements are presented 
in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest 
thousand pounds (£’000) except where otherwise indicated.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of 
the previous year except as follows:
The Group and Company have adopted the following new 
IFRIC interpretations during the year.
� IFRIC 12, ‘Service concession arrangements’;
� IFRIC 13, ‘Customer loyalty programs’; and
�  IFRIC 14, ‘IAS19 The limit on a deferred beneﬁ t asset, 
minimum funding requirements and their interaction’.
These interpretations have not had any impact on the Group 
or Company.
Responsibility statement
The Board is responsible for preparing the ﬁ nancial statements. 
To the best of its knowledge:
�  the ﬁ nancial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁ nancial position and proﬁ t or 
loss of the listed Company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole;
�  the Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s Review of 
the Business and the Report of the Directors include a 
fair review of the development and performance of the  
 business and the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole, together with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that they face; and
�  the Company is responsible for all information drawn up 
and made public.
b) Statement of compliance
The Group and Company ﬁ nancial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRS and IFRIC interpretations 
adopted by the European Union as they apply to the 
accounts of the Group and the Company for the year ended 
28 February 2009 applied in accordance with the provisions 
of the Companies Act 1985. No income statement is 
presented for Braemar Shipping Services plc as provided 
by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985. 
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation 
of these ﬁ nancial statements are set out below.
c) Basis of consolidation
The consolidated ﬁ nancial statements incorporate the 
accounts of the Group and the Company made up to 
28 February each year or 29 February in a leap year.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated using the 
purchase method of accounting, from the date on which 
control of the net assets and operation of the acquired 
company are effectively transferred to the Group. Similarly, 
the results of subsidiaries divested cease to be consolidated 
from the date on which control of the net assets and 
operations are transferred out of the Group.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minority’s 
proportion of the value of the assets and liabilities recognised 
and is presented separately within total equity in the 
consolidated balance sheet.
Investments in joint ventures and associates and where the 
Group has signiﬁ cant inﬂ uence are equity accounted and 
carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition 
changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate 
or joint venture, less any impairment in value. The income 
statement reﬂ ects the Group’s share of the post-tax result 
of the joint venture or associate.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses 
are eliminated on consolidation.
d) Use of estimates and critical judgements
The preparation of ﬁ nancial statements in conformity with IFRS 
requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the 
ﬁ nancial statements and the reported amounts of revenues 
and expenses during the reporting period. Although these 
estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of 
the amount, events or actions, actual results ultimately 
may differ from those estimates. Principal areas where the 
assumptions and estimates have a signiﬁ cant risk of causing 
a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and 
liabilities within the next ﬁ nancial year are in respect of the 
impairment review of goodwill (see note 12), other intangible 
assets (see note 13), impairment of bad debts (see note 17) 
and provisions (see note 22).
Notes to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements
38 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 e) Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the 
economic beneﬁ ts will ﬂ ow to the Group and the Company and 
the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue of the Group consists of:
i)  Shipbroking – income comprises commission arising from 
tanker and dry cargo charter broking, sale and purchase 
broking, offshore broking and ﬁ nancial consultancy 
arrangement fees. Income is recognised when the company 
has a contractual entitlement to commission, normally the 
point at which there is completion of contractual terms 
between the principals of a transaction.
ii)  Technical – fee income comprises fees for the supply 
of technical and energy loss adjusting services. Income 
from technical services is recognised as invoiced for work 
performed and/or in accordance with the agreement. 
Revenue from loss adjusting services is recognised on a time 
incurred and recoverable expenses basis net of provisions.
iii)  Logistics – agency income is recognised at the point when 
the ship sails from the port. Forwarding and logistics income 
is recognised on a delivered shipment basis. Where the 
Group acts as a principal rather than as agent, the revenue 
and costs are shown gross.
iv)  Environmental – revenue from environmental services is 
recognised at the contractual rates, as labour hours are 
delivered and direct expenses incurred.
Bunker trading – revenue from the supply of bunkers was 
recognised when sales and purchases of bunkers were 
contracted.
Revenue of the Company consists of dividends from 
investments. Dividend income from investments is recognised 
when the shareholders’ legal rights to receive payment have 
been established.
f) Foreign currencies
The functional and presentational currency of the Group is 
pounds sterling. Transactions in currencies other than pounds 
sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the 
date of the transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses 
resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from 
the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are recognised 
in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange 
risks, the Group enters into derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 
contracts, mainly forward contacts (see the following page for 
details of the Group’s accounting policies in respect of such 
derivative ﬁ nancial instruments).
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries and associates 
are translated from their functional currency into pounds 
sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet 
date. Trading results are translated at the average rates for 
the period. Exchange differences arising on the consolidation 
of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries are dealt with 
through the translation reserve (see note 25). On disposal of 
a business, the cumulative exchange differences previously 
recognised in the translation reserve relating to that business 
are transferred to the income statement as part of the gain or 
loss on disposal.
g) Taxation
The taxation expense represents the sum of the tax currently 
payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable proﬁ t for the 
period. Taxable proﬁ t differs from net proﬁ t as reported in the 
income statement because it excludes items of income and 
expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it 
further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. 
The Group and Company’s liability for current tax is calculated 
using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted 
by the balance sheet date.
Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all taxable 
temporary differences identiﬁ ed at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised separately on 
the balance sheet. Deferred tax assets are recognised only to 
the extent that they are expected to be recoverable. Deferred 
taxation is recognised in the income statement unless it relates 
to taxable transactions taken directly to equity, in which case 
the deferred tax is also recognised in equity. The deferred tax 
is released to the income statement at the same time as the 
taxable transaction is recognised in the income statement. 
Deferred taxation on unremitted overseas earnings is provided 
for to the extent a tax charge is foreseeable.
h) Discontinued operations
Where the Group has classiﬁ ed an operation as discontinued, 
for the period the operation remains in the Group’s ownership, 
its results of operations are reﬂ ected in a single line item after 
loss for the year from continuing operations in the income 
statement. The operation’s prior year results are restated in 
the same way.
i) Goodwill
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed 
to the net assets (including any identiﬁ able intangible 
assets) acquired. Goodwill arises where the fair value of the 
consideration given exceeds the fair value of the net assets 
acquired. Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is reviewed 
for impairment at least annually. Impairments are recognised 
immediately in the income statement. Goodwill is allocated 
to cash generating units for the purposes of impairment 
testing. On the disposal of a business, goodwill relating to 
that business remaining on the balance sheet is included in the 
determination of the proﬁ t or loss on disposal. Goodwill written 
off to reserves prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and will 
not be included in determining any subsequent proﬁ t or loss 
on disposal. As permitted by IFRS1 goodwill on acquisitions 
arising prior to 1 March 2004 has been retained at prior 
amounts and will be tested annually for impairment.
j) Other intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination 
are stated in the balance sheet at their fair value at the date of 
acquisition less accumulated amortisation and any provisions 
for impairment. The amortisation of the carrying value of the 
capitalised forward order book and customer relationships is 
charged to the income statement over an estimated useful life 
of two to ten years. The carrying values of intangible assets are 
reviewed for impairment when there is an indication that they 
may be impaired. 
39 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 k) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are shown at historical cost less 
accumulated depreciation and any impairment value.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the 
cost, less estimated residual value of each asset, on a straight-
line basis over its expected useful life as follows (except for 
long leasehold interests which are written off against the 
remaining period of the lease):
Motor vehicles  – three years
Computers  – four years
Fixtures and equipment  – four years
l) Investments
Investments in associates and joint ventures where the Group 
has signiﬁ cant inﬂ uence are accounted for under the equity 
method of accounting in the ﬁ nancial statements. Investments 
are carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition 
changes in the Group’s share in the net assets of associates 
and joint ventures, less any impairment in value. The income 
statement reﬂ ects the Group’s share of the results of the 
operations of associates and joint ventures.
Investments in associates and joint ventures together with any 
other unlisted investments where the Group has no signiﬁ cant 
inﬂ uence are booked at cost less any impairment in value.
Investments in the Company are shown at cost less impairment. 
Any impairment is charged to the income statement as incurred.
m) Impairment
The carrying amount of the Group’s assets other than ﬁ nancial 
assets within the scope of IAS 39 and deferred tax assets, are 
reviewed each balance sheet date to determine whether there 
is an indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, 
the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. The recoverable 
amount is determined based on value in use calculations, 
which requires the use of estimates. An impairment loss is 
recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying 
amount of the assets exceeds its recoverable amount.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying 
amount of the assets with the exception of goodwill and 
other intangibles is increased to the revised estimate of its 
recoverable amount. This cannot exceed the carrying amount 
prior to the impairment charge. An impairment recognised 
in the income statement in respect of goodwill and other 
intangibles is not subsequently reversed.
n) Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments and hedging 
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value and are 
subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each balance 
sheet date. Recognition of the resulting gain or loss depends on 
whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, 
and if it is, the nature of the item being hedged. Changes in the 
fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting 
are recognised immediately in the income statement. The 
Group designates derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting 
as a cash ﬂ ow hedge where there is a high probability of the 
forecast transactions arising. The effective portion of changes 
in the fair value of these derivatives are recognised in equity. 
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. Amounts accumulated in 
equity are dealt with in the income statement at the same time 
as the gains or losses on the hedged items. When a forecast 
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative 
gains or losses that were reported in equity are immediately 
transferred to the income statement. 
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated 
or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge 
relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still 
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point 
remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the 
above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged 
transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative 
unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised 
immediately in the income statement.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts, which are 
traded in active markets, is based on quoted market prices at 
the balance sheet date. 
o) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at the 
lower of their original value and recoverable amount. Provision 
is made where there is evidence that the balances will not 
be recovered in full. In respect of amounts due to customers 
in relation to the agency and logistics business, these are 
released to the income statement if they become more than 
three years old.
p) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short-term deposits included in the balance sheet 
comprise cash in hand and short-term deposits with an 
original maturity of three months or less.
Cash and cash equivalents included in the cash ﬂ ow statement 
include cash and short-term deposits, net of bank overdrafts.
Restricted cash comprises cash balances where the Group 
is holding cash as escrow agent for certain clients, pending 
completion of transactions in which the Group acted as broker. 
The amounts are held in designated accounts and any interest 
is due to the clients.
q) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present 
obligation (legal or otherwise) as a result of a past event and it 
is probable that an outﬂ ow of resources embodying economic 
beneﬁ ts will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. If 
material, the provisions are discounted using an appropriate 
current pre-tax interest rate.
r) Share-based payments
The fair value at the date of grant of share-based 
remuneration, principally share options, is calculated using a 
binomial pricing model and charged to the income statement 
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the award. 
The charge to the income statement takes account of the 
estimated number of shares that will vest. All share-based 
remuneration is equity settled. The balance sheet entry is 
included in reserves. Shares issued in respect of the deferred 
bonus plan are valued at the market value on the date the 
shares are purchased.
The Company reﬂ ects the fair value of the share-based 
payments as an investment in its subsidiaries
The Group took advantage of the transitional provisions 
IFRS 2 “Share-based Payments” in respect of equity settled 
awards on transition to IFRS.
s) Commissions payable
Commissions payable to clients are recognised in trade 
payables due within one year on the earlier of the date of 
invoicing or the date of receipt of cash.
Notes to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements
continued
40 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 t) Pension scheme arrangements
The Group operates several deﬁ ned contribution pension schemes. The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of 
the Company in an independently administered fund. The pension cost charge represents contributions payable by the Company 
to the fund.
u) Leasing
Operating leases are charged to the income statement as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Operating lease 
income is recognised in the income statement as it is earned.
v) Segmental analysis
The Group’s primary segmental analysis is based on its four business segments: Shipbroking, Technical, Logistics and 
Environmental. This is consistent with the way the Group manages itself and with the format of the Group’s internal 
ﬁ nancial reporting.
The secondary analysis is presented according to the geographic markets comprising UK, Australia, South East Asia and the 
rest of the world. The Group’s geographical segments are determined by the location of the Group’s assets and operations.
Costs are allocated between segments on an actual basis.
w) New standards and interpretations not applied
During the year, the IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the 
issue of these ﬁ nancial statements. The Group has elected not to adopt any of these early.
   Periods beginning on or
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS) after effective date
IFRS 1 (amendment)  First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards –
Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or 
Associate (Amendments)  1 January 2009
IFRS 2 (amendment) Share-Based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations 1 January 2009
IFRS 3 (revised) Business Combinations 1 July 2009
IFRS 5 (amendment) Non-current assets held for sale and Discontinued Operations 1 July 2010 subject 
   to endorsement
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Reclassiﬁ cation of Financial Assets (Amendments) 1 July 2008
IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009
IAS 1 (amendment) Presentation of Financial Statements 1 January 2009
IAS 16 (amendment) Property, plant and equipment 1 January 2009
IAS 19 (amendment) Employee beneﬁ ts 1 January 2009
IAS 20 (amendment) Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance 1 January 2009
IAS 23 (revised) Borrowing costs 1 January 2009
IAS 27 Determining the cost of an investment in the separate ﬁ nancial statements 1 January 2009
IAS 27 (revised) Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 1 July 2009
IAS 28 (amendment) Investments in Associates 1 January 2009 subject 
   to endorsement
IAS 29 (amendment) Financial reporting in Hyperinﬂ ationary Economies 1 January 2009
IAS 31 (amendment) Interests in joint ventures 1 January 2009 subject 
   to endorsement
IAS 32 (amendment)  Financial Instruments Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements – 
Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation 1 January 2009
IAS 36 (amendment) Impairment of Assets 1 January 2009 subject 
   to endorsement
IAS 38 (amendment) Intangible Assets 1 January 2009
IAS 39 (amendment) Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement – Eligible hedged items 1 January 2009
IAS 39 (revised) Recognition and Measurement 1 July 2008
IAS 40 (amendment) Investment property 1 January 2009 subject 
   to endorsement
IAS 41 (amendment) Agriculture 1 January 2009 subject 
   to endorsement
Improvements to IFRSs Collection of necessary, but not urgent, amendments to IFRSs 1 January 2009
  
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)  
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate 1 January 2009
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation 1 October 2008
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners 1 July 2009
IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers 1 July 2009
The Directors are reviewing the effect of these standards and interpretations but do not anticipate their adoption will have a 
material impact on the Group’s ﬁ nancial statements in the period of initial application.
41 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements
continued
2. Segmental information
a) Business segments
For management purposes, the Group is currently organised into four operating divisions – Shipbroking, Technical, Logistics 
and Environmental. These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information. Unallocated 
costs relate to Board costs and other costs associated with the Group’s listing with the London Stock Exchange.
     Shipbroking Technical 
1
 Logistics 
2
 Environmental Total
2009    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue    60,409 21,193 40,797 4,745 127,144
     
Segment result before amortisation of intangible assets  14,990 4,156 1,130 (165) 20,111
Amortisation of intangible assets    (100) (644) (292) (38) (1,074)
Segment result    14,890 3,512 838 (203) 19,037
Unallocated other costs        (3,350)
Operating proﬁ t        15,687
Finance income – net        291
Share of proﬁ t from joint ventures        246
Proﬁ t before taxation        16,224
Taxation        (4,704)
Proﬁ t for the period attributable to shareholders from continuing operations     11,520
     
Capital additions    541 4,363 1,033 319 6,256
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment   460 154 141 201 956
Segment operating assets    41,264 19,577 13,743 2,054 76,638
Segment operating liabilities    (29,810) (3,057) (13,705) (523) (47,095)
     
2008     
Revenue    52,794 9,467 27,874 10,829 100,964
     
Segment result before amortisation of intangible assets  13,093 844 1,153 1,871 16,961
Amortisation of intangible assets    (100) (116) (200) (35) (451)
Segment result    12,993 728 953 1,836 16,510
Unallocated other costs        (2,542)
Operating proﬁ t        13,968
Finance income – net        380
Share of proﬁ t from joint ventures        370
Proﬁ t before taxation        14,718
Taxation        (4,797)
Proﬁ t for the period attributable to shareholders from continuing operations     9,921
     
Capital additions    579 2,884 2,145 51 5,659
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment   344 58 124 161 687
Segment operating assets    42,914 7,258 13,409 1,469 65,050
Segment operating liabilities    (26,720) (873) (15,619) (892) (44,104)
1  The results for Steege Kingston Partnership Limited for the period from acquisition on 3 March 2008 to 28 February 2009 are included in Technical (note 28).
2  The results for Sealion Shipping (S) Pte Limited and Freight Action Limited for the period from acquisition to 28 February 2009 are included in Logistics (note 28).
There are no sales between the business segments. 
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles including additions 
resulting from business acquisitions.
Segment assets consist primarily of intangible assets (including goodwill), tangible ﬁ xed assets, receivables and other assets. 
Receivables for taxes, cash and cash equivalents and investments have been excluded. Segment liabilities relate to the operating 
activities and exclude liabilities for taxes.
42 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 b) Geographical segment – by origin
The Group manages its business segments on a global basis. The operations main geographical area is the United Kingdom. 
The United Kingdom is the home country of the parent.
 Revenue  Capital additions Assets
    2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
United Kingdom   103,991 89,148 2,261 2,750 59,521 58,432
Australia   5,201 4,656 15 40 941 961
South East Asia   7,826 4,181 1,067 8 5,752 240
Rest of World   10,126 2,979 2,913 2,860 10,424 5,417
    127,144 100,964 6,256 5,658 76,638 65,050
c) Revenue analysis
All revenue arises from the rendering of services and in relation to discontinued operations, the provision of goods in respect of 
bunker trading.
3. Operating proﬁ t
Operating proﬁ ts from continuing operations represent the results from operations before share of proﬁ ts of joint ventures, 
ﬁ nance income, ﬁ nance costs and taxation.
This is stated after charging/(crediting):
        2009 2008
       Notes £’000 £’000
Cost of Sales    
Freight and haulage       28,553 18,749
Payments to sub contractors       5,534 7,038
Cost of materials       951 2,480
        35,038 28,267
    
Staff costs      4 52,957 43,322
Depreciation on tangible ﬁ xed assets      14 956 687
Amortisation of other intangible assets     13 1,074 452
Impairment of goodwill      12 56 114
Operating lease rentals:    
– Land and buildings       829 608
– Other       204 170
Loss on sale of tangible assets       15 57
Negative goodwill credited to income statement      (15) (89)
Movements in bad debt provision       2,046 146
Auditors’ remuneration       5 424 295
Other operating costs       18,430 12,789
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses (excluding hedging contracts – see note 18)   (557) 178
Revenue from non-recurring commission sharing arrangements     – (464)
4. Staff costs
a) Staff costs for the Group during the year (including Directors)
        2009 2008
       Notes £’000 £’000
Salaries and wages       45,857 37,077
Other pension costs      29 2,310 1,732
Social security costs       4,491 3,959
Share-based payments       299 554
        52,957 43,322
No staff costs were incurred by the Company.
The numbers above include remuneration and pension entitlements for each Director. 
43 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements
continued
4. Staff costs continued
b) Key management compensation (including Directors)
The remuneration of key management including the eight Directors of the Company is set out below. Further information about 
the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 32.
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Salaries and short-term employee beneﬁ ts      2,912 2,668
Post-employment beneﬁ ts       61 55
Share-based payments       54 69
        3,027 2,792
          
Number of Key employees          8 8
Gains made by Directors on exercise of share options are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 32. Retirement beneﬁ ts 
are accruing to two Directors (2008: 2) in respect of a deﬁ ned contribution pension scheme.
c) Average number of full time employees
        2009 2008
        No. No.
Shipbroking       218 211
Logistics       232 176
Technical services       178 82
Environmental services       60 65
Bunker trading       –  1
        688 535
The Company had no employees. The Directors’ remuneration is borne by Braemar Seascope Limited.
5. Auditors’ remuneration
A more detailed analysis of auditors’ services is given below:
 Group Company 
      2009 2008 2009 2008
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Audit services    
– Fees payable to the company auditor for audit of the Company and 
Group ﬁ nancial statements     232 162 5 5
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor and its associates for other services:    
– The audit of the Group’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation   124 76 – –
– Other services     – 105 – –
– Tax services     68 57 – –
      424 400 5 5
In the year ended 29 February 2008, included in fees payable to the auditors are amounts of £295,000 which have been charged 
to operating proﬁ t (see note 3). £105,000 has been capitalised in the balance sheet in connection with business combinations.
6. Finance income/(costs)
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Finance income:     
– Interest on bank deposits       309 391
Total ﬁ nance income       309 391
     
Finance costs:     
– Interest payable on bank loans and other loans      (18) (11)
Total ﬁ nance costs       (18) (11)
     
Net ﬁ nance income       291 380
44 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 7. Taxation
a) Analysis of charge in year
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Current tax      
UK Corporation tax charged to the income statement     4,216 4,611
UK adjustment in respect of previous years      (360) 23
Overseas tax on proﬁ ts in the year       1,525 388
Overseas adjustment in respect of previous years      (58) – 
Total current tax       5,323 5,022
     
Deferred tax     
UK current year origination and reversal of timing differences     (354) (251)
UK adjustment in respect of previous years      (6) (2)
Overseas current year origination and reversal of timing differences    (252) 30
Overseas adjustment in respect of previous years      (7) – 
Effect of change of tax rate from 30% to 28%      – (2)
Total deferred tax       (619) (225)
     
Taxation       4,704 4,797
     
        2009 2008
Reconciliation between expected and actual tax charge     £’000 £’000
Proﬁ t before tax       16,224 14,718
Proﬁ t before tax at standard rate of UK corporation tax of 28% (2008: 30%)    4,543 4,415
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes      626 522
Tax calculated at domestic rates applicable to proﬁ ts in overseas subsidiaries   13 (42)
Joint venture income not subject to UK tax      (47) (117)
Prior year adjustments       (431) 21
Effect of change of tax rate from 30% to 28%      –  (2)
Total tax charge for the year       4,704 4,797
        2009 2008
Tax on items charged to equity       £’000 £’000
Current tax charge on exercised stock options      (39) (192)
Deferred tax credit on stock options       200 111
Deferred tax (charge)/credit on cash ﬂ ow hedges      (166) 27
Effect of change of tax rate from 30% to 28%      –  25
Tax credit in the statement of changes in equity      (5) (29)
     
b) Deferred tax asset
     
        As at As at
        28 Feb 2009 29 Feb 2008
Analysis of the deferred tax asset       £’000 £’000
Accelerated capital allowances     
(includes £86,000 (2008: £72,000) of overseas accelerated capital allowances)   365 308
Short-term timing differences     
(includes £50,000 (2008: £16,000) of overseas short-term timing differences)   445 446
        810 754
     
        2009 2008
The movement in the deferred tax asset      £’000 £’000
Balance at beginning of year       754 642
Acquired       –  192
Movement to income statement       93 58
Movement to reserves       (63) (138)
Exchange       26 – 
Balance at end of year       810 754
45 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements
continued
7. Taxation continued
The closing deferred tax asset includes £164,000 (2008: £43,000) expected to reverse within the next 12 months of the balance 
sheet date.
c) Deferred tax liability
        As at As at
        28 Feb 2009 29 Feb 2008
Analysis of the deferred tax liability       £’000 £’000
Short-term timing differences       (2,255) (681)
        (2,255) (681)
     
     
        2009 2008
The movement in the deferred tax liability       £’000 £’000
Balance at beginning of year       (681) (283)
Acquisition in the year (see note 28)       (1,807) (482)
Reclassiﬁ cation to current tax liability       6 (56)
Movement to reserves       30 (25)
Movement to income statement       526 167
Exchange       (329) (2)
Balance at end of year       (2,255) (681)
The closing deferred tax liability includes £227,000 (2008: £126,000) expected to reverse within the next 12 months of the 
balance sheet date.
No deferred tax has been provided in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests 
in joint ventures where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is 
probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Unremitted earnings may be liable to overseas taxes 
and/or UK taxation (after allowing for double taxation relief) if they were to be distributed as dividends. The aggregate amount of 
temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, for which a deferred tax liability 
has not been recognised is approximately £5.5 million (2008: £1.7 million).
8. Discontinued operations
In September 2007 the Group ceased bunker trading operations based in Australia. As a consequence of this decision, the 
results from bunker trading have been reﬂ ected in the ﬁ nancial statements as discontinued operations.
           Year ended  Year ended
        28 Feb 2009 29 Feb 2008
           £’000 £’000
Revenue         – 25,770
Cost of sales         – (25,661)
          – 109
Operating costs         – (131)
Operating proﬁ t         – (22)
Finance income         – 19
Proﬁ t before taxation         – (3)
Taxation         – –
Proﬁ t for the year         – (3)
46 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 9. Dividends
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
 
          2009 2008
          £’000 £’000
Ordinary shares of 10 pence each      
Final of 15.0 pence per share for the year ended 29 February 2008 (2007: 12.25 pence per share)   3,147 2,451
Interim of 8.5 pence per share paid (2008: 8.00 pence per share)     1,721 1,602
          4,868 4,053
 
In addition, the Directors are proposing a ﬁ nal dividend in respect of the ﬁ nancial year ended 28 February 2009 of 15.5 pence 
per share which will absorb an estimated £3.1 million of shareholders’ funds. It will be paid on 28 July 2009 to shareholders who 
are on the register of members on 3 July 2009. The proposed ﬁ nal dividend is subject to approval by the shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these ﬁ nancial statements.
The right to receive dividends on the shares held in the ESOP has been waived (see note 24). The dividend saving through the 
waiver is £185,000 (2008: £95,000).
10. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding 962,914 ordinary shares held by the employee share trust 
(2008: 685,014 shares) which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all 
dilutive ordinary shares. The Group has one class of potential dilutive ordinary shares being those options granted to employees 
where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year.
In addition, the Directors have presented an additional measure of earnings per share-based on earnings from continuing 
operations attributable to shareholders excluding impairments to allow comparison of underlying trading performance on a 
consistent basis.
 2009 2008
     Weighted   Weighted 
     average   average   
    Earnings number  Per share Earnings number Per share  
Continuing operations   £’000s of shares amount pence £’000s of shares amount pence
Proﬁ t for the period attributable to shareholders  11,463 20,215,801 56.70 9,775 19,953,231 48.99
Effect of dilutive share options   – 356,495 (0.98) – 122,061 (0.30)
Fully diluted earnings per share   11,463 20,572,296 55.72 9,775 20,075,292 48.69
             
Total operations            
Proﬁ t for the period attributable to shareholders  11,463 20,215,801 56.70 9,772 19,953,231 48.97
Effect of dilutive share options   – 356,495 (0.98) – 122,061 (0.29)
Fully diluted earnings per share   11,463 20,572,296 55.72 9,772 20,075,292 48.68
Basic and diluted earnings per share on the loss from discontinued operations is (0.01) pence for the ﬁ nancial year ended 
29 February 2008.
11. Proﬁ t for the ﬁ nancial year
In accordance with the exemptions allowed by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company has not presented its 
own proﬁ t and loss account. Of the results for the year to 28 February 2009 a proﬁ t of £8,898,000 (2008: proﬁ t of £8,350,000) 
has been dealt with in the accounts of the Company.
47 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements
continued
12. Goodwill
Group        £’000
Cost    
At 1 March 2007        30,129
Adjustment to previously reported goodwill       (140)
Additions        3,474
At 29 February 2008        33,463
Adjustment to previously reported goodwill       (190)
Additions (see note 28)        2,550
Exchange        7
At 28 February 2009        35,830
    
Accumulated depreciation and aggregate impairment    
At 1 March 2007        7,523
Impairment recognised in the year        114
At 29 February 2008        7,637
Impairment recognised in the year        56
At 28 February 2009        7,693
    
Net book value at 28 February 2009       28,137
    
Net book value at 29 February 2008        25,826
Details of the acquisitions which took place during the year ended 28 February 2009 can be found in note 28 as well as details 
of adjustments to previously reported goodwill.
The impairment in the year consists of £48,000 in relation to the remaining goodwill arising from the acquisition of Braemar 
Howells Limited due to the level of performance of the business in the year and £8,000 in respect of the goodwill arising on 
the acquisition of Braemar Falconer Limited, a UK subsidiary which is not directly owned by Braemar Falconer Pte Limited 
based in Nevis.
All goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units. The allocation of goodwill to cash-generating units is as follows:
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Braemar Seascope Limited       18,113 18,113
Braemar Seascope Pty Limited       3,099 3,099
Wavespec Limited       204 204
Geo A Morrisons & Co (Leith) Limited       171 171
Planetwide Group Limited       627 627
Gorman Cory Limited       775 90
Braemar Howells Limited       –  48
Braemar Falconer Pte Limited       1,890 1,890
Fred. Olsen Freight Limited       1,394 1,584
Braemar Steege Limited       1,759 –
Cory Brothers Singapore (formally Sealion Shipping (S) Pte Limited)    33 –
Freight Action       72 –
        28,137 25,826
These cash generating units represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management 
purposes.
All recoverable amounts were measured based on value in use. The forecast cash ﬂ ows were based on the approved annual 
budget for the next ﬁ nancial year and management projections for the following four years which are based on estimated 
conservative growth rates for revenue and costs. Management believe any improvements in the cash ﬂ ow are achievable. 
Cash ﬂ ows have been used over a period of ﬁ ve years as management believes this reﬂ ects a reasonable time horizon for 
management to monitor the trends in the business. After ﬁ ve years a terminal value is calculated using a long-term growth 
rate of 2.0%. The cash ﬂ ows were discounted using a discount rate of 13.3% for UK-based operations and 14.5% for 
overseas-based operations which approximate to the Group’s weighted average cost of capital.
The Company has no goodwill.
48 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 13. Other intangible assets
Group        £’000
Cost    
At 1 March 2007        2,153
Additions         1,185
At 29 February 2008        3,338
Additions (see note 28)        2,597
Exchange adjustments        83
At 28 February 2009        6,018
    
Amortisation    
At 1 March 2007        571
Charge for the year        452
At 29 February 2008        1,023
Charge for the year        1,074
At 28 February 2009        2,097
    
Net book value at 28 February 2009       3,921
    
Net book value at 29 February 2008        2,315
In arriving at a valuation of customer relationships the Group has estimated attrition rates for non-contractual customer 
relationships and a discount rate has been applied to these amounts. During the year ended 28 February 2009, the Group 
capitalised the value of the customer relationships (£1,743,000) and the value of the brand name (£607,000) following the 
acquisition of the 100% interest in Steege Kingston Partnership Limited; the value of the customer relationships (£232,000) 
following the acquisition of the net assets of Sealion Shipping (S) Pte Limited and the value of customer relationships (£15,000) 
following the acquisition of the 100% interest in Freight Action Limited.
During the year ended 29 February 2008, the Group capitalised the value of the customer relationships following the acquisition 
of the 100% interest in Braemar Falconer Pte Limited (£835,000) and the value of the customer relationships following the 
acquisition of the 80% interest in Fred. Olsen Freight Limited (£350,000). Amortisation of these assets is charged to the income 
statement within operating costs on a straight-line basis over ﬁ ve years. 
The Company has no intangible assets.
49 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements
continued
14. Property, plant and equipment
      Fixtures &
    Motor vehicles  Computers  equipment Long leasehold Short leasehold Total
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost or fair value      
At 1 March 2007   239 1,085 1,240 4,621 271 7,456
Additions at cost   152 555 267 48 10 1,032
Acquisitions   1 56 40 11 – 108
Disposals   (51) (72) (31) (7) – (161)
Exchange differences   3 35 110 4 – 152
At 29 February 2008   344 1,659 1,626 4,677 281 8,587
Additions at cost   102 418 561 108 –  1,189
Acquisitions (see note 28)   –  14 80 16 – 110
Disposals   (22) (28) (4) – (10) (64)
Exchange differences   –  109 88 15 – 212
At 28 February 2009   424 2,172 2,351 4,816 271 10,034
      
Accumulated depreciation      
At 1 March 2007   56 576 774 505 67 1,978
Charge for the year   106 328 141 91 21 687
Disposals   (29) (12) (6) – – (47)
Exchange differences   3 35 110 1 – 149
At 29 February 2008   136 927 1,019 597 88 2,767
Charge for the year   109 412 301 111 23 956
Disposals   (16) (22) (3) – (2) (43)
Exchange differences   – 80 79 6 –  165
At 28 February 2009   229 1,397 1,396 714 109 3,845
      
Net book value at 28 February 2009  195 775 955 4,102 162 6,189
      
Net book value at 29 February 2008   208 732 607 4,080 193 5,820
At 28 February 2009, the Group had contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment totalling 
£549,000 (2008: £nil).
The Company has no tangible ﬁ xed assets.
15. Investments
       Joint Unlisted
       ventures investments Total
Group      £’000 £’000 £’000
Goodwill      340 –  340
Share of net assets/cost      415 783 1,198
At 1 March 2007      755 783 1,538
Conversion of joint venture to subsidiary     
Exchange differences      55 –  55
Additions      – 38 38
Share of joint ventures proﬁ ts retained     370 – 370
Disposals      – (111) (111)
Goodwill      340 – 340
Share of net assets/cost      840 710 1,550
At 29 February 2008      1,180 710 1,890
Exchange differences      199 – 199
Additions      –  9 9
Share of joint ventures proﬁ ts retained     246 – 246
Goodwill      340 –  340
Share of net assets/cost      1,285 719 2,004
At 28 February 2009      1,625 719 2,344
50 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 15. Investments continued
All Company investments are accounted for at cost less impairment.
       Associate/  
       joint venture Unlisted 
      Subsidiaries  undertakings investments Total
Company     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost    
At 1 March 2007     36,711 412 641 37,764
Share-based payments     554 – – 554
Additions      5,973 – – 5,973
Reclassiﬁ cation/disposals     (513) – (109) (622)
At 29 February 2008     42,725 412 532 43,669
Share-based payments     299 – – 299
Additions     8,067  – 8,067
Reclassiﬁ cation/disposals     (28) – 28 –
At 28 February 2009     51,063 412 560 52,035
    
Impairment    
At 1 March 2007, 29 February 2008 and 28 February 2009   1,837 – – 1,837
    
Net book value at 28 February 2009    49,226 412 560 50,198
    
Net book value at 29 February 2008     40,888 412 532 41,832
The Company invested £299,000 (2008: £554,000) in the subsidiaries of the Group in respect of share-based payment charges 
incurred in the year (see note 23).
In addition, the Company acquired all issued share capital of Steege Kingston Partnership Limited for a consideration of 
£8,067,000 (see note 28).
A list of principal operating subsidiary and joint venture undertakings is as follows:
a) Subsidiaries
Particulars of subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
    Percentage of Percentage of
    ordinary shares ordinary shares 
Name of company Country Principal activity directly owned indirectly owned
Braemar Seascope Limited England & Wales Shipbroking  100%
Braemar Seascope Valuations Limited England & Wales Valuations  100%
Braemar Seascope Pty Limited  Australia Shipbroking 100% 
Braemar Seascope Pte Limited Singapore Shipbroking 100% 
Cory Brothers Shipping Agency Limited England & Wales Ship agents 100% 
Gorman Cory Limited England & Wales Ship agents  100%
Fred. Olsen Freight Limited England & Wales Ship agents  80%
Wavespec Limited England & Wales Marine consultants 100% 
Braemar Falconer Pte Limited Nevis Marine consultants 100% 
Braemar Falconer Pte Limited Singapore Marine consultants  100%
Asian Energy Services Limited Singapore Energy consultants  100%
Braemar Falconer Sdn Bhd Malaysia Marine consultants  49%
PT Braemar Falconer Indonesia Marine consultants  100%
Braemar Falconer Vietnam Co Limited Vietnam Marine consultants  100%
Steege Kingston Partnership Limited England & Wales Energy loss adjuster 100% 
Braemar Steege Limited England & Wales Energy loss adjuster  100%
Braemar Steege Inc United States Energy loss adjuster  100%
Braemar Steege Pte Limited Singapore Energy loss adjuster  100%
Braemar Steege Canada Limited Canada Energy loss adjuster  100%
Braemar Steege de Mexico Mexico Energy loss adjuster  100%
Braemar Howells Limited England & Wales Environmental services 100% 
51 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements
continued
15. Investments continued
All subsidiaries have been owned as at 28 February 2009 and 29 February 2008 respectively with the exception of Steege 
Kingston Partnership Limited, Braemar Steege Limited, Braemar Steege Inc, Braemar Steege Pte Limited, Braemar Steege 
Canada Limited and Braemar Steege de Mexico which were acquired during the year ended 28 February 2009.
The ﬁ nancial statements of the principal subsidiary undertakings are prepared to 29 February 2008 except for PT Braemar 
Falconer and Braemar Falconer Vietnam Co Limited for which, as permitted under IAS 27, the results to 31 December 2007 
have been consolidated on the basis that the results to 29 February 2008 would not be materially different.
The Group acquired 49% of Braemar Falconer Sdn Bhd on 7 July 2007. From acquisition, the Group has had the power to 
govern the ﬁ nancial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain beneﬁ ts from its activities and therefore has effective 
control. The Group has therefore accounted for this entity as a subsidiary.
b) Joint ventures
Particulars of the joint venture companies which have been equity accounted are as follows:
    Percentage
    of ordinary Accounting 
Name of company Country Principal activity shares owned reference date
Braemar Quincannon Ltd England & Wales Shipbroking 50% 28 February
Braemar Seascope India (Private) Limited India Shipbroking 50% 31 March
Braemar Quincannon Pte Limited  Singapore Shipbroking 50% 31 December 
The share capital of Braemar Quincannon Pte Limited is owned by the Company. All other joint ventures are indirectly owned by 
the Group.
In relation to the Group’s interest in joint ventures, the assets, liabilities, income and expenses are shown below:
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Current assets       2,571 1,126
Non-current assets       53 42
Current liabilities       (731) (328)
Non-current liabilities       –  – 
        1,893 840
Provision against investment in joint ventures      (608) –
        1,285 840
   
Income       2,816 1,439
Expenses       (1,614) (900)
        1,202 539
Taxation       (348) (169)
Share of post-tax results       854 370
Provision against investment in joint ventures      (608) – 
        246 370
The joint ventures have no signiﬁ cant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed. 
c) Unlisted investments
The Group’s unlisted shares principally include 1,000 (16.7%) ordinary £1 shares in London Tankers Brokers Panel and 7,500 
(25%) ordinary £1 shares London Ship Valuation Panel. These have been treated as investments and not equity accounted as 
the Company does not have signiﬁ cant inﬂ uence as all investors in these companies have equivalent proportional inﬂ uence.
The unlisted investments are shown at cost because their fair value cannot be measured reliably.
16. Other long-term receivables
Other receivables of £176,000 (2008: £155,000) comprised £72,000 (2008: £72,000) in respect of non-interest bearing loans to 
16 (2008:16) employees of Braemar Seascope Limited repayable over three years and £104,000 (2008: £83,000) in respect of 
security deposits with landlords and other service providers in the Braemar Falconer businesses. 
52 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 17. Trade and other receivables
 Group Company
      2009 2008 2009 2008
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade receivables     33,089 24,055 –  –
Provision for impairment of trade receivables    (2,974) (716) – –
      30,115 23,339 – –
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings    – – 3,304 3,627
Other receivables     2,287 1,873 646 604
Accrued income     4,394 1,147 – –
Prepayments     1,259 516 – –
      38,055 26,875 3,950 4,231
The total receivables balance is denominated in the following currencies:
 Group Company
      2009 2008 2009 2008
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
US dollars     19,275 10,750 – –
Pounds sterling     14,699 13,245 3,950 4,231
Other     4,081 2,880 – –
      38,055 26,875 3,950 4,231
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade receivables approximate their fair value.
Terms associated with the settlement of the Group’s trade receivables vary across the Group but in general are settled in less 
than 90 days. As at 28 February 2009 trade receivables of £1,623,000 (2008: £524,000) which were over 12 months old were 
treated as impaired and have been provided for. Amounts over 12 months old at 28 February 2009 that have not been provided 
for have been recovered since that date.
In addition, a provision of £1,351,000 (2008: £192,000) has been made for speciﬁ c trade receivables less than 12 months overdue.
The ageing proﬁ le of trade receivables as at 28 February 2009 is as follows:
 Group
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Up to 3 months       23,055 19,155
3 to 6 months       4,410 3,212
6 to 12 months       3,477 969
Over 12 months       2,147 719
Total       33,089 24,055
The Company has no trade receivables (2007: £nil). Amounts due from subsidiaries are unsecured, bear no interest and are 
repayable on demand.
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows:
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
At 1 March       716 482
Provision for receivables impairment       2,420 475
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable     4 (20)
Acquisitions       185 108
Amounts previously impaired collected in period      (374) (329)
Exchange differences       23 –
At 28 February/29 February       2,974 716
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets with the exception of accrued income where 
there is a provision of £9,000 (2008: £nil) for amounts greater than 12 months old.
53 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements
continued
18. Derivative and other ﬁ nancial instruments
a) Currency risk
The Group’s currency risk exposure arises as a result of the majority of its shipbroking earnings being denominated in US dollars 
while the majority of its costs are denominated in pounds sterling and to a lesser extent Australian dollars and from the carrying 
values of its overseas subsidiaries being denominated in foreign currencies. The Group manages the exposure to currency 
variations by spot and forward currency sales and other derivative currency contracts. 
At 28 February 2009 the Group held forward currency contracts to sell US$22.0 million at an average rate of $1.49/£ and a 
variable forward window agreement to sell $1.0 million per month with upper and lower strike prices of $1.2975 – $1.4895 for 
the months March 2009 – February 2011.
At 29 February 2008 the Group held forward currency contracts to sell US$12.0 million at an average rate of $1.93/£ and two 
variable forward window agreements to sell $0.5 million per month with upper and lower strike prices of $1.9735 – $2.10 for 
the months March 08 – December 08 and $1.8605 – $1.9995 for the months March 08 – February 09.
The fair value/carrying value of the derivative ﬁ nancial instruments of the Group are as follows:
    
 2009 2008
      Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Forward currency contracts       
Assets     5 5 107 107
Liabilities     (649) (649) – –
      
Currency options       
Assets/(liabilities)     155 155 (49) (49)
The net fair value of forward currency contracts that are designated and effective as cash ﬂ ow hedges amount to a £5,000 asset 
and a £649,000 liability (2008: £107,000 asset) which have been deferred in equity.
Amounts of £3,034,000 (2008: £16,000) have been charged to the income statement in respect of forward contracts which 
have matured or were settled early during the period.
The net fair value of currency options that are designated and effective as a fair value hedge amount to an asset of £155,000 
which has been deferred in equity. In 2008 £59,000 was charged to the income statement in respect of currency options that 
matured during the period.
The fair value of ﬁ nancial instruments is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The effect on equity and proﬁ t before tax of a 10% weakening in the average dollar exchange rate in the year before hedging 
and with all other variables being equal, is approximately £2.4 million adverse (2008: £0.3 million). A 10% strengthening in the 
average US dollar exchange rate is approximately £2.6 million favourable (2008: £0.3 million).
b) Interest rate risk
The Group minimises its exposure to interest rate risk by pooling sterling cash balances across the Group.
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity, of the Group’s ﬁ nancial instruments which are exposed to interest 
rate risk:
        2009 2008
        Within one year Within one year
Group       £’000 £’000
Floating rate:    
Cash and cash equivalents (see note 20)      25,194 21,635
        2009 2008
        Within one year Within one year
Company       £’000 £’000
Floating rate:    
Cash and cash equivalents (see note 20)      377 3,506
Cash balances are generally held on overnight deposits at ﬂ oating rates depending on cash requirements and the prevailing 
market rates for the amount of funds deposited.
The other ﬁ nancial instruments of the Group are non-interest bearing.
The effect on equity and proﬁ t before tax of a 1% increase or decrease in the interest rate, all other variables being equal, 
is approximately £0.1 million (2008: £0.1 million).
54 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 18. Derivative and other ﬁ nancial instruments continued
c)  Liquidity risk
At 28 February 2009, the Group had an overdraft facility for £5.0 million (2008: £3.0 million). At 28 February 2009 none of the 
facility had been drawn (2008: £nil). The Company and its subsidiaries have provided cross guarantees and ﬁ xed and ﬂ oating 
rate charges over their assets to secure the above overdraft facility.
d)  Credit risk
There are no signiﬁ cant concentrations within the Group or Company.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the diversity of the Group’s customer base. 
The Directors believe there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of normal provisions for doubtful receivables, 
estimated by the Group’s management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment. 
The Group seeks to minimise its bad debt risk by trading only with credit-worthy parties and as a result has not historically 
suffered signiﬁ cant exposure to bad debts. The maximum exposure is the carrying amount as disclosed in note 17.
19. Restricted cash
Restricted cash comprises cash balances totalling £nil (2008: £4.0 million), where the Group is holding cash as escrow agent 
for certain clients, pending completion of transactions in which the Group acted as broker. The amounts are held in designated 
accounts and any interest is due to the clients. Restricted cash is denominated in US dollars.
20. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise £25.2 million held by the Group (2008: £21.6 million) and £0.4 million held by the Company 
(2008: £3.5 million).
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
21. Trade and other payables
 Group Company
      2009 2008 2009 2008
Current liabilities     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade payables     17,541 15,184 – – 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings    – –  1,386 3,398
Other taxation and social security     1,028 720 8 – 
Deferred consideration     2,617 1,748 2,078 – 
Other payables     2,027 1,676 12 12
Other accruals and deferred income     23,008 20,212 –  – 
      46,221 39,540 3,484 3,410
The average credit period taken for trade payables is 38 days (2008: 29 days). The Directors consider that the carrying amounts 
of trade payables approximate their fair value.
 Group Company
      2009 2008 2009 2008
Non-current liabilities     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Deferred consideration     – 434 – – 
The amounts included in current liabilities are expected to be settled in less than 12 months.
Deferred consideration due after more than one year at 29 February 2008 represented the estimated option price of acquiring 
the remaining 20% of the share capital of Fred. Olsen Freight Limited less an estimate of the amount to be recovered in respect 
of the cost of acquiring 80% of Fred. Olsen Freight Limited.
The Company has no trade payables (2008: £nil). Amounts due to subsidiaries are unsecured, bear no interest and are 
repayable on demand.
55 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements
continued
22. Provisions
         Employee
         entitlements
         £’000
At 1 March 2008        129
Foreign exchange        47
Charged in the year        69
Utilised in the year        (20)
At 28 February 2009        225
Employee entitlements relate to statutory long service leave in Braemar Seascope Pty Limited and the Braemar Falconer group 
and is based on judgements regarding the expected length of service of employees.
The maturity proﬁ le of the provisions is as follows:
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Within one year       88 48
Current liabilities       88 48
      
Between one and two years       62 45
Between two and three years       75 36
Non-current liabilities       137 81
      
Total provisions       225 129
The Company has no provisions.
23. Share Capital
 
      2009 2008 2009 2008
Group and Company     number number £’000 £’000
a) Authorised     
Ordinary shares of 10 pence each     34,903,000 34,903,000 3,490 3,490
     
      2009 2008 2009 2008
       number number £’000 £’000
b) Issued 
Fully paid ordinary shares of 10 pence each     
As at start of year     20,607,258 20,231,341 2,061 2,023
Acquisitions (see note 28)     316,631 –  32 – 
Shares issued and fully paid     112,524 368,497 11 37
Shares issued and unpaid     –  7,420 – 1
As at end of year     21,036,413 20,607,258 2,104 2,061
During the year ended 28 February 2009, 3,750 shares were issued at 137.5 pence, 3,000 shares were issued at 181.5 pence 
and 51,200 shares were issued at 245.0 pence as part of the 1997 Executive Scheme. A further 40,930 shares were issued 
at 314.0 pence as part of the Save as You Earn (“SAYE”) Scheme. Finally, 13,644 shares were issued and awarded to certain 
employees at the market value of 439.75 pence. Of the 112,524, no shares remained unpaid at 28 February 2009.
In addition, 306,513 shares were issued at a total value of £1,348,000 as part of the consideration to acquire Steege Kingston 
Partnership Limited on 3 March 2008 (see note 28). Subsequently, a further 10,118 shares were issued at a total value of 
£30,000 on 18 November 2008 as consideration to acquire the remaining 10% minority interest of Braemar Steege de Mexico.
During the year ended 29 February 2008, 107,850 shares were issued at 137.5 pence and 16,750 shares were issued at 
181.5 pence and 142,600 shares were issued at 245.0 pence as part of the 1997 Executive Scheme. A further 108,717 shares 
were issued at 199.0 pence as part of the Save as You Earn (“SAYE”) Scheme. Of the 375,917, 7,420 shares remained unpaid 
at 29 February 2008. Payment was received after the balance sheet date.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to ﬁ xed income.
56 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 23. Share Capital continued
c) Capital redemption reserve 
         2009 2008
Group and Company       £’000 £’000
Beginning and end of year        396 396
The capital redemption reserve arose on previous share buy-backs by Braemar Shipping Services plc.
d) Share-based payments
i. Share options
The Company operates a discretionary share option scheme, the Braemar Shipping Services Group 1997 Executive Option 
Scheme (“The 1997 Executive Scheme”) under which options are granted by the Remuneration Committee. The scheme is 
open to all UK employees and Executive Directors and the exercise price of the options granted were at the market price at 
date of grant.
The Company also operates a Save As You Earn Scheme (“SAYE”). The scheme is open to all UK employees and executive 
Directors and options were granted at 20% discount to the prevailing market price.
Details of the share options in issue and the movements in the year are given below: 
       Number at  
  Year option Number at    28 February Exercise Exercisable
Share scheme granted 1 March 2008 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2009 price (pence) between
1997 Executive Scheme
   2002 3,750 – (3,750) – – 137.5 2005-2012
   2003 18,000 – (3,000) – 15,000 181.5 2006-2013
   2004 75,400 – (51,200) – 24,200 245.0 2007-2014
     97,150 – (57,950) – 39,200    
SAYE             
   2005 55,625 – (40,903) (14,722) – 314.0 2008-2009
   2006 152,325 – – (127,786) 24,539 314.0 2009-2010
   2007 88,016 – – (72,509) 15,507 355.2 2010-2011
   2009 – 648,468 – – 648,468 196.4 2011-2012
     295,966 648,468 (40,903) (215,017) 688,514  
                 
     393,116 648,468 (98,853) (215,017) 727,714  
Share options granted in 2002 under the 1997 Executive Scheme were subject to a performance condition that the growth 
in the Company’s average adjusted earnings per share (EPS) over a period of no less than three ﬁ nancial years must exceed 
the growth in the retail price index (RPI) over the corresponding period by no less than 3% per annum compounded. If the 
performance condition is not satisﬁ ed at this point, retesting of the performance condition is permitted in subsequent ﬁ nancial 
years until the option lapses. The options granted in 2003 and 2004 retain the same performance criteria, with no re-testing. 
The base measurement period for the remaining options is the average of the EPS (as published in the Group’s annual report 
and accounts) for the three ﬁ nancial years immediately preceding the grant of the relevant option. Exercise of an option 
is subject to continued employment. 
Options are valued using a binomial pricing model. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation 
are as follows:
           SAYE SAYE
Grant date         22 Dec 08 21 Nov 07
Share price at grant date         225.38p 456.30p
Exercise price         196.40p 355.20p
Number of employees         220 95
Shares under option         648,468 88,016
Vesting period (years)         3.1 3.1
Expected volatility         50.00% 25.00%
Option life (years)         3.6 3.6
Risk free rate         2.84% 4.47%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield        5.00% 5.00%
Possibility of ceasing employment before vesting        5.00% 5.00%
Expectation of meeting performance criteria        100.00% 100.00%
Fair value per option         74.50p 110.56p
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last four years. The risk free rate of return is based on LIBOR. 
57 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 23. Share Capital continued
A reconciliation of option movements during the year is shown below:
  2009 2008
        Weighted  Weighted
       average  average  
      Number exercise price Number exercise price
Outstanding at 1 March     393,116 302.24p 700,544 236.69p
Granted     648,468 196.40p 88,016 355.20p
Exercised     (98,853) 267.55p (375,917) 198.03p
Lapsed     (215,017) 327.89p (19,527) 195.42p
Outstanding at 28 February     727,714 205.06p 393,116 302.24p
Exercisable at 28 February     39,200 220.70p 97,150 229.09p
     
         2009 2008
         Contractual Contractual
Weighted average remaining life (years)      3.0 3.8
The weighted average share price for share options exercised in the year is 491.69 pence.
ii. Deferred bonus plan
During 2005 the Company put in place a Deferred Bonus Plan (“the Plan”) whereby part of the annual performance-related 
bonus is delivered in shares, on a discretionary basis, to staff including Executive Directors. Under the Plan the shares are 
bought and held in an employee trust for three years after which the employee beneﬁ ciary will become absolutely entitled to 
the shares provided they remain in employment. Shares are valued at fair value at the date of grant.
During the year ended 28 February 2009, 48,000 shares at a value of £135,000 that were awarded to employees in May 2005 
as part of the Plan were delivered to them in May 2008 following the three-year vesting period. In addition, 15,000 shares at a 
value of £47,000 that were awarded to employees in December 2005 were delivered to them in December 2008 following the 
three-year vesting period. Furthermore, 221,525 shares were awarded to employees during the year and 1,000 shares lapsed.
As at 28 February 2009 600,775 deferred shares had been awarded to employees (2008: 443,250) but not yet delivered.
iii. Long-term incentive plan (“LTIP”)
The Company established an LTIP in 2006. LTIP awards take the form of a conditional right to receive shares at nil cost. 
The awards normally vest over three years and are subject to a performance condition based on earnings per share (EPS). 
If EPS has increased by RPI plus 4%, the awards vest up to 50% and if EPS has increased by 10% they vest up to 100% 
with a sliding scale in between. In May 2007 awards over 80,000 were made and remain outstanding at 28 February 2009.
The total charge for the year relating to all employee share-based payment plans was £299,000 (2008: £554,000) with a further 
£154,000 incurred in respect of national insurance contributions, all of which related to equity-settled share-based payment 
transactions. At 28 February 2009, £121,000 relating to National Insurance contributions has been accrued in current liabilities 
but remains unsettled.
24. Shares to be issued
Group and Company        £’000
At 1 March 2007        1,047
Share capital acquired in the year        1,480
At 29 February 2008        2,527
Share capital acquired in the year        1,134
ESOP shares allocated        (182)
At 28 February 2009        3,479
Shares to be issued represent shares held in the ESOP and are a reduction in distributable reserves.
An employee share ownership plan (ESOP) was established on 23 January 1995. The ESOP has been set up to purchase shares 
in the Company. These shares, once purchased, are held on trust by the Trustee of the ESOP, Close Trustees Guernsey Limited, 
for the beneﬁ t of the employees. As at 28 February 2009, the ESOP held 962,914 (2008: 685,014) ordinary shares of 10 pence 
each at a total cost of £3,479,000 (2008: £2,527,000) including stamp duty associated with the purchase. The funding of the 
purchase has been provided by the Company in the form of an interest-free loan and the trustees have contracted with the 
Company to waive the ESOP’s right to receive dividends. The fees charged by the trustees for the operation of the ESOP are 
paid by the Company and charged to the income statement as they fall due. The shares owned by the ESOP had a market value 
at 28 February 2009 of £2,356,732 (2008: £3,082,563). The distribution of these shares is determined by the Remuneration 
Committee and of the 962,914 held, 680,775 shares had been allocated at 28 February 2009 (2008: 523,250). 63,000 shares 
have been delivered during the year (see note 23).
Notes to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements
continued
58 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 25. Other reserves
    Capital  Deferred 
    redemption Merger consideration Translation Hedging 
    reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Group      
At 1 March 2007   396 21,346 (738) 5 11 21,020
Cash ﬂ ow hedges      
– Transfer to net proﬁ t    – – – – (16) (16)
– Fair value losses in the period   – – – – 107 107
Exchange differences   –  – – 383 – 383
Consideration to be paid   –  – (782) – – (782)
Deferred tax on items taken to equity   –  – – – (25) (25)
At 29 February 2008   396 21,346 (1,520) 388 77 20,687
Cash ﬂ ow hedges      
– Transfer to net proﬁ t    – – – – 3,034 3,034
– Fair value losses in the period   –  – – –  (3,629) (3,629)
Exchange differences   – –  – 3,597 – 3,597
Consideration paid   –  – 900 – – 900
Deferred consideration to be paid   – –  265 – – 265
Deferred tax on items taken to equity   – – – – 166 166
At 28 February 2009   396 21,346 (355) 3,985 (352) 25,020
       Capital 
       redemption Merger 
              reserve reserve Total
              £’000 £’000 £’000
Company                  
At 1 March 2007, 29 February 2008 and 28 February 2009     396 21,346 21,742
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in fair value of cash ﬂ ow hedging instruments 
relating to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred of £489,000 liability (2008: £107,000 asset) net of the deferred tax 
asset of £137,000 (2008: £30,000 liability).
The translation reserve contains all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the Group’s net investment 
in overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures and has increased signiﬁ cantly due to the ﬂ uctuations in the US dollar and 
Singapore dollar.
The deferred consideration reserve contains the estimated cost of acquiring the remaining 20% of Fred. Olsen Freight Limited 
(see note 28).
The merger reserve arose principally in 2001 in relation to acquisitions of Braemar Shipbrokers and Braemar Tankers.
The Group’s retained earnings contains the cumulative share-based payment charges of £1,717,000 (2008: £1,264,000) put 
through the income statement (see note 23) and the related deferred tax of £355,000 (2008: £523,000).
26. Minority interest
         Group
         £’000
At 1 March 2007        309
Acquisition        16
Proﬁ t for the period attributable to shareholders for the year      146
Dividends paid        (143)
At 29 February 2008        328
Exchange differences        15
Acquisition (see note 28)        19
Proﬁ t for the period attributable to shareholders for the year      57
Dividends paid        (45)
Consideration paid        (260)
At 28 February 2009        114
Minority interest at 28 February 2009 represents 20% of Fred. Olsen Freight Limited acquired on 24 December 2007 which was 
not owned by the Group at 28 February 2009. During the year, the Group acquired the 59% minority interest in Gorman Cory 
Limited (see note 28) and the 10% minority interest in Braemar Steege de Mexico (see note 28).
59 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements
continued
27. Cash generated from operations
 Group Company
      2009 2008 2009 2008
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Proﬁ t before tax for the year from continuing operations   16,224 14,718 8,898 8,363
Proﬁ t before tax for the year from discontinued operations   –  (3) –  –
Adjustments for:    
– Depreciation     956 687 – – 
– Amortisation     1,074 452 – –
– Goodwill impairment charge     56 114 – –
– Loss on sale of property plant and equipment    15 57 – –
– Negative goodwill credited to income statement    (15) (89) – (89)
– Interest income     (309) (391) – (2)
– Interest expense     18 11 – – 
– Share of proﬁ t of joint ventures     (246) (370) – – 
– Share-based payments and related national insurance charges  453 554 –  –
Changes in working capital:    
– Trade and other receivables     1,246 122 281 4,419
– Trade and other payables     1,437 5,630 (1,989) 2,826
– Provisions     50 (334) – –
Cash generated from operations     20,959 21,158 7,190 15,517
28. Business combinations
The following acquisitions have taken place during the year ended 28 February 2009:
a) Steege Kingston Partnership Limited
On 3 March 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Steege Kingston Partnership Limited for a consideration 
of £8.1 million.
The provisional fair value of the assets acquired was:
       Accounting
       policy Fair value  
      Book value adjustments adjustments Fair value
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment     110 – – 110
Other intangible assets     – – 2,350 2,350
Trade and other receivables     6,783 (101) – 6,682
Trade and other payables     (1,803) – – (1,803)
Current tax payable     (392) 26 – (366)
Deferred tax liability     (1,149) – (658) (1,807)
Cash     1,161 – – 1,161
Net assets     4,710 (75) 1,692 6,327
      
Minority interest        (19)
Net assets acquired by the Group        6,308
      
Goodwill        1,759
         8,067
Consideration      
Cash paid        4,454
Shares issued        1,348
Cash payable        2,078
Transaction costs        187
Total consideration        8,067
60 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 28. Business combinations continued
The Group has capitalised customer relationships at a value of £1,743,000 and the brand at a value of £607,000. The expected 
life of the assets is ﬁ ve years. Included in the goodwill recognised above are certain intangible assets that cannot be individually 
separated and reliably measured due to their nature, including the workforce.
The deferred consideration is based on a multiple of the earnings before interest and tax in each of the two years post-completion 
and these amounts will be settled wholly in cash.
The results of operations as if the acquisition had been made at the beginning of the period, and as consolidated in the Group’s 
results for the year ended 28 February 2009, are as follows:
         Pre-acquisition
        From 1 March From 1 March
        2008 to 2007 to
         28 February  29 February
        2009 2008
        £’000 £’000
Revenue        6,816 6,502
Operating proﬁ t       1,317 1,678
Proﬁ t before taxation        1,334 1,702
Proﬁ t after taxation       878 1,220
The results for the pre-acquisition period to 29 February 2008 are based on management accounts, which have not been audited.
On 18 November 2008, Steege Kingston Partnership Limited acquired the remaining 10% minority interest in its subsidiary 
company, Braemar Steege de Mexico, for a consideration of £30,000 by the issue of 10,118 ordinary shares.
b) Sealion Shipping (S) Pte Limited
On 29 July 2008 the Group acquired the assets of Sealion Shipping (S) Pte Limited situated in Singapore generating goodwill 
of £26,000. An amount of £26,000 was paid on this date and consideration of £232,000 was deferred and is based on 
a multiple of the average earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation over the three years following the date 
of the acquisition. Included in the results for the year ended 28 February 2009 are revenues of £166,000 and operating proﬁ t 
of £37,000.
c) Freight Action Limited
Effective on 31 October 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the shares of Freight Action Limited situated near Ipswich in the 
United Kingdom generating goodwill of £72,000. No cash consideration has been paid in the year ended 28 February 2009 but 
estimated consideration of £80,000 has been deferred which will be paid and is dependent on the multiple of earnings before 
interest, tax and amortisation over the three years following the date of acquisition. Included in the results for the year ended 
28 February 2009 are revenues of £230,000 and operating proﬁ t of £8,000.
d) Gorman Cory Limited
On 5 March 2008, the Group acquired the 59% minority interest in Gorman Cory Limited for a consideration of £900,000 
generating additional goodwill of £685,000. The fair value of the net assets acquired was assessed at the time the Group took 
control of the business on 1 March 2006 therefore no further fair value exercise was required.
In respect of businesses acquired in the period ended 29 February 2008, the following adjustments have been made to the 
provisional fair values and consideration.
e) Fred. Olsen Freight Limited
As at 29 February 2008, the provisional cash consideration payable for the 80% acquisition of Fred. Olsen Freight Limited 
was £662,000 net of an estimated recoverable amount of £186,000 in relation to the initial price paid. During the year ended 
28 February 2009, a ﬁ nal payment of £730,000 was made in relation to the 80% acquisition generating a reduction to goodwill 
of £161,000. In addition, the estimated recoverable amount of £186,000 was revised to £215,000 which has also reduced the 
value of the goodwill by £29,000. The total revision to the value of goodwill arising on acquisition of 80% of the share capital of 
Fred. Olsen Freight Limited has been to reduce the value by £190,000.
On completion of the acquisition of 80% of Fred. Olsen Freight Limited, the Group entered into a put and call option agreement 
to acquire the remaining 20% of the share capital of the company. The terms of the put option provide that the Group could 
be required to purchase the remaining portion of the business at any time up until 24 December 2015, but not earlier than 
25 March 2009, and the call option allows the Group to exercise its right in any event on 24 December 2015 if the option 
has not been exercised by the vendors prior to this date. The value of the deferred consideration has been revised as at 
28 February 2009 to £355,000 (2008: £620,000) based on current forecasts and is included in deferred consideration in 
current liabilities (note 21), although the exact payment may take place at any time over the period to 2015. The minimum 
amount of consideration is £355,000 and the maximum amount £772,000. The call option has not been reﬂ ected in the 
ﬁ nancial statements as it is assessed to have nil value.
61 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements
continued
28. Business combinations continued
e) Braemar Falconer Limited
On 12 December 2007, Braemar Falconer Limited, a UK company, was acquired by a subsidiary company, Wavespec Limited, 
for a consideration of £2. The assessment of the fair value of the net liabilities acquired was completed in the year ended 
28 February 2009 which generated goodwill of £8,000. However, due to the company having net liabilities this amount was 
impaired during the year. Included in the results for the year ended 28 February 2009 are revenues of £262,000 and operating 
proﬁ t of £83,000.
29. Pensions
The Group participates in a number of deﬁ ned contribution schemes. Contributions of £2,310,000 (2008: £1,732,000) were paid 
in the year and contributions of £nil were due to these schemes at 28 February 2009 (2008: £nil).
30. Financial commitments
a) Operating lease commitments
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 29 February are as follows:
 Land and buildings 
      Lease minimum Sub lease Net minimum 
      payments  income lease repayments Other
2009     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Within one year     1,000 (30) 970 174
Between two and ﬁ ve years     1,972 – 1,972 152
Over ﬁ ve years     2,911 –  2,911 – 
      5,883 (30) 5,853 326
      
 Land and buildings 
      Lease minimum Sub lease Net minimum 
      payments  income lease repayments Other
2008     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Within one year     642 (63) 579 176
Between two and ﬁ ve years     950 (14) 936 128
Over ﬁ ve years     603 – 603 –
      2,195 (77) 2,118 304
The Group leases various ofﬁ ces and a warehouse under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have various 
terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group also leases plant and machinery under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
There were no commitments under operating leases in the Company.
b) Other commitments
On completion of the acquisition of 80% of Fred. Olsen Freight Limited, the Group entered into a put and call option agreement 
to acquire the remaining 20% of the share capital of Fred. Olsen Freight Limited (see note 28).
31. Contingent liabilities
The Company has given a guarantee to HM Revenue and Customs in respect of duty deferment in the amount of £1.3 million 
(2008: £1.3 million). Further guarantees to HM Revenue and Customs and third parties total £1.0 million (2008: £1.0 million). 
In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries have provided cross guarantees and ﬁ xed and ﬂ oating rate charges over their 
assets to secure the overdraft facility (see note 18).
62 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 32. Related party transactions
During the period the Group entered into the following transactions with joint ventures and investments:
 2009 2008
      Balance due   Balance due
    Recharges to Dividends from/(to) Recharges to Dividends to/(from)
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Delphis UK   –  – 24 – – 24
Braemar Quincannon Limited   – – 59 – – 65
Braemar Seascope India (Private) Limited  – – (152) – – 50
Braemar Quincannon Pte Limited   – – (2) – – 18
London Tankers Broker Panel   236 – – 258 – – 
London Central Cruise Moorings   15 – – 23 – –
The nature of all recharges to related parties are carried out on an arm’s length basis.
Under the Merger Agreement dated 7 March 2001 between the Company and Braemar Shipbrokers Ltd, the vendors gave 
a joint and several indemnity to the Company for any warranty and tax indemnity claims up to an aggregate of £10 million. 
During the year ended 28 February 2006, the Company received an assessment for corporation tax and interest totalling 
£2.2 million which is recoverable under the indemnity and which is currently being appealed. Following receipt of the assessment 
the Company received funds of £1.6 million from the vendors which were paid to the Inland Revenue in order to prevent interest 
accruing. Such funds would become repayable to the vendors in the event that the appeal is successful. £0.6 million (2008: 
£0.6 million) remains outstanding pending the appeal result. The Company does not expect to incur any cost in respect of this 
assessment or these contingent liabilities.
The Chief Executive and a Director are Braemar Shipbrokers vendors and are therefore party to the transactions referred to above.
Key management compensation is disclosed in note 4. At 28 February 2009, there was a balance of £14,000 (2008: £nil) due 
from a Director which has subsequently been settled in full.
During the year the Company entered into the following transactions with subsidiaries and joint ventures:
 2009 2008
    Funding  Balance due   Balance due
    to/from  Dividends from/(to) Funding to Dividends to/(from)
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Braemar Shipbrokers Limited   (9,447) 8,650 (589) – 6,592 208
Braemar Seascope Limited   2,601 – (272) (2,873) – (2,873)
Braemar Seascope Pty Limited   – – – – 254 –
Wavespec Limited   (82) 300 1,551 – 250 1,256
Cory Brothers Shipping Agency Limited  (500) – 513 – 500 1,013
Braemar Howells Limited   – – 1,150 – 750 1,150
Braemar Steege Limited   – – 90 – – – 
Portabella Limited   – – (525) – – (525)
32. Post balance sheet events
On 2 March 2009 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Cagnoil Limited. The initial consideration was £0.7 million 
satisﬁ ed by cash from existing resources and a further £0.2 million is due over the next four years. The total consideration 
represents the fair value of the net assets of the business and predominantly relates to the value of the forward order book 
which has an expected life of four years.
63 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Five year ﬁ nancial summary
Consolidated income statement
     12 Months 12 Months 12 Months 12 Months 12 Months
      to Feb 2005 to Feb 2006 to Feb 2007 to Feb 2008 to Feb 2009
Continuing operations    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Group revenue    45,203 60,798 73,831 100,964 127,144
Total operating expenses    (37,412) (50,938) (64,343) (86,996) (111,457)
Amortisation of intangible assets    – (287) (284) (452) (1,074)
Goodwill impairment    (931) – (950) – – 
Other operating expenses    (36,481) (50,651) (63,109) (86,544) (110,383)
Operating proﬁ t    7,791 9,860 9,488 13,968 15,687
Interest (expense)/income – net    (25) 141 319 380 291
Share of proﬁ t from joint ventures    365 243 207 370 246
Proﬁ t before taxation    8,131 10,244 10,014 14,718 16,224
Taxation    (2,699) (3,100) (3,585) (4,797) (4,704)
Proﬁ t after taxation    5,432 7,144 6,429 9,921 11,520
           
Dividends          
Interim    1,134 1,271 1,340 1,602 1,721
Final proposed    1,902 2,255 2,451 3,147 3,111 
      3,036 3,526 3,791 4,749 4,832
           
Earnings per ordinary share – pence          
Basic      29.50p  36.85p  32.08p  48.99p  56.70p
Diluted      28.59p  36.01p  31.65p  48.69p  55.72p
64 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009      As at As at As at As at As at
      Feb 2005  Feb 2006  Feb 2007  Feb 2008  Feb 2009
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets          
Non-current assets          
Goodwill    21,652 22,480 22,606 25,826 28,137
Other intangible assets    215 462 1,582 2,315 3,921
Property, plant and equipment    4,960 5,034 5,478 5,820 6,189
Investments    1,555 1,611 1,538 1,890 2,344
Deferred tax assets    309 510 642 754 810
Other receivables    95 58 81 155 176
      28,786 30,155 31,927 36,760 41,577
Current assets          
Trade and other receivables    11,688 17,717 21,820 26,875 38,055
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments    – 12 27 107 160
Restricted cash    4,434 – – 3,952 –
Cash and cash equivalents    9,606 13,567 14,634 21,635 25,194
      25,728 31,296 36,481 52,569 63,409
           
Total assets    54,514 61,451 68,408 89,329 104,986
           
Liabilities          
Current liabilities          
Short-term borrowings    3,067 –  – – –
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments    – 99 – 49 649
Trade and other payables    17,092 25,490 29,011 39,540 46,221
Current tax payable    1,556 2,224 2,402 3,017 2,689
Dividends payable    21 – – – – 
Finance leases    31 11 – – –
Provisions    41 288 294 48 88
Client monies held as escrow agent    4,434 – – 3,952 – 
      26,242 28,112 31,707 46,606 49,647
           
Non-current liabilities          
Deferred tax liabilities    65 139 283 681 2,255
Trade and other payables    – – – 434 –
Finance leases    8 – – – –
Provisions    110 343 169 81 137
      183 482 452 1,196 2,392
           
Total liabilities    26,425 28,594 32,159 47,802 52,039
           
Total assets less total liabilities    28,089 32,857 36,249 41,527 52,947
           
Equity          
Share capital    1,945 1,988 2,023 2,061 2,104
Share premium    7,505 8,046 8,554 9,261 10,920
Shares to be issued    (637) (997) (1,047) (2,527) (3,479)
Other reserves    21,938 22,381 21,020 20,687 25,020
Retained earnings    (2,662) 1,439 5,390 11,717 18,268
      28,089 32,857 35,940 41,199 52,833
Minority interest    – – 309 328 114
Total Equity    28,089 32,857 36,249 41,527 52,947
Five year ﬁ nancial summary
Consolidated Balance sheet
65 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Shareholder information
Registered Ofﬁ ce
35 Cosway Street
London
NW1 5BT
Braemar Shipping Services plc
Company number: 2286034
Registrars
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersﬁ eld
West Yorkshire
HD8 0LA
Telephone: 0870 162 3100
Corporate stockbroker
Charles Stanley Securities
25 Luke Street
London
EC2A 4AR
Legal advisor
Nabarro
Lacon House
84 Theobald’s Road
London
WC1X 8RW
Bankers
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Shipping Business Centre
5-10 Great Tower Street
London
EC3P 3HX
Independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
The Atrium
1 Hareﬁ eld Road
Uxbridge
UB8 1EX
Timetable
AGM:  24 June 2009
Ex dividend date for 2008/9 ﬁ nal dividend: 1 July 2009
2008/9 Final Dividend record date:  3 July 2009
2008/9 Final Dividend payment date:  28 July 2009
2009/10 Interim Results announcement:  Late October 2009
66 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Shipbroking
Braemar Seascope Limited
35 Cosway Street
London NW1 5BT
United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7535 2650
Website: www.braemarseascope.com
25 Carden Place
Aberdeen AB10 1UQ
United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0) 1224 628470
Email: aberdeen@seascope.co.uk
Room 1901 – 1902
Building B
Winterless Centre
No. 1 Xidawang Road
Chaoyang District
Beijing
China
Telephone: +86 10 6538 8985
Email: Beijing@braemarseascope.com
432 St. Kilda Road
Melbourne
Victoria 3004
Australia
Telephone: +61 39 867 2177
Email: Melbourne@braemarseascope.com.au
1006, Samarth Vaibhav
Near Lokhandwala Andheri
Mumbai 400 053 India
Telephone: +91 22 6529 2440
Email: mumbai@braemarseascope.co.in
A-13 Defence Colony
New Delhi 110 024 India
Telephone: +91 11 4155 2501
Email: delhi@braemarseascope.co.in
Unit 4 Churchill Court
335 Hay Street
Subiaco
Perth
Australia
Telephone: +61 8 9388 0536
Email: perth@braemarseascope.com.au
Piazza Matteotti 55
19038 Sarzana Italy
Telephone: +39 0187 610173
Email: drycargo@braemarseascope.com
Braemar Quincannon Shanghai
Room 430 The Bund 12
Zhong Shan Dong Yi Road
Shanghai 2000002
China
Telephone: +86 21 6329 1817
Email: chartering@bqshai.com
Room 430 The Bund 12
Zhong Shan Dong Yi Road
Shanghai 200002 China
Telephone: +86 21 6321 2233
Email: shanghai@braemarseascope.com
10 Anson Road
#33-16 International Plaza
Singapore 079903
Offshore: +65 6410 9013
Email: Singapore@seascope.co.uk
80 Robinson Road #22-04
Singapore 068898
Telephone
Containers: +65 6526 5702
Dry Cargo: +65 6533 0198
Email: Singapore@braemarseascope.com.au
Braemar Quincannon Singapore
80 Robinson Road #22-04
Singapore 068898
Telephone: +65 6533 0069
Email: ship@braemarquincannon.com.sg
Technical
Wavespec Limited 
Fullbridge Mill
Fullbridge
Maldon
Essex CM9 4LE
Website: www.wavespec.com
Telephone: +44 (0)1621 840447
Email: inbox@wavespec.com
Braemar Falconer Pte Ltd
10 Anson Road
#33-16 International Plaza
Singapore 079903
Website: www.braemarfalconer.com
Telephone: +65 6222 9282
Email: surveys@braemarfalconer.com
Taman Kota Baloi
Blok D, No. 11
Kelurahan Tanjung Uma
Kecamatan Lubuk Baja
Batam 29445 Kepri
Indonesia
Telephone: +62 778 743 7399
Email: surveysbatam@braemarfalconer.com
Wisma Kodel, 2nd Floor
Jalan H. R. Rasuna Said Kav. B-4
Jakarta 12920
Indonesia
Telephone: + 62 21 527 6303
Email: surveys@braemarfalconer.co.id
surveys@braemarfalconer.com.my
Suite 8.3, Level 8
Menara Genesis, No. 33
Jalan Sultan Ismail
50250 Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Telephone: +603 2141 2494
3rd ﬂ oor
11-13 Crosswall
London EC3N 2JY
Telephone: 44 (0) 20 7265 1566
Email: surveys@braemarfalconer.co.uk
405 Vyapar Bhavan
49 P . D’mello Road
Carnac Bunder
Mumbai 400 009
India
Telephone: +91 22 2373 6249
Email: surveys@braemarfalconer.in
Shanghai Bund International Tower
99 Huangpu Road, 1101
Shanghai 200080
China
Telephone: +86 21 6309 5610
Email: surveys@braemarfalconer.com.cn
Suite 518
Chiwan Petroleum Building
No. 5 Chiwan Road, Shekou
Shenzhen
China 518068
Telephone: +86 755 2668 7350
Email: surveysshekou@braemarfalconer.com.cn
Suite 550 Petrovietnam Towers
8 Hoang Dieu Street
Vung Tau
S.R. Vietnam
Telephone: +84 64 832 178
Email: surveys@braemarfalconer.com.v.n
Suite 15 & 16 West Sands Building
42-44 Parliament Place
PO Box 130
West Perth 6872
West Australia
Telephone: +61 8 9226 2885
Email: surveys@braemarfalconer.com.au
Braemar Steege 
3rd Floor
11-13 Crosswall
London EC3N 2JY
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7265 1566
Website: www.braemarsteege.com
Suite 1105 (Penthouse)
Dorchester Square
1333 – 8th Street SW
Calgary AB
Canada T2R 1M6
Telephone: + 1 403 538 5450
Website: www.braemarsteege.com
1000 Memorial Drive
Suite 100
Houston Tx
77024
United States of America
Telephone: + 1 713 688 5353
Website: www.braemarsteege.com
Av. Javier Prado Este No. 996
Oﬁ cina 501
Distrito de San Isidro
Lima 4, Perú
Telephone: +51 1222 3083
Website: www.braemarsteege.com
Carr. Picacho-Ajusco 
Col. Jardines en la Montana
Delegacion Tlalpan
C.P . 14210
Mexico D.f.
Telephone: +52 55 5485 3639
Website: www.braemarsteege.com
Brickell Bayview Centre
80 SW 8th Street, Suite 2030
Miami, Florida 33130
Website: www.braemarsteege.com
138 Cecil Street
#09-04
Cecil Court
Singapore 069538
Telephone: + 65 6226 5772
Website: www.braemarsteege.com
Ofﬁ ces and contacts
67 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Logistics
Cory Brothers 
Cory House
21 Berth
Tilbury Docks
Essex RM18 7JT
Website: www.cory.co.uk
Telephone: +44 (0) 1375 843461
Email: corythames@cory.co.uk
Cory House
Haven Exchange
Felixstowe
Suffolk IP11 2QX
Telephone: +44 (0) 1394 674822
Email: coryﬂ x@cory.co.uk
Claremont Buildings
Old Clatterbridge Road
Bebington
Wirral CH63 4JB
Telephone: +44 (0) 151 334 0530
Email: coryliverpool@cory.co.uk
16 Belasis Court
Belasis Hall Technology Park
Billingham
Teesside TS23 4AZ
Telephone: +44 (0) 1642 567930
Email: corytees@cory.co.uk
90 Giles Street
Leith
Edinburgh EH6 6BZ
Telephone: +44 (0) 131 5610512
Email: coryleith@cory.co.uk
The Docks
Falmouth
Cornwall TR11 4NR
Telephone: +44 (0) 1326 214090
Email: coryfalmouth@cory.co.uk
Suite 5
Epoch House
Falkirk Road
Grangemouth FK3 8WW
Telephone: +44 (0) 1324 473382
Email: corygrangemouth@cory.co.uk
The Deep Business Centre
Hull HU1 4BG
Telephone: +44 (0) 1482 382840 (24 hours)
Email: coryhull@cory.co.uk
Suite 3, Marlin House
Kings Road
Immingham DN40 1RW
Telephone: +44 (0) 1469 576282
Email: coryimmingham@cory.co.uk
Inc Nigg Oil
Service Base Terminal
Shore Road
Invergordon IV18 0EX
Telephone: +44 (0) 1349 853590 (24 hours)
Email: coryinvergordon@cory.co.uk
Powell Duffryn House
Cliff Quay
Ipswich
Suffolk IP3 0BG
Telephone: +44 (0) 1473 217979
Email: coryips@cory.co.uk
Railway House
Thamesport
Isle of Grain
Kent ME3 0EP
Telephone: +44 (0) 1634 271858
Email: coryiog@cory.co.uk
Unit 110
TEDCO Business Centre
Viking Industrial Park
Jarrow
Tyne & Wear NE32 3DT
Telephone: +44 (0) 191 4283376
Email: corytyne@cory.co.uk
Room 105
Cotton Exchange Building
Old Hall Street
Liverpool L3 9LQ
Telephone: +44 (0) 151 227 5161
Email: liverpoolsales@cory.co.uk
BT Hunters Boulevard
Magna Park
Lutterworth LE17 4XV
Telephone: +44 (0) 1455 207737
Email: logistics@cory.co.uk
Dynefor House
Gorsewood Drive
Hakin
Milford Haven SA73 3EP
Telephone: +44 (0) 1646 692472
Email: corymhaven@cory.co.uk
Alexandra Dock
Newport
South Wales NP20 2NP
Telephone: +44 (0) 1633 266351
Email: corynewport@cory.co.uk
South Ofﬁ ce 3
Royal Portbury Dock
Portbury
Bristol BS20 7XQ
Telephone: +44 (0) 1275 374631
Email: corybristol@cory.co.uk
Building 49
Main Road
Sheerness Docks
Kent ME12 1RS
Telephone: +44 (0) 1795 667971
Email: corysheerness@cory.co.uk
210 Middle Road
#08-02 101 Plaza
Bebington
Singapore 188994
Telephone: +65 6339 3637
Email: corysingapore@cory.sg
105 Berth
Herbert Walker Avenue
Western Docks
Southampton SO15 1HJ
Telephone: +44 (0) 2380 227338
Email: corysoton@cory.co.uk
Potash Terminal
Teesdock
Teesport
Middlesbrough TS6 6UD
Telephone: +44 (0) 1642 468331 (24 hours)
Email: cory@clevelandpotash.co.uk
Environmental
Braemar Howells
The Docks
Milford Haven
Pembrokeshire SA73 3AQ
Telephone: +44 (0) 1646 697041
Website: www.braemarhowells.com
Empire Wharf
The Docks
Falmouth TR11 4NR
Telephone: 44 (0)1326 312849
Email: falmouth@braemarhowells.com
The Old Mill
Drumaness
Ballynahinch
Belfast BT8 11LS
Telephone: +44 (0)1646 697041
Email: info@braemarhowells.com
The Cory Building
Avonmouth Docks
Bristol BS11 9DH
Telephone: +44 (0)1179 826316
Email: info@braemarhowells.com
3 Stockwell Centre
Stephenson Way
Crawley
West Sussex RH10 1TN
Telephone: +44 (0)1293 544482
Email: gatwick@braemarhowells.com
Harwell innovation Centre
B173 Curie Avenue
Harwell International Business Centre
Didcot OX11 0QG
Telephone: +44 (0)1235 838575
Email: hns@braemarhowells.com
Unit 6
Harold Close
Harlow
Essex CM19 5TH
Telephone: +44 (0)1279 424644
Email: stanstead@braemarhowells.com
Unit 6
Hoyer Industrial Estate
517 Leeds Road
Huddersﬁ eld HD2 1YJ
Telephone: +44 (0)1484 536449
Email: huddersﬁ eld@braemarhowells.com
7B Gabaro Close
Victoria Island
Lagos
Nigeria
Telephone: +234 903 4544485 
Email: info@braemarhowells.com
Rua Emilio M’Bidi n68
Alvalade
Luanda
Angola
Telephone: +244 222 328 516
Email: info@braemarhowells.com
Avenida De Espana
37 Las Rozas
28231 Madrid
Spain
Telephone: +34 629 231585
Email: info@braemarhowells.com
Ofﬁ ces and contacts
continued
68 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Units 1 and 2
Strand View
Bootle
Merseyside L20 1HB
Telephone: +44 (0)151 9333846
Email: info@braemarhowells.com
North Muirton Industrial Estate
Kilda Road
Perth PH1 3DZ
Telephone: +44 (0)1738 580841
Email: perth@braemarhowells.com
Unit 7
Trade Croft Industrial Estate
Portland
Dorset DT5 2AF
Telephone: +44 (0)1305 820214
Email: info@braemarhowells.com
Clonminam Industrial Estate
Portlaoise
Co. Laois
Republic of Ireland
Telephone: +44 (0)1646 697041
Email: info@braemarhowells.com
The Business Centre
Bradmarsh Busines Park
Bow Bridge Close
Templebrough 
Rotherham S60 1BY
Telephone: +44 (0)1709 837522
Email: operations@braemarhowells.com
For the very latest information about our 
business go to www.braemarplc.com
This annual report is printed on FSC certiﬁ ed material. This product is biodegradable, 
100% recyclable and elemental chlorine free. Vegetable based inks were used 
during production.
Both the paper mill and printer involved in the production support the growth of 
responsible forest management and are both accredited to ISO 14001 which 
speciﬁ es a process for continuous environmental improvement.
Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr +44 (0)20 7610 6140.
www.carnegieorr.com Braemar Shipping Services plc
35 Cosway Street
London NW1 5BT
United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7535 2650
www.braemarplc.com
