 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2014
Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report:
Overview 
01 2014 highlights
02 Braemar at a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Chief Executive’s statement
Strategy 
08  Business model and  
strategic summary
10 Market overview
12 Strategic initiatives
13 Key performance indicators
14 Resources and relationships
1 6  P r i n c i p a l r i s k s  
and uncertainties
Performance 
18 Review of operations
24 Financial review
Governance
26 Board of Directors
2 7  C o r p o r a t e G ov e r n a n c e 
Statement
3 1  D i r e ct or s ’ R e m une r a t i on 
Report
46 Directors’ Report
48  Independent Auditor’s Report 
to the Members of Braemar 
Shipping Services plc
Financial statements
5 0  C o n s o l i d a t e d i n c o m e 
statement
50  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
5 1  Ba la n c e s he e t s
52 Cash flow statements
53  Statements of changes  
in total equity
54  Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
81 Five-year financial summary
Shareholder information
83 Shareholder information
84 Offices and contacts
Contents
Our divisions
 Shipbroking +
 Technical +
 Logistics +
 Environmental +
What we do
Braemar provides expert market 
knowledge and professional skills and 
advice in the shipping and offshore  
energy markets. We provide technical  
and physical advice and services to the 
owners and users of vessels, insurers  
and major energy companies.
We build long-term relationships with  
our clients based on trust and mutual 
understanding. Each segment of our 
portfolio of businesses specialises in a 
different area of knowledge or skill but  
all are interconnected and often service 
the same client. 
Our assets are our people, our client 
relationships, our information systems  
and our brand. “Braemar” is about 
expertise, trust, reliability, respectability 
and ethical conduct. Financial highlights
2014 highlights
Revenue 
£125.5m 
(2013: £139.7m, excluding the RENA: £120.8m)
Pre-tax profit 
£9.0m 
(2013: £9.6m, excluding the RENA: £7.2m)
Basic EPS from continuing operations 
31 .9p 
(2013: 34.5p, excluding the RENA: 26.03p)
Cash at 28 February 2014  
£13.7m
(28 February 2013: £23.3m, 31 August 2013: £7.1m)
Full year dividend per share 
26.0p 
(2013: 26.0p)
Shipbroking increased its total forward 
order book of business
Excellent performance by the Technical  
division driven by a strong performance  
in Braemar Offshore 
 
Non-core business of Casbarian sold  
in March 2014 
 
Organic growth in Ship Agency in the  
Logistics division
Operational highlights
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 01
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Braemar at a glance
Revenue by division Divisional operating profit*
*  Divisional operating profit is defined as operating profit before amortisation  
of acquisition related intangibles, non-recurring items and unallocated  
costs and is referred to consistently throughout the Annual Report.
The Group comprises four operating divisions.  
These work together to offer a unique combination of 
skills for clients, at any time, anywhere in the world. 
 Shipbroking – 32.5%
 Technical – 31.9%
 Logistics – 31.0%
 Environmental – 4.6%
 Shipbroking – 22.9%
 Technical – 59.0%
 Logistics – 17.2%
 Environmental – 0.9%
1.
2.
3.
4. 1.
2.
3.
4.
Technical 
Braemar’s Technical division 
provides a range of shipping 
and energy sector related 
services from a network of 
offices around the world.
Braemar’s Technical division 
has a wide technical service 
skill base. This covers loss 
adjusting for both the 
shipping 
and energy markets, marine 
warranty surveys and 
consultancy and marine 
engineering and design skills.
The markets in which  
we operate are growing.  
We are investing ahead of  
this growth and are also 
benefiting from synergy 
between business units.
Shipbroking 
Braemar Seascope has  
offices across the globe  
with key hubs in London, 
Singapore and Australia.
The Braemar Seascope 
brokers in these locations  
are specialists in their area  
of expertise covering the vast 
majority of shipping sectors.
Whether facilitating sale  
and purchase transactions,  
or arranging spot or time 
charters our teams are 
dedicated to their clients’ 
needs 24 hours a day  
365 days a year.
We have continued to invest  
in the systems that provide 
unique information to our 
broking teams allowing them  
to perform for their clients.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 02 Logistics 
Cory Brothers operates in  
the UK and Singapore.
The skills of the business 
include freight forwarding  
and logistics and a leading 
position in ship agency.
We are able to provide our 
clients with first class service 
through the use of bespoke 
systems which can generate 
superior management 
information.
Environmental 
Braemar Environmental offers 
environmental consultancy 
and crisis management 
support to both industry  
and government bodies 
around the clock and  
across the globe.
Our experienced teams are 
trained to respond quickly  
and effectively to hazardous 
incidents both at sea and  
on land.
This division is actively  
building a presence within  
the insurance industry.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 03
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Chairman’s statement
Proposed merger with ACM
Your Board has been for some time considering ways in which 
we could strengthen and expand our Shipbroking division to 
keep in step with the growth of our shipping and technical 
services businesses. We believe that the merger with ACM,  
on which I comment more below, will achieve the step change 
we have been seeking and your Board is pleased to be bringing 
it before you for your approval.
Results for the year – Overview
The shipping markets – the principal driver of our Shipbroking 
division – remained subdued for the majority of the year. 
However, during the second half, a greater sense of confidence 
encouraged new investment and more long-term business and 
our forward order book began to increase. 
Our Technical division, which provides services to the offshore 
energy market, benefited from improved levels of activity and 
achieved excellent results. The non-core US-based offshore 
engineering business, Casbarian, was sold in March 2014.
Our Logistics division produced a solid performance and  
the Environmental division reverted to its regular level of  
activity, having been significantly boosted last year by the  
RENA project.
Revenue from continuing operations was £125.5m  
(2013: £139.7m) and operating profit was £8.9m (2013: £9.3m). 
Excluding the effect of the RENA project in 2012/13, underlying 
revenue from continuing operations grew by 4% from £120.8m 
to £125.5m and underlying operating profit grew by 29% from 
£6.8m to £8.9m. Basic earnings per share from continuing 
operations (and again allowing for the RENA effect) at  
31.9 pence was 23% higher than 2012/13. Continuing 
operations exclude the Casbarian business from both this  
year and last. The excellent growth in both sales and operating 
profit in the Technical division was offset by slower trading in 
Shipbroking and reduced activity in the Environmental division. 
Despite an outflow in working capital brought about by a shift in 
the mix of business towards the Technical division, the balance 
sheet remains strong with a net cash position of £13.7m at the 
end of the year.
We believe the proposed  
merger with ACM represents a 
transformational change in the 
development of our Group.
Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2014 04 Proposed merger with ACM
We believe the proposed merger with ACM represents a 
transformational change in the development of our Group.  
Like Braemar, ACM is a leading shipbroker providing a wide 
range of shipbroking services for the global market. It is  
widely recognised as a market leader in tanker broking and  
has extensive international operations employing over 160 
brokers and support staff world-wide. With our 282 brokers 
and support staff and the enhanced global footprint going 
forward, we believe that the combined business will enable us 
to provide even higher quality service to our clients based on 
improved market coverage. Following the merger, we plan to 
establish broking desks which maintain succession and have 
strength in depth and will create a leading broking platform  
for the next decade. Details of the proposed merger have  
been announced separately to the market. We are sending  
a circular to shareholders in relation to the proposed merger.  
I recommend you read it carefully and vote in favour of the 
transaction as my Board colleagues and I will be doing, as  
will the Board of ACM. 
Board and management
Following a year of change at the Board level in 2012/13,  
the year was one of stability.
Looking ahead we plan to make some changes in the light  
of the planned merger with ACM. Having served twelve years  
as a non-executive Director, John Denholm will step down  
as a Director at this year’s AGM. John has made an invaluable 
contribution to the Board as a non-executive Director since 
2002 and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and  
we thank him warmly for all he has done for the Group over  
the years.
We look forward to welcoming our new colleagues from  
ACM when the proposed transaction is completed.
Dividend
The Directors are recommending for approval, at the  
Annual General Meeting on 4 July 2014, an unchanged final 
dividend of 17 pence per ordinary share. This will be paid  
on 15 August 2014 to shareholders on the register at close  
of business on 18 July 2014. Together with the 9 pence  
interim dividend, the Company’s dividend for the year will be  
26 pence (2013: 26 pence). The dividend is covered 1.3 times 
by earnings from continuing operations before amortisation  
of acquisition related intangibles.
Colleagues
On behalf of the Board I would like to express my thanks to  
all our employees who have worked diligently for Braemar  
to achieve these results. It is the professionalism of the 
Braemar team around the world that makes a difference to  
our clients and helps build the Braemar brand and reputation.
Sir Graham Hearne CBE
Chairman
19 May 2014
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 05
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Chief Executive’s statement
Our objective is to continue to 
build the Braemar brand to be the 
most valued provider of knowledge 
and skill-based services.
Trading performance
It was a significant year of change for the Group with indications 
of a recovery in the shipping markets in which we operate and 
the Technical division demonstrating its potential. The Group 
overall achieved revenue of £125.5m down from £139.7m, 
although adjusting for the revenue generated by the RENA 
project in the prior year, the underlying growth in revenue  
was 4%. 
The Shipbroking division revenue fell during the year reflecting 
the continued weak markets for the majority of the year and  
the low forward order book at the start of the year. Revenue  
at £40.9m was 11.8% down on last year and represented one 
third of total Group revenue in the period. The second half of  
the year, however, saw some improvement in markets and a 
15% increase in revenue over the first half. This improvement 
was also reflected in our forward order book which has grown 
in total by more than 25% in the year to approximately $40m,  
of which approximately $20m relates to 2014/15. We have 
continued to pay attention to our cost base but our main 
objective has been to continue to invest in people and 
infrastructure in anticipation of improved markets. As a result 
the divisional operating profit at £2.6m was lower than the  
prior year, but is showing signs of improvement.
The Technical division had an excellent year with revenue up 
22% on the prior year at £40.0m. All aspects of the division 
improved year on year and accounted for 32% of the Group’s 
total revenue. We anticipate that this division will continue to  
be a driver of our future growth expectations. The largest 
contributors to this growth were firstly, Braemar Offshore  
which provides marine warranty surveying and consulting 
expertise to the oil and gas industry principally in Asia and 
secondly, Braemar Engineering which is a specialist consultant 
to the LNG shipping marketplace. Braemar Adjusting and 
Braemar Salvage Association, which provide surveying  
skills to the offshore, shipping and insurance markets, also 
performed strongly and importantly, recruited a number of  
new key staff, putting them in a stronger position to capitalise 
on opportunities in the year ahead. Divisional operating profit  
for the division was £6.8m, up 82% (£3.7m) on the prior year.
Revenue for the Logistics division rose by 3.8% to £38.9m  
with increased contributions from both ship agency and 
forwarding and logistics. The markets we operate in remain 
fiercely competitive but we maintained our market share.  
The best performance in the year was from the agency 
business in Singapore which grew strongly. Divisional operating 
profit for the division at £2.0m was unchanged on the prior year.
Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2014 06 The Environmental division returned to a normal level of activity 
after the completion of the project in New Zealand on the 
RENA. Revenue in 2013/14 of £5.8m compares with underlying 
revenue of £4.5m in the prior year. This level of revenue 
generated a divisional operating profit of £0.1m (2013: £2.7m).
Strategic development
Our objective is to continue to build the Braemar brand to  
be the most valued provider of knowledge and skill-based 
services to the shipping and offshore markets on a global basis. 
We have made significant steps in this direction during the year 
and will do so again in the year ahead.
In Shipbroking our new offices in Oslo and Houston are now 
integrated within the Group and are in a position to capitalise  
on our global network.
 
The proposed merger with ACM, referred to in the Chairman’s 
statement, will transform the scale and prospects of our 
business. It will enable us to build on the core strengths of  
the Braemar business and to establish the Group as a leading 
player in many of the shipping sectors within the core 
Shipbroking market.
There are four distinct businesses within the Technical division, 
serving overlapping sectors of their global market. They are  
all successful in their own right but are stronger by working  
in collaboration. We are looking progressively to benefit from  
this combined strength, without losing the individual drive  
and success of the component parts.
The Logistics division – operating as Cory Brothers – has 
opportunities to grow through international strategic alliances 
and by using the Braemar office network to establish other 
offices overseas with new staff. Where possible established 
relationships are being developed internationally. Since the 
year-end we have sold the small Morrison Tours business, 
based in Leith, which provided on-shore excursions for 
passenger cruise ships in Scotland, as it was not a strategic  
fit within the division. 
The Environmental division – called Braemar Howells – 
continues to look at ways to strengthen and improve its existing 
environmental consulting services while remaining alert to the 
potential for large project possibilities where its managerial 
expertise can be put to best effect.
Finally, we sold our interest in the Casbarian engineering 
business, based in New Orleans. The expected returns and 
value added to the Technical division did not justify the 
investment required and we therefore judged it to be no  
longer a strategic fit for the Group.
Outlook
The early signs of improvement in shipping markets are 
expected to continue and the Shipbroking division will benefit 
from its higher forward order book.
The Technical division is expected to make further progress  
in the year ahead, although growth may be lower than the  
year just finished which was exceptionally strong.
The Logistics division is also well placed to benefit from 
improving trade activity.
The proposed merger with ACM will add significantly to our 
prospects in future years.
James Kidwell
Chief Executive
19 May 2014
Cory Brothers Ship Agency smooths the passage of ships  
in and out of port.
Our Technical division helps reduce risk in the offshore industry.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 07
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Business model and  
strategic summary
Our vision is to build scale and enhance our service to 
clients by using the strength of our brand, balance sheet 
and stock market listing. This will enable us to be the 
most valued provider of knowledge and skill-based 
services to the shipping and offshore energy market  
on a global basis.
Market drivers Current portfolio drivers Business model
Global economy
Shipping market
Offshore energy market
Competitive position
Regulation
Go to page 10
Braemar provides expert 
market knowledge and 
professional skills and advice 
to clients in the shipping and 
offshore energy markets.  
We do this through a global 
network of consistently 
trustworthy and commonly 
branded businesses. We are 
practically oriented, focusing 
on providing technical or 
physical advice and services. 
Our income is generated 
through commissions, project 
fees or charges on an hourly 
basis for our expertise. 
 
Our clients are the owners  
and users of vessels, insurers 
and major energy companies 
and deal in multi-million dollar 
projects, where our knowledge 
and skill can add or protect 
significant value. We build 
long-term relationships  
with these clients so they 
understand and trust in what 
we do for them. Each segment 
of our portfolio of businesses 
specialises in a different area 
of knowledge or skill but  
all are interconnected, 
complementary and often 
service the same client. Clients 
receive the same trustworthy 
service from all areas of the 
Group and as they do, so the 
value of the Braemar brand is 
enhanced. Our brand allows 
us to stand out among the big 
players in our markets and 
also from the myriad of smaller 
concerns. “Braemar” is about 
expertise, trust, reliability, 
respectability and being 
ethically sound, which is a  
very significant advantage  
in our markets. 
 
We invest in technology to 
enhance our ability to share 
knowledge and skills across 
the Group and we take every 
opportunity to streamline 
support systems and reduce 
costs. Most importantly we 
invest in the recruitment, 
training and development of 
the people in the business.  
We are able to allocate capital 
to the differing segments in 
which we operate, depending 
on where we perceive them  
to be in the economic cycle 
and to make appropriate and 
enhancing acquisitions when 
the opportunities present 
themselves.
 
Our assets are our people,  
our client relationships, our 
reputation and brand, and  
our IT and its knowledge.  
We have no other assets to 
invest in, so any surplus cash 
is available for rewarding our 
people, linked to the profit  
they generate, investing  
in new people, teams or 
businesses, or as distributions 
to shareholders. Our equity 
listing enables us to both 
reward staff with deferred 
equity, aligning their objectives 
with shareholders, and to raise 
capital to make significant 
acquisitions in a fragmented 
marketplace.
The shipbroking business  
is driven by the number of  
ship transactions that we 
conclude and the value of 
those transactions. Over a 
long period the volume of  
total global trade has been 
increasing and therefore so 
has the volume of deals.  
The value of trades varies 
with the supply and demand 
for ships relative to the 
amount of trade. Most of our 
business is denominated in 
US dollars.
The more offshore and  
marine activity the higher 
requirement for our technical 
services. Drivers include:  
new investment projects 
including exploration activity, 
rig installations, newbuilding 
activity and ordering.
The rate of growth in global 
trade, the frequency of  
port calls and the level of 
capacity utilisation, all drive  
the performance of the 
logistics business.
The high level of revenues  
in recent years have been 
significant events driven.  
The core environmental 
business is driven by  
the increasing level of 
environmental and safety 
regulation, legislation and 
government training 
requirements.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 08 Where we operate
Braemar offices
 Shipbroking
 Technical
 Logistics 
 Environmental
Global offices
67
Number of employees
894
Strengthening the core
Maintaining a diversified 
portfolio
Nurturing our people
Building our scale
Exciting our clients
Go to page 12
Strategic  
initiatives 
Profit before tax (excluding 
amortisation) 
Earnings per share 
(excluding amortisation) 
Diversity of revenue 
Go to page 13
Key performance  
indicators
Client relationships
People
Reputation and Brand
Our processes, procedures 
and knowledge
Go to pages 14 and 15
Resources and 
relationships
Staff retention 
Succession/key person 
reliance 
Cost structure 
Claims from errors  
and omissions 
Reputational risks 
Downturn in market 
conditions 
Competition 
Currency exposure 
IT infrastructure 
Cash management 
Go to pages 16 and 17
Principal risks  
and uncertainties
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 09
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Market overview
Global economy
Global economic growth forecasts of 3.6% for 2014 and  
3.9% for 2015 imply a slight improvement on recent years  
(see chart A). Rapid growth in industrialisation and  
urbanisation in key emerging markets (e.g. the “BRICs”) led  
to unexpectedly strong shipping demand in the last decade.  
In the coming years, slower growth in emerging and middle 
income economies will be partially offset by a return of growth 
in energy production and industrial activity in the more mature 
economies of the OECD. For instance, the revolution in North 
American oil and gas production has increased long-term 
confidence and investment in shipping and offshore platforms.
Shipping market
The shipping market continues to suffer from overcapacity  
and our estimate is that on average there is about 25% more 
shipping capacity than demand. This overcapacity was created 
by over-enthusiastic ordering from 2004 to 2008 and again in 
2013 and 2014 as shipowners attempt to build new, more 
efficient, cheaper vessels to replace obsolete and inefficient older 
ships. Supply growth therefore continues to run ahead of demand 
growth, although the latter remains positive (see chart B). The 
result has been that charter rates have struggled to recover from 
historically low levels, but that ship values have begun to increase, 
reflecting the increase in demand for modern, efficient, tonnage. 
The market for oil tankers is changing rapidly as global flows  
of oil are transformed by the advent of unconventional oil. US 
domestic crude oil production has displaced millions of barrels 
of crude oil imports. Some of that displaced crude oil is now 
refined closer to source in the Middle East and India, while some 
is shipped to a growing refining market in China. Meanwhile, 
European refiners are closing capacity due to high costs and 
environmental regulations, leading to more petroleum product 
imports from a variety of sources. The change in oil trade has 
dampened demand growth for crude oil tankers, but has 
boosted demand growth for petroleum product tankers. 
Billions of dollars of public and private equity have been  
issued to raise funds to build new, efficient tankers that  
can take advantage of changing trade conditions.
The dry cargo market is driven by many factors but the  
largest sub-sector relates to the carriage of iron-ore, largely 
from Brazil and Australia to China. Freight income in this 
sub-sector bottomed out in 2012 and is enjoying a slow-but-
steady recovery. Asset values are also now recovering, as are 
newbuilding orders, for similar reasons to those observed in  
the oil tanker markets (see chart C).
The container market has the most overcapacity and is the  
one where the fleet is newest and where demand recovery  
is very slow. The fortunes of container shipping are closely 
related to global GDP levels. The market is a critical part of 
global trade and will improve in the long term.
All these markets, despite enduring overcapacity, have seen  
an influx of new capital to build new capacity. This is being 
driven by new technology intended to make the ships more 
efficient and more eco-friendly. In a number of cases these 
changes are required to meet new legislation. However, the 
greater efficiency of some new designs has yet to be proven.
The capacity of the shipping market is also influenced by  
the speed at which a ship travels. Over recent years, slow 
steaming has become more and more common and we 
estimate that there is capacity available in the fleet by  
returning to normal speeds. While we are optimistic that  
the markets are on a recovering trend, we do not think  
this recovery will be strong for the foreseeable future.
Offshore energy market
We service the offshore energy market both by providing 
broking services over the specialised vessels required and by 
providing skills and knowledge in engineering and surveying  
of the complex and risky processes involved. As the search  
for oil and gas continues to grow and pushes into ever  
more remote areas of the globe, so the demand for our 
services increases. We expect growth to continue for the  
foreseeable future.
Competitive position 
All shipbroking companies earn similar levels of commission  
as a percentage of transaction values. When charter rates  
and asset prices move up or down, all shipbroking companies 
benefit or suffer to a similar degree. A growing world fleet  
of merchant ships represents a growing marketplace in  
volume terms. However, cyclical freight markets and volatile 
asset prices complicate the picture, forcing shipbroking 
companies to adjust their strategies to maintain profitability  
and market position. 
Shipbrokers maintain their market position most easily by 
improving productivity (transaction volumes and income per 
capita). They also employ a number of tactics to differentiate 
themselves from the competition. They emphasise certain 
value-added characteristics and services, such as ancillary 
businesses like our Technical Services division, or market 
research and advisory services, such as our Research  
function, or quite simply by establishing greater experience  
and market knowledge in the broking staff than their 
competitors can muster.
Braemar Seascope protects its leading position in the market 
by attracting and retaining experienced and expert broking 
staff, by developing its Research function and associated 
investments in Information Technology to deliver market 
knowledge and intelligence to our clients more efficiently,  
and by owning a variety of complementary ancillary  
businesses. Each of these key differentiators is regularly  
under review and all are currently subject to investment  
in order to develop further our competitive position.
Regulation
The shipping markets are subject to a number of regulations 
which aim to standardise best practices in ship operation,  
to protect lives at sea, to preserve the marine environment  
and to reduce global warming gas emissions. In the coming 
years, we anticipate that the convention to reduce sulphur  
emissions and the requirement for the treatment of ballast 
water will lead to more investment in fleet renewal and an 
acceleration of demolition of certain ships which will be  
replaced with new designs.
Braemar operates in the global shipping and offshore 
energy markets. The key macro-economic drivers of our 
market are the relative performance of different national 
economies, global commodity market trends, and global 
regulatory and trade agreements. We play a critical  
role in providing skills and knowledge into this ever-
changing market.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 10 A: Gross Domestic Product
B: Major Seaborne Cargo Developments
C: Braemar Seascope Bulk Carrier Price Indices
Emerging market and developing economies
World
Advanced economies
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
% change
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Bulk carrier newbuiding price index
Bulk carrier ve-year-old price index
0
500
1 ,000
1 ,500
2,000
2,500
2014 2012 2010 2008 2006 2004 2002 2000 1998 1990 1996 1994 1992
Seaborne Crude Oil and Oil Products
Seaborne Containerised Cargo
Seaborne Dry Bulk Cargo
0
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000
10,000
12,000
14,000
Million
Tonnes
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 11
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Strategic initiatives
Key element Description
Strengthening the core − We build our core businesses through acquiring individuals 
or teams when and where we believe there is opportunity.
Maintaining a diversified portfolio − This spreads risk and smooths the impact of  
economic cycles.
 − We have developed from a small private shipbroking  
entity into a multi-service shipping services group over  
the last 15 years. 
 − Each segment of our portfolio covers a different area  
of knowledge or skill but all are interconnected, 
complementary and often service the same client. 
 − Our diversification is practically oriented, focusing on 
providing technical or physical advice and services.
Nurturing our people − Our people are the key asset of our business. Everything  
we do is founded on their commitment, knowledge, skills 
and abilities.
 − We are significantly increasing the investment in training, 
recruitment, retention and development of our people. 
 − Where appropriate, we give them experience in other  
parts of the Group. 
 − We are increasing the availability of information on the 
activities of different segments to others in the Group. 
 − We are increasing the level of share ownership through  
the use of share-based reward schemes.
Building our scale − In a highly fragmented marketplace, standing out  
and being known for the right things confers very  
significant advantage.
 − We are investing in the development and careful 
management of the global Braemar brand. 
 − We are simplifying and consolidating our back-office 
activities, taking advantage of our scale. 
 − We are developing a Group intranet to improve internal 
communication.
Exciting our clients − Repeat business is one of the most effective paths  
to sustainable growth.
 − We are targeting this by:
 –  Providing value-added services and effective risk 
management of their assets.
 –  Developing a global brand.
 –  Enhancing the provision of a broader suite of services.
 –  Helping them to execute business by equipping  
them with valuable facts and insight.
 –  Increasing the availability of information through  
our website. 
Our vision is to build scale and enhance our service to 
clients by using the strength of our brand, balance sheet 
and stock market listing. This will enable us to be the 
most valued provider of knowledge and skill-based 
services to the shipping and offshore energy market  
on a global basis.
 
There are five key elements to our action plan to deliver  
this vision:
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 12 Key performance indicators
The Braemar business is built on the creation of profit  
and the delivery of value to shareholders. For many 
years our KPIs have, therefore, been Profit before tax 
and EPS and these are reflected in our remuneration 
policy. As we developed the group we have added other, 
relevant KPIs, starting with diversity of revenue.
Diversity of revenue
Shipbroking
Technical
Logistics Environmental (projects)
Environmental (core)
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
£’m
2014 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Earnings per share (excluding amortisation)
EPS – excluding amortisation
0
14
28
42
56
70
Pence
2014 2013 2012 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2011 2010
Profit before tax (excluding amortisation)
PBT – excluding amortisation
0
4,000
8,000
12,000
16,000
20,000
£’000
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
PBT – excluding amortisation
0
4,000
8,000
12,000
16,000
20,000
£’000
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
EPS – excluding amortisation
0
14
28
42
56
70
Pence
2014 2013 2012 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2011 2010
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 13
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Resources and relationships
Our client relationships
Our clients rely on us to provide insight into the marketplace 
and skilled expertise in applying knowledge and skills to their 
advantage. They require us to be absolutely trustworthy and 
professional in everything that we do. We provide a broader 
range of services than the majority of our competitors. This 
enables us to build a broad-based reputation for knowledge, 
skill and trustworthiness around the Braemar brand.
We have a number of sub-sectors in our business where  
our knowledge, skill and relationships mean that we are  
able to provide services to our clients better than any of  
our competitors. This is not the case in all sub-sectors or 
geographies and this provides a significant opportunity to  
grow and enhance the value of the brand. 
Braemar’s shipbroking client base is diverse and international. 
It includes major shipowners, operators, shipyards, energy 
companies, miners, banks and other financial institutions.  
In recent years the emergence of major players in the  
Far East has shaped the market.
The client base for our technical services is similarly diverse  
but includes many overlapping sectors. Energy companies, 
insurers and P&I Clubs are the largest clients in this sector.
Our logistics clients include many in common with shipbroking 
in the ship operations and energy sectors. In addition,  
we provide services to major multinationals looking for  
logistic solutions.
The client base for Environmental is currently limited to a  
small number of UK institutions and certain oil companies  
and insurance clubs. The Group connections provide 
opportunity to expand this base. 
Our people 
Throughout the Braemar Group, the relationship with our 
employees underpins our operations. Having a workforce  
that is motivated, skilled, engaged and safe is key to our 
success and ensures that all of our staff are empowered  
to realise their potential.
The involvement of employees in the Group’s performance  
is encouraged, where appropriate, through participation  
in an annual discretionary bonus and share option 
schemes including both the UK and International  
Save As You Earn schemes.
The Group is committed to providing a fair and professional 
workplace for all of its employees and to ensuring high 
professional standards which is achieved through the 
application of its employment policies throughout the Group. 
These cover, among other things, issues such as equal 
opportunities, bullying, harassment and whistleblowing.  
The Group aims to provide equal opportunities for all 
employees so that they can work without discrimination  
on the grounds of race, religious or political beliefs, marital 
status, age, gender, sexual orientation or disability. 
As at 28 February 2014, there were seven Directors of  
Braemar Shipping Services plc, all of which were male. 
Out of the 936 staff in the Group, 27% were female with  
14% of senior management being female.
The Group continues its excellent safety performance.  
Braemar Howells has achieved zero RIDDOR accidents  
and lost time injuries in the last six years and has received  
no fewer than eleven consecutive British Safety Council  
Awards in recognition of safety progress and performance, 
including a 5 STAR safety assessment grading in 2013.
We recognise that staff in our Technical, Logistics and 
Environmental divisions operate in higher risk environments 
and each of these divisions employs full time, professional 
health and safety staff specialised in their respective areas  
of business. Both Braemar Howells and Cory Brothers in the  
UK have accreditation to ISO BS OHSAS 18001 occupational 
health and safety management standard and Cory Brothers 
also has the ISO 14001 environmental standard.
Our disciplined approach ensures that risks to which staff  
and contractors are exposed, are reduced to the minimum 
possible without:
 − causing harm to staff, clients and third parties;
 − damaging assets and thereby causing consequential 
business/financial loss;
 − adversely affecting the environment; and
 − damaging Group companies’ reputations.
Our reputation and brand
Following a period of rapid growth by acquisition in recent 
years, a key part of integrating the new additions has been 
bringing the expanded Group together under a common 
Braemar name. We have worked to achieve this while at the 
same time ensuring that the positive associations of the Cory 
Brothers and the Salvage Association brands, both over 100 
years old, are retained and nurtured. This work has delivered  
a growing recognition in the marketplace of Braemar as a 
strong brand associated with expertise, trust, reliability and 
ethical conduct across a range of service areas. Developing 
and managing these positive brand associations is key to our 
strategic objective of building our scale and standing out in  
a fragmented marketplace. We are currently building on the 
strong reputational and brand foundation we have established 
for Braemar to update the Group and divisional brands with  
a clean, contemporary and consistent visual language and 
messaging across print and digital communications.
Our processes, procedures and knowledge
We have developed world-class, proprietary processes  
and procedures across our chosen markets. This means  
that our clients have access to know-how, experience and 
proven techniques to match all of their required tasks.
At the heart of everything that we do are our clients and 
our people. Over time we build the efforts of our people 
into the value of the Braemar brand and we support this 
by the continual development of our intellectual property 
– our knowledge base.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 14 This skill set is supported by comprehensive market  
information and bespoke analytical research and insight 
through modelling and forecasting which provide competitive 
advantage to our clients by allowing them to take informed 
decisions based upon sound, commercially aware and 
up-to-date intelligence on trade and the supply and demand  
for tonnage and commodities.
Our social and environmental impact
As a relatively small services Group we have a small direct 
footprint in terms of human rights, social, and community 
issues, but we recognise that the markets in which we  
operate have a considerable impact in these areas and  
our behaviour and advice can have a positive effect.
Human rights, ethical and anti-bribery issues
The Group is committed to undertaking business to the  
highest standards and has very clear ethical guidelines which 
are issued to all Group companies in both English and local 
languages where appropriate. The compliance with these 
ethical guidelines is monitored by the Audit Committee, and 
through the Group’s internal audit procedures. The Group  
has a total prohibition on the payment of any kind of bribe  
and a programme of internal training is in place to ensure  
that all staff are aware of the Group’s policies. 
Community
As we operate from small offices across the globe, our policy  
is to focus on the maritime industry as our “community”.  
The Group continues to provide support for young people  
who wish to embark upon a career in the maritime industries 
through support for students at universities studying maritime 
courses and guest lecturing at universities. We believe  
that training future generations for a career in the maritime  
industry is vital.
Environmental 
We provide a variety of environmental consultancy to our  
clients and indeed one of our divisions is primarily concerned 
with this as its main activity. In shipbroking we advise on  
the recycling of ships at breakers’ yards with acceptable 
standards. Two Group companies have ISO 14000 
accreditation, a standard for environmental management  
and are rightly proud that this demonstrates a commitment  
to minimising any negative impact on the environment.
We are not heavy users of resources or producers of waste  
and emissions. We have a policy to minimise and monitor 
these, such as they are. An assessment has been made of  
the quantities of greenhouse gases produced through use  
of electricity and gas in offices as well as car usage during 
work times. Through our increasing use of video conferencing 
across the Group we are endeavouring to avoid unnecessary 
air travel.
In accordance with the requirements of the Greenhouse  
Gas Emissions (Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013 we  
have made a calculation of Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions 
based on our consumption of Greenhouse Gas for the year 
ending 28 February 2014. 
The Group consists of predominantly office based activities  
in the UK and throughout 19 countries overseas. Based  
on recorded consumption from financial data, declared  
values have been calculated using published energy statistic 
tables from Defra. Some estimates have been made using 
ECON 19 benchmarking where utilities are included in rents 
paid for premises.
The figures include calculations for CO
2
, CH
4
 and N
2
O gases.  
The Group does not currently consume or utilise PFC or SF
6
.
In calculating our Greenhouse Gas consumption the  
Group has mainly utilised data from our financial records  
and converted this into actual consumption using the tables 
published by Defra in the UK. Where leasehold offices  
are fully maintained and we do not pay for utilities directly,  
we have used standardised benchmarking techniques. 
Consideration has been given to Scope 1 and 2 of the 
regulations which cover power and energy usage and  
direct transportation costs of its employees during the  
course of their business activities (see table below).
The volume of tonnes of CO
2
e produced per head in the  
Group during the year was 1.28 tonnes.
Environmental aspect Total tonnes CO 2 e
Overseas electricity 246
United Kingdom electricity 624
Natural gases 53
Fuel – diesel/petrol  271
Total tonnes CO
2
e = 1,194
A detailed breakdown of the calculation is available  
on request.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 15
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 A review of risks and uncertainties affecting all areas of the 
Group is prepared for consideration annually by the Audit 
Committee and appropriate actions are taken to address the 
risks identified. This information is aggregated and considered 
from the point of view of its impact on our business model  
and strategy, and the resources required to make them work. 
The Board monitors these risks continuously and considers  
its appetite and tolerance for them in the light of their potential 
impact, positive or negative, on the Group.
The chart opposite shows a map of our principal risks and 
uncertainties against their likelihood of crystallising and their 
potential impact should they do so. The table sets out the risks 
and uncertainties in more detail, discussing their implications 
and our current and future mitigating activities.
Name Description Implication Control/mitigating actions
1  S t a f f r e t e n t i o n The ability to retain the  
most important and high-
quality staff in the business.
If the best staff leave, they  
may take “their” business  
with them resulting in a loss  
to the Group.
Market competitive 
remuneration packages 
(including equity in the plc 
company), staff contractual 
terms, focus on staff 
development and team 
motivation.
2  S u c c e s si o n / k e y  
person reliance
Reliance on key people  
in some businesses.
Business value and  
earnings could be lost  
if key people leave.
Ongoing focus across  
all businesses as to  
who successors are  
to key personnel.
3  C o st st ru c tu re Cost structure, in terms  
of both overheads and  
staff costs may not flex 
sufficiently with changing 
market circumstances.
Despite management action  
to reduce costs to minimum 
levels, extended poor market 
conditions can mean lower 
profits, staff bonuses and 
dividends to shareholders.
There is a focus on  
overheads in the businesses  
to ensure they are appropriate.  
Management take strategic 
decisions to fund during  
weak markets or exit/seek  
to consolidate.
Risk heat map
1  S t a f f r e t e n t i o n
2  Succession/key person reliance
3  C o s t s t r u c t u r e
4  Claims from errors and omissions
5  Re pu t a t io n a l r i s k
6  Downturn in market conditions
7  C o m p e ti ti o n
8  C u r r e n c y e x p o s u r e 
9  I T i n f r a s t r u c t u r e
1 0  C a s h m a n a g e m e n t
After mitigating action
Principal risks and uncertainties
Impact
Likelihood
Before mitigating action
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 16 Name Description Implication Control/mitigating actions
4  Claims from errors  
and omissions
All businesses deal with  
high-value client assets so  
any error could result in  
a loss and potentially lead  
to a claim.
Potential financial loss from 
the specific error or omission 
that could lead to legal action 
and/or loss of reputation.
Contractual terms and 
conditions; review of  
non-standard contracts; 
insurance cover;  
staff training; appropriate 
corporate structure.
5  R eput a t i o nal ri s k Damage to the Braemar 
brand.
If the Braemar brand is 
damaged it may result in  
loss of business.
Generally, no part of the 
Group is so significant  
that senior management  
are unaware of actions of  
their staff. In addition, 
management carry out  
site visits and Internal  
Audit reviews take place.
6  Downturn in market 
conditions
All our businesses are subject 
to global forces, in particular 
the impact of China.
A downturn in the world 
economy may result in  
lower activity and rates.
A combination of the Group’s 
strategy of diversification  
and being a market leader  
to protect market share.
7  C o m p e ti ti o n There is always the risk from 
increased competition across 
all our businesses.
All divisions fight to attract  
and retain the best talent. 
Failure to win in this battle  
will lead to the loss of  
people and earnings.
Continuing to provide a 
quality service and quality 
working environment.
8  C u rre n c y e x p o s u re A considerable amount of our 
income is earned from US$ 
denominated transactions, 
while most of our costs are 
not US$ denominated.
The Group is still exposed to 
US$ fluctuation which can 
be positive or negative.
FX movements are monitored 
and short-term hedging  
is in place over a twelve-
month period.
9  I T i n f r a st ru c tu re IT and communications are 
central to our ability to do 
business. Without efficient  
systems, the effectiveness  
of our staff may be impaired.
Poor IT systems result in  
the risk of losing information 
and if unable to provide an 
efficient service to our  
clients, could ultimately  
result in loss of business, 
potentially permanently.
IT backup and remote 
access; office and IT  
security. Experienced, 
competent IT staff.
1 0  C a s h m a na ge men t In some areas of the 
business, the time taken to 
invoice clients for chargeable 
time can be slow.
Debt collection: there is an 
exposure across the Group  
to recoverability of debtors.
The slow recovery of debts 
results in lower liquidity and 
potentially less flexibility to 
meet new challenges.
Ongoing debtor monitoring 
occurs across the Group  
and where necessary senior 
management intervene to 
assist in recovery of debtors.
After mitigating action
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 17
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Deep Sea Tankers
During the first half of the year deep sea freight rates remained 
weak, largely due to the effect of overcapacity in the market 
which had an adverse impact on revenue. The improvement  
in the second half was reflected in the Baltic Dirty Tanker  
Index which increased to an average of 762 in the second  
half of the year compared with an average of 631 in the first 
half. The recovery in freight rates was driven by the trend for 
slow steaming which helped spread the tonnage and by an 
improvement in market sentiment. Very Large Crude Carrier 
(“VLCC”) rates have been relatively weak so far in 2014 partly 
due to seasonal refinery maintenance in the Far East, but 
mainly due to oversupply. Both the Suezmax and Aframax 
sectors have seen sporadic rate spikes during the year mainly 
because of geo-political tensions which cause nervousness 
over oil supply. Our volumes remained high throughout the 
year in the crude sector and there is greater confidence  
in the market than twelve months ago and we expect some 
improvement in 2014/15. The clean product tanker market has 
generally been steady over the year and our volumes in the  
Far East grew throughout the year, in particular with increased 
freights from longer haul voyages.
Specialised Tankers
Our Specialised Tanker department covers the transportation 
of smaller parcels of products, chemicals, petrochemical 
gases, LPG and LNG with the majority of business conducted 
within Europe. Overall, the results were similar to the previous 
year but the forward book has grown substantially from the 
conclusion of significant long-term charter business exporting 
shale gas from North America to Europe most of which 
commences in 2015. The outlook is encouraging with signs 
that revenue will improve next year from business generated 
on the spot market and contract business being renewed at 
higher freight rates, reflecting wider market sentiment. We 
opened a new office in Oslo in the second half, which is 
generating increased interest and we are expecting an 
improved performance next year.
Offshore
Our Offshore department delivered a strong performance  
this year, benefiting from an active market around the world 
which we service from our offices in London, Aberdeen and 
Singapore. The number of transactions completed increased 
by 20% in the year and the Aberdeen office recorded its 
highest number of fixtures since 2010. This was, in part, due  
to a prolonged period of bad weather in the North Sea which 
effectively extended the length of time vessels were on hire as 
they took longer to complete their work. The Offshore sale and 
Review of operations
Revenue
-12%
£40.9m
Offices
+ London 
+ Singapore 
+ Aberdeen 
+ Beijing 
+ New Delhi 
+ Genoa
+ Houston
+  Melbourne 
+ Oslo
+  Perth 
+ Shanghai
Services
+  Tanker chartering –  
crude oil, clean products, 
LPG, LNG, chemicals
+ Dry bulk chartering
+ Ship valuations
+ LNG consultancy
+ Offshore chartering 
+ Containers chartering 
+  Sale and purchase 
– second-hand, 
newbuilding, demolition
Employees by location
Divisional operating profit 
-51%
£2.6m
1. Europe – 56%
2. Asia Pacific – 42%
3. USA – 2%
1.
2.
3.
282
employees
Braemar Seascope’s brokers use their close understanding  
of the workings of the markets to ensure their clients meet 
market challenges head-on and with confidence.
Shipbroking  
Braemar Seascope
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 18 purchase team also concluded a record number of deals in the 
year, providing a significant boost to the department’s revenue 
and profit.
Dry Bulk
Although the dry bulk chartering market has struggled with  
overcapacity, rates improved during the course of the year,  
such that the Baltic Dry Index averaged 962 in the first half and 
1,642 in the second, with 1,299 as the average for the year as  
a whole (2012/13: 901). A significant proportion of our revenue 
from dry bulk is generated by our offices in Australia. We 
strengthened our team in Singapore in the year especially on 
the Capesizes and have seen an improvement in the second 
half of the year driven by significant restocking of iron ore in 
China. The team also concluded some good long-term contract 
business which will provide a good basis to work from in the 
coming year. Following an encouraging start to the year, freight 
rates have fluctuated as stockpile levels reach record highs.  
We expect to see a strengthening of the dry market once  
again in the second half of the year.
Containers
A steady stream of new, larger vessels delivered into the  
market has meant that the rates in the chartering market have 
remained low. However, some relief for the market has been 
afforded through the demolition of uneconomic vessels. In the 
smaller, sub-panamax sector demand remains steady and there 
is a reasonable expectation that rates may improve as the year 
progresses. While, the weak market has been challenging for 
chartering, it has provided opportunities for sale and purchase 
in which we have been active through the year.
Sale and Purchase
Revenue from our sale and purchase team, which is mostly 
generated from the sale of second-hand tankers and bulk 
carriers, was lower this year than the previous year, reflecting 
what may prove to be a low point in asset values. In 2013 there 
was a surge in newbuilding orders as significant funds were 
raised in the public markets to take advantage of new “eco” 
designs and advantageous pricing. We were able to conclude  
a good volume of newbuilding business during the year  
which will benefit future years. We expect revenue in sale and 
purchase to improve in 2014/15 on the back of these orders. 
Our demolition desk had an active year, although the general 
improved sentiment in both the wet and dry freight markets  
has led to owners delaying plans to scrap older vessels 
reducing demolition activity.
Top: Our offshore brokers continue to hold a leading position  
in supply boat chartering. 
Bottom: The shipbroking division has expanded its tanker  
chartering activities in the US.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 19
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Review of operations
continued
Revenue
+22%
£40.0m
Offices
+ Abu Dhabi
+  Accra
+ Bangkok
+ Calgary
+  Cape Town
+  Dubai
+  Hong Kong
+  Houston
+  Jakarta
+  Kuala Lumpa
+  Lisbon
+ London
+  Miami
+  Mumbai
+  New York
+  Perth 
+  Piraeus 
+  Rio de Janeiro
+  Rotterdam
+  Shanghai
+  Shenzen
+  Singapore 
+  Tianjin
+  Varna
+  Vung Tau
Services
+ Marine warranty services
+  Energy loss adjusting
+   Marine engineering, 
structural engineering  
and naval architecture
+   Marine consultancy
+   Vessel and condition 
surveys
+   Marine casualty 
investigations
+   Ship construction 
supervision 
+   Failure mode and  
effect analysis
+ Marine cargo surveys
+  DP Audits
+   Shipyard risk assessments
+  Towage approvals
+   Claims, dispute and 
litigation support
Divisional operating profit 
+82%
£6.8m
Braemar’s Technical division provides energy loss adjusting, 
surveying, marine engineering and consultancy services.  
It employs 330 people in 27 offices across 19 countries.
Employees by location
1. Europe – 25%
2. Americas – 14%
3. Asia Pacific – 54%
4. Africa/Middle East – 7%
1.
2.
3.
4.
330
employees
Technical 
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 20 The Technical division had a very strong year with revenues 
increasing by 22% and divisional operating profit by 82%.  
The biggest contributor to the divisional profit was Braemar 
Offshore, while Braemar Engineering also made a significant 
contribution, and Braemar Adjusting and Braemar SA both 
reported an improved performance.
Braemar Offshore
Braemar Offshore had an exceptionally busy year and reported 
an excellent performance from both the marine warranty 
survey and offshore engineering activities, with overall revenue 
growing by 30% over the previous year. The increase was  
due to the higher number of offshore construction projects  
and rig moves in the Asia Pacific region. Revenue from marine 
warranty surveying work remained the core revenue driver for 
the business contributing more than two thirds of the total.  
The business has continued to develop its eight offices across 
the Asia Pacific region and has reduced the reliance on the 
historic key revenue generators. It has steadily increased the 
headcount in these offices to support the revenue growth and 
now employs over 150 staff across the region. The pace of 
revenue growth will be slower in the year ahead but the 
business is now well positioned for long-term expansion.
Braemar Adjusting
Despite a relatively quiet year for significant incidents in  
the energy sector, Braemar Adjusting still achieved higher 
revenues than the previous year. An uneventful hurricane 
season in the Gulf of Mexico affected the performance of  
the office in Houston, but the offices in Rio de Janeiro and 
London performed largely as expected and Calgary performed 
strongly too. Activity levels in China and Indonesia had an 
impact on utilisation rates in Asia and after a slow start for the 
new office in Dubai, it finished the year strongly. The business 
has focused heavily on strengthening its teams across its 
office network and with key new management and personnel 
now in place, the prospects for 2014/15 are good.
Braemar (incorporating the Salvage Association) – 
Braemar SA
Braemar SA has recorded an increase in activity and profits, 
with an overall increase in revenue of 15%. This was despite a 
reduced level of total global marine casualties being reported 
by clients, indicating a growth in the Company’s market share. 
The improved performance was driven by an increase in the 
number of instructions resulting in an increase in chargeable 
time over the previous year. The largest increase in the number 
of cases has come through the London insurance market,  
with the business won being distributed to all regions to 
conduct. The increase of local cases won in the Far East 
region by 29% has also boosted the business’s overall result, 
while in the Americas region work undertaken has, on average, 
been at a higher value due to the more complex nature of  
the instructions. Over the year we increased the number of 
experienced staff in order to deliver the higher volume of work 
and to support continued growth in activity. This is paying off 
and the current year has started well.
Braemar Engineering
Braemar Engineering is a world leader in LNG, both onshore 
and afloat. Within this context, it is also the leader in LNG 
carrier design and construction supervision. It is this reputation 
that has provided the business with the platform that has 
resulted in 2013/14 being the most successful year in its 
history, with strong performances from both the UK and  
US offices. In the first half of the year the team in the UK 
started work on a three-year contract for the design and  
site supervision to build six LNG carriers as well as providing 
training for local staff. The design and plan approval stage  
has now been completed and construction oversight, 
commissioning and delivery commenced in March 2014.  
Our office in Houston is developing a large range of projects 
and is involved in a project to develop the world’s largest 
floating LNG production and export facility as well as the 
development of several potential LNG export and bunkering 
facilities in the USA. Both offices are forecasting a higher level 
of activity for the next couple of years and have seen a strong 
start to the current financial year.
Our adjusters are well equipped to provide expert advice to clients.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 21
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Revenue in Cory Brothers increased by 4% to £38.9m  
and divisional operating profit was unchanged at £2.0m.  
The revenue was generated by the ship agency business  
and the division’s forwarding activities, both making a 
contribution despite fiercely competitive markets.
Ship Agency
The ship agency business services UK ports, the port of 
Singapore and has joint arrangements with agency partners 
in Brazil and Gibraltar. It has developed organically by 
expanding its European and global hub agency businesses 
with new and existing major customers. Underlying trading  
at all UK ports remains consistent month on month and we 
expect to see some improvement through 2014/15 in line  
with the market. We also aim to grow our overseas presence 
with further collaborations and hub agency operations.
Forwarding and Logistics
The forwarding and logistics operation maintains a global 
logistics network which enables it to provide a number of 
logistics solutions for its customer. These include seafreight, 
airfreight, contract logistics, import custom clearance and 
track and trace solutions.
The logistics industry continued to feel the impact of sluggish 
economies. It trades in a competitive and price sensitive 
market, with unusually volatile seafreight rates, margin  
and cost pressures. Despite the challenging environment, 
Cory Brothers was able to sustain its position and increase  
its revenue on the prior period. The number of forwarding 
jobs increased by 8%, although the container consolidation 
element of the business fell by 21%, mainly due to European 
overland business and economic weakness in Spain. The 
liner business provided support for 585 voyage calls during 
the year, broadly equivalent to the previous year.
The division’s strategy continues to focus on regional and 
industry-specific growth segments whilst providing the  
clients with exceptional customer service. A new reefer 
department has been established to target the perishables 
logistics segment and contract logistics continues to be  
a key target, ensuring management are able to react more 
quickly and efficiently to the demands of the market.
Cory Brothers Shipping Agency provides ship agency,  
freight forwarding and logistics services within the UK and 
Singapore. Cory has extensive industry experience and 
maintains a worldwide reputation for customer care and 
insistence on the highest standards. An in-depth knowledge 
of client requirements across the division ensures the delivery  
of a first-class service.
Revenue
+4%
£38.9m
Offices in the UK
+  T i l b u r y 
+  F e l i xs t o we 
+  B e b i n g t o n 
+  B illin g h a m 
+  B r i s t o l 
+  C a rd i f f 
+  E d i n b u r g h 
+  F a l m o u th 
+  G r a n g e m o u th 
+  H u l l 
+  I m m i n g h a m 
+  I p s w i c h 
+  Isle of Grain 
+  M i l f o rd H a v e n 
+  N e w p o r t 
+  She e r ne s s 
+  S o u th a m p t o n 
+  T e e s por t
Offices overseas
+ Singapore 
Services
+  Ship and liner agency
+  S h i p - t o - s h i p tr a n s fe r s
+  H u b a g e n c y
+  Cu st o m s c l e a ra n c e
+  S u p p l y c h a i n 
management
+  F r e i g h t f o r w a rd i n g
+  W o r ld w id e c o n so l id a t io n
+  P r o j e c t c a r g o e s
+  Cruise ship support
+  Re c y c l i ng
Employees by location
Divisional operating profit 
-1%
£2.0m
1. Europe – 95%
2. Asia Pacific – 5%
1. 2.
223
employees
Logistics 
Cory Brothers
Review of operations
continued
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 22 The work on the RENA was completed successfully in 
February 2013, and without a significant replacement  
project, the division’s activity and revenue reverted to a more 
routine level achieving a divisional operating profit of £0.1m.
The division’s core skill continues to be its 24/7 availability  
to respond quickly to incidents (maritime, rail and road) that 
require its specialist skills to coordinate and implement a 
structured response, in order to minimise the environmental 
damage in sensitive situations. It also provides worldwide  
hire of oil spill response equipment as well as consultancy 
services including advice on MARPOL waste reception 
facilities. As the work load increases the business is able  
to flex its workforce as required to cater for this.
Revenue from UK Operations has remained at the same  
level as the previous year with work including tank cleaning 
and waste reduction measures, as well as ad hoc incident 
responses. Braemar Howells was also recently able to give 
assistance to customers in flood prevention and subsequent 
clean-up following the recent floods in the UK in January and 
February 2014. Overseas consultancy continues to grow in 
West and Central Africa.
Braemar Howells provides global support to both government 
bodies and industry. Experienced and skilled teams are 
available around the clock to respond rapidly, safely and 
effectively to all types of incidents offshore and onshore. 
Revenue
-75%
£5.8m
Offices
+  B a r n sle y 
+  B r i s t o l 
+  D i d c o t 
+  D u n d e e 
+  H a r l o w 
+  L a g o s 
+  L u a n d a 
+  M i l f o rd H a v e n 
+  P e r th 
+  Tr u r o
Services
+  P o l l u ti o n c o n tr o l
+  I n c i d e n t r e s p o n s e 
+  Salvage support services 
+  Marine and port services 
+  Accredited oil spill training 
+  E n v i r o n m e n t a l 
consultancy 
+  C r i s i s m a n a g e m e n t  
and emergency  
response advisers
+  I n d u s tr i a l s e r v i c e s  
and tank cleaning
+  M A R P O L w a s t e  
reception facilities
+  H A Z M A T r e s p o n s e
+  C o n t i ng e nc y p l a n n i ng
+  R e s p o n s e f a c i l i t y 
management
Employees by location
Divisional operating profit 
-96%
£0.1m
1. Europe – 80%
2. Africa/Middle East – 20%
1.
2.
55
employees
Environmental 
Braemar Howells
Braemar Howells provided assistance with flood prevention and 
clean-up during the floods in the UK in January and February 2014.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 23
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Overview
Group revenue from continuing operations fell in the year 
compared with 2012/13, due to the absence of the work  
carried out in the Environmental division on the RENA, the 
impact of which was described in detail in last year’s annual 
report. Underlying revenue has continued to increase and 
although revenue in shipbroking in the year under review  
fell, reflecting the low point in the shipping cycle, the strong 
performance by the Technical division made up for this shortfall.
Discontinued operations
Following the poor performance of Casbarian, particularly in  
the second half of the year, Braemar undertook a review of  
its operations and concluded that the strategic fit with 
Braemar’s Technical division was not sufficiently strong to  
justify further investment. In February 2014, the Group decided 
to exit the business and reached an agreement to dispose of 
Casbarian to the local management team. This divestment was 
concluded in March 2014. As a consequence, the results of 
Casbarian have been presented as a discontinued operation in 
the income statement and the net assets and liabilities shown 
as held for sale on the balance sheet. Losses from discontinued 
operations were £1.4m and the loss on disposal was £0.8m.
Direct and operating costs
Cost of sales consists of freight and haulage costs incurred  
in the Logistics division, payments to sub-contractors and 
materials, and other costs directly associated with the revenue 
to which they relate. The significant reduction in the level of 
costs of sales in comparison to the previous year is due to 
completion of the work on the RENA. The underlying level  
of cost of sales (adjusted for the RENA) has increased by  
6% and is due to the higher level of activity in the forwarding 
business in the Logistics division and an increase in sub-
contractor costs in the Technical division to support the  
higher volume of work undertaken by Braemar Offshore.
Operating costs were similar to last year despite the higher 
number of staff employed in the Group, reflecting the focus 
across the Group on cost efficiency in the year. Margins in 
Shipbroking were lower which illustrates the tough markets in 
which the division has been operating and the reduced number 
of contracted vessels brought forward from previous years.  
The profitability of the Technical division has improved, driven 
by the performance in Braemar Offshore where much of the 
higher volume of project work has been achieved using existing 
staff. Logistics has performed steadily, and the Environmental 
division has reverted to a low level of profitability in the absence 
of a significant revenue generating event. Costs in this division 
are kept under close scrutiny in order to ensure the business 
carries a level of overheads appropriate to its needs, while still 
being ready to react quickly should a significant project arise.
Our diversified portfolio  
delivers financial stability  
in changing times.
Financial review
Martin Beer ACA
Group Finance Director
Summary Income Statement
2014
£’000
2013
(1)
£’000
2012
(1)
£’000
Revenue 125,531 139,684 131,457
Cost of Sales (31,758) (43,599) (36,813)
Operating costs (82,252) (82,306) (81,554)
Divisional operating profit 11,521 13,779 13,090
Unallocated costs (2,238) (2,951) (1,953)
Non-recurring items – – 69
Amortisation of other 
intangible assets (432) (1,498) (1,435)
Operating profit 8,851 9,330 9,771
Financial highlights
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Shipbroking 
Revenue 40,866 46,362 49,813
Divisional operating profit 2,635 5,348 7,121
Operating profit margin 6.4% 11.5% 14.3%
Employee numbers 286
(1)
289 299
Technical
(2)
Revenue 40,032 32,688 29,937
Divisional operating profit 6,798 3,744 2,247
Operating profit margin 17.0% 11.5% 7.5%
Employee numbers 330 306 306
Logistics
Revenue 38,917 37,495 37,630
Divisional operating profit 1,981 2,006 1,888
Operating profit margin 5.1% 5.4% 5.0%
Employee numbers 223 228 228
Environmental
Revenue 5,771 23,399 14,529
Divisional operating profit 107 2,681 1,857
Operating profit margin 1.8% 11.5% 12.8%
Employee numbers 55 52 52
(1) Includes Central.
(2) Excludes Casbarian.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 24 Directors’ approval statement
The strategic report, as set out on pages 1 to 25, has  
been reviewed and approved by our Board of Directors.
Martin Beer ACA
Finance Director and Company Secretary
19 May 2014
Unallocated costs fell in the year reflecting the full year  
impact of the Board and management changes that were  
made in 2012/13.
Balance sheet
Net assets at 28 February 2014 were £65.3m (2013: £69.8m). 
The value of the Group balance sheet has been significantly 
affected by the strengthening of the pound during the year,  
the Group’s reporting currency. As the Group’s network of 
offices across the world has expanded significantly in recent 
years, there has been an increased amount of assets held in 
overseas currencies. The effect of retranslating these assets  
at 28 February 2014 into the Group’s reporting currency has 
resulted in a reduction of the value of the balance sheet by 
£4.4m (2013: increase of £1.1m).
Within working capital, trade and other receivables increased 
during the year reflecting the higher level of revenue in the final 
quarter of 2013/14 compared to the previous year. The value  
of the provision against trade receivables fell from 9.3% to 
8.1%, and reflects an improvement in the ageing profile of the 
debt at 28 February 2014. The Group will continue to drive for 
improvement in debt collections and expects the investment  
in IT infrastructure to support this initiative.
 
The value of intangible assets arising from acquisitions has  
now reduced to £0.7m and as a result the amortisation  
charge in respect of these assets will reduce to approximately 
£0.3m in 2014/15.
Cash flow and Treasury management
The Group is cash positive and at 28 February 2014 had cash 
balances of £13.7m (28 February 2013: £23.3m) and no debt. 
The level of our cash has fallen during the year which can 
largely be explained by a £4.4m investment in working capital,  
a £2.8m reduction to the accrual held to meet the Group’s 
bonuses and a £3.2m foreign exchange effect. Immediately 
after the year end £2.0m was received relating to our LNG 
contract in Braemar Engineering. Net tax payments in the  
year were lower due to tax recovered in relation to payments 
made in previous years and the Group incurred £1.3m on 
capital expenditure.
The normal cycle of cash for the Group follows a pattern 
whereby a higher proportion of cash is earned in the second 
half of the year following payments of the final dividend to 
shareholders as well as staff bonuses in the first half.
Foreign exchange
The US dollar exchange rate relative to sterling moved by  
10% in the year from US$1.52 at the start of the year to 
US$1.68 at the end of the year. The average rate of exchange 
for US dollar-denominated Shipbroking earnings was  
$1.58/£ (2013: $1.56/£). The effect of this movement impacted 
earnings to some extent, but the Group’s treasury policy 
mitigated the full impact of the movement in the US dollar in the 
year by approximately £0.3m due to forward cover held from 
earlier in the year. Shipbroking revenues, denominated in US$, 
remain exposed to the US$/£ exchange rate in the long term.
Taxation
The Group’s effective tax rate in relation to continuing 
operations in 2013/14 was 25.7% (2013: 25.4%). The rate is 
higher than the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 23% 
mainly due to disallowed expenses. The Group’s profits are 
spread across a number of jurisdictions with both higher and 
lower tax rates. In the US, the US tax group made losses in the 
year, mainly due to the results from the discontinued operation, 
Casbarian. The resultant deferred tax asset is recognised in the 
Group’s US tax group and will be used to offset future taxable 
profits in the US. In the UK it is expected that the further 
reduction of the rate of corporation tax from 23% to 21% in 
2014/15 and the cut from 21% to 20% by April 2015 will reduce 
the effective tax rate in future years.
25
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 Non-executive Directors
Committee memberships: None.
Background and relevant experience: Qualified solicitor,  
formerly Chairman of Enterprise Oil plc and Catlin Group.
Current external appointments: Non-executive Director  
of Rowan Companies plc and Genel Energy plc.
Committee memberships: Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee, member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
Background and relevant experience: A Chartered Accountant, 
currently Chairman and Chief Executive of J&J Denholm Limited.
Current external appointments: Chairman and Chief Executive of 
J&J Denholm Limited, Director of Anglo Eastern Management Group 
Limited and Hadley Shipping Group Limited and a member of the 
Executive Committee and President of the Baltic International Maritime 
Council.
1. Sir Graham Hearne CBE (76)
Chairman
2. John Denholm CA (58)
Non-executive Director
Committee memberships: Chairman of the Audit Committee, 
member of Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Background and relevant experience: Qualified solicitor  
and a founding partner of Watson, Farley & Williams LLP, a firm  
of international lawyers, and senior partner from 1982-1999.  
He remains a senior adviser there. Formerly a non-executive Director 
and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Close Brothers Group plc.
Current external appointments: Chairman of Seaguard  
Offshore Group, Director of Nautilus Holdings Limited, Gyroscopic 
Fund Limited and senior adviser to Chandris Group.
Background and relevant experience: Chartered Accountant. 
Formerly Finance Director of Boosey & Hawkes Music Publishers 
Limited and Group Financial Controller of Carlton Communications  
plc. Finance Director of Braemar Shipping Services plc from 2002  
until his appointment as Chief Executive in June 2012.
Current external appointments: None.
Background and relevant experience: Chartered Accountant. 
Formerly Finance Director of Unigate Dairies Ltd and from 2002  
Group Finance Director of Uniq plc.
Current external appointments: None.
Committee memberships: Chairman of the Nominations Committee, 
member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Background and relevant experience: Former Executive Chairman 
of Lloyd’s Register, former Chairman and Chief Executive of the 
Process Division of the Kvaerner Group, former Board Member and 
Deputy Chairman of the Department for Trade and Industry’s Offshore 
Supplies Office and a life member of the UK’s Foundation for Science 
and Technology.
Current external appointments: Trafalgar House Trustees Limited, 
Deputy Chairman of Maritime London, Director of OAO Sovcomflot and 
a Director of James Fisher & Sons plc.
Background and relevant experience: Trained and worked in  
Horace Clarkson PLC from 1977-1985. Established Braemar Tankers  
in 1986.
Current external appointments: Member of Intertanko’s  
Associate Members Committee.
3. Alastair Farley (68)
Non-executive Director and 
Senior Independent Director
4. David Moorhouse CBE, FNI (67)
Non-executive Director
Executive Directors
5. James Kidwell FCA (52)
Chief Executive
6. Denis Petropoulos (57)
Executive Director – responsible for  
Braemar Shipping Services plc’s Asian  
interests and based in Singapore.
7. Martin Beer ACA (51)
Group Finance Director
Board of Directors
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 26 Corporate Governance Statement 
Chairman’s Introduction
We are committed to achieving a high standard of corporate 
governance within the Group. We believe this is essential to 
sustain our reputation and the continuing trust and support of 
our shareholders, employees, clients and other stakeholders.
The Board endorses the main principles and provisions set  
out in the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 
2012 (“the Code”). This statement together with the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 45 describes how the 
Board and its sub-committees operate and how the Company 
has applied the Code during the year ended 28 February 2014.
Sir Graham Hearne CBE
Chairman
19 May 2014
Compliance
The Board believes that the Company has been compliant with 
the Code throughout the year, with the exception of B.1.1 on 
non-executives serving for more than nine years. John Denholm 
has served on the Board for 12 years and will be retiring at the 
Annual General Meeting. David Moorhouse CBE has served on 
the Board for nine years and we believe that he remains wholly 
independent in character and judgement, with no relationships 
or circumstances that are otherwise likely to affect or appear to 
affect his judgement.
The Listing Rules require that we state how we have applied the 
Main Principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
This information is set out on our website and the required 
detail on specific Code Provisions is set out in this Corporate 
Governance Statement. The UK Corporate Governance Code  
is publicly available on the FRC’s website at: www.frc.org.uk.
Shareholder Relations
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good 
communications with shareholders. For several years the Group 
has pursued an active investor relations programme conducted 
primarily through regular meetings of the Chief Executive and 
Finance Director with existing and potential investors following 
both the interim and preliminary announcements of the results 
of the Group. Feedback on shareholder meetings is provided 
via the Group’s corporate stockbroker or public relations 
adviser. Corporate announcements are also made available  
on the Group’s website.
The Board exercises care to ensure that all information, 
including that which is potentially price-sensitive, is released  
to all shareholders at the same time in accordance with 
applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
The Company encourages attendance at its Annual General 
Meeting where each resolution is separately put to the meeting 
and where the Chief Executive makes a statement on the 
current year’s performance to date and the near-term  
financial outlook.
Leadership
The Board
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the effective 
direction and control of the Group and it aims to provide 
entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of prudent and 
effective controls, enabling risks to be assessed and managed.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three 
independent non-executive Directors and three executive 
Directors. The Board believes that its current composition is 
appropriate having regard to the Company’s size and activities.
The non-executive Directors, none of whom has fulfilled an 
executive role within the Company, are appointed for an initial 
three-year term. Sir Graham Hearne CBE chairs the Board and 
has not been a member of any of the Board’s sub-committees. 
Alastair Farley is the senior independent non-executive Director 
and he chairs the Audit Committee; John Denholm chairs the 
Remuneration Committee and David Moorhouse CBE chairs 
the Nominations Committee. 
Following John Denholm’s retirement from the Board at the 
Annual General Meeting, it is intended that David Moorhouse 
CBE will become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
and Sir Graham Hearne CBE will become Chairman of the 
Nominations Committee.
The Board met eight times during the year and the attendance  
by the Directors is set out below. Board meetings include reviews 
of financial and business performance and consideration and 
monitoring of business risks and opportunities. The following 
matters are specifically reserved for the Board’s consideration 
and approval:
 − Group strategy; 
 − The Group budget; 
 − Major capital expenditure, disposals or leasing arrangements; 
 − Choice of key corporate advisers; 
 − Acquisitions and disposals; 
 − Group financial and treasury policy including dividends  
and borrowing; 
 − Establishing Board committees and setting their terms  
of reference; and 
 − Internal control arrangements.
On a periodic basis, the Board receives reports on its activities 
from the senior management of a division or a business 
manager. During the year, the Board visited the Group’s 
operations in Singapore and received presentations from  
senior staff in the region.
The number of meetings of the full Board and the attendance  
of those meetings by each member is set out below:
Number of meetings in 2013/14: 8 Attended
Non-executive Directors
Sir Graham Hearne CBE 8/8
John Denholm 8/8
David Moorhouse CBE 7/8
Alastair Farley 8/8
Executive Directors
Martin Beer 8/8
James Kidwell 8/8
Denis Petropoulos 8/8
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 27
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Corporate Governance Statement 
continued
Board Committees
The Board has three standing committees, Audit, Nominations 
and Remuneration. Each of the Board committees comprises 
solely non-executive Directors. The composition and 
responsibilities for the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations 
Committees are set out in each of the committee reports,  
on pages 29, 30 and 31, respectively. The Remuneration 
Committee Report on pages 31 to 45 is incorporated  
into this Statement by reference.
Effectiveness
An evaluation of the Board, its committees and its Directors has 
been conducted.
Under the Company’s Articles of Association, Directors should 
submit themselves for re-election every three years. The 
Directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and 
offering themselves for re-election are Alastair Farley and David 
Moorhouse CBE. The Nominations Committee and the Board 
all unanimously support these re-elections. 
Biographical information on these Directors can be found on 
page 26 of this Annual Report.
Accountability
The Board is responsible for assessing the Company’s position 
and prospects and for ensuring that the information presented 
to shareholders is fair, balanced and understandable. Further 
details of the Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the 
Company’s financial statements are set out in the statement  
of Directors’ responsibilities on page 47.
The Board is also responsible for determining the nature and 
extent of the risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic 
objectives, for maintaining the Company’s system of internal 
controls and risk management, and for reviewing the 
effectiveness of these systems annually. The Audit Committee  
is responsible for the independent review and challenge of the 
adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management approach 
and for reporting its findings in this respect to the Board.
Risk management and internal control
The Board acknowledges the requirements of the Code  
and seeks to review aspects of risk management in relation  
to each part of the Group. The Directors acknowledge their 
responsibility for the implementation and effectiveness of the 
Group’s system of internal controls in accordance with the 
Turnbull guidance. These are designed to identify and manage 
the particular risks to which the Group is exposed. By their  
very nature these controls can only provide reasonable but  
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the system  
of internal controls during the year and proposes actions to 
strengthen the controls, which the Board implements as 
necessary. The Group also holds professional indemnity 
insurance to an amount considered adequate for its size  
and potential exposure.
The Group’s internal control processes encompass the  
controls over the preparation of financial information,  
including consolidated financial statements.
Risk management
A summary of key risks and internal controls is prepared for 
consideration at the Audit Committee on an annual basis and 
these are then presented to the Board. The major risks are 
detailed in the Strategic Report.
The processes to monitor risk have been in place throughout 
the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report. 
The Company takes appropriate measures to mitigate risk, 
including taking out appropriate insurance protection to an 
amount appropriate to its size.
A Group budget is prepared annually and approved by the 
Board. The performances of the Group and the individual 
operating units are monitored against budget throughout  
the year and significant variances are investigated. Regular 
re-forecasts for the remainder of the financial year are prepared 
during the year.
The Group operates an internal system of checks and 
authorisations and independent audits are conducted in relation 
to the ISO 9001:2000 certification which Braemar Seascope 
Limited, Cory Brothers Shipping Agency Limited, Braemar 
Howells Limited, Braemar Technical Services (Engineering) Ltd 
and Braemar Technical Services (Offshore) all hold.
There is also an internal whistleblowing procedure through 
which any member of staff may raise, in confidence, any 
concerns they may have about the way the Group is run  
or business is conducted.
The Board monitors treasury activity through regular reporting 
by the Finance Director. The Group does not enter into 
speculative transactions.
Ethical conduct and anti-bribery measures
The Group is committed to undertaking business to the highest 
standards and has clear ethical guidelines which are issued to 
all Group companies in both English and local languages where 
appropriate. The Audit Committee monitors compliance with 
these ethical guidelines through internal procedures, particularly 
the internal audit function, and reports to the Board. There is a 
total prohibition on the payments of any kind of bribes and this 
is monitored closely through both internal and external auditing. 
A programme of internal training is in place to ensure that Group 
staff are aware of these policies and understand how they relate 
to Group business. On an annual basis the head of each 
business unit is required to sign off that the business for which 
they are responsible has complied with the Group’s procedures.
Internal audit
The Group’s internal audit function is a peer review process, 
whereby senior financial managers from within the business 
conduct audits of the Group’s activities outside their own 
activities. The programme is co-ordinated by the Group 
Financial Controller who presents the Group internal audit  
plan and reports to the Audit Committee. The Committee is 
responsible for ensuring that the internal audit programme is 
met and recommendations are actioned. The Directors have 
reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal 
control throughout the year.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 28 Report of the Audit Committee
Number of scheduled meetings in 2013/14: 3 Attended
John Denholm 3/3
David Moorhouse CBE 3/3
Alastair Farley 3/3
Non-executive Directors: Alastair Farley (Chairman),  
John Denholm, David Moorhouse CBE.
Terms of Reference
The Committee’s terms of reference can be found on our 
website www.braemarplc.com. They are reviewed on an 
ongoing basis.
Key Function and responsibilities
Our key function, as the Audit Committee, is to address  
the following specific responsibilities, while adapting our 
activities as appropriate to address changing priorities  
within these objectives:
 − Financial Reporting: reviewing the half-year and annual 
financial statements and advising the Board whether the 
accounts represent a fair, balanced and understandable 
view of the business; monitoring compliance with relevant 
statutory and listing requirements and the UK Bribery Act; 
and advising on the suitability of accounting policies,  
for example revenue recognition, use of estimates and 
critical judgements;
 − Internal control and risk management: reviewing internal 
control procedures and the risk assessment process; 
advising the Board on the significant risks facing the  
Group and monitoring the scope and effectiveness of  
the activities of the Group’s internal audit activities;
 − Relationship with the external auditor: planning with the 
external auditors the half-year review and full-year audit 
programme including agreement as to the nature and  
scope of their audit as well as the level of the audit fee set  
in the context of the overall audit plan; and monitoring the 
ongoing effectiveness of the external auditor.
Our meetings are attended, by invitation, by the Chairman of  
the plc Board, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance 
Director, the Group Financial Controller and representatives  
of the external auditors. In addition to the formal Committee 
meetings, as Chairman of the Audit Committee, I meet with the  
Group external audit partner and his team.
Review Processes
As a Committee we are specifically concerned with the 
following areas:
 − Risk management and Internal control
 − Ethical conduct and anti-bribery measures
 − Internal audit
 − External audit
 − Committee effectiveness.
Significant Issues
During the year ended 28 February 2014, the significant  
issues which we have considered are as follows:
Alastair Farley
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Annual Report
We have reviewed the presentation of the Group’s results  
for the year in this annual report. As part of our review, we have 
considered reports from the Group Finance Director and Group 
Financial Controller and the report presented by the external 
auditor summarising the findings of their annual audit.
The primary areas of judgement that we considered for the  
year ending 28 February 2014 were:
 − the assumptions underlying the testing for impairment of  
the Group’s goodwill and intangible assets. The results of 
the Group’s annual review for impairment showed that there 
is no impairment and after considering reasonable stress 
testing concluded that the assumptions demonstrated  
that significant headroom existed;
 − the level of provision for the impairment of trade receivable 
balances. We believe that the Group’s policy of providing for 
trade receivables over twelve months old unless there is good 
reason is appropriate. Good reason can include making a 
provision for amounts less than twelve months old if there  
is a risk of recovery, but also not making a provision for 
amounts over twelve months old if there is compelling 
evidence not to do so. The policy is kept under review  
and there are no unusual variances to the policy at  
28 February 2014;
 − the presentation of the results of Braemar Casbarian as  
a discontinued operation. During the year management 
undertook a review of this business and concluded that  
the activities of the business did not fit with the rest of the 
Technical division. As a consequence the decision was 
made in February 2014 to sell or exit the business due to  
its lack of strategic fit with the result that local management 
bought the Company from the Group in March 2014.  
The results and the loss on disposal have been presented 
under discontinued operations in the year and the assets 
and liabilities recognised as assets and liabilities held for 
sale on the balance sheet.
Other areas
In addition, the other areas we have given focus to during  
the year were:
 − a review of the Group’s anti-bribery and corruption 
procedures and the development of the ongoing training 
program that is provided to staff across the Group.  
This is an ongoing process and we intend to continue 
developing the education plan in the coming year which  
will be supported by a Group Control Framework which  
will underpin this as well as other core group controls;
 − the increased scope of the Group’s internal audit  
program to ensure that every location in the group  
is visited at least every three years;
 − agreeing a revised audit scope and its related audit fee for 
the year with the external auditors. The current Group audit 
partner has been in the position for one year. We last put the 
audit out for tender in 2010 and this resulted in a change of 
audit firm and the appointment of KPMG. We intend to carry 
out the next review in 2016;
 − consideration of the risk associated with the widespread 
and large number of small entities that exist in the Group  
and the lower level of controls that naturally exists due  
to the fewer number of employees. Our internal audit 
program helps to address this and the Group Control 
Framework referred to above will also help provide an 
underlying structure to align controls and processes.
Alastair Farley
On behalf of the Audit Committee
19 May 2014
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 29
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Diversity
The Committee currently takes into account a variety of factors 
before recommending any new appointments to the Board, 
including relevant skills to perform the role, experience, 
knowledge, ethnicity and gender. 
Braemar endeavours to achieve appropriate diversity, including 
gender diversity, throughout the Company and concurs with  
the recommendations of Lord Davies’ review. The Committee 
will continue to ensure that members of the Board should 
collectively possess the broad range of skills, expertise and 
industry knowledge, and business and other experience 
necessary for the effective oversight of the Group. 
Our policy, and duty, is to ensure that the best candidate is 
selected to join the Board and this approach will remain in  
place going forward, without prescriptive, quantitative targets.
David Moorhouse CBE
On behalf of the Nominations Committee
19 May 2014
Corporate Governance Statement 
continued
Report of the Nominations Committee
Number of scheduled meetings in 2013/14: 4 Attended
John Denholm 4/4
David Moorhouse CBE 4/4
Alastair Farley 4/4
Non-executive Directors: David Moorhouse CBE 
(Chairman), John Denholm and Alastair Farley.
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee, 
explaining its role and authority delegated by the Board,  
are available on www.braemarplc.com.
The main role of the Nominations Committee is to consider  
the composition of the Board and to plan and carry out 
appropriate succession as deemed necessary. We also  
review the re-appointment of non-executive Directors at  
the expiration of their letter of engagement.
Succession planning
Our succession planning has two key responsibilities, firstly  
to ensure that the Group is managed by executives with the 
necessary skills, experience and knowledge, and secondly to 
ensure that the Board itself has the right balance of individuals 
to be able to discharge its responsibilities effectively. As part  
of the annual evaluation of Board performance, all Directors  
are consulted on the composition of the Board, as to size, the 
appropriate range of skills and balance between Executive  
and non-executive Directors.
During the year, the Committee discussed the Group’s current 
succession plan which considers the senior roles within the 
Group and identifies whether there is appropriate cover in  
place in the event that an individual leaves the organisation,  
and whether there is a permanent replacement available  
within the organisation, or whether the position will need  
to be filled externally.
David Moorhouse CBE
Chairman of the Nominations Committee
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 30 John Denholm CA
Chairman of the  
Remuneration Committee
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Annual Statement by the Chairman of  
the Remuneration Committee
Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased  
to present the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year 
ended 28 February 2014.
Our remuneration philosophy
The Committee’s approach to executive remuneration remains 
unchanged. Our framework should be:
 − Market competitive. The structures and quantum of our 
remuneration arrangements must be sufficient to allow us  
to compete in the highly competitive global talent markets  
in the shipping services industry. At the same time, we 
should seek to pay no more than is necessary. 
 − Simple and transparent. Our executive remuneration 
structures should be clear and understandable for 
participants and shareholders. 
 − Aligned to performance. A substantial portion of 
executive reward should be aligned to profitability and 
long-term value delivered for shareholders. In line with  
our peers, we operate profit sharing arrangements in  
the broking business. 
 − Aligned to shareholders. We align long-term reward with 
the long-term value of our shares through share ownership 
guidelines and share-based remuneration. 
Competing for talent 
The success of our business is driven primarily by the talent of 
our employees and management team, and the relationships 
which they develop with our clients. It is therefore critical that 
we have the right remuneration framework to attract, retain and 
engage the calibre of talent that we need to drive performance 
for our shareholders. 
As a UK listed company, we also aim to adhere to key principles 
of best practice on corporate governance and executive 
remuneration. As a result, the remuneration framework for  
our executive Directors (codified this year for the first time in a 
binding Remuneration Policy which may be effective for the next 
three years) is aligned to key best practice principles in the UK. 
For example, we have introduced clawback into our Annual 
Bonus and Brokers’ Bonus. 
At the same time, we compete for talent in a highly competitive 
global market which, in some areas, dictates particular 
remuneration structures and practices which we need to adopt 
to compete for such talent. For example, in the shipbroking 
industry, it is established custom and practice for a substantial 
proportion of overall remuneration to be driven directly from 
profit sharing arrangements, on an uncapped basis, with a 
relatively low level of fixed remuneration. Therefore, executive 
Directors principally involved in broking would be eligible to 
participate in the Brokers’ Bonus arrangements, rather than  
the Group annual bonus plan. None of our current executive 
Directors are currently engaged in commission earning broking 
activities and therefore profit sharing arrangements will not 
apply to them. However, the Committee considers the flexibility 
in our Remuneration Policy to apply such arrangements where 
appropriate is critical for our ability to compete for talent and  
is fully in the best interests of our shareholders. 
Remuneration outcomes for 2013/14
 − The Committee set the earnings per share hurdle for  
the executive Directors’ annual bonus at 21.27 pence, 
unchanged from the previous year. The Committee decided 
that the performance metric should be reported earnings 
per share from continuing operations of 31.93 pence 
adjusted to include the trading losses for the discontinued 
operation, such that adjusted earnings per share of  
25.08 pence were used for the performance assessment 
producing an excess over the hurdle of 3.81 pence. This 
resulted in a total annual bonus for the three executive 
Directors of £181,641, amounting to awards of 21-23% of  
the maximum. Two thirds was paid in cash and one third is 
payable in deferred shares which vest in three years’ time.
 − The LTIP awards made to James Kidwell and Denis 
Petropoulos in May 2011 did not meet the minimum 
performance condition over the three-year vesting period 
and lapsed on 17 May 2014. No LTIP awards were made 
during 2013/14.
 − At the request of two executive Directors the Company 
ceased making pension contributions on their behalf  
and their salaries were adjusted by an equivalent amount. 
No other changes to fixed remuneration were made.
Number of scheduled meetings in 2013/14: 4 Attended
John Denholm 4/4
David Moorhouse CBE 3/4
Alastair Farley 4/4
Non-executive Directors: John Denholm (Chairman),  
David Moorhouse CBE and Alastair Farley.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 31
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Approach to 2014/15
 − The Committee believes the executive Directors’  
fixed remuneration is appropriate to their roles and  
does not intend to make changes for the coming year.
 − The Committee will introduce a right to clawback bonuses  
in circumstances where there is a material re-statement of 
the financial results within three years or discovery of facts 
which would have entitled the Company to have summarily 
dismissed the Director without notice.
 − Following approval of the renewed LTIP at the Annual 
General Meeting (see below), LTIP awards will be granted  
to the executive Directors. These awards will be based on 
EPS growth over a three-year period, requiring stretching 
performance of 13% per annum for maximum vesting.
 − The Chairman’s fee will be increased to reflect the increase 
in the size and complexity of the Company. The last 
increase was in 2008.
LTIP – seeking approval for a renewed plan 
The current Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) was approved  
by shareholders in 2006. Following a review of the LTIP, the 
Committee concluded that, while the underlying structure 
remained appropriate, the LTIP should be updated to reflect 
developments in best practice. We will therefore be seeking 
approval for a renewed LTIP at the 2014 AGM. Full details are 
set out in the Remuneration Policy and in the Notice of AGM. 
Key highlights include:
 − Updating leaver and change of control provisions in  
line with best practice
 − Inclusion of a malus provision
 − Flexibility to include dividend equivalents
 − Whilst maintaining the normal award size at 100% of salary, 
adding the flexibility (in exceptional circumstances such as 
in respect of recruitment) to make awards of up to 200%  
of salary. 
The Committee is aware that some shareholders have indicated 
a preference for vesting periods which are longer than three 
years. The Committee considered this but concluded that  
in our sector, a performance period of three years remains 
appropriate and market competitive, and that the objective  
of longer-term shareholder alignment is achieved via our 
shareholding guidelines.
Structure of the report
The report has been prepared in two sections in line with the 
new remuneration disclosure requirements: 
1)  The Remuneration Policy (pages 33 to 41). This contains 
details of the remuneration policy which we will apply from 
the date of the 2014 AGM subject to receiving the approval  
of our shareholders in a binding vote at the AGM; and
2)  The Annual Report on Remuneration (pages 41 to 45)  
which sets out the details of how our remuneration policy was 
implemented during 2013/14 and how it will be implemented 
in 2014/15. This will be put to an advisory shareholder vote  
at our 2014 AGM.
I will be available, together with my fellow Committee members, 
at our 2014 AGM to answer any questions or receive your 
feedback with regard to our policies and how we have 
implemented them.
On behalf of the Committee, I look forward to receiving your 
support at the AGM.
John Denholm CA
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
19 May 2014
Directors’ Remuneration Report  
continued
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 32 Remuneration Policy
This part of the report sets out the remuneration policy (the “Policy”) as determined by the Remuneration Committee  
(“the Committee”). This Policy will be subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM and, subject to that approval,  
will become effective from that date.
Policy Table for executive Directors 
Purpose and link  
to strategy
Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Base Salary
To provide an element of  
fixed remuneration as part  
of a market competitive 
remuneration package to 
attract and retain the calibre  
of talent required to deliver  
the Group’s strategy.
Base salaries are determined 
by the Committee, taking  
into account:
 − Skills and experience  
of the individual;
 − Size, scope and 
complexity of the role;
 − Market competitiveness  
of the overall remuneration 
package;
 − Performance of the 
individual and of the  
Group as a whole; and
 − Pay and conditions 
elsewhere in the Group
Base salaries are normally 
reviewed annually with 
changes effective from the 
start of the financial year.
Base salaries for 2014/15  
are set out on page 41 of the 
Annual Remuneration Report. 
While there is no defined 
maximum, salary increases 
are normally made with 
reference to increases for the 
wider employee population.
The Committee retains 
discretion to award larger 
increases where considered 
appropriate, to reflect,  
for example:
 − An increase in scope  
or responsibility;
 − Development and 
performance in role; and
 − Alignment to market 
competitive levels. 
None
Benefits
To provide a market 
competitive benefits package 
for the nature and location  
of the role.
Incorporates various cash/ 
non-cash benefits which are 
competitive in the relevant 
market, and which may 
include such benefits as a  
car (or car allowance), club 
membership, healthcare,  
life assurance and income 
protection insurance.
Where relevant, other benefits 
to reflect specific individual 
circumstances, such as 
housing, relocation, travel,  
or other expatriate allowances 
may also be provided. 
Executive Directors may also 
participate in the Company’s 
Save As You Earn (SAYE) 
scheme on the same basis  
as other employees and 
subject to statutory limits.
Benefit provision, for which 
there is no prescribed 
monetary maximum, is set  
at an appropriate level for the 
specific nature and location  
of the role. 
None
Pension
To provide a post-retirement 
benefit to attract and  
retain talent. 
The Committee may offer 
participation in a defined 
contribution pension scheme 
or provide a cash allowance.
Up to 15% of base salary  
per annum. 
None
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 33
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Purpose and link  
to strategy
Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Annual Bonus
To incentivise and reward 
annual performance aligned 
with the long-term objectives 
of individuals and the delivery 
of strategy.
Deferral into shares 
strengthens long-term 
alignment with shareholders.
All executive Directors (other 
than those participating in the 
Brokers’ Bonus) are eligible  
to participate in the Annual 
Bonus at the discretion of  
the Committee each year. 
The performance measures 
and targets are determined 
annually by the Committee  
to reflect prevailing Group 
financial and strategic 
objectives. 
Payout levels are determined 
by the Committee after year 
end based on performance 
against targets set at the  
start of the year. 
The Committee retains 
discretion to adjust bonus 
payments to reflect the overall 
performance of the Group.
A portion of the Annual  
Bonus will be deferred into 
shares, subject to a malus 
provision, under the Deferred 
Bonus Plan (“DBP”), 
described in more detail in  
the section below. 
Clawback provisions will also 
apply as explained on page 36. 
100% of base salary The majority of the Annual 
Bonus will be based on  
Group financial performance.
The Committee may  
also include performance 
measures and targets  
to reflect:
 − Group strategic or 
operational objectives; 
 − Targets specific to a 
subsidiary company or 
section of the Group  
(if applicable to an 
executive Director); and
 − Individual objectives
Brokers’ Bonus
To provide a bonus structure 
and opportunity for executive 
Directors who undertake 
broking activities and which 
directly aligns reward with 
broking profitability delivered 
for the Group. 
Deferral into shares 
strengthens long-term 
alignment with shareholders.
Only executive Directors who 
principally undertake broking 
activities are eligible to 
participate in the Brokers’ 
Bonus at the discretion of  
the Committee each year. 
Individuals who participate in 
the Brokers’ Bonus cannot 
participate in the Annual 
Bonus in respect of the same 
financial year. 
The Brokers’ Bonus is 
calculated as a percentage  
of the profits generated in 
respect of the year through 
broking activities of the desk 
or reporting unit.
A portion of the Brokers’ 
Bonus will be deferred into 
shares, subject to a malus 
provision, under the DBP, 
described in more detail on 
page 36. 
Clawback provisions will  
also apply as explained on 
page 36. 
The aggregate Brokers’  
Bonus “pool” for all employees 
across the Group is funded by 
broking profitability. 
In line with market practice for 
the Company’s peers, there is 
no cap on individual Brokers’ 
Bonus awards.
The Brokers’ Bonus is  
directly aligned to the  
profits generated by  
broking activities.
Directors’ Remuneration Report  
continued
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 34 Purpose and link  
to strategy
Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”)
To provide a variable element 
which aligns the reward of  
all executive Directors with 
long-term performance 
delivered for shareholders. 
Awards are made under the 
2014 Long Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP) subject to  
approval from shareholders  
at the 2014 AGM.
Awards vest subject to 
performance measured  
over a period of at least  
three years. 
All executive Directors are 
eligible to participate each 
year at the discretion of  
the Committee. 
Awards of shares are made  
at the discretion of the 
Committee and can be made 
in the form of nil-cost options, 
conditional shares, or, where 
appropriate, the cash 
equivalent.
Any shares that vest may 
benefit from the value of 
dividends which would have 
been paid (if any) during the 
period between award  
and exercise.
Awards under the 2014  
LTIP will be subject to  
a malus provision, as  
described in more detail  
on page 36. 
The plan rules provide for 
adjustments in certain 
circumstances, for example, 
awards may be adjusted in 
the event of variation of the 
Company’s share capital, 
demerger, special dividend  
or similar event.
The usual maximum award 
opportunity in respect of a 
financial year is 100% of  
base salary.
However, in circumstances 
that the Committee considers 
to be exceptional, awards of 
up to 200% of base salary 
may be made. 
Vesting is based on the 
achievement of performance 
targets set in respect of  
key financial performance 
measures (currently earnings 
per share for current 
executive Directors). 
Where relevant to an 
executive Director, vesting 
may be based, in whole or in 
part, on measures specific  
to the performance of a 
subsidiary company or 
section of the Group.
25% vests for threshold 
performance. 
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 35
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Directors’ Remuneration Report  
continued
Bonus deferral
A portion of the Annual Bonus and Brokers’ Bonus awards will 
be deferred into shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan (“DBP”). 
Such awards will vest, unless the Committee determines 
otherwise, after three years from the date of grant, subject  
to continued employment with the Group (with provisions  
for individuals who leave the Group set out in the table on  
page 34).
Any shares that vest may benefit from the value of dividends 
which would have been paid (if any) during the period between 
award and vesting.
The Committee may determine that DBP awards are made  
in conjunction with the Braemar Company Share Option Plan 
(“CSOP”) to enable UK tax resident individuals to benefit from 
the growth in value of the shares subject to the awards in a 
tax-efficient manner. In such circumstances, when DBP awards 
are granted, a corresponding market value option will be 
granted under the terms of the CSOP, the maximum face value 
of which will be £30,000. The options will vest on the same 
terms as and on the same date as the corresponding DBP 
awards and must be exercised within two days following the 
vesting date. Under the terms of the CSOP, no income tax or 
employees’ or employer’s National Insurance contributions will 
be payable, on exercise, on the growth in value of the shares. 
The number of shares in respect of which the DBP awards will 
vest will be reduced to take account of the value, as at vesting, 
of the corresponding CSOP options. In addition, the number of 
CSOP options which will vest will be reduced in the event that 
the value, as at vesting, of the option exceeds the value, as at 
vesting, of the corresponding DBP award. CSOP awards would 
only be made to in conjunction with the DBP as described 
above, and not on a stand-alone basis. 
Malus provisions
Awards under the DBP and the 2014 LTIP are subject to a 
malus provision which allows the Committee to reduce the 
number shares subject to unvested awards and/or impose 
further conditions on unvested awards in certain circumstances 
which include:
 − a material re-statement of any financial results of  
the Company;
 − a material failure of risk management by the Company  
or a relevant business unit; or 
 − serious reputational damage to the Company or a relevant 
business unit as a result of the participant’s misconduct or 
failure of supervision. 
Clawback 
The Annual Bonus and the Brokers’ Bonus are subject to a 
clawback provision such that (i) in circumstances of a material 
re-statement of any financial results of the Company which 
takes place within three years of the payment of an amount 
under the plans, or (ii) the discovery of facts, within three years 
of the payment of an amount under the plans, which would 
have entitled the Company to have summarily dismissed the 
recipient without notice, the Committee has discretion to  
require the repayment of some or all of the amount received.
Performance measures and target setting
The Annual Bonus is normally based largely on the financial 
performance of the Group during the year. When setting the 
financial performance targets each year, the Committee 
considers a number of factors including the Board’s business 
plan, the relative strength and cyclical nature of the shipping 
markets, as well as the outlook for the less cyclical non-broking 
businesses. As set out in the Policy Table, the Annual Bonus 
may also include, where appropriate, targets to reflect Group 
strategic or operational objectives, specific subsidiary or 
divisional objectives, or individual objectives. Targets in these 
areas will be appropriately stretching and aligned to delivery  
of the Group business plan and strategy
Performance measures and targets for the LTIP are  
determined by the Committee to reflect the Group’s strategy 
and to align executive Directors with long-term value creation  
for shareholders. The Committee sets long-term performance 
targets which require appropriately stretching levels of 
performance, taking into account internal and external 
expectations. Under the LTIP rules, performance conditions 
may be amended or varied if an event occurs or circumstances 
arise which cause the Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, 
to determine that an amended performance condition would  
be more appropriate provided that the amended performance 
condition would be materially neither more difficult nor easier  
to satisfy.
Remuneration arrangements across the Group
The Group operates in a number of different sectors and 
geographies and therefore remuneration practices vary widely 
across the employee population. Differences in remuneration 
practices for executive Directors, senior management and other 
employees in the Group generally reflect differences in market 
practice taking into account role, seniority and geographical 
location. However, employee remuneration policies are normally 
based on the same broad principles as the policy for executive 
Directors, as follows:
 − Remuneration arrangements must be capable of attracting, 
retaining and engaging the calibre of talent needed to deliver 
the strategy in the specific talent markets in which the 
Group competes. 
 − The involvement of employees in the Group’s performance 
is encouraged through participation in incentive plans, 
appropriate for the markets in which the Group operates.  
In particular, our shipbrokers, including any relevant 
executive Directors, may participate in profit sharing 
arrangements which are reflect market practice in  
industry peers. 
 − Alignment with shareholders through share ownership is 
widely encouraged through participation in share-based 
incentive schemes, including both UK and International 
SAYE schemes. Braemar employees currently hold 
approximately 14% of the Company’s shares. 
When making decisions in respect of the executive  
Director remuneration arrangements, the Committee takes  
into consideration the pay and conditions for employees 
throughout the Group, including levels of salary increase  
and the operation of key incentive plans. The Committee  
does not directly consult with employees as part of the  
process of determining executive pay. 
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 36 Consideration of shareholder views
The Committee remains committed to an open and ongoing dialogue with shareholders on remuneration. The Committee 
monitors investors’ views, best practice developments and market trends on executive remuneration. Guidelines of investor bodies 
and shareholder views were considered when determining the Policy. The Company encourages shareholders to contact the 
Committee with any issues or concerns regarding the Company’s remuneration policy. Annual general meetings of the Company 
also provide an opportunity for shareholders to engage with the Committee about the Company’s remuneration policy.
Policy Table for Chairman and non-executive Directors
Purpose and link  
to strategy
Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures
Fees
To provide market appropriate 
fees to recruit and retain 
individuals of the calibre  
to deliver the strategy. 
The remuneration of the 
Chairman is determined  
by the Committee and  
the remuneration of the 
non-executive Directors  
is determined by the  
Board (excluding the  
non-executive Directors).
Fees are normally reviewed  
on an annual basis.
The Chairman receives a 
single fee encompassing  
all duties.
Non-executive Directors 
receive a basic fee and may 
also receive additional fees  
for Committee or other  
Board duties.
Fees are payable in cash, 
although the Company may 
retain the right to make 
payment in shares.
Expenses reasonably incurred 
in the performance of the role 
may be reimbursed or paid for 
directly by the Company, as 
appropriate, including any  
tax due on the benefits.
The Chairman and Non-
executive Directors do  
not participate in any  
of the Group’s bonus 
arrangements, share  
plans or pension schemes.
While there is no maximum 
fee level, fees are set 
considering: 
 − Market practice for 
comparative roles;
 − The time commitment  
and duties involved; and
 − The requirement to attract 
and retain the quality of 
individuals required by  
the Company.
None
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 37
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Directors’ Remuneration Report  
continued
Illustration of the Remuneration Policy
The charts below illustrate the potential value of the 
remuneration packages of the executive Directors under  
the following scenarios (no share price growth is assumed): 
 − Minimum – reflects fixed pay only (base salary and  
pension as at 1 March 2014 and benefits included using  
the disclosed values for the year ending February 2014).
 − Target – reflects fixed pay, Annual Bonus payout of 50%  
of maximum (i.e. 50% of salary) and LTIP vesting at 
threshold (i.e. 20% of salary). 
 − Maximum – reflects maximum Annual Bonus (100%  
of salary) and maximum LTIP awards (100% of salary). 
None of the current executive Directors currently participate  
in the Brokers’ Bonus.
Chief Executive Officer (James Kidwell)
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
100% 57%
14%
33%
33%
28%
33%
353
616
1,053
Minimum Target Maximum
£’000
Finance Director and Company Secretary (Martin Beer)
0
200
400
600
800
100% 57%
14%
33%
33%
28%
33%
239
418
714
Minimum Target Maximum
£’000
Executive Director (Denis Petropoulos)
0
200
400
600
800
100% 63%
12%
31%
31%
25%
38%
289
462
749
Minimum Target Maximum
£’000 
LTIP
  
Annual Bonus
  
Fixed pay
Approach to recruitment remuneration
In respect of the appointment of a new executive Director,  
the overall approach of the Committee would be to provide 
remuneration arrangements sufficient to facilitate the 
appointment of individuals of sufficient calibre to lead the 
business and deliver the strategy, whilst seeking to pay no  
more than it considers necessary to secure the required talent. 
The Committee would normally seek, as far as practicable, to 
align the remuneration package with that set out in the Policy 
Table for Executive Directors. Base salary would be set at an 
appropriately competitive level to reflect skills and experience 
and, where considered appropriate, may be set at a level  
which allows future above-average salary progression to reflect 
performance in role. Participation in the Annual Bonus, the  
LTIP, and, if the individual was to undertake broking activities,  
in the Brokers’ Bonus would be in line with the structure and 
maximum opportunities set out in the Policy Table, other than 
as referred to below.
Where an individual forfeits remuneration arrangements with a 
previous employer as a result of appointment to the Company, 
the Committee may offer compensatory payments or awards to 
facilitate recruitment. Such payments or awards could include 
cash as well as performance and non-performance related 
share awards, and would be in such form as the Committee 
considers appropriate considering all relevant factors such as 
the form, expected value, anticipated vesting and timing of the 
forfeited remuneration. There is no limit on the value of such 
compensatory awards, but the Committee’s intention is that  
the value awarded would be no higher than the estimated  
value forfeited. 
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 38 Given the highly competitive nature of some of the talent 
markets in which Braemar competes, the Committee considers 
that having flexibility to respond to the specific commercial 
realities of a recruitment scenario is in the best interests of  
the Company and its shareholders. Therefore, the Committee 
has discretion, which would only be used if the Committee 
believes such action is absolutely necessary in exceptional or 
unexpected circumstances to secure an external appointment 
to include other reasonable fixed remuneration components to 
reflect, for example, local market practice in pension or benefit 
provision which were not foreseen in the Policy Table, or deliver 
variable pay via alternative structures and/or flex the balance 
between annual and long-term incentives, whilst maintaining 
the intention that a significant portion would be delivered in 
shares. The Committee commits to explaining to shareholders 
the rationale for the relevant arrangements following 
appointment.
Taking into account the limits in the Policy Table and the limits 
referred to above, the maximum level of variable remuneration 
which could be granted in respect of appointment (excluding 
compensatory awards referred to above) is 300% of salary,  
with the exception of an executive Directors who principally 
undertakes broking activities where the maximum is 200%  
of salary and eligibility for participation in the Brokers’ Bonus. 
For the avoidance of doubt, while cash may be included to 
reflect the buy-out of the forfeiture of cash-based remuneration 
on a “like for like” basis, the Committee does not envisage that 
substantial “golden hello” cash payments would be offered.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted  
as far as possible under the Company’s existing share plans.  
If necessary, awards may be granted outside of these plans  
as currently permitted under the Listing Rules, but within  
the limits set out in this section. 
Where an executive Director is appointed from within the 
Group, the normal policy is that any legacy arrangements  
will be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions. 
Similarly, if an executive Director is appointed following an 
acquisition of or merger with another company, the Committee 
may determine that legacy terms and conditions are honoured.
The remuneration package for a newly appointed Chairman  
or non-executive Director would normally be in line with the 
structure set out in the Policy Table for Chairman and non-
executive Directors.
Service contracts and letters of appointment
The current executive Directors have rolling service contracts 
that provide for a twelve months’ notice period by either party. 
The Company may terminate the executive Director’s contract 
by making a payment in lieu of notice of the unexpired notice 
period equivalent to a value comprising of salary, pension and 
contractual benefits. There is no provision in any of the service 
contacts of the executive Directors for any ex-gratia payments.
It is intended that policy above would be applied to the  
service contracts for future executive Director appointments.  
In addition, future service contracts would normally include  
a provision that payments in lieu of notice may be made on  
a phased basis subject to mitigation.
The Chairman and non-executive Directors are appointed 
pursuant to a letter of appointment. The policy is that non-
executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three 
years which may be extended for further three-year periods on 
the recommendation of the Nominations Committee and with  
the Board’s agreement. The non-executive Directors’ letters  
of appointment are to be terminable on one month’s notice 
from either party.
Date of Contract/letter
Unexpired term as at 
28 February 2014 
Executive 
James Kidwell 20 June 2012 12 months
Martin Beer 25 September 2012 12 months
Denis Petropoulos 1 January 2011 12 months
Non-executive
Sir Graham Hearne CBE 24 June 2012 1 month
John Denholm 30 April 2012 1 month
Alastair Farley 11 January 2011 1 month
David Moorhouse CBE 30 April 2012 1 month
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 39
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Loss of office payment policy 
In the event that the employment of an executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in 
accordance with the terms of the service contract as well as the rules of any incentive plans. 
In the event of termination, the following will apply:
Payment in lieu 
of notice
As set out above in the previous section, the Company may terminate employment by making a 
payment in lieu of notice of the unexpired notice period which shall comprise base salary, pension 
entitlements and other contractual entitlements (or an amount in lieu of them). 
Annual Bonus 
and Brokers’ 
Bonus
There is no automatic entitlement in respect of the year of cessation, although the Committee retains the 
discretion to make an award for leavers, taking into account the circumstances of departure. Any such 
award would remain subject to performance and the maximum opportunity would normally be reduced 
pro-rata to reflect the period of the year worked. 
DBP awards If cessation of employment is by reason of death, injury or disability, retirement, redundancy or the 
employing entity no longer being part of the Group, unvested DBP awards shall vest in full on cessation. 
If cessation of employment is for any other reason, then the Committee retains discretion to allow 
awards to subsist, in whole or in part, and vest on the original vesting date (or an earlier date at the 
Committee’s discretion). To the extent the Committee does not exercise this discretion, unvested DBP 
awards will lapse in full. 
LTIP awards 2006 LTIP: If cessation of employment is by reason of death, injury, disability or ill-health (certified to the 
satisfaction of the Committee), unvested LTIP awards shall vest. If cessation of employment is for any 
other reason, then the Committee retains discretion to allow awards to vest. To the extent the Committee 
does not exercise this discretion, unvested LTIP awards will lapse in full. Where LTIP awards vest in 
accordance with these terms, the size of the award shall be reduced pro-rata to reflect the extent to  
which the vesting period has elapsed at the date of cessation. 
2014 LTIP: If cessation of employment is by reason of death, injury, disability or ill-health (certified to the 
satisfaction of the Committee), the employing entity no longer being part of the Group or at the discretion 
of the Committee any other reason, unvested awards will continue and vest on the normal vesting date, 
unless the Committee decides to accelerate vesting. For all other reasons, awards will lapse on cessation 
(whether vested or unvested). The extent to which awards vest in these circumstances will be determined 
by the Committee, taking into account the extent to which the original performance conditions are 
satisfied and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed since the 
award was granted until the date of cessation. 
Vested nil-cost option awards remain exercisable up to six months after the date of cessation, except 
where cessation is by reason of death, when awards remain exercisable for a period of twelve months.
In the event that a buyout award is made on recruitment, then the relevant leaver provisions would be determined at the time of 
the award.
Where an executive Director is entitled to pursue a claim against the Company in respect of their statutory rights or any other claim 
arising from that Director’s employment or termination of employment, the Company will be entitled to negotiate settlement terms 
(including additional exit payments) with that Director which the Committee considers to be reasonable in the circumstances and 
in the best interests of the Company.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of 
an existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation) or by way of settlement or compromise of any 
claim arising in connection with the termination of a Director’s office or employment.
Directors’ Remuneration Report  
continued
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 40 Change of control
In the event of a change of control of the Company, existing share awards under the DBP and 2006 LTIP will vest in full under the 
terms of the respective plan rules. 
Awards under the 2014 LTIP will usually vest at the time of the relevant event, taking into account time and performance.  
Where other corporate events occur, the Committee will exercise its discretion to determine whether awards will vest, and to what 
extent, (taking into account the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied and normally pro-rated for time).
 
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office (including exercising any 
discretions available to it in connection with such payments) that are not line with the Policy where the terms of the payment  
were agreed:
i. before the Policy came into effect; or
ii.  at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment 
was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company. 
For these purposes “payments” includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration, and an award over shares  
is “agreed” at the time the award is granted.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy (for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes,  
or to take account of a change in legislation) without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Annual Remuneration Report
Implementation of the Policy for 2014/15
This section sets out details of how the Committee intends to apply the Policy to the current executive Directors in the 2014/15 
financial year.
Base salary 
The base salaries for the current executive Directors are shown below. The salary of Denis Petropoulos is denominated and paid 
in Singapore dollars. 
2014/15 2013/14 Change
James Kidwell £350k £350k 0%
Martin Beer £237k £237k 0%
Denis Petropoulos S$456k S$456k 0%
Annual bonus
The Annual Bonus for the current executive Directors will be based on EPS performance for the year. The specific targets are 
deemed to be commercially sensitive and are therefore not disclosed. To the extent they are no longer considered sensitive they 
will be disclosed in next year’s report. 
LTIP
LTIP awards to the current executive Directors in 2014/15 will be made at the level of 100% of salary and will be subject to the 
following EPS performance targets, measured over the three-year period ending in 2016/17:
EPS growth over the three years to 2016/17 Vesting
Less than 5% per annum 0%
5% per annum 25%
13% per annum, or higher 100%
Vesting between the points above is on a straight-line basis.
Chairman and non-executive Directors’ fees
The fee policy for the Chairman and non-executive Directors will remain unchanged and is summarised in the table below. 
2014/15 2013/14 Change
Chairman fee £100k £75k +33%
Non-executive Director fee £35k £35k 0%
Committee chair fee £10k £7.5k +33%
Implementation in 2013/14
This section sets out details of the remuneration outcomes in respect of the year ended 28 February 2014. Those sections that 
have been audited have been identified below.
41
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 Directors’ Remuneration Report  
continued
Single total figure of remuneration for 2013/14 (audited)
This section sets out details of the remuneration outcomes in respect of the year ended 28 February 2014. Those sections that 
have been audited have been identified below.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors in respect of 2013/14 is shown in the table below (with the prior year comparative).
Base salary Benefits
(iv)
Pension
(v)
Annual Bonus
(vi)
LTIP
(vii)
Total
£’000 2013/14 2012/13 2013/14 2012/13 2013/14 2012/13 2013/14 2012/13 2013/14 2012/13 2013/14 2012/13
James Kidwell
(i)
350 277 3 3 – 50 81 213 – – 434 543
Martin Beer
(ii)
237 91 2 – – – 50 57 – – 289 148
Denis Petropoulos
(iii)
230 203 59 70 – 30 50 152 – – 339 455
Alan Marsh
(viii)
– 179 – 2 – – – 175 – – – 356
Quentin Soanes
(viii)
– 108 – 1 – – – 75 – – – 184
(i)  James Kidwell was appointed to CEO in June 2012 and ceased receiving pension contributions at the end of the 2012/13 financial year. His non-participation  
in the pension arrangements was taken into account in setting his salary for 2013/14.
(ii)  Martin Beer was appointed to the Board on 15 October 2012 and therefore the 2012/13 amounts reflect service in that period. 
(iii)  Denis Petropoulos’s base salary is denominated in Singapore dollars and was converted for the purposes of the table at the average exchange rate for the 
relevant year. He ceased receiving pension contributions at the end of the 2012/13 financial year. His non-participation in the pension arrangements was taken 
into account in setting his salary for 2013/14.
(iv)  Benefits include healthcare, life assurance and income protection insurance. For Denis Petropoulos, it also includes a housing allowance while based in 
Singapore (of £57,000 in 2013/14 and £68,000 in 2012/13).
(v)  Pension includes the value pension contributions to the Company’s defined contribution pension scheme in respect of the relevant year. Martin Beer does not 
participate in any pension arrangement and James Kidwell and Denis Petropoulos ceased receiving contributions at the end of the 2012/13 financial year. 
(vi)  Annual Bonus represents the full value of the Annual Bonus awarded in respect of the relevant financial year. One third is deferred into shares which vest after 
three years, subject to continued employment. 
(vii)  LTIP represents the value of the LTIP award which vests in respect of a performance period ending in the relevant financial year. The 2013/14 column shows a 
value of zero in respect of the 2011 LTIP award which lapsed in full as the performance targets measured to 2013/14 were not met. The 2012/13 column shows  
a value of zero in respect of the 2010 LTIP award which lapsed in full as the performance targets measured to 2012/13 were not met.
(viii)   Retired 31 July 2012.
The fees of the non-executive Directors in respect of 2013/14 are shown in the table below (with the prior year comparative).
Fees
£’000 2013/14 2012/13
Sir Graham Hearne CBE 75 75
John Denholm 42 39
Alastair Farley 42 39
David Moorhouse CBE 42 39
Payments to past Directors (audited)
None
Payments for loss of office (audited)
None
 
Annual bonus for 2013/14 (audited)
The maximum bonus opportunity for the executive Directors during 2013/14 was 100% of base salary. The Committee set the 
earnings per share hurdle for the Directors’ annual bonus at 21.27 pence, unchanged from the previous year. The Committee 
decided that the performance metric should be reported earnings per share from continuing operations of 31.93 pence adjusted 
to include the trading losses for the discontinued operation, such that adjusted earnings per share of 25.08 pence were used for 
the Directors’ performance assessment producing an excess over the hurdle of 3.81 pence. This resulted in a total annual bonus 
for the three executive Directors of £181,641 of which two thirds was paid in cash and one third is payable in deferred shares 
which vest in three years’ time. This amount is shown in the “single total figure of remuneration” table above. 
2011 LTIP award – vesting in respect of 2013/14 (audited)
The 2011 LTIP awards were granted in May 2011 and were based on performance over the three-year performance period ending 
in 2013/14 against the EPS targets set when the award was granted, summarised in the table below. The Committee determined 
that the 2011 LTIP did not meet the minimum performance condition over the three-year vesting period and therefore the award 
lapsed on 17 May 2014. 
EPS growth over the three years to 2013/14 Vesting
Less than RPI plus 4% per annum 0%
RPI plus 4% per annum 50%
RPI plus 10% per annum, or higher 100%
Vesting between the points above is on a straight-line basis.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 42 2013 LTIP award – granted during 2013/14 (audited)
No LTIP awards were granted to executive Directors during 2013/14. 
Shareholding guidelines and share interests (audited)
Under the shareholding guidelines, executive Directors are required to build and retain a shareholding in the Group at least 
equivalent to 100% of base salary. This guideline is expected to be met within five years of appointment to the Board.
Non-executive Directors are not subject to a shareholding guideline. 
The following table sets out the shareholding (including connected persons) of the Directors in the Company as at 28 February 2014. 
This shows that James Kidwell and Denis Petropoulos have both met the shareholding guideline. Martin Beer has yet to meet the 
guideline but was appointed in October 2012 and is therefore within the five-year time scale to meet the guideline. 
Number of shares 
beneficially held at 
28 February 2014
Shareholding as 
% of salary Guideline met?
Executive Directors
James Kidwell 111,304 170% Yes
Martin Beer – 0% No
Denis Petropoulos 601,434 1,398% Yes
Non-Executive Directors
Sir Graham Hearne CBE 2,500
John Denholm 7,000
Alastair Farley 13,366
David Moorhouse CBE –
Shareholding as a percentage of salary is calculated using the shareholding and base salary shown in the single total figure of remuneration table and the average 
share price for the final quarter of 2013/14.
The table below provides details of the interests of the executive Directors in incentive awards during the year.
Awards 
held at 
1 Mar 2013 Grant date
Share price 
on grant
£ Granted 
Exercised/
Released Lapsed
Awards 
held at 
28 Feb 2014
Exercise 
price
£ From To
James Kidwell
2012 SAYE 3,321 1 Feb 12 3.26 – – – 3,321 2.71 1 Feb 15 1 Jul 15
2011 LTIP 45,000 17 May 11 4.66 – – – 45,000 – 17 May 14 17 May 21
2012 LTIP 75,000 30 Oct 12 4.07 – – – 75,000 – 30 Oct 15 30 Oct 22
2012 DBP 31,541 8 May 12 3.16 – – – 31,541 – 8 May 15 8 May 22
2013 DBP – 14 May 13 3.93 17,440 – – 17,440 – 14 May 16 14 May 23
Martin Beer
2013 SAYE – 1 Aug 13 4.23 2,676 – – 2,676 3.36 1 Aug 16 1 Jan 17
2012 LTIP 55,000 30 Oct 12 4.07 – – – 55,000 – 30 Oct 15 30 Oct 22
2013 DBP – 14 May 13 3.93 4,666 – – 4,666 – 14 May 16 14 May 23
Denis Petropoulos
2012 SAYE 3,308 1 Aug 12 3.44 – – – 3,308 2.73 1 Aug 15 1 Jan 16
2011 LTIP 42,735 17 May 11 4.66 – – – 42,735 – 17 May 14 17 May 21
2010 DBP 3,356 25 Oct 10 5.40 – 3,356 – – – 25 Oct 13 25 Oct 20
2012 DBP 31,541 8 May 12 3.16 – – – 31,541 – 8 May 15 8 May 22
2013 DBP – 14 May 13 3.93 12,444 – – 12,444 – 14 May 16 14 May 23
The performance conditions attached to the LTIP awards are as follows:
 − 2011 LTIP. 50% vesting for EPS growth equal to RPI plus 4% per annum rising on a straight-line basis for 100% vesting for  
EPS growth equal to RPI plus 10% per annum. As described on page 32, this award lapsed in full as the performance targets 
were not met. 
 − 2012 LTIP. 25% vesting for EPS growth of 5% per annum rising on a straight-line basis for 100% vesting for EPS growth of  
13% per annum. 
There are no further performance conditions attached to the exercise of the deferred bonus awards. 
External appointments
None of the executive Directors currently hold any external appointments. 
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 43
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Directors’ Remuneration Report  
continued
Supporting disclosures and additional context
Percentage change in remuneration of the CEO
The percentage change in the salary of the CEO as shown in the single figure of remuneration table is 26%, however this includes 
the one-off salary adjustment to reflect an equivalent amount in respect of the Company ceasing to make pension contributions 
on their behalf. Excluding this, the year on year change in salary was 0%. The change in the benefits and annual bonus of the CEO 
was 0% and -69%. The equivalent figures for salary/benefits and bonus for all Group employees are -1% and -23%, respectively. 
Relative importance of spend on pay
The chart below shows total employee remuneration and distributions to shareholders, in respect of 2013/14 and 2012/13 (and the 
difference between the two).
£m 2013/14 2012/13 Change (%)
Total employee remuneration 67.2 66.8 +1%
Distributions to shareholders 5.4 5.4 –
Performance graph and table
The chart below shows TSR against the FTSE All Share over the last five years. The Committee believes the FTSE All Share index 
is the most appropriate index against which the TSR of Braemar should be measured.
0
100
200
300
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Braemar Shipping Services plc
FTSE All Share Source: Datastream
The table below provides remuneration data for the role of CEO for each of the five financial years over the equivalent period.
2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14
CEO Alan Marsh Alan Marsh Alan Marsh James Kidwell/
Alan Marsh*
James Kidwell
Single total figure of remuneration £888k £846k £550k £662k £434k
Annual Bonus** (% of base salary) 77% 68% 9% 87% 23%
LTIP vesting (% of maximum) 100% N/A*** N/A*** 0% 0%
*  James Kidwell was appointed CEO on 20 June 2012 and Alan Marsh stepped down from that role on the same day. The figure shown reflects the combined 
single figure in respect of the role of CEO for 2012/13. 
** Prior to 2013/14, the Annual Bonus was uncapped. Therefore, figures shown are for the Annual Bonus as % of salary, rather than of maximum. 
*** No LTIP awards were made in 2008 and 2009 which would have vested in respect of performance to 2010/11 and 2011/12, respectively. 
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 44 Consideration of Directors’ remuneration – Remuneration Committee and advisers
The Remuneration Committee is comprised solely of non-executive Directors and comprises John Denholm as Chairman,  
David Moorhouse and Alastair Farley. 
The Committee has agreed Terms of Reference, available on the Group’s website, which set out its authority and responsibilities, 
which include:
 − to determine on behalf of the Board and shareholders the Group’s overall policy for executive remuneration;
 − to determine individual remuneration packages for each of the executive Directors of the Company, including their base salary 
and all performance-related elements including bonus arrangements, profit share schemes, equity participation schemes, 
other long-term incentive schemes, pension and other benefits;
 − to review the introduction and to determine the terms of all bonus, profit share or equity participation schemes or any other 
schemes intended to reward and incentivise employees of the Group and to review the participation of the executive Directors 
and senior executives in such schemes, including the award of any bonuses and the grant of rights or options thereunder; and
 − to maintain an overview of policy in relation to the remuneration and conditions of service of other senior executives within  
the Group. 
In discharging these responsibilities the Committee may call for information and advice from advisers inside and outside the 
Group. During 2013/14, the Committee took advice from the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director 
during 2013/14 who attended by the invitation of the Committee but did not participate in any discussions regarding or affecting 
their own remuneration.
The Committee did not seek external advice during 2013/14. The Committee has sought advice from Deloitte LLP during 2014/15 
in respect of the development of the Remuneration Policy. The fees charged by Deloitte LLP for the provision of independent 
advice to the Committee will therefore be disclosed in the 2014/15 report. Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration 
Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting  
in the UK. The Committee is comfortable that the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and team, that provide remuneration advice to 
the Committee, do not have connections with Braemar Shipping Services plc that may impair their objectivity and independence. 
Deloitte LLP provided no other services to the Group during the financial year.
Statement of voting at Annual General Meeting
At the Annual General Meeting held on 19 June 2013, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of Directors’ remuneration 
are shown in the table. 
Votes For Votes Against
Total 
votes cast
Votes 
Withheld Resolution # % # %
Approval of Remuneration Report for  
year ending 28 February 2013 6,384,179 98.19 117,592 1.81% 6,606,547 104,776
John Denholm
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
19 May 2014
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 45
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Directors’ Report
for the year ended 28 February 2014
Statutory information
Information required to be part of the Directors’ Report can  
be found elsewhere in this document, as indicated in the table 
below, and is incorporated into this Report by reference:
Results and dividends on pages 1 to 25
Likely future developments in the business of the Company  
or its subsidiaries on pages 1 to 25
Greenhouse Gas Emissions on page 15
Employee relations on pages 14 and 15
Employee relations and equal opportunities on pages 14 and 15 
and page 30
Indication of branches outside the country on page 9
Corporate Governance Statement on pages 27 to 30.
Management Report
This Directors’ Report, on pages 46 and 47, together with the 
Strategic Report on pages 1 to 25, form the Management 
Report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.5R.
Amendment of Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association may be amended  
by special resolution of the Company’s shareholders.
Change of control – significant agreements
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special 
rights with regard to control of the Company. The Company is 
not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that 
may result in restrictions in the transfer of securities or voting 
rights. There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter 
or terminate upon a change of control of the Company, such  
as commercial contracts and joint venture agreements. None  
is considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact  
on the business of the Group as a whole.
Political contributions
There were no political contributions during the year (2013: £nil).
Share capital and voting rights
During the year ended 28 February 2014 the Company issued 
19,252 new shares pursuant to the exercise of employee  
share options.
At 28 February 2014 the total issued ordinary share capital  
was 21,671,409 shares of 10 pence each. All of the Company’s 
shares are fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock 
Exchange Plc’s Official List. The rights and obligations attaching 
to the Company’s ordinary shares as well as the powers of the 
Company’s Directors are set out in the Company’s Articles of 
Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies 
House, or by writing to the Company Secretary. There are no 
restrictions on the voting rights attaching to or the transfer  
of the Company’s issued ordinary shares.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, shareholders will 
be asked to consider a renewal of the Directors’ authority to 
allot shares. Details are contained in the Notice of the Annual 
General Meeting.
Purchase of own ordinary shares
The Directors are authorised to make market purchases of the 
Company’s ordinary shares under an authority granted by the 
Annual General Meeting held on 19 June 2013. No purchases 
were made under this authority during the year. In accordance 
with ABI Investor Protection Guidelines, the maximum number 
of ordinary shares which may be acquired is 10% or less of  
the Company’s issued ordinary shares as at 19 May 2014.
The Directors will seek the renewal of this authority at the 2014 
Annual General Meeting in Resolution 10 in accordance with  
the Company’s Articles of Association. The Directors have  
no immediate intention of exercising the authority but they will 
keep the matter under review. Purchases will only be made if 
they result in an expected increase in earnings per share and 
will take into account other available investment opportunities, 
appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the 
Company. Any shares purchased in accordance with this 
authority will subsequently be cancelled. The total number  
of options to subscribe for shares that were outstanding as  
at 19 May 2014 was 487,737, being 2.3% of the issued share 
capital. If the authority to purchase shares is used in full, the 
proportion of issued share capital represented by this number 
of options would amount to 2.5%.
Directors and their interests
The Directors of the Company during the year and at the date  
of this report are shown on page 26. The Directors’ beneficial 
interests, including family interests in the shares of the Company 
at 28 February 2014, were as follows:
28 February 
2014
28 February 
2013
Martin Beer – –
John Denholm 7,000 7,000
Alastair Farley 13,366 13,366
Sir Graham Hearne CBE 2,500 2,500
James Kidwell 111,304 111,304
David Moorhouse CBE – –
Denis Petropoulos 601,434 598,191
Directors’ interests in share options are set out on page 43.
The Directors, in common with other employees of the Group 
also have an interest in 659,682 (2013: 764,626) ordinary  
10 pence shares held by Kleinwort Benson (Channel Islands) 
Limited on behalf of the Employee Share Ownership Plan. 
The Directors held no material interest in any contract of 
significance entered into by the Company or its subsidiaries 
during the period. There have been no changes in Directors’ 
interests between 28 February 2014 and 19 May 2014.
During the year, the Group maintained cover for its Directors 
and officers and those of its subsidiary companies under a 
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance policy, as permitted  
by the Companies Act 2006.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 46 Substantial shareholdings
Group employees and the Employee Share Ownership Plan 
own approximately 25% of the shares in the Group.
At 28 February 2014, the Directors have been notified or are 
aware of the following persons who directly or indirectly are 
interested in 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital  
of the Company.
Charles Stanley & Co 7.54%
Majedie Asset Management 6.37%
Quentin Soanes 5.57%
Alan Marsh 4.79%
BlackRock Investment Management 4.62%
Barclays Stockbrokers Limited 4.33%
Liontrust Asset Management 3.88%
Chelverton Asset Management 3.81%
As far as the Company is aware there are no other persons  
with significant direct or indirect holdings in the Company. 
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial 
Services Authority’s (FSA) Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
(DTRs) is published on a Regulatory Information Service and  
the Company’s website.
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies 
are set out in the Corporate Governance statement on page 28 
and in the Strategic report on pages 16 and 17.
Post balance sheet events
On 20 March 2014, the Group sold its interest in Casbarian to 
local management (see Note 8 to the financial statements).
On 30 April 2014, the Group completed the sale of the Morrison 
Tours business reported within the Logistics division.
Going concern
The Group has a strong balance sheet and no debt. It continues 
to be cash generative and the Directors believe that it is well 
positioned to successfully manage its risks. The Directors have 
a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have 
adequate resources to continue to trade for the foreseeable 
future and for this reason, they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Accounts and Reports in accordance with applicable law  
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and 
Parent Company financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial 
statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU  
and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent 
Company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent 
Company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing 
each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, 
the Directors are required to:
 − select suitable accounting policies and then apply  
them consistently; 
 − make judgements and estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent; 
 − state whether they have been prepared in accordance  
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and 
 − prepare the financial statements on the going concern  
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group 
and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and 
enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance 
Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and  
integrity of the corporate and financial information included on 
the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may  
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed  
on page 26 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
 − the Group and Company financial statements, which have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the Group and the Company; and 
 − the Chief Executive’s strategic review and review of 
operations and the Financial review include a fair review  
of the development and performance of the business and 
the position of the Group and the Company, together with  
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that  
it faces. 
In the case of each of the persons who are Directors at the  
time when the report is approved, the following applies:
(a)  so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant  
audit information of which the Company’s auditors  
are unaware; and 
(b)  he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as  
a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information. 
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
Annual General Meeting
The 2014 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be  
held at 11am on 4 July 2014 at the offices of Buchanan,  
107 Cheapside, London EC2V 6DN. A separate document 
accompanying the Annual Report and Accounts contains the 
Notice convening the Annual General Meeting and a description 
of the business to be conducted thereat.
By Order of the Board
Martin Beer ACA
Company Secretary
19 May 2014
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 47
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of  
Braemar Shipping Services plc
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1. Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified 
We have audited the financial statements of Braemar Shipping 
Services plc for the year ended 28 February 2014 set out on 
pages 50 to 80. In our opinion: 
 − the financial statements give a true and fair view of the  
state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs  
as at 28 February 2014 and of the Group’s profit for the  
year then ended; 
 − the Group financial statements have been properly  
prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European  
Union (“IFRSs as adopted by the EU”); 
 − the parent company financial statements have been  
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted  
by the EU and as applied in accordance with the  
provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and 
 − the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and,  
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of  
the IAS Regulation. 
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements 
the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect 
on our audit were as follows:
(a) Shipbroking revenue (£40,866,000) 
Refer to page 29 of the Audit Committee Report, note 1(d) of 
the accounting policies and note 2 to the financial statements. 
The risk 
The recognition of shipbroking revenue involves the exercise  
of judgement regarding the appropriate timing of revenue 
recognition on commission earned in the shipbroking segment. 
In some instances the entitlement to commission is dependent 
upon the fulfilment of certain obligations between two or more 
independent third parties over which the Group has no control, 
leading to uncertainty as to the period of time over which 
services are provided.
Our response 
Our audit procedures included, among others testing, on  
a sample basis, whether revenue was recognised in the  
correct period based on the specific contract terms and that  
it was recognised in accordance with contract terms such  
as commission rates, contract values, billing schedules and 
recalculating any foreign currency translation by verifying  
the methodology for the revenue recognised to underlying 
agreements. We considered the risk of counterparties not 
completing by challenging the Directors’ assumptions, taking 
account of their and our knowledge of industry developments 
and our work on trade receivables discussed in (b) below.
We have also critically assessed the adequacy of the Group’s 
disclosures in note 2 based upon the knowledge gained during 
our audit.
(b) Recoverability of trade receivables (£32,652,000)
Refer to page 29 of the Audit Committee Report, note 1(c)  
and 1(k) of the accounting policies and note 17 to the  
financial statements. 
The risk 
The Group has significant trade receivables with customers in 
the shipping industry. A number of companies in this industry 
are under historical and continuing financial stress meaning  
the industry is known for heightened risk over the recoverability 
of these balances. Additionally, the Group often experiences 
significant delay between issuing an invoice and receiving  
cash from the counterparty.
Our response 
Our audit procedures included, among others, critically 
assessing the adequacy of the Group’s provisions against  
trade receivables by challenging the Directors’ assumptions, 
taking account of their and our knowledge of recent bad debt 
experience in this industry. We tested the completeness and 
accuracy of the data extracted from the Company’s system 
used to calculate the ageing of trade receivables; considered 
whether the provision methodology incorporates the necessary 
components and appropriate steps to appropriately calculate 
the level of potentially irrecoverable debt; performed a 
recalculation of the bad debt provision calculation to test  
the mathematical accuracy; and took account of the receipt  
of cash after the year end in assessing the reasonableness  
of the provision recognised.
We have also considered the adequacy of the Group’s 
disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in  
arriving at the provision.
3. Our application of materiality and an overview of  
the scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole 
was set at £1 million. This has been determined with reference  
to a benchmark of Group revenue (of which it represents 0.8%), 
which we consider to be one of the principal considerations  
for members of the Company in assessing the financial 
performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected 
and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit 
with a value in excess of £50,000, in addition to other audit 
misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 48 Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by the 
Group audit team in the United Kingdom. In addition, specified 
audit procedures were performed by component auditors in 
Singapore and India. These Group procedures covered 76% of 
total Group revenue; 85% of Group profit before taxation; and 
80% of total Group assets. The segment disclosures in Note 2 
set out the individual significance of a specific country or region. 
The remaining 24% of revenue, 15% of Group profit before tax 
and 20% of total Group assets is represented by 35 reporting 
components around the world. The Group audit team 
performed analytical procedures over these entities, which 
involved comparing year-on-year results, discussion with 
management and corroboration to external evidence where we 
considered it necessary. None of these reporting components 
represented more than 5% of revenue, profit before tax or total 
Group assets. Local statutory audits are performed for four of 
these components, but these are completed after the date  
of this report.
The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the  
key reporting components of the Group were all performed to 
materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the Group audit team. 
These materiality levels were set individually for each 
component and ranged from £500 to £850,000.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to the component  
auditors in Singapore and India. These instructions covered the 
significant audit areas that should be covered by these audits 
(which included the relevant risks of material misstatement 
detailed above) and set out the information required to be 
reported back to the Group audit team. The Group audit  
team visited Singapore during the year. 
4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified 
In our opinion: 
 − the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be  
audited has been properly prepared in accordance  
with the Companies Act 2006; 
 − the information given in the Strategic Report and  
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the  
financial statements are prepared is consistent with  
the financial statements; and 
5. We have nothing to report in respect of the matters  
on which we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you  
if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit,  
we have identified other information in the annual report that 
contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge  
or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact,  
or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
 − we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ 
statement that they consider that the annual report and 
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy; or
 − the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion: 
 − adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have  
not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
 − the parent company financial statements and the part of  
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not  
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
 − certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified  
by law are not made; or 
 − we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 − the Directors’ statement, set out on page 47, in relation  
to going concern; 
 − the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on  
page 27 relating to the Company’s compliance with the  
nine provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance  
Code specified for our review; and
 − certain elements of the report to shareholders by the  
Board on Directors’ remuneration marked as audited.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above 
responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 47, the Directors are  
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements  
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.  
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements  
is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website  
at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is  
made solely to the Company’s members as a body and  
is subject to important explanations and disclaimers  
regarding our responsibilities, published on our website  
at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2013a, which are 
incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be 
read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, 
the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Ian Griffiths (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL
19 May 2014 
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 49
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Continuing operations Notes
28 Feb 2014 
£’000
Restated 
28 Feb 2013 
£’000
Revenue 2 125,531 139,684
Cost of sales (31,758) (43,599)
93,773 96,085
Operating costs
Operating costs excluding amortisation of other intangibles (84,490) (85,257)
Amortisation of other intangible assets 13 (432) (1,498)
(84,922) (86,755)
  
Operating profit 2,3 8,851 9,330
Finance income 6 253 296
Finance costs 6 (57) (41)
Share of profit from joint ventures 15 (88) 62
  
Profit before taxation 8,959 9,647
Taxation 7 (2,268) (2,447)
Profit for the year 6,691 7,200
Loss for the year from discontinued operations 8 (2,209) (351)
Profit for the year 4,482 6,849
Attributable to:
Ordinary shareholders 4,473 6,824
Non-controlling interest 9 25
Profit for the year 4,482 6,849
Earnings per ordinary share 10
Basic – continuing operations 31.93p 34.47p
Diluted – continuing operations 30.61p 33.36p
Basic – profit for the year 21.38p 32.78p
Diluted – profit for the year 20.49p 31.72p
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 28 February 2014
Notes
28 Feb 2014 
£’000
28 Feb 2013 
£’000
Profit for the year 4,482 6,849
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss:
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of foreign operations (4,391) 1,131
Cash flow hedges – net of tax 26 91 (165)
   
Total comprehensive income for the year 182 7,815
 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 173 7,790
Non-controlling interest 9 25
Total comprehensive income for the year 182 7,815
The notes on pages 54 to 80 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated income statement 
for the year ended 28 February 2014
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 50 Group Company
Assets Notes
As at 
28 Feb 2014 
£’000
As at 
28 Feb 2013 
£’000
As at 
28 Feb 2014 
£’000
As at 
28 Feb 2013 
£’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 12 30,091 30,547 – –
Intangible assets 13 1,369 1,524 – –
Property, plant and equipment 14 5,898 6,165 – –
Investments 15 1,715 1,796 53,140 52,714
Deferred tax assets 7 1,644 1,021 – –
Other long-term receivables 16 242 261 42 36
40,959 41,314 53,182 52,750
Current assets 
Trade and other receivables 17 47,351 44,621 2,302 2,712
Derivative financial instruments 18 35 – – –
Assets held for sale 8 601 – – –
Restricted cash 19 – 339 – –
Cash and cash equivalents 20 13,694 23,277 – 38
61,681 68,237 2,302 2,750
 
Total assets 102,640 109,551 55,484 55,500
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 21 – – 101 –
Derivative financial instruments 18 – 94 – –
Trade and other payables 22 32,847 36,249 1,460 1,546
Current tax payable 2,112 1,638 – –
Provisions 23 410 413 – –
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 8 1,119 – – –
Client monies held as escrow agent 19 – 339 – –
36,488 38,733 1,561 1,546
 
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 7 531 612 – –
Provisions 23 335 363 – –
866 975 – –
   
Total liabilities 37,354 39,708 1,561 1,546
  
Total assets less total liabilities 65,286 69,843 53,923 53,954
  
Equity
Share capital 24 2,167 2,165 2,167 2,165
Share premium 12,218 12,150 12,218 12,150
Shares to be issued 25 (2,934) (3,309) (2,934) (3,309)
Other reserves 26 23,719 27,630 21,742 21,742
Retained earnings 30,116 30,962 20,730 21,206
Group shareholders’ equity 65,286 69,598 53,923 53,954
Non-controlling interest 27 – 245 – –
Total equity 65,286 69,843 53,923 53,954
The accounts on pages 50 to 80 were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 May 2014 and were signed on its behalf by:
Sir Graham Hearne Martin Beer ACA
Chairman Finance Director
The notes on pages 54 to 80 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Balance sheets
as at 28 February 2014
Company number 2286034
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 51
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Cash flow statements
for the year ended 28 February 2014
Group Company
Notes
28 Feb 2014 
£’000
28 Feb 2013 
£’000
28 Feb 2014 
£’000
28 Feb 2013 
£’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 28 2,158 14,996 5,582 4,997
Interest received 253 296 – –
Interest paid (57) (45) (77) (35)
Tax paid (1,358) (3,625) – –
Net cash generated from operating activities 996 11,622 5,505 4,962
 
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends from joint ventures – 189 – 189
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 29 (524) (279) – –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and  
computer software (1,266) (1,253) – –
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment – 83 – –
Other long-term assets 19 (28) (6) 3
Net cash used in investing activities (1,771) (1,288) (6) 192
 
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 70 137 70 137
Dividends paid 9 (5,441) (5,412) (5,441) (5,412)
Purchase of own shares (267) (148) (267) (148)
Net cash used in financing activities (5,638) (5,423) (5,638) (5,423)
 
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (6,413) 4,911 (139) (269)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 23,277 17,467 38 307
Foreign exchange differences (3,170) 899 – –
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period 13,694 23,277 (101) 38
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 52 Group
Share 
capital 
£’000
Share 
premium 
£’000
Shares to 
be issued
 £’000
Other 
reserves 
£’000
Retained
 earnings 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Non-
 controlling 
interest 
£’000
Total 
equity
 £’000
At 1 March 2012 2,160 12,018 (3,695) 26,664 29,471 66,618 220 66,838
Profit for the year – – – – 6,824 6,824 25 6,849
Foreign exchange differences – – – 1,131 – 1,131 – 1,131
Cash flow hedges net of tax – – – (165) – (165) – (165)
Total recognised income in the year – – – 966 6,824 7,790 25 7,815
Dividends paid – – – – (5,412) (5,412) – (5,412)
Issue of shares 5 132 – – – 137 – 137
Purchase of own shares – – (148) – – (148) – (148)
ESOP shares allocated – – 534 – (534) – – – 
Credit in respect of share option schemes – – – – 678 678 – 678
Deferred tax on items taken to equity – – – – (65) (65) – (65)
At 28 February 2013 2,165 12,150 (3,309) 27,630 30,962 69,598 245 69,843
Profit for the year – – – – 4,473 4,473 9 4,482
Foreign exchange differences – – – (4,391) – (4,391) – (4,391)
Cash flow hedges net of tax – – – 91 – 91 – 91
Total recognised income in the year – – – (4,300) 4,473 173 9 182
Deferred consideration paid – – – 389 (197) 192 (254) (62)
Dividends paid – – – – (5,441) (5,441) – (5,441)
Issue of shares 2 68 – – – 70 – 70
Purchase of own shares – – (267) – – (267) – (267)
ESOP shares allocated – – 642 – (441) 201 – 201 
Credit in respect of share option schemes – – – – 613 613 – 613
Deferred tax on items taken to equity – – – – 147 147 – 147
At 28 February 2014 2,167 12,218 (2,934) 23,719 30,116 65,286 – 65,286
Company
Share 
capital 
£’000
Share 
premium 
£’000
Shares to 
be issued 
£’000
Other 
reserves 
£’000
 Retained 
earnings 
£’000
Total 
£’000
At 1 March 2012 2,160 12,018 (3,695) 21,742 21,551 53,776
Profit for the year – – – – 4,940 4,940
Dividends paid – – – – (5,412) (5,412)
Issue of shares 5 132 – – – 137
Purchase of shares – – (148) – – (148)
ESOP shares allocated – – 534 – (534) –
Credit in respect of share option schemes – – – – 661 661
At 28 February 2013 2,165 12,150 (3,309) 21,742 21,206 53,954
Profit for the year – – – – 5,009 5,009
Dividends paid – – – – (5,441) (5,441)
Issue of shares 2 68 – – – 70
Purchase of shares – – (267) – – (267)
ESOP shares allocated – – 642 – (470) 172
Credit in respect of share option schemes – – – – 426 426
At 28 February 2014 2,167 12,218 (2,934) 21,742 20,730 53,923
Statements of changes in total equity 
for the year ended 28 February 2014
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 53
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
General information
Group and Company financial statements of Braemar Shipping 
Services plc for the year ended 28 February 2014 were 
authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the 
Directors on 19 May 2014. Braemar Shipping Services plc is a 
Public Limited Company incorporated in England and Wales.
The term “Company” refers to Braemar Shipping Services plc 
and “Group” refers to the Company and all its subsidiary 
undertakings, joint ventures and of the employee share 
ownership plan trust.
1 Accounting policies
a) Basis of preparation and forward-looking statements
The financial statements of the Group and the Company  
have been prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) and IFRIC interpretations as 
adopted by the European Union and in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006. No income statement  
is presented for Braemar Shipping Services plc as provided  
by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company 
and Group have adequate resources to continue to trade for the 
foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historic 
cost convention except for the derivative financial instruments, 
which are measured at fair value. In accordance with IFRS 5 
Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, 
the comparative income statement has been re-presented so 
that the disclosures in relation to discontinued operations relate 
to all operations that have been discontinued by the balance 
sheet date.
Certain statements in this Annual Report are forward-looking. 
Although the Group believes that the expectations reflected  
in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can 
give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have 
been correct. Because these statements involve risks and 
uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those 
expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.  
We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking 
statements whether as a result of new information, future  
events or otherwise.
The Group and Company financial statements are presented  
in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest 
thousand pounds (£’000) except where otherwise indicated.
New and amended standards adopted by the Group
There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective  
for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 March 2013 
that have had a material impact on the Group.
New standards, amendments and interpretations  
issued but not effective for the financial year beginning  
1 March 2013 and not early adopted
The Group has adopted the following new and amended 
standards as of 1 March 2013:
 − IAS 1, “Financial statement presentation” (revised) – the main 
change resulting from these amendments is a requirement  
for entities to Group items presented in “other comprehensive 
income” on the basis of whether they are potentially 
reclassifiable to profit or loss subsequently (reclassification 
adjustments). The amendments do not address which items 
are presented in “other comprehensive income”.
As at the date of authorisation of these financial statements,  
the following standards and interpretations were in issue but  
not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted 
by the EU). The Group has not applied these standards and 
interpretations in the preparation of these financial statements.
 − IFRS 9 “Financial instruments” − classification  
and measurement
 − IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements”
 − Amendment to IAS 36 “Impairment of assets” on 
recoverable amount disclosures
 − Amendments to IFRS 10, 11 and 12 on transition guidance
 − Annual improvements 2012, 2013.
The impact on the Group’s financial statements of the future 
adoption of these and other new standards and interpretations 
is still under review, but the Group does not expect any of these 
changes to have a material effect on the results or net assets of 
the Group. There were no other new IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations 
that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a 
material impact on the Group.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation  
of these financial statements are set out below.
b) Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the accounts 
of the Group and the Company made up to 28 February each 
year or 29 February in a leap year.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated using the purchase 
method of accounting, from the date on which control of the net 
assets and operation of the acquired company are effectively 
transferred to the Group. Similarly, the results of subsidiaries 
divested cease to be consolidated from the date on which 
control of the net assets and operations are transferred out  
of the Group.
The interest of non-controlling interests is stated at the non-
controlling interests’ proportion of the value of the assets and 
liabilities recognised and is presented separately within total 
equity in the consolidated balance sheet.
Investments in joint ventures and associates and where the 
Group has significant influence are equity accounted and 
carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition 
changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate  
or joint venture, less any impairment in value. The income 
statement reflects the Group’s share of the post-tax result  
of the joint venture or associate.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses 
are eliminated on consolidation.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 54 c) Use of estimates and critical judgements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with  
IFRSs as endorsed by the EU requires the use of estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and 
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported 
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
A key judgement, not involving estimation, which the  
Group makes applies to its approach to revenue recognition 
particularly in respect of the assessments made regarding  
the appropriate timing of recognition of revenue.
The key areas where the Group makes judgements involving 
estimates are in the following areas:
 − Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets:  
Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis. 
However, the Group will also test for impairment at other 
times if there is an indication that an impairment may exist. 
Before carrying out a detailed review, the Directors will first 
make a judgement as to whether the impact is significant 
enough to perform a detailed calculation, taking into 
account their knowledge of the specific business unit  
and their experience of the market. Some of the critical 
assumptions applied when carrying out an impairment 
review are set out in Note 12;
 − Provision for impairment of trade receivables: Ongoing 
judgements are required in assessing the appropriate level 
of impairment provision taking into account the age of the 
receivables and risk of the amounts not being recovered 
(see Note 17);
 − Intangible assets: Following the acquisition of a business, 
the Group carries out a review to assess the fair value of the 
identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. This will include 
applying a level of judgement to understand any premium 
paid for a business represents as well as then carrying out  
a detailed calculation. The Directors will also apply their 
judgement again to assess the useful economic life of  
any intangible assets (see Note 13).
d) Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the 
economic benefits will flow to the Group and the Company  
and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue of the Group consists of:
i)  Shipbroking – income comprises commission arising from 
tanker and dry cargo charter broking, sale and purchase 
broking, offshore broking and consultancy and valuation 
fees. The Group acts as a broker for several types of 
shipping transaction, each of which gives rise to an 
entitlement to commission.
  For single voyage chartering, the contractual terms are 
governed by a standard charter party contract in which  
the broker’s commission is earned and recognised when 
the cargo has been loaded or discharged according to  
the contractual terms;
   For time charters the commission is specified in the hire 
agreement and is earned and recognised over the term  
of the charter simultaneously with the hire payments  
being made;
 
  In the case of second hand sale and purchase contracts, 
the broker’s commission is earned and recognised when 
the principals in the transaction complete on the sale/
purchase and the title of the vessel passes from the  
seller to the buyer;
  With regard to newbuilding contracts, the commission is 
recognised when contractual stage payments are made by 
the purchaser of a vessel to a shipyard which in turn reflects 
the performance of services over the contract;
  For income derived from providing ship and fleet valuations, 
the Group recognises income when a valuation certificate  
is provided to the client and the service is invoiced.
ii)  Technical – fee income comprises fees for the supply  
of technical and energy loss adjusting services. Income  
from technical services is recognised on a time incurred  
and recoverable expenses basis net of provisions.
iii)  Logistics – agency income is recognised at the point when 
the ship sails from the port. Forwarding and logistics income 
is recognised when the ship departs. Where the Group acts 
as a principal rather than as agent, the revenue and costs 
are shown gross.
iv)  Environmental – revenue from environmental services is 
recognised at the contractual rates, as labour hours are 
delivered and direct expenses incurred.
Other income of the Company consists of dividends from 
investments. Dividend income from investments is recognised 
when the shareholders’ legal rights to receive payment have 
been established.
e) Foreign currencies
The presentational currency of the Group is pounds sterling. 
Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are 
recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the date of the 
transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from 
the settlement of such transactions and from the translation  
at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currency are recognised in the  
income statement.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, 
the Group enters into derivative financial instruments contracts, 
mainly forward contracts and other derivative currency 
contracts (see Note 1(l)).
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries, branches  
and associates are translated from their functional currency  
into pounds sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance 
sheet date. Trading results are translated at the average  
rates for the period. Exchange differences arising on the 
consolidation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries are 
dealt with through the foreign currency translation reserve  
(see Note 25), whilst those arising from trading transactions  
are dealt with in the income statement. On disposal of a 
business, the cumulative exchange differences previously 
recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve relating  
to that business are transferred to the income statement as  
part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 55
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued
1 Accounting policies continued 
f) Taxation
The taxation expense represents the sum of the tax currently 
payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the 
period. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the 
income statement because it excludes items of income and 
expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it 
further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.  
The Group and Company’s liability for current tax is calculated 
using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted  
by the balance sheet date.
Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all taxable 
temporary differences. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
recognised separately on the balance sheet. Deferred tax 
assets are recognised only to the extent that they are expected 
to be recoverable. Deferred taxation is recognised in the income 
statement unless it relates to taxable transactions taken directly 
to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in 
equity. The deferred tax is released to the income statement  
at the same time as the taxable transaction is recognised  
in the income statement. Deferred taxation on un-remitted 
overseas earnings is provided for to the extent a tax charge  
is foreseeable.
g) Goodwill
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the 
net assets (including any identifiable intangible assets) acquired. 
Goodwill arises where the fair value of the consideration given 
exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired. Goodwill is 
recognised as an asset and is reviewed for impairment at least 
annually. Impairments are recognised immediately in operating 
costs in the income statement. Goodwill is allocated to cash-
generating units for the purposes of impairment testing. On  
the disposal of a business, goodwill relating to that business 
remaining on the balance sheet is included in the determination 
of the profit or loss on disposal. As permitted by IFRS 1, 
goodwill on acquisitions arising prior to 1 March 2004 has  
been retained at prior amounts and will be tested annually  
for impairment.
In relation to acquisitions where the fair value of assets acquired 
exceeds the fair value of the consideration, the excess fair value 
is recognised immediately in the income statement.
h) Intangible assets
i) Computer software
The Group capitalises computer software at cost. It is 
amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful  
life of up to four years. The carrying value of intangible assets  
with a finite life is reviewed for impairment whenever events  
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value 
may not be recoverable.
ii) Other intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination 
are stated in the balance sheet at their fair value at the date of 
acquisition less accumulated amortisation and any provisions 
for impairment. The amortisation of the carrying value of the 
capitalised forward order book and customer relationships is 
charged to the income statement over an estimated useful life  
of two to ten years. The carrying values of intangible assets  
are reviewed for impairment at least annually or when there  
is an indication that they may be impaired.
i) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are shown at historical cost  
less accumulated depreciation and any impairment value.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, 
less estimated residual value of each asset, on a straight line 
basis over its expected useful life as follows (except for long  
and short leasehold interests which are written off against  
the remaining period of the lease):
Motor vehicles  – three years
Computers  – four years
Fixtures and equipment – four years
j) Investments
Investments in associates and joint ventures where the Group 
has significant influence are accounted for under the equity 
method of accounting in the financial statements.
Investments where the Group has no significant influence are 
held at fair value.
Investments in the Company are shown at cost less impairment.
k) Impairment
The carrying amount of the Group’s assets other than financial 
assets within the scope of IAS 39 and deferred tax assets, are 
reviewed each balance sheet date to determine whether there  
is an indication of impairment. If any such indication exists,  
the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. The recoverable 
amount is determined based on value in use calculations, which 
requires the use of estimates. An impairment loss is recognised 
in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of the 
assets exceeds its recoverable amount.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying 
amount of the assets with the exception of goodwill is increased 
to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount. This cannot 
exceed the carrying amount prior to the impairment charge.  
An impairment recognised in the income statement in respect 
of goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
l) Derivative financial instruments and hedging 
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value and are 
subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each balance 
sheet date. Recognition of the resulting gain or loss depends  
on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging 
instrument, and if it is, the nature of the item being hedged. 
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for 
hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income 
statement. The Group designates derivatives that qualify for 
hedge accounting as a cash flow hedge where there is a high 
probability of the forecast transactions arising. The effective 
portion of changes in the fair value of these derivatives is 
recognised in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective 
portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income 
statement at the same time as the gains or losses on the 
hedged items. When a forecast transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the cumulative gains or losses that  
were reported in equity are immediately transferred to  
the income statement. 
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 56 When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated  
or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge 
relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected 
to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in 
equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy 
when the transaction occurs. 
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is based 
either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from 
prices) at the balance sheet date. 
m) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at the 
lower of their original value and recoverable amount. Provision  
is made where there is evidence that the balances will not be 
recovered in full.
n) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short-term deposits included in the balance sheet 
comprise cash in hand and short-term deposits with an original 
maturity of three months or less.
Cash and cash equivalents included in the cash flow statement 
include cash and short-term deposits, net of bank overdrafts.
Restricted cash comprises cash balances where the Group  
is holding cash as escrow agent for certain clients, pending 
completion of transactions in which the Group acted as broker. 
The amounts are held in designated accounts and any interest 
earned is due to the clients.
o) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present 
obligation (legal or otherwise) as a result of a past event  
and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying 
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation  
and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation. If material, the provisions are discounted using  
an appropriate current pre-tax interest rate.
p) Share-based payments
The fair value at the date of grant of share-based remuneration, 
principally share options, is calculated using a binomial pricing 
model and charged to the income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the vesting period of the award. The charge to  
the income statement takes account of the estimated number  
of shares that will vest. All share-based remuneration is  
equity settled. The balance sheet entry is included in reserves.  
Shares issued in respect of the deferred bonus plan are valued 
at the market value on the date the shares are purchased.
The Company reflects the fair value of the share-based 
payments as an investment in its subsidiaries.
q) Commissions payable
Commissions payable to clients are recognised in trade 
payables due within one year on the earlier of the date of 
invoicing or the date of receipt of cash.
r) Pension scheme arrangements
The Group operates several defined contribution pension 
schemes. The assets of the schemes are held separately from 
those of the Group within independently administered funds. 
The pension cost charge represents contributions payable  
by the Group to the fund.
s) Leasing
Operating leases are charged to the income statement  
as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Operating lease income is recognised in the income  
statement as it is earned.
t) Segmental analysis
The Group’s segmental analysis is based on its four business 
segments: Shipbroking, Technical, Logistics and Environmental. 
This is consistent with the way the Group manages itself and 
with the format of the Group’s internal financial reporting.
The second analysis is presented according to the geographic 
markets comprising the UK, Singapore, Other Asia, Australia 
and the Rest of the World. The Group’s geographical  
segments are determined by the location of the Group’s  
assets and operations.
u) Non-current assets held for sale and  
discontinued operations
A non-current asset or a group of assets containing a non-
current asset (a disposal group) is classified as held for sale if  
its carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale 
rather than through continuing use, it is available for immediate 
sale and sale is highly probable within one year.
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and 
disposal groups are measured at the lower of previous carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell with any adjustments 
taken to profit or loss. 
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s 
business that represents a separate major line of business  
or geographical area of operations that has been disposed  
of or is held for sale, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively  
with a view to resale. Classification as a discontinued operation  
occurs upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria 
to be classified as held for sale, if earlier. When an operation is 
classified as a discontinued operation, the comparative income 
statement is restated as if the operation has been discontinued 
from the start of the comparative period.
2 Segmental information
a) Business segments
Management has determined the operating segments for the 
Group based on the reports reviewed by the Chief Operating 
Decision Maker to make strategic decisions. The Chief 
Operating Decision Maker is the Board of Directors.
The Board consider the business from both a service line and 
geographical perspective. A description of each of the lines of 
service is provided on pages 2 and 3.
For management purposes, the Group is currently organised 
into four operating divisions – Shipbroking, Technical, Logistics 
and Environmental. These divisions are the basis on which  
the Group reports its segment information. The reportable 
segments are derived from an aggregation of operating 
segments. Unallocated costs relate to Board costs and  
other costs associated with the Group’s listing on the  
London Stock Exchange.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 57
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued
2 Segmental information continued 
The segment information provided to the Board for reportable segments for the year ended 28 February 2014 is as follows:
2014
Shipbroking 
£’000
Technical 
£’000
Logistics 
£’000
Environmental 
£’000
Inter-divison 
£’000
Total 
 £’000
Revenue 40,866 40,032 38,917 5,771 (55) 125,531
Divisional operating profit 2,635 6,798 1,981 107 – 11,521
Amortisation of other intangible assets (295) (103) (34) – – (432)
Segment result 2,340 6,695 1,947 107 – 11,089
Unallocated costs (2,238)
Operating profit 8,851
Finance income – net 196
Share of loss from joint ventures (88)
Profit before taxation 8,959
Taxation (2,268)
Profit for the year attributable to shareholders  
from continuing operations 6,691
Capital additions 673 335 480 175 – 1,663
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  
and amortisation of computer software 598 336 174 161 – 1,269
Segment operating assets 39,712 27,560 15,826 1,888 – 84,986
Segment operating liabilities (10,247) (4,768) (17,719) (858) – (33,592)
2013 Restated Restated
Revenue 46,362 32,688 37,495 23,399 (260) 139,684
      
Divisional operating profit 5,348 3,744 2,006 2,681 – 13,779
Amortisation of other intangible assets (709) (644) (145) – – (1,498)
Segment result 4,639 3,100 1,861 2,681 – 12,281
Unallocated costs (2,951)
Operating profit     9,330
Finance income – net     255
Share of profit from joint ventures     62
Profit before taxation  9,647
Taxation  (2,447)
Profit for the year attributable to shareholders  
from continuing operations     7,200
      
Capital additions 1,219 261 46 193 1,719
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  
and amortisation of computer software 559 343 182 154 1,238
Segment operating assets 39,937 25,800 14,094 2,206 82,037
Segment operating liabilities (13,945) (4,576) (16,899) (1,699) (37,119)
Divisional operating profit is defined as operating profit before amortisation of acquisition related intangibles, non-recurring items and unallocated costs.
 
Sales between business segments are carried out at an arm’s-length basis.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles including additions 
resulting from business acquisitions.
Segment assets consist primarily of intangible assets (including goodwill), property, plant and equipment, receivables and other 
assets. Receivables for taxes, cash and cash equivalents and investments have been excluded. Segment liabilities relate to the 
operating activities and exclude liabilities for taxes.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 58 b) Geographical segment – by origin
The Group manages its business segments on a global basis. The operation’s main geographical area is the United Kingdom. 
The United Kingdom is the home country of the parent. The geographical regions in which it now reports are shown below.
Revenue Capital additions Non-current assets
2014 
£’000
Restated 
2013 
£’000
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
United Kingdom 76,608 97,142 1,265 1,482 29,831 29,904
Singapore 20,410 16,123 210 70 3,427 3,892
Other Asia 10,543 10,387 40 94 466 523
Australia 6,852 6,587 40 34 3,606 3,997
Rest of the World 11,118 9,445 108 39 186 181
 125,531 139,684 1,663 1,719 37,516 38,497
c) Revenue analysis
All revenue arises from the rendering of services.
There is no one customer that contributes greater than 10% of Group revenue.
3 Operating profit
Operating profits from continuing operations represent the results from operations before share of profits of joint ventures,  
finance income, finance costs and taxation.
This is stated after charging/(crediting):
Notes
2014 
£’000
Restated 
2013 
£’000
Cost of sales
Freight and haulage 25,797 24,432
Payments to sub-contractors 3,620 2,310
Materials and other costs 2,341 16,857
 31,758 43,599
Staff costs 4 63,894 63,963
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 1,015 1,051
Amortisation of computer software 13 254 187
Amortisation of other intangible assets 13 432 1,538
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets
(1)
12,13 – 396
Operating lease rentals:
– Land and buildings 2,045 2,556
– Other 250 288
Loss/(profit) on sale of tangible assets 18 (37)
Net movements in bad debt provisions 570 234
Auditors’ remuneration 5 503 430
Net foreign exchange losses/(gains) and financial instruments 238 185
(1)  In addition to the impairment charge in the year ended 28 February 2013 relating to Braemar Casbarian Inc, the deferred consideration liability of £422,000 
relating to the estimated remaining consideration for that business was released to the income statement (see Note 22).
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 59
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued
4 Staff costs
a) Staff costs for the Group during the year (including Directors)
 Notes
2014 
£’000
Restated
2013 
£’000
Salaries, wages and short-term employee benefits 55,947 55,981
Other pension costs 30 3,143 2,758
Social security costs 4,191 4,545
Share-based payments 24 613 679
 63,894 63,963
Discontinued operations 3,268 2,854
67,162 66,817
No staff costs were incurred by the Company.
The numbers above include remuneration and pension entitlements for each Director. Details are included in the Remuneration 
Report on page 42.
b) Average number of full time employees
 
2014 
Number
Restated 
2013 
Number
Shipbroking 282 288 
Technical 330 306 
Logistics 223 227 
Environmental 55 51 
Central 4 4
  894 876 
Discontinued operations 42 44
936 920
The Company had no employees. The Directors’ remuneration is borne by Braemar Seascope Limited and Braemar Seascope 
Pte Limited.
c) Key management compensation
The remuneration of key management is set out below. Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is 
provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 42. Key management represents the Directors of the Company.
 
2014 
£’000
2013
£’000
Salaries, short-term employee benefits and fees 1,204 1,841
Post-employment benefits – 80
Share-based payments 70 82
1,274 2,003
Number of key employees 7 9
No retirement benefits are accruing to any key management personnel (2013: 2) in respect of defined contribution pension scheme.
5 Auditors’ remuneration
A more detailed analysis of auditors’ services is given below:
 
2014 
£’000
2013
£’000
Audit services
– Fees payable to the Company auditor for audit of the Company and Group financial statements 86 70
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor and its associates for other services:
– The audit of the Group’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 222 231
– Other services pursuant to legislation 22 20
– Other assurance services 84 14
– Tax compliance services 71 63
– Tax advisory services 18 32
 503 430
All fees paid to the auditors were charged to operating profit in both years.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 60 6 Finance income – net
 
2014 
£’000
2013
£’000
Finance income:
– Interest on bank deposits 253 296
Total finance income 253 296
 
Finance costs:
– Interest payable on overdrafts (57) (41)
Total finance costs (57) (41)
Finance income/(costs) – net continuing operations 196 255
Interest payable – discontinued operations – (4)
196 251
7 Taxation
a) Analysis of charge in year
 
2014 
£’000
2013
£’000
Current tax 
UK corporation tax charged to the income statement 947 1,020
UK adjustment in respect of previous years 347 (143)
Overseas tax on profits in the year 1,531 1,847
Overseas adjustment in respect of previous years (37) 52
Total current tax 2,788 2,776
Deferred tax
UK current year origination and reversal of timing differences (80) (256)
UK adjustment in respect of previous years 38 94
Overseas current year origination and reversal of timing differences (446) (145)
Overseas adjustment in respect of previous years (14) (6)
Effect of change of tax rate (18) (16)
Total deferred tax (520) (329)
Taxation 2,268 2,447
Reconciliation between expected and actual tax charge
2014 
£’000
2013
£’000
Profit before tax 8,959 9,647
Profit before tax at standard rate of UK corporation tax of 23% (2013: 24%) 2,061 2,315
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 467 418
Non-taxable income – (135)
Tax calculated at domestic rates applicable to profits in overseas subsidiaries (90) (122)
Tax credit in relation to discontinued operations (507) –
Joint venture expense/(income) not subject to UK tax 21 (10)
Prior year adjustments 334 (3)
Effect of change of tax rate (18) (16)
Total tax charge for the year 2,268 2,447
Tax on items charged to equity
2014 
£’000
2013
£’000
Current tax debit/(credit) on exercised share options (48) 49
Deferred tax credit on share options (149) 32
Deferred tax credit on cash flow hedges 30 (54)
Effect of change of tax rate (1) (16)
Tax credit in the statement of changes in equity (168) 11
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 61
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued
7 Taxation continued
Analysis of the deferred tax asset
As at
28 Feb 2014
£’000
As at 
28 Feb 2013
£’000
Accelerated capital allowances
(includes £199,000 (2013: £203,000) of overseas accelerated capital allowances) 474 352
Short-term timing differences
(includes £236,000 (2013: £121,000) of overseas short-term timing differences) 1,170 669
 1,644 1,021
The movement in the deferred tax asset
2014 
£’000
2013
£’000
Balance at beginning of year 1,021 1,665
Reclassification 28 (351)
Movement to income statement 521 (315)
Movement to reserves 133 (13)
Exchange differences (59) 35
Balance at end of year 1,644 1,021
A deferred tax asset of £1,644,000 (2013: £1,021,000) has been recognised as the Directors believe that it is probable that there 
will be sufficient taxable profits in the future to recover the asset in full.
The closing deferred tax asset includes £24,000 (2013: £58,000) expected to reverse within the next 12 months of the balance 
sheet date.
b) Deferred tax liability
Analysis of the deferred tax liabilities
As at 
28 Feb 2014
£’000
As at
28 Feb 2013
 £’000
Short-term timing differences (531) (612)
 (531) (612)
The movement in the deferred tax liabilities
2014 
£’000
2013
£’000
Balance at beginning of year (612) (1,130)
Acquisitions (see Note 29) (35) (108)
Movement to income statement (116) 644
Amounts available for group relief 245 –
Movement to reserves (48) 51
Exchange differences 35 (69)
Balance at end of year (531) (612)
The closing deferred tax liability includes £22,000 (2013: £74,000) expected to reverse within the next 12 months of the balance 
sheet date.
No deferred tax has been provided in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests  
in joint ventures where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable 
that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised is approximately 
£4.0 million (2013: £4.6 million).
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 62 8 Discontinued Operations
In February 2014, following a detailed review of the Casbarian business, the Directors decided that the business did not align with 
the other businesses in the Technical division. As a result of the review, the Directors decided to exit the business and sold the 
business to the local management team on 20 March 2014 generating a loss on disposal of £0.8m. The results for the prior year 
have been restated.
The results of Casbarian have been reflected in the financial statements as discontinued operations together with a provision for 
the costs of selling the business. The prior year results have also been restated as discontinued operations.
2014
 £’000
2013
 £’000
Revenue 3,848 4,090
Cost of sales (773) (268)
3,075 3,822
Operating costs
Operating costs excluding amortisation of other intangible assets (4,393) (4,129)
Amortisation of other intangible assets – (40)
(4,393) (4,169)
Operating loss (1,318) (347)
Finance costs – (4)
Loss before taxation (1,318) (351)
Taxation (115) –
Loss for the year (1,433) (351)
Costs of disposal (776) –
Loss from discontinued operations (2,209) (351)
The assets and liabilities associated with the sale are as follows:
As at 
28 Feb 2014 
£’000
Non-current assets 30
Current assets 875
Provision for loss on sale of assets (304)
Assets held for sale 601
Current liabilities 486
Non-current liabilities 115
Liabilities held for sale 601
Provision for costs associated with the sale 518
Liabilities associated with the assets held for sale 1,119
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 63
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued
9 Dividends
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
Ordinary shares of 10 pence each
Final of 17.0 pence per share for the year ended 28 February 2013 (2012: 17.0 pence per share) 3,526 3,542
Interim of 9.0 pence per share paid (2012: 9.0 pence per share) 1,915 1,870
 5,441 5,412
In addition, the Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 28 February 2014 of 17.0 pence  
per share which will absorb an estimated £3.6 million of shareholders’ funds. It will be paid on 15 August 2014 to shareholders 
who are on the register of members on 18 July 2014. The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by the shareholders at  
the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The right to receive dividends on the shares held in the ESOP has been waived (see Note 24). The dividend saving through the 
waiver is £192,000 (2013: £207,000).
10 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding 659,682 ordinary shares held by the Employee Share  
Ownership Plan (2013: 764,626 shares) which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all 
dilutive ordinary shares. The Group has one class of potential dilutive ordinary shares being those options granted to employees 
where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year.
Total operations
2014
£’000
2013
£’000
Profit for the year attributable to shareholders 4,473 6,824 
  pence  pence 
Basic earnings per share 21.38 32.78 
Effect of dilutive share options (0.89) (1.06)
Diluted earnings per share 20.49 31.72 
Profit for the year attributable to shareholders 6,682 7,176
Continuing operations pence  pence 
Basic earnings per share 31.93 34.47 
Effect of dilutive share options (1.32) (1.11)
Diluted earnings per share 30.61 33.36 
  Shares  Shares 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 20,929,329 20,815,282
Effect of dilutive share options 902,575 695,456
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares 21,831,904 21,510,738 
11 Profit for the financial year
In accordance with the exemptions allowed by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own 
profit and loss account. A profit of £5,079,000 (2013: profit of £4,940,000) has been dealt with in the accounts of the Company.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 64 12 Goodwill
Group £’000
Cost
At 1 March 2012 38,109
Exchange adjustments 392
At 28 February 2013 38,501
Additions (see Note 29) 277
Reclassified to assets held for sale (236)
Exchange adjustments (758)
At 28 February 2014 37,784
Accumulated impairment
At 1 March 2012 7,693
Impairment 255
Exchange adjustments 6
At 28 February 2013 7,954
Reclassified to assets held for sale (236)
Exchange adjustments (25)
At 28 February 2013 and 28 February 2014 7,693
 
Net book value at 28 February 2014 30,091
Net book value at 28 February 2013 30,547
During the year ending 28 February 2013, the Group charged £255,000 in relation to the impairment of all goodwill associated  
with the acquisition of Braemar Casbarian Inc due to its lower than expected level of performance. An associated intangible  
asset was impaired by £141,000 (Note 13). During the year ending 28 February 2014, the Group decided to sell Braemar 
Casbarian Inc (see Note 8) and as a consequence has reclassified the goodwill associated with business together with the 
accumulated impairment to assets held for sale.
All goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units. The allocation of goodwill to cash-generating units is as follows:
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
Shipbroking 21,917 22,282
Braemar Technical Services (Engineering) Limited 204 204
Cory Brothers group 3,503 3,225
Braemar Offshore Pte Limited 2,723 3,076
Braemar Technical Services Holdings Limited 1,623 1,623
Cory Brothers Singapore 121 137
30,091 30,547
These cash-generating units represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management 
purposes. Goodwill denominated in foreign currencies is re-valued at the balance sheet date.
All recoverable amounts were measured based on value in use. The forecast cash flows were based on the approved annual 
budget for the next financial year and management projections for the following four years which are based on estimated 
conservative growth rates for revenue and costs. Management believe any improvements in the cash flow are achievable.  
Cash flows have been used over a period of five years as management believes this reflects a reasonable time horizon for 
management to monitor the trends in the business. After five years a terminal value is calculated using a long-term growth  
rate of 2.0% (2013: 2.0%). The cash flows were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 10.4% (2013: 10.5%) for UK  
based operations and 10.4% to 12.4% (2013: 10.5% to 12.5%) for overseas based operations.
Sensitivity to impairment
To test the sensitivity of the results of the impairment review, the calculations have been re-performed assuming a long-term 
growth rate of nil%. The results showed that there was still no indication of impairment.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 65
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued
13 Intangible assets
Group
Computer
Software
£’000
Other
intangible
assets 
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 March 2012 706 8,893 9,599
Additions  296 467 763
Exchange adjustments – (12) (12)
At 28 February 2013 1,002 9,348 10,350
Additions 366 165 531
Exchange adjustments – (206) (206)
At 28 February 2014 1,368 9,307 10,675
Amortisation
At 1 March 2012 259 6,710 6,969
Charge for the year 187 1,538 1,725
Impairment – 141 141
Exchange adjustments 12 (21) (9)
At 28 February 2013 458 8,368 8,826
Charge for the year 254 432 686
Exchange adjustments – (206) (206)
At 28 February 2014 712 8,594 9,306
Net book value at 28 February 2014 656 713 1,369
Net book value at 28 February 2013 544 980 1,524
Other intangible assets relate to forward books of income acquired in acquisitions which are being amortised over the period that 
the income is being recognised; customer relationships which are amortised over a period of five years; and brand which is being 
amortised over ten years.
The Company has no intangible assets.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 66 14 Property, plant and equipment
Group
Long 
leasehold 
£’000
Short 
leasehold 
£’000
Computers 
£’000
Fixtures and 
equipment 
£’000
Motor 
vehicles
 £’000
Total 
£’000
Cost or fair value
At 1 March 2012 5,402 355 3,187 3,135 556 12,635
Additions at cost 300 – 278 260 118 956
Disposals – – (40) (3) (65) (108)
Exchange differences 28 – 58 55 1 142
At 28 February 2013 5,730 355 3,483 3,447 610 13,625
Additions at cost 162 – 211 362 166 901
Disposals (22) – (346) (89) (102) (559)
Reclassification to assets held for sale – – (8) (37) – (45)
Exchange differences (57) – (117) (92) (15) (281)
At 28 February 2014 5,813 355 3,223 3,591 659 13,641
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 March 2012 1,264 198 2,487 2,009 420 6,378
Charge for the year 266 28 327 339 91 1,051
Disposals – – (7) (2) (53) (62)
Exchange differences 9 – 48 36 – 93
At 28 February 2013 1,539 226 2,855 2,382 458 7,460 
Charge for the year 225 29 345 320 96 1,015
Disposals (22) – (342) (86) (91) (541)
Reclassification to assets held for sale – – – (15) – (15)
Exchange differences (27) – (80) (66) (3) (176)
At 28 February 2014 1,715 255 2,778 2,535 460 7,743
Net book value at 28 February 2014 4,098 100 445 1,056 199 5,898
Net book value at 28 February 2013 4,191 129 628 1,065 152 6,165
At 28 February 2014, the Group had no contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment (2013: nil).
The Company has no property, plant and equipment.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 67
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued
15 Investments
Group
Joint 
ventures
 £’000
Unlisted 
investments 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Goodwill 340 – 340
Share of net assets/cost 743 812 1,555
At 1 March 2012 1,083 812 1,895
Exchange differences 26 7 33
Dividends received (189) – (189)
Share of joint ventures profits retained – (5) (5)
Goodwill 340 – 340
Share of net assets/cost 642 – 642
At 28 February 2013 982 814 1,796
Exchange differences 13 (6) 7
Share of joint ventures profits retained (88) – (88)
Goodwill 340 – 340
Share of net assets/cost 567 808 1,375
At 28 February 2014 907 808 1,715
Company
Subsidiaries
£’000 
Joint venture
 Undertakings
 £’000
Unlisted 
investments 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost
At 1 March 2012 52,918 412 560 53,890
Share-based payments 661 – – 661
At 28 February 2013 53,579 412 560 54,551
Share-based payments 426 – – 426
At 28 February 2014 54,005 412 560 54,977
Impairment
At 1 March 2012, 28 February 2013 and 28 February 2014 1,837 – – 1,837
Net book value at 28 February 2014 52,168 412 560 53,140
Net book value at 28 February 2013 51,742 412 560 52,714
The Company invested £426,000 (2013: £661,000) in the subsidiaries of the Group in respect of share-based payment charges 
incurred in the year (see Note 24).
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 68 A list of principal operating subsidiary and joint venture undertakings is as follows:
a) Subsidiaries
Particulars of principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
Name of company Country Principal activity
Percentage of 
ordinary shares 
directly owned
Percentage of 
ordinary shares 
indirectly owned
Braemar Seascope Limited England & Wales Shipbroking 100
Braemar Seascope Valuations Limited England & Wales Valuations 100
Braemar Seascope Pty Limited Australia Shipbroking 100
Braemar Seascope Pte Limited Singapore Shipbroking 100
Braemar Seascope India Private Limited India Shipbroking 100
Cory Brothers Shipping Agency Limited England & Wales Ship agents 100
Fred. Olsen Freight Limited England & Wales Ship agents 100
Braemar Technical Services (Engineering) Limited England & Wales Marine consultants 100
Braemar Technical Services Limited England & Wales Marine consultants 100
Braemar Technical Services Holdings Pte Limited Nevis Marine consultants 100
Braemar Technical Services Offshore Pte Limited Singapore Marine consultants 100
Braemar Technical Services Engineering Pte Limited Singapore Energy consultants 100
Braemar Technical Services Offshore Sdn Bhd Malaysia Marine consultants 49
PT Braemar Technical Services Offshore Indonesia Marine consultants 100
Braemar Technical Services Offshore Vietnam Co Limited Vietnam Marine consultants 100
Braemar Technical Services Holdings Limited England & Wales Energy loss adjuster 100
Braemar Technical Services (Adjusting) Limited England & Wales Energy loss adjuster 100
Braemar Technical Services (USA) Limited United States Energy loss adjuster 100
Braemar Technical Services (Adjusting) Pte Limited Singapore Energy loss adjuster 100
Braemar Technical Services (Canada) Limited Canada Energy loss adjuster 100
Braemar Casbarian Inc United States Marine consultants 100
Braemar Howells Limited England & Wales Environmental services 100
All the above subsidiaries were owned at 28 February 2014 and 28 February 2013.
The financial statements of the principal subsidiary undertakings are prepared to 28 February 2014 except for PT Braemar 
Technical Services Offshore and Braemar Technical Services Offshore Vietnam Co Limited for which the results to 31 December 
2013 have been consolidated on the basis that the results to 28 February 2014 would not be materially different.
b) Joint ventures
Particulars of the joint venture companies which have been equity accounted are as follows:
Name of company Country Principal activity
Percentage of
ordinary shares
owned
Accounting 
reference date
Braemar Quincannon Ltd England & Wales Shipbroking 50% 28 February
Braemar Quincannon Pte Limited Singapore Shipbroking 50% 31 December 
The share capital of Braemar Quincannon Pte Limited is owned by the Company. All other joint ventures are indirectly owned by 
the Group.
In relation to the Group’s interest in joint ventures, the Group’s share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses are shown below:
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
Current assets 632 986
Non-current assets 20 34
Current liabilities (85) (378)
567 642
Income 1,112 1,434
Expenses (1,228) (1,379)
 (116) 55
Taxation 28 7
Share of post tax results (88) 62
The joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed. 
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 69
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued
15 Investments continued
c) Unlisted investments
The Group’s unlisted shares principally include 1,000 (16.7%) ordinary £1 shares in London Tankers Brokers Panel and 7 ,500 ordinary 
£1 shares London Ship Valuation Panel. These have been treated as available for sale investments and not equity accounted, as the 
Company does not have significant influence as all investors in these companies have equivalent proportional influence. Since the fair 
value of the investment cannot be reliably measured as the shares are not quoted on a market, it has been held at cost.
16 Other long-term receivables
Other receivables of £242,000 (2013: £261,000) comprised £42,000 (2013: £36,000) in respect of interest bearing loans to  
7 (2013: 7) employees in the Shipbroking division repayable over three years and £200,000 (2013: £225,000) in respect of  
security deposits with landlords and other service providers in the Technical division.
17 Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
Trade receivables 35,532 33,729 – –
Provision for impairment of trade receivables (2,880) (3,131) – –
32,652 30,598 – –
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings – – 1,642 2,055
Other receivables 4,590 3,522 589 612
Corporation tax recoverable – 1,081 – –
Accrued income 8,369 7,943 – – 
Prepayments 1,740 1,477 71 45
 47,351 44,621 2,302 2,712
The total receivables balance is denominated in the following currencies:
Group Company
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
US dollars 19,034 18,087 – –
Pounds sterling 17,735 16,764 2,302 2,712
Other 10,582 9,770 – –
47,351 44,621 2,302 2,712
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade receivables approximate to their fair value.
Terms associated with the settlement of the Group’s trade receivables vary across the Group but in general are settled in less than 
90 days. As at 28 February 2014 trade receivables of £2,784,000 (2013: £3,074,000) which were over 12 months old were treated 
as impaired and have been provided for. Amounts over 12 months old at 28 February 2014 have not been provided for if they have 
been recovered since that date. In addition, a provision of £96,000 (2013: £57,000) has been made for specific trade receivables 
less than 12 months overdue.
The ageing profile of trade receivables as at 28 February 2014 is as follows:
 
Group
 
2014 
£’000
2013
£’000
Up to 3 months 25,608 24,437
3 to 6 months 3,700 3,179
6 to 12 months 3,440 2,594
Over 12 months 2,784 3,519
Total 35,532 33,729
The Company has no trade receivables (2013: £nil).
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 70 Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows:
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
At 1 March 3,131 3,789
Provision for receivables impairment 1,341 675
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable (758) (891)
Amounts previously impaired collected in period (656) (500)
Exchange differences (178) 59
At 28 February 2,880 3,131
At 28 February 2014, within other classes of trade and other receivables a provision of impairment of £300,000 (2013: £542,000) 
has been made for accrued income that is greater than 12 months old and within other receivables there is a provision for 
impairment of £250,000 (2013: £nil).
18 Derivative and other financial instruments
a) Currency risk
The Group’s currency risk exposure arises as a result of the majority of its Shipbroking earnings being denominated in US dollars 
while the majority of its costs are denominated in pounds sterling and from the carrying values of its overseas subsidiaries being 
denominated in foreign currencies. The Group manages the exposure to currency variations by spot and forward currency sales 
and other derivative currency contracts. 
At 28 February 2014 the Group held forward currency contracts to sell US$4.0 million at an average rate of $1.65/£.
At 28 February 2013 the Group held forward currency contracts to sell US$9.0 million at an average rate of $1.54/£.
The fair value/carrying value of the derivative financial instruments of the Group are as follows:
2014 2013
Book value 
£’000
Fair value 
£’000
Book value 
£’000
Fair value 
’000
Forward currency contracts 
Assets 35 35 – –
Liabilities – – (94) (94)
The net fair value of forward currency contracts that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges amount to a £35,000 asset 
(2013: £94,000 liability) which has been deferred in equity.
Amounts of £94,000 have been charged (2013: £136,000 credited) to the income statement in respect of forward contracts which 
have matured in the period.
The fair value of financial instruments is based on prices quoted by the counterparty (level 2) at the balance sheet date.
Excluding the effect of hedging, the effect on equity and profit before tax if the US dollar strengthened by 10% against sterling, 
with all other variables being equal, is approximately £2.5 million favourable (2013: £2.7 million). If the US dollar weakened against 
sterling by 10%, the effect is approximately £2.1 million adverse (2013: £2.2 million).
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 71
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued
18 Derivative and other financial instruments continued
b) Interest rate risk
The Group minimises its exposure to interest rate risk by pooling sterling cash balances across the UK Group.
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity, of the Group’s financial instruments which are exposed to interest 
rate risk:
Group
2014 
Within one year 
£’000
2013 
Within one year
£’000
Floating rate:
Cash and cash equivalents (see Note 20) 13,694 23,277
Company
2014 
Within one year 
£’000
2013 
Within one year 
£’000
Floating rate:
Cash and cash equivalents (see Note 20) – 38
Short-term borrowings (see Note 20) (101) –
Cash balances are generally held on overnight deposits at floating rates depending on cash requirements and the prevailing 
market rates for the amount of funds deposited.
The other financial instruments of the Group are non-interest bearing.
The effect on equity and profit before tax of a 1% increase in the interest rate, all other variables being equal, is approximately  
£0.2 million (2013: £0.2 million).
c) Banking facilities
At 28 February 2014, the Group had an overdraft facility for £10.0 million (2013: £8.0 million). At 28 February 2014 none of the 
facility had been drawn (2013: £nil). The Company and its subsidiaries have provided cross guarantees and fixed and floating  
rate charges over their assets to secure the above overdraft facility.
d) Credit risk
There are no significant concentrations within the Group or Company.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the diversity of the Group’s customer base.  
The Directors believe there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of normal provisions for doubtful receivables, 
estimated by the Group’s management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment. 
The Group seeks to trade only with creditworthy parties and carries out credit checks where appropriate. The maximum  
exposure is the carrying amount as disclosed in Note 17.
e) Capital management
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions. The Group 
considers its capital as consisting of ordinary shares and retained earnings. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group 
may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. 
The Group has a policy of maintaining positive cash balances with additional headroom if required through an overdraft facility. 
This provides cover against the highly cyclical nature of the shipping industry and sufficient cash resources to take advantage  
of opportunities to acquire businesses that complement the overall strategy of the Group.
The Board monitors the return on capital and underlying business performance to determine the ongoing use of capital, namely 
executive and staff incentive schemes (and whether to fund this through cash or share incentives); acquisition appraisals ahead  
of potential business combinations; investment in property, plant and equipment; and the level of dividends.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 28 February 2014 and 28 February 2013.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 72 19 Restricted cash
At 28 February 2013, the Group held restricted cash balances of £0.3 million. Restricted cash comprises cash balances where  
the Group is holding cash as escrow agent for certain clients, pending completion of transactions in which the Group acted  
as broker and where the Group is holding payments due to clients on behalf of an insurer. The amounts are held in designated 
accounts and any interest earned is due to the clients. Restricted cash is denominated in US dollars. A corresponding liability  
is recorded on the balance sheet as client monies held as escrow agent.
20 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise £13.7 million held by the Group (2013: £23.3 million).
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
21 Short-term borrowings
Company
Company
2014 
£’000
2013
£’000 
 
Short-term borrowings (101) –
The Group has no short-term borrowings.
Short-term borrowings comprises the net bank overdraft facility repayable on demand or within 12 months. The Group  
operates a pooled banking facility for all sterling current account balances across the UK group and has the legal right of offset. 
The Company’s short-term borrowings reflect its contribution to the pooling arrangement. The bank overdraft bears interest  
based on LIBOR.
The Directors consider the carrying amount approximates the fair value of this liability.
22 Trade and other payables
Group Company
Current liabilities
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000 
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000 
Trade payables 18,055 18,184 – –
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings – – 1,185 1,127
Other taxation and social security 1,011 1,216 – –
Deferred consideration 426 299 – –
Other payables 1,425 1,222 126 17
Other accruals and deferred income 11,930 15,328 149 402
32,847 36,249 1,460 1,546
The average credit period taken for trade payables is 49 days (2013: 35 days). The Directors consider that the carrying amounts  
of trade payables approximate to their fair value.
The deferred consideration liability represents £426,000 in respect of the acquisition of Lawrence Holt Limited in November 2013 
(Note 29).
At 28 February 2013, the deferred consideration liability comprised £79,000 in respect of Orca Limited (acquired in April 2012); 
£47,000 in respect of Cagnoil Limited (acquired in March 2009) and £173,000 in respect of Fred. Olsen Freight Limited (“FOFL ”) 
(acquired in December 2007). The amount in relation to FOFL comprised two amounts. The first amount of £389,000 was the 
expected exercise price of the option to acquire the remaining 20% of FOFL (see Note 30). The second element was an amount  
of £216,000 which reduced this liability from £389,000 to £173,000 and represented an overpayment for the original 80% of FOFL. 
The consideration for the 80% of the business was paid in instalments and calculated with reference to the profits made in the  
first three years following the acquisition. The value of the initial payments was calculated by making an estimate of the profits 
expected for the first three years of ownership. However, by the time of the final instalment at the end of the three-year period,  
the total profits made in that period were lower than expected to the extent that the sum of the first two instalments exceeded the 
value of the final total consideration. Instead of immediately recovering this overpayment, the terms of the agreement specified  
that any overpayment should then be offset against future payments for the remaining 20%. The two amounts were combined 
such that overall the liability in respect of FOFL was £173,000. In June 2013, a final payment of £235,000 was made as full  
and final settlement to acquire the remaining 20%.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 73
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued
23 Provisions
Employee
 entitlements
 £’000
At 1 March 2013 776
Provided in the year 337
Utilised in the year (368)
At 28 February 2014 745
Employee entitlements relate to statutory long service leave in Braemar Seascope Pty Limited and the Braemar Offshore companies.
The maturity profile of the provisions is as follows:
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
Within one year 410 413
Current liabilities 410 413
Between one and two years 62 62
Between two and three years 273 301
Non-current liabilities 335 363
Total provisions 745 776
The Company has no provisions.  
24 Share capital
Group and Company
2014 
Number
2013 
Number
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
a) Authorised
Ordinary shares of 10 pence each 34,903,000 34,903,000 3,490 3,490
2014 
Number
2013 
Number
2014 
£’000
2013
 £’000
b) Issued
Fully paid ordinary shares of 10 pence each
As at start of year 21,652,157 21,599,862 2,165 2,160
Shares issued and fully paid 19,252 52,295 2 5
As at end of year 21,671,409 21,652,157 2,167 2,165
During the year ended 28 February 2014, 3,594 shares were issued at 353.2 pence, 9,774 shares were issued at 426.4 pence  
and 5,884 shares were issued at 271.0 pence as part of the Save As You Earn (“SAYE”) Scheme. No shares remained unpaid  
at 28 February 2013.
During the year ended 28 February 2013, 2,000 shares were issued at 245.0 pence as part of the 1997 Executive Scheme.  
A further 26,389 shares were issued at 196.4 pence, 21,195 shares were issued at 353.20 pence and 2,711 shares were  
issued at 271.0 pence as part of the Save As You Earn (“SAYE”) Scheme. No shares remained unpaid at 28 February 2013.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
c) Capital redemption reserve
Group and Company
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
Beginning and end of year 396 396
The capital redemption reserve arose on previous share buy-backs by the Company.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 74 d) Share-based payments
The Company operates a variety of share-based payment schemes which are listed below.
The total charge for the year relating to all employee share-based payment plans was £613,000 (2013: £679,000) with a further 
£32,000 (2013: £90,000) incurred in respect of national insurance contributions, all of which related to equity-settled share-based 
payment transactions. At 28 February 2014, £70,000 (2013: £90,000) relating to national insurance contributions has been 
accrued in current liabilities but remains unsettled.
i. Share options
The Company operates two employee save-as-you-earn option schemes called the Braemar Seascope Group PLC 2003 
Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (“the SAYE Scheme”) and the Braemar Shipping Services plc 2008 International Savings-
Related Share Option Scheme (“the International SAYE Scheme”). No option may be granted under either scheme which would 
result in the total number of shares issued or remaining issuable under all of the schemes (or any other Group share schemes), in 
the ten-year period ending on the date of grant of the option, exceeding 10% of the Company’s issued share capital (calculated  
at the date of grant of the relevant option). Options are granted at a 20% discount to the prevailing market price.
The Company also operates the Braemar Shipping Services 2010 Executive Options Scheme (“the 2010 CSOP”) under which 
options are granted by the Remuneration Committee. The schemes are open to all UK employees and executive Directors and  
the exercise price of the options granted were at the market price at date of grant. The 2010 CSOP provides for the grant of two 
types of option – “Non-performance options” and “Performance options”. “Non-performance options” are granted to employees 
only in conjunction with the grant to such employees of an award under the Deferred Bonus Plan (see ii.). Unlike the “Performance 
Options”, the vesting and exercise of “Non-performance options” will not be subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions 
(although exercise will be dependent on continuous employment within the Group). During the year to 28 February 2014, 325,050 
“Non-performance options” and 114,500 “Performance options” were granted under the CSOP (2013: 190,582 “Non-performance 
options” and 90,041 “Performance options”).
Details of the share options in issue and the movements in the year are given below: 
Share scheme
Year option
 granted
Number at 
1 March 2013 Granted Exercised Lapsed
Number at 
28 February 
2014
Exercise price
 (pence)
Exercisable 
between
SAYE
 2010 5,903 – (3,594) (2,309) – 353.2 2012-2013
 2011 16,609 – (9,774) (3,287) 3,548 426.4 2013-2014
2012 304,986 – (5,884) (32,299) 266,803 271.0 2014-2015
2012 129,250 – – (16,539) 112,711 272.9 2015-2016
2013 – 125,351 – (8,132) 117,219 336.2 2016-2017
 456,748 125,351 (19,252) (62,566) 500,281  
Options are valued using a binomial pricing model. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation 
are as follows:
SAYE SAYE
Grant date 01 Aug 13 01 Aug 12
Share price at grant date 423.00p 344.40p
Exercise price 336.20p 272.90p
Number of employees 108 54
Shares under option 125,351 133,881
Vesting period (years) 3.0 3.0
Expected volatility 35.40% 34.38%
Option life (years) 3.5 3.5
Risk free rate 3.08% 2.33%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 5.00% 5.00%
Possibility of ceasing employment before vesting 5.00% 5.00%
Expectation of meeting performance criteria 100.00% 100.00%
Fair value per option 87.47p 69.95p
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last four years. The risk-free rate of return is based on LIBOR.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 75
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued
24 Share capital continued
A reconciliation of option movements during the year is shown below:
2014 2013
Number
Weighted
 average
 exercise price Number
Weighted 
average
 exercise price
Outstanding at 1 March 456,748 278.25p 442,206 284.84p
Granted 125,351 336.20p 133,881 272.90p
Exercised (19,252) 365.24p (52,295) 263.25p
Lapsed (62,566) 291.17p (67,044) 322.76p
Outstanding at 28 February 500,281 287.81p 456,748 278.25p
Exercisable at 28 February 3,548 426.40p 5,903 353.20p
 
2014 
Contractual
2013 
Contractual
Weighted average remaining life (years) 1.7 2.2
The weighted average share price for share options exercised in the year is 482.54 pence (2013: 369.18 pence).
ii. Deferred bonus plan
In 2005 the Company put in place a Deferred Bonus Plan (“the Plan”) whereby part of the annual performance-related bonus is 
delivered in shares, on a discretionary basis, to staff including executive Directors. Under the Plan the shares are bought and held 
in an employee trust for three years after which the employee beneficiary will become absolutely entitled to the shares provided 
they remain in employment. Shares are valued at fair value at the date of grant.
During the year ended 28 February 2014, 48,356 shares at a value of £261,000 that were awarded to employees in October 2012 
as part of the Plan were delivered to them in October 2013 following the three-year vesting period. In addition, 93,000 shares at  
a value of £500,000 that were awarded to employees in November 2010 were delivered to them in November 2013 following the 
three-year vesting period. Awards over 439,550 shares were made to employees during the year and a total of 62,258 share 
awards lapsed.
During the year ended 28 February 2013, 69,425 shares at a value of £258,000 that were awarded to employees in May 2009 as 
part of the Plan were delivered to them in May 2012 following the three-year vesting period. In addition, 50,000 shares at a value  
of £183,000 that were awarded to employees in October 2009 were delivered to them in October 2012 following the three-year 
vesting period. Awards over 280,623 shares were made to employees during the year and a total of 41,075 share awards lapsed.
As at 28 February 2014, 686,382 deferred shares had been awarded to employees (2013: 461,229) but not yet vested.
iii. Long-term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”)
The Company established an LTIP in 2006. LTIP awards take the form of a conditional right to receive shares at nil cost. The 
awards normally vest over three years and are subject to a performance condition based on earnings per share (EPS). If EPS has 
increased by RPI plus 4%, the awards vest up to 50% and if EPS has increased by 10% they vest up to 100% with a sliding scale 
in between.
In May 2012, the final 26,664 shares out of the 80,000 shares awarded in May 2007 were delivered to the executive Directors of 
Braemar Shipping Services plc, at a value of £93,000 on the date of delivery. In October 2012, LTIP awards over 130,000 shares 
were made to two executive Directors in addition to the 280,727 awards made in May 2011 and the 196,144 LTIP awards made  
in June 2010.
25 Shares to be issued
Group and Company £’000
At 1 March 2012 3,695
Share capital acquired in the year 148
ESOP shares allocated (534)
At 28 February 2013 3,309
Share capital acquired in the year 267
ESOP shares allocated (642)
At 28 February 2014 2,934
Shares to be issued are a deduction from shareholders’ funds and represent a reduction in distributable reserves.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 76 An Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) was established on 23 January 1995. The ESOP has been set up to purchase shares 
in the Company. These shares, once purchased, are held on trust by the Trustee of the ESOP, Kleinwort Benson (Channel Islands) 
Limited, for the benefit of the employees. As at 28 February 2014, the ESOP held 659,682 (2013: 764,626) ordinary shares of  
10 pence each at a total cost of £2,934,000 (2013: £3,309,000) including stamp duty associated with the purchase. The funding 
of the purchase has been provided by the Company in the form of an interest-free loan and the Trustees have contracted with  
the Company to waive the ESOP’s right to receive dividends. The fees charged by the Trustees for the operation of the ESOP are 
paid by the Company and charged to the income statement as they fall due. The shares owned by the ESOP had a market value 
at 28 February 2013 of £3,349,535 (2013: £2,944,728). The distribution of these shares is determined by the Remuneration 
Committee. 151,869 shares (2013: 146,089) have been released to employees during the year (see Note 24).
26 Other reserves
Capital 
redemption
 reserve 
£’000
Merger 
reserve 
£’000
Deferred 
consideration
 reserve 
£’000
Translation 
reserve 
£’000
Hedging 
reserve 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Group
At 1 March 2012 396 21,346 (389) 5,209 102 26,664
Cash flow hedges
– Transfer to net profit – – – – (136) (136)
– Fair value losses in the period – – – – (83) (83)
Exchange differences – – – 1,131 – 1,131
Deferred tax on items taken to equity – – – – 54 54
At 28 February 2013 396 21,346 (389) 6,340 (63) 27,630
Cash flow hedges
– Transfer to net profit – – – – 83 83
– Fair value losses in the period – – – – 35 35
Deferred consideration paid – – 389 – – 389
Exchange differences – – – (4,391) – (4,391)
Deferred tax on items taken to equity – – – – (27) (27)
At 28 February 2014 396 21,346 – 1,949 28 23,719
Capital 
redemption
 reserve 
£’000
Merger 
reserve 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Company
At 1 March 2012, 28 February 2013 and 28 February 2014 396 21,346 21,742
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in fair value of cash flow hedging instruments 
relating to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred of £35,000 asset (2013: £83,000 liability). A deferred tax liability of 
£8,000 (2013: £20,000 asset) is attributable to these transactions.
The translation reserve contains all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the Group’s net investment in 
overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures. In the year ending 28 February 2014, the movement on the translation reserve was  
a debit of £4,388,000 (2013: £1,131,000 credit) which reflected the strength of the pound against other reporting currencies  
across the Group and the effect of retranslating the net assets held in these currencies into pound sterling at the end of the year.
The deferred consideration reserve at 28 February 2013 contained the estimated cost of acquiring the remaining 20% of Fred. 
Olsen Freight Limited (see Note 30) which was held under option. This balance was settled in June 2013 (see Note 22).
The merger reserve arose principally in 2001 in relation to acquisitions of Braemar Shipbrokers and Braemar Tankers.
27 Non-controlling interest
Group
£’000
At 1 March 2012 220
Profit for the period attributable to shareholders for the year 25
At 28 February 2013 245
Profit for the period attributable to shareholders for the year 9
Acquisition of non-controlling interest (254)
At 28 February 2014 –
At 28 February 2013, the non-controlling interest represents 20% of Fred. Olsen Freight Limited acquired on 24 December 2007 
which was not owned by the Group. The non-controlling interest was acquired by the Group in June 2013 (see Note 22).
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 77
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued
28 Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash flow from operating activities
Group Company
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
Profit before tax for the year from continuing operations 8,959 9,647 5,853 4,264
Loss before tax for the year from discontinued operations (2,094) (351) – –
Adjustments for:
– Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,015 1,051 – –
– Amortisation of computer software 254 187 – –
– Amortisation of other intangible assets 432 1,538 – –
– Loss/(profit) on sale of property plant and equipment 18 (37) – –
– Provision for disposal of discontinued operations 822 – –
– Finance income (253) (296) – –
– Finance expense 57 45 77 35
– Share of loss/(profit) of joint ventures 88 (62) – –
– Share based payments 613 679 – –
– Net foreign exchange gains and financial instruments (238) (185) – –
Changes in working capital:
– Trade and other receivables (4,194) 3,458 (283) 161
– Trade and other payables (3,290) (769) (65) 537
– Provisions (31) 91 – –
Cash generated from operations 2,158 14,996 5,582 4,997
29 Business combinations
On 31 October 2013 the Group acquired 100% of the shares for Lawrence Holt Limited situated in Felixstowe in the United 
Kingdom generating goodwill of £278,000. Cash consideration of £200,000 was paid during the year and an estimated 
consideration of £426,000 has been deferred which will be paid and is dependent on the multiple of earnings before interest,  
tax and amortisation over the two years following the date of acquisition.
The fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired was:
Book value
£’000
Fair value 
adjustments
£’000
Fair value
£’000
Other Intangible assets – 165 165
Property, plant and equipment 2 – 2
Trade and other Receivables 341 – 341
Cash 38 – 38
Trade and other Payables (157) – (157)
Current tax payable (5) – (5)
Deferred tax liability – (35) (35)
Net assets 219 130 349
Goodwill arising 277
626
Consideration:
Consideration paid 200
Deferred consideration 426
Total consideration 626
Included in the results for the year ended 28 February 2014 are revenues of £427,000 and operating profit of £8,000.
In addition, £127,000 was incurred in respect of deferred and contingent consideration relating to acquisitions from previous 
periods and a further £235,000 in respect of the acquisition of the remaining 20% of Fred. Olsen Freight Limited.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 78 30 Pensions
The Group participates in a number of defined contribution schemes. Contributions of £3,143,000 (2013: £2,758,000) were paid  
in the year and contributions of £89,000 were due to these schemes at 28 February 2014 (2013: £114,000).
31 Financial commitments
a) Operating lease commitments
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 28 February are as follows:
Land and buildings
2014
Lease minimum
 payments 
£’000
Sub-lease 
income 
£’000
Net 
minimum lease 
repayments 
£’000
Other 
£’000
Within one year 1,851 (349) 1,502 212
Between one and five years 3,594 (188) 3,406 162
Over five years 1,093 – 1,093 – 
6,538 (537) 6,000 374
Land and buildings
2013
Lease minimum 
payments 
£’000
Sub-lease 
income 
£’000
Net 
minimum lease 
repayments 
£’000
Other 
£’000
Within one year 1,918 (335) 1,583 196
Between one and five years 4,589 (567) 4,022 353
Over five years 1,383 – 1,383 –
 7,890 (902) 6,988 549
The Group leases various offices and a warehouse under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have various 
terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group also leases plant and machinery under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
There were no commitments under operating leases in the Company.
b) Other commitments
On completion of the acquisition of 80% of Fred. Olsen Freight Limited on 27 December 2007, the Group entered into a put and 
call option agreement to acquire the remaining 20% of the share capital of Fred. Olsen Freight Limited. The terms of the put option 
provided that the Group could be required to purchase the remaining portion of the business at any time up until 24 December 
2015 and the call option allowed the Group to exercise its right in any event on 24 December 2015 if the option had not been 
exercised by the vendors prior to this date. The value of the deferred consideration at 28 February 2013 was £389,000 and was 
based on forecasts at that time. It was included in deferred consideration in current liabilities and subsequent to 28 February 2013 
has been settled (Note 22).
32 Contingent liabilities
The Company has given a guarantee to HM Revenue and Customs in respect of duty deferment in the amount of £1.9 million 
(2013: £1.5 million). Further guarantees to HM Revenue and Customs and third parties total £0.7 million (2013: £0.7 million). 
In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries have provided cross guarantees and fixed and floating rate charges over their  
assets to secure the above overdraft facility (see Note 18).
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 79
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
continued
33 Related party transactions
During the period the Group entered into the following transactions with joint ventures and investments:
2014 2013
Group
Recharges 
to/(from) 
£’000
Dividends 
£’000
Balance 
due from 
£’000
Recharges 
to/(from) 
£’000
Dividends 
£’000
Balance 
due from 
£’000
Braemar Quincannon Limited (4) 53 6 – 57
Braemar Quincannon Pte Limited (5) – – (189) 189 5
London Tankers Broker Panel 310 – – 301 – –
London Central Cruise Moorings 17 – – 15 – –
All recharges to related parties are carried out on an arm’s-length basis.
Alan Marsh stepped down as a Director on 31 July 2012 and was employed by the Company as a sale and purchase broker.  
Of the remuneration he received in the twelve month period subsequently, £62,000 has been charged in the year ending  
28 February 2014. 
Quentin Soanes stepped down as a Director on 31 July 2012 and ceased employment with the Company on 30 September 2012. 
Subsequently he provided services as a consultant to the Technical, Logistics and Environmental businesses and in accordance 
with a consultancy agreement received fees of £952,000 (including a performance related incentive payment of £655,000) in the 
twelve months after stepping down of which £127,000 was paid in the year ending 28 February 2014. The performance related 
incentive payment was charged in the year ended 28 February 2013.
Under the Merger Agreement dated 7 March 2001 between the Company and Braemar Shipbrokers Ltd, the vendors gave a joint 
and several indemnity to the Company for any warranty and tax indemnity claims up to an aggregate of £10 million. The former 
Chief Executive, Alan Marsh, and a former plc Director of the Company, Quentin Soanes are Braemar Shipbrokers vendors. 
During the year ended 28 February 2006, the Company received an assessment for corporation tax and interest totalling  
£2.2 million which is recoverable under the above indemnity. Following receipt of the assessment the Company received funds  
of £1.6 million from the vendors which were paid to the Inland Revenue in order to prevent interest accruing. Such funds would 
become repayable to the vendors in the event that the appeal is successful. £0.6 million (2010: £0.6 million) remains outstanding 
pending the appeal result. The assessment is being appealed and the Company does not expect to incur any cost in respect of 
this assessment or these contingent liabilities. 
Key management compensation is disclosed in Note 4.
During the year the Company entered into the following transactions with subsidiaries and joint ventures: 
2014 2013
Company
Recharges 
to/(from) 
£’000
Dividends 
£’000
Balance due 
from/(to) 
£’000
Recharges 
to/(from) 
£’000
Dividends 
£’000
Balance due 
to/(from) 
£’000
Braemar Shipbrokers Limited – 2,544 (589) – 2,600 (589)
Braemar Seascope Limited (762) – (64) 673 – 698
Braemar Technical Services (Engineering) Limited (1) – 1,261 19 – 1,262
Braemar Technical Services (Adjusting) Limited (19) – 37 56 – 56
Cory Brothers Shipping Agency Limited – – (7) (2) 1,500 (7)
Braemar Howells Limited 311 – 305 – 2,500 (6)
Cagnoil Limited – – 39 39 – 39
Braemar Seascope Pty Limited – – – – 129 – 
Braemar Seascope Pte Limited – 2,203 – – – – 
Braemar Falconer Pte Limited – 2,147 – – – – 
Braemar Quincannon Pte Limited – – – – 189 – 
Portabella Limited – – (525) – – (525)
34 Post balance sheet events
On 20 March 2014, the Group sold its interest in Casbarian to local management (see Note 8).
On 30 April 2014, the Group completed the sale of the Morrison Tours business reported within the Logistics division.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 80 Five-year financial summary
Consolidated income statement
Continuing operations
12 Months to 
28 February 
2010 
£’000
12 Months to 
28 February 
2011 
£’000
12 Months to 
29 February 
2012
(1)
 
£’000
12 Months to 
28 February 
2013
(1)
 
£’000
12 Months to 
28 February 
2014 
£’000
Group revenue 119,024 126,135 131,457 139,684 125,531
Other operating expenses (104,644) (111,641) (120,320) (128,856) (116,248)
Non-recurring income and expense – – 69 – –
Amortisation of other intangible assets (1,480) (1,565) (1,435) (1,498) (432)
Total operating expenses (106,124) (113,206) (121,685) (130,354) (116,680)
Operating profit 12,900 12,929 9,772 9,330 8,851
Interest income – net 191 163 196 255 196
Share of profit/(loss) from joint ventures 400 103 252 62 (88)
Profit before taxation 13,491 13,195 10,220 9,647 8,959
Taxation (3,806) (3,378) (2,888) (2,447) (2,268)
Profit after taxation 9,685 9,817 7,332 7,200 6,691
  
Dividends
Interim 1,767 1,817 1,812 1,870 1,915
Final proposed 3,283 3,421 3,523 3,526 3,572
 5,050 5,238 5,335 5,396 5,487
  
Earnings per ordinary share – pence  
Basic 47.93p 48.41p 33.84p 34.47p 31.93p
Diluted 47.26p 47.43p 32.53p 33.36p 30.61p
(1) Restated for discontinued operations.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 81
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Five-year financial summary
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 
28 February 
2010
 £’000
As at 
28 February 
2011
 £’000
As at 
29 February 
2012
 £’000
As at
 28 February 
2013 
£’000
As at 
28 February 
2014
 £’000
Assets
Goodwill 28,740 30,006 30,416 30,547 30,091
Other intangible assets 4,247 2,777 2,630 1,524 1,369
Property, plant and equipment 6,510 6,813 6,257 6,165 5,898
Investments 1,485 1,694 1,895 1,796 1,715
Deferred tax assets 1,208 1,797 1,665 1,021 1,644
Other receivables 169 238 233 261 242
 42,359 43,325 43,096 41,314 40,959
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 36,918 40,741 46,973 44,621 47,351
Derivative financial instruments – 314 136 – 35
Assets held for sale – – – – 601
Restricted cash 5,521 – 335 339 –
Cash and cash equivalents 27,930 25,634 17,467 23,277 13,694
 70,369 66,689 64,911 68,237 61,681
 
Total assets 112,728 110,014 108,007 109,551 102,640
Liabilities 
Current liabilities 
Derivative financial instruments 571 – 7 94 –
Trade and other payables 41,706 41,062 36,953 36,249 32,847
Current tax payable 3,346 2,379 1,674 1,638 2,112
Provisions 288 267 345 413 410
Liabilities held for sale – – – – 1,119
Client monies held as escrow agent 5,521 – 335 339 –
 51,432 43,708 39,314 38,733 36,488
 
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 2,001 1,271 1,130 612 531
Trade and other payables – – 400 – –
Provisions 168 217 325 363 335
2,169 1,488 1,855 975 866
Total liabilities 53,601 45,196 41,169 39,708 36,488
Total assets less total liabilities 59,127 64,818 66,838 69,843 65,286
  
Equity
Share capital 2,108 2,110 2,160 2,165 2,167
Share premium 11,014 11,077 12,018 12,150 12,218
Shares to be issued (3,198) (3,275) (3,695) (3,309) (2,934)
Other reserves 25,525 26,323 26,664 27,630 23,719
Retained earnings 23,534 28,424 29,471 30,962 30,116
 58,983 64,659 66,618 69,598 65,286
Minority interest 144 159 220 245 –
Total equity 59,127 64,818 66,838 69,843 65,286
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 82 Office
Braemar Shipping Services plc
35 Cosway Street
London
NW1 5BT
Company number: 2286034
Registrars
Capita Asset Services
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
West Yorkshire
HD8 0LA
Telephone: 0870 162 3100
Corporate stockbroker
Westhouse Securities
1 Angel Court
London
EC2R 7HJ
Public relations
Buchanan
107 Cheapside
London
EC2V 6DN
Legal adviser
Nabarro
Lacon House
84 Theobald’s Road
London
WC1X 8RW
Bankers
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Shipping Business Centre
4th Floor
1 Prince’s Street
London
EC2R 8PB
Independent auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
15 Canada Square
London
E14 5GL
Timetable
AGM:  4 July 2014
Ex dividend date for 2012/13 final dividend:  16 July 2014
2013/14 Final dividend record date:  18 July 2014
2013/14 Final dividend payment date:  15 August 2014
2014/15 Interim results announcement:  Late October 2014
Shareholder information
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 83
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84 Shipbroking
Businesses: 
Braemar Seascope  
 
 
Principal Offices:
35 Cosway Street
London
NW1 5BT
Great Eastern Centre
1 Pickering Street – #8/01
Singapore 048659 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other office UK:
Aberdeen 
 
 
 
 
Other offices overseas:
Perth, Australia
Melbourne, Australia
Shanghai, China
Beijing, China
New Delhi, India
Genoa, Italy
Oslo, Norway
Houston, USA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Web address:
www.braemarseascope.com
 
Technical
Businesses: 
Braemar Offshore
Braemar Adjusting
Braemar Engineering
Braemar SA
Principal Offices:
Great Eastern Centre
1 Pickering Street – #8/01
Singapore 048659
10000 Memorial Drive, 
Suite 150
Houston, TX77024
Marlow House
1A Lloyd’s Avenue
London
EC2N 3AL
11-13 Crosswall
London 
EC3N 2JY
Fullbridge Mill
Fullbridge
Maldon
Essex CM9 4LE
Other offices overseas:
Calgary, Canada
Miami, USA
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Jakarta, Indonesia
Kuala Lumpa, Malaysia
Mumbai, India
Perth, Australia
Hong Kong, China
Shanghai, China
Shenzen, China
Tianjin, China
Vung Tau, Vietnam
Varna, Bulgaria
Accra, Ghana
Cape Town, South Africa
New York, USA
Piraeus, Greece
Lisbon, Portugal
Rotterdam, Netherlands
Abu Dhabi, UAE
Dubai, UAE
Bangkok, Thailand
Web address:
www.braemar.com
 
 
 
Logistics
Businesses: 
Cory Brothers Shipping 
Agency
Cory Logistics 
Principal Offices:
Cory House
21 Berth
Tilbury Docks
Essex RM18 7JT
Cory House
Haven Exchange
Felixstowe
Suffolk IP11 2QX
Great Eastern Centre
1 Pickering Street – #8/01
Singapore 048659 
Other offices UK:
Bebington
Billingham
Bristol
Cardiff
Edinburgh
Falmouth
Grangemouth
Hull
Immingham
Ipswich
Isle of Grain
Milford Haven
Newport
Sheerness Docks
Southampton
Teesport 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Web address:
www.cory.co.uk
 
 
Environmental
Businesses: 
Braemar Howells 
 
 
Principal Offices:
The Docks
Milford Haven
Pembrokeshire SA73 3AQ
Lower Quay 
Newham Road
Truro
Cornwall TR1 2SU 
 
 
 
 
 
Other offices UK:
Barnsley
Bristol
Didcot
Dundee
Harlow
Other offices overseas:
Lagos, Nigeria
Luanda, Angola
Perth, Australia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Web address:
www.braemarhowells.com
 
 
Offices and contacts
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 84 Design and production: 
CarnegieOrr +44(0)20 7610 6140
www.carnegieorr.co.uk
The paper used in this Report is  
derived from sustainable sources Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2014
35 Cosway Street 
London NW1 5BT 
United Kingdom 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7535 2650 
www.braemarplc.com
